30243876|Female birds are hypothesized to mate outside the pairbond to secure alleles that enhance the fitness potential of their offspring. To test this, researchers typically compare fitness-related attributes of extra-pair (EP) and within-pair (WP) half-siblings. Often neglected, however, is the possibility that females may provide EP offspring with certain non-genetic advantages. For example, in species in which eggs hatch asynchronously, females may place EP offspring amongst earlierlaid eggs in the clutch. Because they tend to hatch first, chicks from earlier-laid eggs are often larger and more developed than their nestmates and thus have a competitive advantage. We tested for an association between offspring paternity and position in the laying/hatching sequence in a Wyoming population of the house wren Troglodytes aedon. Eggs in this population always hatch asynchronously, usually in the order laid, over 24-48 h, setting up a stair-step-like size hierarchy within broods early in the nestling stage. This suggested that we could thus use a chick's mass relative to that of its nestmates as an index of the chick's position in the laying sequence. We first confirmed this, showing that position in the laying sequence explains 70% of the variance in chick size relative to nestmates. We then compared masses of EP and WP offspring shortly after hatching in 27 broods with mixed paternity. On average, EP offspring weighed 14% more than their WP counterparts, a highly significant difference. Our results therefore suggest that EP offspring are more likely than WP offspring to occur in earlier-laid eggs, thus gaining a size-based competitive advantage. We recommend that, when comparing EP and WP half-siblings in species in which eggs hatch asynchronously, researchers test for this potential maternally derived effect on offspring performance.
25161516|Darwin (1871) and later Fisher (1958) suggested that sexual selection can drive the evolution of ornamental traits in monogamous species when female preferences for these traits allow well-ornamented males to begin breeding earlier in a season and, as a result, gain reproductive advantages over poorly ornamented males. However, few studies have been conducted to test this fundamental concept upon which much of the sexual selection theory for monogamous species has been based. In this study, we examined the relationship between breeding onset, reproductive success, and male ornamentation in the House Finch Carpodacus mexicanus, a species in which males display bright carotenoid-based plumage pigmentation. In previous work, it has been shown that bright male House Finches are preferred as social mates by females and, as a result, begin nesting earlier in the season than do drab orange and yellow males. Here we show that, by initiating breeding earlier in the season, brightly colored males fledge more offspring in a season than do drab males. Thus, differential timing of breeding generates considerable variance in reproductive success among male House Finches and contributes to sexual selection for male plumage ornamentation in this species.
10.2307/3677170|Avian long-distance migration involves the storage and expenditure of very large fuel loads. Birds may double in weight before take-off on flights of many 1000 km, and they may lose half their body mass over the subsequent few days that such trips take. Recent studies indicate that in addition to the storage and depletion of fat, the muscles and belly organs also undergo considerable changes in size in the course of such migrations. Such intraindividual and repeatedly reversed changes in stores and organ sizes represent a class of phenotypic plasticity called 'phenotypic flexibility'. Using preliminary comparative data for different populations of Bar-tailed Godwits Limosa lapponica, and several other shorebird species adding variation to the migration strategies sampled (Golden Plover Pluvialis apricaria, Ruff Philomachus pugnax, Red Knot Calidris canutus and Bristle-thighed Curlew Numenius tahitiensis), the thesis is developed that the size of the organs carried during take-off represent evolutionary compromises between their functions during the storage, flight and post-arrival phases of migration. In all cases fat-free tissue along with fat is deposited during fuel storage, but the proportions vary a great deal between similarly sized species. Just before departure on long-distance flights, exercise organs (pectoral muscle and heart) tend to show hypertrophy and nutritional organs (stomach, intestine and liver) tend to show atrophy. Reductions in nutritional organs appear most pronounced in (sub-) species that are about to overfly barren oceans with few or no opportunities for emergency landings. Migrant birds seem to show a great deal of adaptive flexibility, and the study of this flexibility may shed light on (presently unknown) physiological mechanisms as well as on correlated ecological constraints on bird migration.
3677665|The absence of an intromittent organ (IO) in most species (>97%) of birds is an enigma: birds are the only terrestrial vertebrates in which insemination typically occurs without the use of an IO. In an earlier review, we evaluated six hypotheses to explain the loss of IOs among birds. We found some support for the influence of sperm competition and female choice, but other hypotheses (e.g. avoidance of sexually transmitted disease) could not be tested because of a lack of empirical data. Wesolowski (1999, J. Avian Biol. 30: 483-485) has criticised our female choice and sexually transmitted disease hypotheses as implausible and insufficient to explain the loss of the IO in birds. Instead, he proposes that IOs were lost to minimise the risk of predation (by shortening duration of copulation) and/or to increase the efficiency of sperm transfer. Here we respond to Wesolowski's (1999) criticisms and test his efficient copulation (EC) hypothesis with data on the duration of copulation in 243 species. Contrary to expectations from the EC hypothesis, copulation durations did not differ significantly between species with and without an IO. Thus we can reject the EC hypothesis as an explanation for the loss of IOs in birds.
3677542|Nest site selection by birds is a critically important life history trait as competition for suitable sites can be intense, and because birds are at their most vulnerable to predators during nesting. Previous studies show that the clutch size and nestling period evolve in response to competition for nest sites and nest predation, respectively. This provides the opportunity to study the relative contribution of competition and predation to the evolution of nesting niche. Using previously published phylogenies for parrots and trogons, I found evidence for at least 13 independent evolutionary transitions from tree cavities to alternative nesting niches (including termitaria, cliffs, and burrows). I analyzed variations in clutch size, incubation period and nestling period for 16 phylogenetically controlled pairs of species to test the relative roles of competition for tree cavities and nest predation, in favoring evolutionary switches to alternative nest sites. Tree cavity nesting species did not have larger clutch sizes as predicted if competition for tree cavities leads birds to invest heavily in nesting once they obtain a nest site (the limited breeding opportunities hypothesis). Instead I found that shifts to alternative nesting niches were accompanied by an increase in nestling period. As nestling period is a surrogate measure for long-term nest predation rates, this finding suggests that nest predation has been more important than competition in niche diversification among cavity nesting parrots and trogons. The timing of events in South America suggests that the explosive radiation of mammalian nest predators during the Upper-Oligocene, Lower-Miocene (20-30 million years ago) corresponded with the radiation of parrot and trogon taxa that exploit novel nesting niches.
10.2307/3676957| Nestling feeding behaviour of Willow Tits Parus montanus was studied in natural and artificially size-altered broods at Oulu, northern Finland. Per-brood provisioning effort was positively and per-offspring effort negatively correlated with brood size. Brood size manipulations (about  30% relative to control broods) did not significantly affect the patterns of per-offspring provisioning effort, i.e. parents of enlarged broods could increase their per-brood effort significantly as compared with control broods. Thus, Nur's refined trade-off model of optimal nestling feeding was supported. On the other hand, no measurable extra costs (in physical condition, body mass or size) to parents of enlarged broods were detected; however, the young of enlarged broods had lower body masses than those of control and reduced broods confirming earlier results in the same population. Thus, in broods above the modal size parents primarily tried to ensure their own rather than their offspring's survival. At the beginning of the nestling period, when females brooded the young, male contribution to provisioning was higher. At the end of the nestling period male load sizes were larger but female visiting rates slightly higher, resulting in sexually equal total feeding effort. This was expected for a monogamous passerine with biparental care. Feeding effort increased with offspring age owing to the increased load sizes, increased female feeding rates and prolonged working days. However, the temporal increase in female visiting rates may be explained by the decreased brooding effort. A temporal increase in feeding effort is consistent with the corresponding increase in nest defence intensity, found in our earlier studies. 
30244466|Several hypotheses have been proposed to explain genome size variation in birds. However, no general consensus has been reached thus far. In this study, we analysed the inter- and intraspecific variation of genome size in some parrot species, and we tested the hypotheses that (1) weaker fliers have larger genomes, and (2) long-living species have lower DNA content. In general, parrots have a mean genome size (2.93 pg/nucleus) comparable to that of other avian orders. Amazona ochrocephala tresmariae has the highest genome size (4.30 pg/nucleus) among parrots. As expected, weaker flyers have larger genomes than better ones. In contrast to our prediction, we found a positive correlation between genome size and longevity. Finally, the species-group Amazona has a higher DNA content than the two groups Ara and Cacatua. Since oxidative stress is causally related to longevity, we suggest that DNA oxidative damage could have acted to some extent as a constraint on GS variation in parrots and perhaps also in other avian orders.
10.2307/3677168|The relationship between mass loss rate and chemical power in flying birds is analysed with regard to water and heat balance. Two models are presented: the first model is applicable to situations where heat loads are moderate, i.e. when heat balance can be achieved by regulating non-evaporative heat loss, and evaporative water loss is minimised. The second model is applicable when heat loads are high, non-evaporative heat loss is maximised, and heat balance has to be achieved by regulating evaporative heat loss. The rates of mass loss of two Thrush Nightingales Luscinia luscinia and one Teal Anas crecca were measured at various flight speeds in a wind tunnel. Estimates of metabolic water production indicate that the Thrush Nightingales did not dehydrate during experimental flights. Probably, the Thrush Nightingales maintained heat balance without actively increasing evaporative cooling. The Teal, however, most likely had to resort to evaporative cooling, although it may not have dehydrated. Chemical power was estimated from our mass loss rate data using the minimum evaporation model for the Thrush Nightingales and the evaporative heat regulation model for the Teal. For both Thrush Nightingales and the Teal, the chemical power calculated from our mass loss rate data showed a greater change with speed (more "U-shaped" curve) than the theoretically predicted chemical power curves based on aerodynamic theory. The minimum power speeds calculated from our data differed little from theoretical predictions but maximum range speeds were drastically different. Mass loss rate could potentially be used to estimate chemical power in flying birds under laboratory conditions where temperature and humidity are controlled. However, the assumptions made in the models and the model predictions need further testing.
30245193|Animals often spend less time vigilant and more time feeding when foraging in larger groups. This group-size effect does not, however, consider if larger groups differ systematically from smaller ones: Large groups could form in different habitats than small groups or be composed of a different mix of ages or classes than small groups. We examined how habitat differences and flock size and composition explain feeding and vigilance rates in common cranes Grus grus, wintering in holm oak Quercus ilex dehesas of Spain. Flock size and composition were related to habitat type in cranes: flocks formed in areas sown with cereal crops were larger than flocks formed in set aside areas. Vigilance rate depended on habitat but decreased with increasing flock size in a similar way across all habitats. Juveniles were less vigilant than adults and showed little change in vigilance with flock size. Vigilance increased and feeding time decreased over months from November through February. Our results show that vigilance is affected by habitat but that the group size effect on vigilance is not the product of differences between habitats in group size or composition.
10.2307/3677156|Among the movements of animals across the surface of our planet, the wide-ranging migratory journeys of birds and the smaller-scale foraging excursions of social (hymenopteran) insects provide some of the most intriguing examples of biological systems of navigation. Many sensory cues have been found to be involved in accomplishing these tasks, but how this sensory information is integrated into the animal's overall system of navigation has remained elusive. Several over-arching concepts such as sun- or star-based systems of astronavigation, E-vector-based spherical geometry, map-and-compass and bi-coordinate position-fixing schemes have been developed to account for the animals' performances. Although these metaphors have some heuristic value, they are potentially distracting and might obscure some of the most important computational strategies used by the brain. Moreover, these top-down approaches are especially inappropriate in trying to understand the evolutionary design of an animal's navigational system. Instead, we must go back to basics, use modern recording technology to unravel the detailed spatial and temporal structures of migratory routes and foraging trajectories, study the animal's sensory and computational abilities by combining behavioural and neurophysiological approaches, then work bottom-up, as evolution did, by trying to integrate the individual navigational methods. Rather than being part of a general-purpose navigational toolkit, the various guiding mechanisms have most certainly arisen from an opportunistic grafting of particular special-purpose modules on to pre-existing sensory-motor control systems.
3677475|When choosing subsequent nest sites, species that produce multiple broods in a single breeding season have the option of dispersing from a site where they previously suffered depredation, i.e., a predator-avoidance tactic. In our study on yellow-faced honeyeaters Lichenostomus chrysops it was found that 89% of nest failures were attributed to nest depredation, the primary cause of reproductive failure. Pairs re-nested further from depredated nesting attempts than from successful nesting attempts and progressively higher above the ground as the breeding season progressed. Pairs nesting in dioecious Coprosma quadrifida plants only nested in non-fruiting male plants. Artificial nests were used to test the hypothesis that nest height and plant preferences were strategies to reduce the risk of depredation. There was no evidence that either higher nests or nests in non-fruiting C. quadrifida achieved reduced levels of depredation during 14 days of artificial nest exposure. Specific nest site characteristics were not found to be associated with nest outcome for either natural or artificial nests. Our study provides further evidence that species may choose a diverse range of nest sites in order to avoid predators from developing specific search images and then, following depredation, compensate by rapidly re-nesting away from the failed attempt.
30244488|High rates of extra-pair paternity (EPP) can be relatively common in passerines whereas low rates or absence of EPP are often associated with taxa that are long-lived and exhibit obligatory paternal care. We examined EPP in an under-represented category: passerine species with relatively long life spans (or low annual mortality rates). Specifically, we studied EPP in New Zealand saddlebacks Philesturnus carunculatus and robins Petroica australis, two species with unusually low annual mortality rates (6.5-11% and 10-20% respectively). No EPP (0%) was detected in saddlebacks (39 pairs, 202 offspring) and only one case of EPP (1.9%) was detected in robins (54 pairs, 198 offspring). Genetic monogamy in these passerine species supports the hypothesis that low annual mortality rates play an important role in explaining variation in rates of EPP across species.
3677428|Despite the overriding importance of nest predation for most birds, our understanding of the relationship between birds and their nest predators has been developed largely without reliable information on the identity of the predators. Miniature video cameras placed at nests are changing that situation and in six of eight recent studies of New World passerine birds, snakes were the most important nest predators. Several areas of research stand to gain important insights from understanding more about the snakes that prey on birds' nests. Birds nesting in fragmented habitats often experience increased nest predation. Snakes could be attracted to habitat edges because they are thermally superior habitats, coincidentally increasing predation, or snakes could be attracted directly by greater prey abundance in edges. Birds might reduce predation risk from snakes by nesting in locations inaccessible to snakes or in locations that are thermally inhospitable to snakes, although potentially at some cost to themselves or their young. Nesting birds should also modify their behavior to reduce exposure to visually orienting snakes. Ornithologists incorporating snakes into their ecological or conservation research need to be aware of practical considerations, including sampling difficulties and logistical challenges associated with quantifying snake habitat use.
3677646|The effects of simulated goose grazing on common saltmarsh-grass Puccinellia maritima plants were tested on a Danish salt marsh during the flightless moulting period of greylag geese Anser anser (3-21 June 1998). Plants in an area exclosed from the influence of grazing and the nutrient effects of goose faeces were subject to removal of youngest lamina at 3-, 6-, 9- and 18-day intervals during this period. Average biomass and protein accumulation between harvests was highest at defoliation intervals of 9 days or more. Field observations from two separate study areas demonstrated geese returned to regraze the Puccinellia sward after 6-8 days and oesophageal contents from feeding geese showed selection for lamina lengths consistent with the results of clipping every 6 days. Geese therefore regrazed Puccinellia patches at shorter intervals than expected were they to maximise their intake of biomass or protein at each visit. However, total cumulative lamina elongation, equivalent to the long term gain during the entire moult period, showed no significant difference between the three most intensive defoliation treatments, which were significantly greater than those of plants defoliated at 18 day intervals. Highest overall lamina protein levels were maintained at 6- and 9-day defoliation intervals. This suggests geese regrazed Puccinellia patches at a rate that maximised their number of harvests during the flightless period, but maintained highest protein levels and overall biomass in the sward. This suggests, in line with earlier studies, that moulting greylag geese combine dietary selection, reduced nitrogen excretion and regrazing patterns to meet protein demands during regrowth of flight feathers.
30244757|The signalling hypothesis of eggshell colouration in birds posits that females of species with blue-green eggs signal their phenotypic quality or the quality of their eggs to their mates through deposition of the antioxidant biliverdin as pigment. Males respond by investing more in the offspring. Through a cross-fostering experiment where we have exchanged whole clutches between pairs of pied flycatcher Ficedula hypoleuca nests, we managed to break potential associations between female quality and clutch chromaticity. We show that males respond to incubated clutches with more variable and higher peak values in blue-green chroma through a higher proportional investment in nestling provisioning on day 4 of the nestling period, when males invest more heavily than females in provisioning. More variable clutches show higher peak chroma values. We also show that egg colour during the two-week incubation period has a significant effect, which is not found for the colour of eggs during the laying period. Finally, the proportion of male provisioning visits affects negatively female brooding effort and nestling mortality, and thereby has positive effects on female fitness. Blue-green chroma in the pied flycatcher functions as a signal of female or clutch quality to males which respond by adjusting their relative investment with respect to total pair effort.
30243828|Intraspecific sexual differences, high variation, and positive allometry of sexually-selected external display structures are common. Many sexually-selected anatomical specializations occur in the avian vocal tract but intraspecific variation and allometry have been investigated little. The tracheal bulla bulla syringealis occurs in males of most duck species. We quantified variation and size-scaling of the bulla, plus sexual differences in size of trachea, bronchi, and vocal muscles, for 62 common eiders Somateria mollissima and 51 king eiders S. spectabilis. Trends were similar in both species. Bullar ossification and definitive size occurred early in life: bullar size did not differ between first-year and older males. Bullar size did not vary more than size of other body parts (CVs of 3.4-7.0% for bullar length and breadth). Bullar size scaled to body size with negative allometry or isometry. Vocal muscles were 10-50% thicker in males than females, a much greater sexual difference than in body size (CVs of 3-6% on linear body-size variables). Vocal muscles were larger on the left side in both sexes and bilateral asymmetry was slightly more pronounced in males. Low variation and a trend towards negative allometry suggest that bullar size is under stabilizing selection; if bullar size affects vocal attributes of voice, then the latter cannot be condition-dependent. We recommend comparative research on vocal communication, vocal individuality and vocal-tract anatomy and function in eiders and other ducks.
30243860|Breeding Brnnich's guillemots Uria lomvia show stepwise mass loss at the time of hatch. This mass loss has usually been explained as an adaptation to reduce the cost of flight during the chick-rearing period because flight time increases during that period. It is possible, however, that mass loss also increases dive performance during the chick-rearing period because time spent diving also increases during that period. Reduced mass could reduce basal metabolic rate or costs associated with buoyancy and therefore increase aerobic dive limit. To examine the role of mass loss in dive behavior, we attached time-depth-temperature recorders for 24-48 h to chick-rearing and incubating Brnnich's guillemots at Coats Island, Nunavut (2005: n =45, 2006: n = 40), and recorded body mass before and after each deployment. There was no relationship between mass and dive duration during either incubation or chick-rearing. Seventeen of the birds we sampled during incubation were resampled during chick-rearing. For this group, dive duration increased with mass loss between incubation and chick-rearing (r = 0.67-0.75). Mass loss occurred through reductions in metabolically-active tissues (liver, bladder) and buoyant tissues (lipids) although muscle and gut mass did not change. Despite the large change in lipids, buoyancy only changed by 0.1%, and mass loss therefore did not have much effect on costs associated with buoyancy. Nonetheless, surface pause duration for a given dive depth decreased during chick-rearing, supporting the idea that reduced mass led to increased aerobic dive limit through reduced metabolic rate and inertial costs; oxygen stores did not increase. We also attached neutrally (n = 9) and negatively (n = 11) buoyant handicaps to the legs of adults to assess the effect of artificial mass increases on time budgets. Artificially increasing mass decreased total time spent diving but did not change time spent flying. There was no change in shift length between incubation and chick-rearing, and therefore no support for the idea that mass loss reflected a change in fasting endurance requirements. An energetic model suggested that the observed mass reduction reduced dive costs by 5-8% and flight costs by 3%. We concluded that mass loss may be as important for increasing dive performance as increasing flight performance.
30244441|The colouration exhibited by nestling birds is generally cryptic, but in some species it has a conspicuous appearance. The adaptive function of these nestling displays is poorly known, especially in altricial species. We performed an experimental study in which the ultraviolet-blue reflectance of the carotenoid-based plumage of great tit Parus major nestlings was reduced in order to find possible evidence of parental favouritism. Tarsus length increment in a three-day period was significantly lower in manipulated nestlings than in their control siblings. As tarsus length may be a good predictor of survival, the parents may increase their fitness return by investing more in those nestlings reflecting more in the UV-blue spectral region. Interestingly, this effect was only found in a yellow patch located at the nape of nestlings that has been previously overlooked, as all the studies on plumage colouration in this species have focused on the breast plumage. Some quality indicators are proposed for the colour of nestling plumage, though the possibility exists that selection may operate through aspects of signal efficacy instead of aspects of signal content.
25161532|Many factors may affect symbiont distributions within host populations. Intrinsic factors, such as genotype, body condition and age may account for variations in symbiont loads between individuals. However, abiotic factors may also contribute to variations. We investigated correlates of variation in the number of feather mites, Trouessartia sp. (Trouessartiidae), per individual in the Seychelles Warbler Acrocephalus sechellensis on Cousin Island. Warblers from territories exposed to high levels of salt spray had lower feather mite loads than warblers from territories unaffected by salt spray, and juveniles had higher mite loads than adults. When the effects of salt spray were controlled for statistically, incubating birds had lower mite loads than birds in other stages of reproduction. Thus, an extrinsic and two intrinsic factors contribute to predicting feather mite loads.
30244767|From a year-long study of molt in the golden eagle Aquila chrysaetos, we recorded 2069 contour feathers replaced in 137 d (6 May-19 September). Very few contour feathers were lost outside this period. From precise daily counts of feathers lost, and using time series analysis, we identified short-term fluctuations (i.e., 19-d subcycles) around a midsummer peak (i.e., a left-skewed normal distribution). Because these subcycles have never before been reported and because the physiological basis for many aspects of avian molt is poorly known, we offer only hypothetical explanations for the controls responsible for the subcycles.
3677720|A recent hypothesis posits that the bright colours of many avian eggs may act like signals of female genetic quality or condition to males in species with biparental care, inducing them to work harder for their offspring. We measured the colour of blue eggs of pied flycatchers Ficedula hypoleuca in Central Spain with a spectrophotometer on the day of laying, and also quantified the provisioning effort by males and females during the last days of the nestling period. Both chromaticity coordinates in the CIELAB colour space (blue to yellow, green to red) showed significant associations with male provisioning rates, explaining more than 20% of variation in male parental effort. Male provisioning rates were positively correlated with nestling condition, thereby potentially contributing to female fitness. This evidence is only tentative until experimental confirmation, but suggests that males are affected by the colour of their mates' eggs, a possibility not considered hitherto in the study of sexual selection.
10.2307/3677114|Sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) in animals are caused by pathogens that are transmitted during copulation. Birds have played an important role in the development of STD-centered theories of mating behavior. However, it is not known whether STDs exist in wild bird populations. While the avian cloaca with its dual functions of gamete transfer and excretion seemingly predisposes birds for the evolution of STDs, the life history patterns of most birds (i.e., seasonal breeders with relatively brief annual periods of sexual activity) suggest otherwise. The importance of STDs as selective forces that shape host biology depends on whether host life history patterns provide the necessary conditions for the evolution and spread of virulent pathogens that rely on host copulation for dispersal. Infrequent dispersal opportunities for microbes that rely on host sexual contact for dispersal should favor the evolution of low pathogen virulence, persistent infection, and lengthened infectious periods. I examine the disease characteristics of documented STDs that are relevant to birds in order to evaluate the (1) importance of STDs as selective forces in birds and (2) ecological conditions in which avian STDs are likely to be discovered. I conclude that socially monogamous short-lived birds with short breeding cycles and altricial nestlings (e.g., temperate zone songbirds) are not likely to have coevolved with highly virulent STDs which would be important selective forces. However, virulent STDs may have evolved in birds with one or more of the following life history characteristics: long life spans, long breeding cycles, multiple matings, and precocial young because these conditions produce increased opportunities for pathogen transmission and can favor the evolution of virulence. These life history characteristics are found and exaggerated in the birds for which STDs have been documented, the domesticated fowl and waterfowl.
30244830|Nest-sites often have a major influence on avian reproductive success. The use of reliable cues that assist nest-site selection should thus be favoured by natural selection. The old nests have been known to serve as a cue in nest-site selection in several species. To find out whether the old nests act as cue in nest-site selection in the Eurasian penduline tit Remiz pendulinus, we carried out two experiments in southern Hungary, where the penduline tits breed around fishponds and build sophisticated pendulous nests on tree branches that often hang over water. In April 2006, we choose 20 groups of two nearby trees, and hung an old nest on one of the trees in each group. The male penduline tits choose 12 of these groups to build a new nest, and every of the twelve nests were built on trees with an old nest. This suggests that the old nests serve as a cue in the selection of breeding sites for males when they enter a habitat. To find out whether the old nests are cues of plentiful nest building material, or to signal high quality breeding areas, we carried out a second experiment in 2007 by selecting 13 groups of three nearby trees. A "worn-out" old nest was hung on one of the trees, a "re-utilize" type of old nest on another tree, whereas the third tree was left without an old nest in each group. The rationale was that while the worn-out material of the old nests is of no use in building the new nests, material of the "re-utilize" nests is good enough to be used for building new nests. Males built a new nest in 10 of the 13 groups, and eight of the new nests were built on trees with an old nest. Of the eight new nests, five were built on trees with a "worn-out" old nest and three on trees with a "re-utilize" type of old nest. It appears that for the penduline tit males it is the presence of an existing old nest and not the quality of the old nest material that serves as cue during the selection of the suitable breeding sites.
30244808|Ultraviolet (UV) plumage is thought to be sexually selected through intra-sexual competition, female choice and differential allocation. Experimental manipulations of plumage UV reflectance are essential to demonstrate that mate choice or intra-sexual competition are causally related to UV coloration. The most widely-used technique for manipulating UV reflectance in wild birds is the application of a mixture of UV-absorbing chemicals and preen gland fat. However, although this UV reduction technique is commonly used, little is known about the persistence of the treatment and the temporal variation in UV reflectance that it causes. We manipulated the UV crown plumage of wild and captive blue tits Parus caeruleus, and took repeated photospectrometric measurements of both UV-reduced and control-treated individuals. Our results show that the UV reduction lasts for at least five days and that the treatment has no negative effects on the survival of wild birds.
10.2307/3677294|The diurnal and nocturnal foraging behaviour of Dunlins Calidris alpina was investigated during their autumn migration in the Danish Wadden Sea. Dunlins fed regularly by both day and night. However, they tended to utilize different habitats during daytime and night-time, with relatively more birds aggregating on soft sediment containing high densities of Corophium volutator at night. Pecking was the dominant foraging technique during the daytime, whereas probing was the preferred technique at night. Dropping analysis revealed quantitative differences between the birds' diurnal and nocturnal diets. It is proposed that nocturnal foraging may be important for restoring fat deposits in migrating birds.
30244480|We examined the occurrence of six species of meadow birds (four wader species and two songbird species) in relation to the distance to the nest location of an avian predator (three species). We related our findings to the degree of openness of the landscape in which this avian predator nest was located. The degree of openness varied from very open to very closed, depending on the number of view-obstructing landscape elements in the landscape (none or very few in open ones, but completely covered with forest or built-up area in very closed landscapes). We used a dataset containing nesting locations of meadow birds and predators in the province of Gelderland, the Netherlands, allowing us to perform the analysis on three grid cell sizes (100 x 100 m, 250 x 250 m and 500 x 500 m). Our results show that, for each grid cell size, all meadow bird species showed highest nesting densities in open landscapes. Lowered densities were found around occupied nests of avian predators,; irrespective whether the predator's nest was situated in an open or closed landscape. The preference of meadow birds for open landscapes away from predator's nests suggests that a large visibility, that allows them to scan for predators to be able to chase them away in time, is an important habitat requirement for meadow birds to select a nest site. It also suggests that openness of the landscape, independent from the presence of occupied predator's nests, is a factor in selecting a nest site. In contrast, for two out of three species of avian predator, we found that they chose more closed landscapes to nest because these species nest in landscape elements like wood lots and lone trees which make the landscape more closed by definition. For the third avian predator species, the grid cell size was probably too small to find a consistent result, as that species has territories larger than even the largest grid cell size we used.
30244765|The white-browed woodswallow Artamus superciliosus and masked woodswallow A. personatus (Passeriformes: Artamidae) are members of Australia's diverse arid- and semi-arid zone avifauna. Widely sympatric and among Australia's relatively few obligate long-distance temperate-tropical migrants, the two are well differentiated morphologically but not ecologically and vocally. They are pair breeders unlike other Artamus species, which are at least facultative cooperative breeders. For these reasons they are an excellent case in which to use molecular data in integrative study of their evolution from ecological and biogeographical perspectives. We used mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) to test whether they are each other's closest relatives, whether they evolved migration independently, whether they have molecular signatures of population expansions like some other Australian arid zone birds, and to estimate the timing of any inferred population expansions. Their mtDNAs are monophyletic with respect to other species of Artamus but polyphyletic with respect to each other. The two species appear not to have evolved migration independently of each other but their morphological and mtDNA evolution have been strongly decoupled. Some level of hybridization and introgression cannot be dismissed outright as being involved in their mtDNA polyphyly but incomplete sorting of their most recent common ancestor's mtDNA is a simpler explanation consistent with their ecology. Bayesian phylogenetic inference and analyses of diversity within the two species (n = 77) with conventional diversity statistics, statistical parsimony, and tests for population expansion vs stability (Tajima's D, Fu's Fs and Ramos-Onsin and Rozas's R) all favour recent population increases. However, a non-starlike network suggests expansion(s) relatively early in the Pleistocene. Repeated population bottlenecks corresponding with multiple peaks of Pleistocene aridity could explain our findings, which add a new dimension to accruing data on the effects of Pleistocene aridity on the Australian biota.
3677423|The presence of density dependence of clutch size is tested in 57 long-term population studies of 10 passerine bird species. In about half of the studies of tit species Parus spp. density dependence of clutch size was found, while none was found in studies of two flycatcher species Ficedula spp. One hypothesis explaining this difference is that migrants are less able to predict the final competitor density, because new pairs are still settling when the first females start laying eggs. Such unpredictability is only a problem for early laying females. If this explanation is true, the commonly observed negative correlation between clutch size and laying date should be stronger in high-density years. I tested this prediction in three populations of Pied Flycatcher Ficedula hypoleuca, and compared the results with three populations of Great Tit Parus major. In none of the six populations was there a significant correlation between the strength of the seasonal decline in clutch size and population density. Thus the lack of density dependence of clutch size in Pied Flycatchers was not consistent with the idea that this is caused by the unpredictability of final density at the time of egg-laying of the earliest females in the population. Furthermore, density does not have any adverse effect on reproductive output of Pied Flycatchers, and therefore they do not adjust clutch size to density.
10.2307/3677026|Seasonal und daily variation in body mass and fat was monitored in Starlings Sturnus vulgaris and related to the different phases of the annual cycle, to changes in temperature and daylength, and to Lehikoinen's (1987) models for body mass regulation of wintering birds. Lean mass and fat were estimated using total body electrical conductivity (TOBEC) and a combined fatscore index for the abdominal and furcular visible fat-depots. With the fatscore, lean mass and fat were estimated better
10.2307/3677319|A regular census of an Oxfordshire farm, U.K., showed that the resident Starlings Sturnus vulgaris preferred to feed in established pasture fields. Fields which were closer to the daytime roost, provided feeding areas further from hedges, and had shorter swards were particularly preferred. The Starlings' habitat preferences could also be explained in terms of the availability of prey. This was quantified via the foraging behaviour of individual birds allowed to forage in small enclosures in a sub-sample of the fields available to the flock. The experimental birds' prey capture rates in each of the fields were significantly correlated with the observed flock foraging densities. This was a prey-specific effect: although the birds could have obtained a higher energy intake rate by feeding on earthworms in less preferred fields, the Starlings were seen to feed in those fields which allowed them to maximise the amount of energy obtainable from leatherjackets. A laboratory prey choice experiment demonstrated that this field preference could be attributed to an absolute preference for leatherjackets over earthworms.
10.2307/3676958|Of 233 adult male White-crowned Sparrows Zonotrichia leucophrys pugetensis recorded in British Columbia and Washington, 25 (10.7%) were found to have repertoires of two or three song types. This proportion is higher than any reported previously for this species. Within repertoires, most song type differences were minor, but some songs differed in theme and dialect type. Individuals sang few renditions of one song type before switching to the other. We believe that the songs in an individual's repertoire have the same meaning, and that multi-song repertoires provide no selective advantage over a single song type in this species.
30243917|We measured daily energy expenditure (DEE) continuously for a whole year in a free ranging bird, the macaroni penguin Eudyptes chrysolophus. We combined these measurements with concurrently recorded foraging behaviour, and literature information on body mass and dietary factors to estimate prey consumption rates and foraging success. DEE was at a maximum during late chick-rearing but was equally high during all other active phases of the breeding season. DEE was approximately 4 x resting metabolic rate, which accords with established theory and suggests a common 'energetic ceiling' throughout the summer period. However, whether this represents a maximum in physiological capacity, or a rate which optimises fitness is still unclear. Rates of prey consumption and foraging success followed different patterns from daily energy expenditure. Daily prey consumption was high as the penguins prepared for long fasts associated with moulting and incubation but relatively low during chick-rearing, when foraging areas were restricted and foraging success lower. It appears that the energy intake of macaroni penguins is subject to extrinisic or environmental constraints rather than to intrinsic physiological limits.
10.2307/3677098|I measured the basal metabolic rate (BMR) of 24 juvenile waders of 5 species (Little Stint Calidris minuta, Dunlin C. alpina, Sanderling C. alba, Curlew Sandpiper C. ferruginea and Turnstone Arenaria interpres) during the first part of their southward migration along the Arctic coast of Eurasia. The average BMR was in general higher than the BMR of birds of the same species on wintering grounds in Africa. This supports the hypothesis that BMR can vary seasonally in migratory birds, possibly reflecting adaptive seasonal changes in the size of the bird's metabolic machinery.
3677684|This study is the first validation of the doubly-labeled water (DLW) method on birds (1) to evaluate the accuracy of 2 points versus multiple points for computing fractional isotopic washout rates (k) and CO
3677703|Patterns of feather wear in birds captured in spring have traditionally been analysed to describe the extent of winter moult in long-distance migrants. However, the interpretation of feather wear may be rendered extremely difficult due to long moult periods, by the progress of the season, and by the existence of complex moult patterns. Here, stable isotope analysis is used to determine the origin of the wing feather generations present in Savi's warblers Locustella luscinioides captured in Portugal. Carbon, nitrogen and hydrogen isotope ratios of feathers of known European origin differed significantly from those known to have grown in Africa. A discriminant analysis, in which 91.1% of the cross validated samples were correctly classified, was used to determine the origin of tail and wing feathers collected from birds caught when they returned to the breeding quarters. The interpretation of feather-wear generally agreed with the stable isotope analysis, but some inconsistencies were identified. The extent of winter moult in Savi's warblers is described and its moult strategy discussed.
3677762|Individual variation in the degree of feather wear is potentially a useful marker of individual quality or fitness, but next to nothing is known about causes and fitness consequences of feather wear in birds. We studied the effects of sex, age, year and experimental manipulation of brood size on primary feather wear in Collared Flycatchers Ficedula albicollis, and related variation in degree of feather wear to differences in fitness (viz. recruitment, survival). At the end of the breeding period, females and young birds had more worn flight feathers than males and adult birds, and the sexual difference in the degree of feather wear was particularly pronounced in one of the two study years. Experimental reduction of brood size reduced the degree of primary feather wear, whereas experimental enlargement of brood size did not lead to increased feather wear. In both sexes, there was a clear tendency for very old (> 5 years old) birds to have more worn feathers than middle aged birds. The individual differences in the degree of feather wear were not correlated with individual differences in recruitment rate of young, but survival probability to the next breeding season increased with increasing degree of feather wear.
25161509|Autumn migration routes and orientation of Swedish Ospreys Pandion haliaetus were studied by satellite tracking of 18 birds. Of these, 13 could be followed during the entire migration (6 females, 5 males and 2 juveniles). Most birds migrated across western and central Europe to winter in tropical West Africa. However, one juvenile flew to Cameroon and one female used a very easterly route and reached Mozambique. On average, the birds travelled a total distance of about 6700 km, with little variation except for the female wintering in Mozambique, who travelled more than 10000 km. Of 21 stopovers (of > 1 day), only five were made south of 45N; three of these in Africa. Females departed before males and juveniles and flew to a stopover site they probably were familiar with. After 3-4 weeks there, they continued to their wintering grounds. Also males and juveniles usually made one or more stopovers. Adults seemed to travel to a known wintering site, where they remained stationary, whereas juveniles were more mobile after reaching tropical regions, probably looking for good wintering sites. Males generally left the breeding area in directions similar to the mean migratory direction, whereas a few females departed in diverging initial directions. Apart from these diversions, adult Ospreys followed very straight migratory routes, with overall mean directions of 185-209 and with mean angular deviations of 6-33. Some juveniles also departed in diverging directions. Moreover, young birds tended to show a larger variability in orientation. Thus, the Ospreys kept a fairly straight direction and did not avoid geographical obstacles such as mountain ranges and desert areas. However, they seemed reluctant to cross large water bodies. There was no correlation between angular deviation and length of the migrational segment, indicating that the principles of orientation by vector summation may not be valid for Osprey migration. Moreover, the geographic direction of migration did not vary in accordance with variations in the magnetic declination, suggesting that the Ospreys did not orient along magnetic loxodromes.
30243290|Extrapair paternities (EPP) are relatively common in passerines, but rare in seabirds. Like most seabirds, albatrosses are long lived, form long-term pair bonds and require biparental care for chick-rearing. Microsatellite analyses of 327 chicks from blackbrowed Thalassarche melanophris, grey-headed T chrysostoma and wandering albatrosses Diomedea exulans over two breeding seasons revealed the presence of EPP in all three species. Though EPP rates varied between species and years, up to 21% of offspring were the result of extrapair matings. Rates were highest in wandering albatrosses (6-21%) followed by grey-headed (3-10%) and black-browed (0-9%) albatrosses. EPP rates were lower in 1998 compared to 1999 in both black-browed and grey-headed albatrosses, whereas the reverse was true for wandering albatrosses. Interspecific differences in EPP rates may reflect differences in breeding phenology and sexual size dimorphism. Differences in timing and frequency of breeding may promote different opportunities for interactions with birds other than their normal partner. The different breeding habitat, dispersion and mate-attraction rituals in wandering albatross, together with the disparity in size between the sexes may also offer more scope for higher rates of EPP Despite extensive sampling within each colony, we were unable to identify sires for many of the extrapair young; however males from other colonies were involved, raising interesting questions regarding the timing and nature of such events.
10.2307/3677066|We take issue with a recent study by Gowaty (1993) that finds evidence in support of the idea that fledging sex ratios in birds are influenced by Local Resource Competition. After controlling for the lack of independence among species due to shared phylogeny, we show that the relation between fledgling sex ratio and natal philopatry in birds is far from statistically significant. From a theoretical perspective, the documented low rate of natal philopatry in birds also makes it unlikely that parents and their offspring will often compete for resources on the breeding grounds. Thus we argue that there is neither empirical nor theoretical support for the LRC hypothesis to explain tertiary sex ratio variation in birds.
30245198|We studied head ornamentation in owls by focussing on the hypothesis that it may serve both intra- and interspecific communication. We carried out pairwise comparisons of morphological, ecological and behavioural traits on a subset of closely related species with contrasting head ornamentation patterns. We found that the degree of head ornamentation was associated with habitat and activity rhythm, highly ornamented species (e.g., most of the genus Bubo) living preferentially in open habitats and being active by day, but not with body size. Although our results do not exclude the possibility that head ornaments may represent a warning mechanism to startle predators and mobbers, they nevertheless suggest that such signals have evolved for visual communication with conspecifics, being more expressed in species that may use them more effectively without incurring the risk of predation or disturbance.
3677784|Incubating birds must balance their energetic demands with the time needed to provide care to developing embryos. Reduced care by incubating parents can result in longer incubation periods that increase predation risk and potentially influence neonate phenotype. We measured nest temperature, incubation period, and body mass dynamics of female wood ducks Aix sponsa, and used an information-theoretic approach to investigate effects of several explanatory variables on incubation period and thermal characteristics of nests. A model that included clutch size and standard deviation of nest temperature best explained the variation in incubation period. Parameter estimates indicated that incubation period increased with increases in clutch size and standard deviation of nest temperature. Next, we examined relationships between maternal effects and the standard deviation of the nest temperature. The best fitting model included initiation date of incubation. There was little support for including early incubation body mass of females, incubation constancy, and percent change in female body mass in the model. The parameter estimate showed that standard deviation of nest temperature declined as initiation date of incubation advanced. Female body mass at the start of incubation was not related to structural size suggesting that heavy females were in better physical condition than were light females. Heavy females nested earlier and lost more body mass during incubation than light females, but heavy females did not reduce variation in nest temperature to decrease the incubation period. The fact that early nesting females in good physical condition did not shorten incubation periods by keeping nest temperatures less variable could have been due to either energetic limitations or restraints. Experimental manipulations of incubation costs will be needed to distinguish between these hypotheses.
10.2307/3676956|We examined Tawny Owls Strix aluco from different regions of Europe, especially Italy, in order to determine whether a predominance of either rufous or grey colour morphs depended on geographical, weather or habitat features. Proportions of rufous and grey owls differed throughout Europe showing a mosaic pattern of variation. Although grey owls dominated strongly in the Italian sample, no effect of latitude, altitude, weather or habitat could be found. However, the annual frequencies of the two colour morphs differed significantly over a 101-year period, depending on the weather of the years of collection, with rufous birds suffering a higher mortality in cool-dry years and grey birds in warm-wet years. This provides potential for disruptive selection.
30243913|The yellow carotenoid-based plumage coloration of great tit Parus major nestlings is found to be paler in polluted and urban environments. Because carotenoid pigmentation is often considered to be a condition dependent trait in birds we wanted to find out whether food-limitation and poor nestling condition could explain the pale plumage colour in a polluted area. P. major nestlings were supplemented with variable diets along a well known heavy metal pollution gradient around a copper smelter: two food treatments with carotenoids, one food treatment with little carotenoid and one unsupplemented control. Our field experiment showed that nestlings in the polluted area grew better with carotenoid rich diets, while such effect was not found in the unpolluted area. Nestlings showed higher plasma carotenoid (lutein) levels and higher plumage carotenoid chroma values in the unpolluted area than in the polluted area. However, plasma lutein levels or plumage colour were not associated with heavy metal levels in nestling faeces (a proxy for dietary exposure). Our results provide only weak evidence for carotenoid-based colouration to be condition-dependent in great tit nestlings as we found a positive relationship between body mass and carotenoid chroma in the non-supplemented control group only. The positive relationship between body mass and plumage colour intensity is more likely to be produced by the fact that good availability of caterpillars, an important food source for P. major, also means a good availability of carotenoids to nestlings. Our results suggest that main reason for pale nestling plumage in the polluted area is lower quality invertebrate food, and not nutrition-related oxidative stress.
30244445|Genetic variation in the common bush-tanager Chlorospingus ophthalmicus complex in Mesoamerica was studied. An 800-bp mitochondrial DNA fragment, including a portion of COII, full tRNA-Lys, ATP8, and partial ATP6, was sequenced and analyzed for 96 individuals of the species and related taxa, resulting in a detailed framework of genetic differentiation in the northern half of the distribution of the complex. Phylogenetic analyses based on maximum parsimony, maximum likelihood, and Bayesian optimality criteria found deep divergence between South American and Mesoamerican isolates, and seven differentiated populations corresponding to clear geographic breaks across the highlands of Mesoamerica. These distinct populations coincide with geographic structure found in previous analyses of morphological and molecular data for Chlorospingus ophthalmicus, as well as in previous phylogeographic studies of other taxa in the region. Species status for these populations is discussed under the evolutionary and biological species concepts.
10.2307/3677161|Bird migration is typically characterized by periods of flight, when fuel is consumed, and intervening stopover periods when fuel is deposited. The resulting overall migration speed can be calculated on the basis of flight speed, rate of fuel deposition and power consumption during flight. Energy deposition rate
10.2307/3677355|We analysed total clutch volumes and condition of female ducks relative to their haemosporidian blood parasite loads. Twenty-four percent of Gadwalls Anas strepera and 60% of Mallards A. platyrhynchos were infected with at least one type of blood parasite, although infection intensities were generally light. After controlling for potential covariates of clutch volume (clutch initiation date, female age, female mass, and female structural size), we found no significant relationships between clutch volume and parasitism. Mallards in poorer condition were more likely to be parasitised. However, because condition was not related to clutch volume, we conclude that the blood parasites we detected were relatively benign with respect to reproductive investment, at least at the intensities observed.
3677492|A previous study of survival in territorial and non-territorial red grouse Lagopus lagopus scoticus conducted between 1957 and 1967 found that territorial status in the autumn pre-determined over-winter survival. A very high proportion of territorial birds survived and virtually all non-territorial birds died or emigrated. We tested the hypothesis that over-winter survival was dependent on territorial status within four grouse populations in Scotland between 1986 and 1993. In contrast to the previous study, 66% of non-territorial birds survived over winter compared to approximately 70% of territorial birds. There was no significant effect of territorial status on the survival estimates. Moreover, some of the birds considered to be non-territorial during autumn went on to successfully raise a brood. We suggest that on our study sites, territory ownership in autumn did not greatly influence over-winter survival, and territorial behaviour did not determine breeding density as previously supposed. We postulate differences with other studies may reflect variations in scale and predation pressure.
10.2307/3677177|Whitethroats at a coastal autumn stopover site were supplied with mealworms ad libitum and their fuel accumulation rates were recorded by repeated weighings by means of a remote-controlled balance. This study focuses on two questions: (1) How does the daily fuelling rate change in relation to departure? (2) Is the decision to depart affected by weather conditions? The fuelling rates were not constant during the fuelling period. A decreasing fuelling rate close to the departure was evident in both first-year and adult birds and as many as a fourth of the birds did not gain any body mass on the last day before departure. Among possible explanations for the observed pattern are mass-dependent costs, adverse weather conditions as well as physiological changes in preparation for the flight. The decision to depart was not affected by local weather conditions (wind and cloudiness) and some individuals departed under head wind and overcast conditions. The frequency of strong head winds was, however, low during the period of departure. Weather data do not support the hypothesis that individuals that did not gain any body mass on the last day did so as a result of their departures being delayed as a consequence of adverse weather.
10.2307/3677349|Theory predicts skewed offspring sex-ratios in a range of situations in which the economics of producing the two sexes differ. Offspring sex-ratio skews in birds are relatively scarcely observed compared to other taxa. This could be because avian molecular sexing techniques, which allow young birds to be sexed, have only recently become available. Alternatively, birds may be largely constrained from adaptively manipulating the sex-ratio of their offspring. We used a recently-developed molecular sexing technique for birds to sex 420 Yellowhammer Emberiza citrinella offspring from 168 clutches found in Oxfordshire. Clutch sex-ratio of the population did not depart from the expected binomial distribution, and there was no variation in clutch sex-ratio with laying date, breeding attempt, or a variety of habitat variables which were predicted to differentially affect the survival and future reproductive success of offspring of the two sexes. There was no difference in size or growth rate of the sexes and nestling mortality was not sex-biased. Hence, although we can identify possible advantages of manipulating the sex-ratio in this species, it seems not to be used as a breeding strategy. Given the lack of consistent evidence for skewed avian offspring sex-ratios, more experimental work is required to determine whether, and how, birds may adaptively manipulate their offspring sex-ratio.
10.2307/3677278| Tawny Owl diet was studied in the primeval deciduous forests of Biaowiea National Park (eastern Poland), where the Tawny Owl was the most numerous predator and the forest rodents were non-cyclic with recurrent waves of outbreaks-crashes (triggered by heavy seed crops at 6-9-year intervals). The study (1985-1992) covered both noncyclic and outbreak-crash years. Analysis of 1,116 pellets showed that Tawny Owls were specialised on forest rodents, mainly the yellow-necked mouse Apodemus flavicollis, but that they also exploited secondary resources: birds (especially Turdus, Parus and Carduelis), insectivores, and frogs. Between-year changes in the Tawny Owls' diet were mainly influenced by the abundance of yellow-necked mice, which thus determined the proportion of bank voles Clethrionomys glareolus taken and of alternative prey such as birds, amphibians, and shrews. Snow cover decreased the efficiency with which owls hunted for bank voles but not for mice and shrews. The alternative prey hypothesis, proposed to explain the linked cyclicity of microtines, shrews, and small game in northern Europe, may also be applied to animal population fluctuations in the temperate oak-dominated forests of Europe. During rodent crash years, predation by Tawny Owls may heavily affect the population dynamics of other small animals. 
30244792|We asked whether willow tit Parus montanus males adjust their parental care according to their paternity in current brood. The origin of the nestlings was determined by using molecular technique, and the studied broods were assigned into extra-pair paternity (EPP) broods, if at least one nestling was fathered by another male, and truly monogamous broods. Over 3 years, 14 of 40 broods (35%) included EP-offspring, and 29 of 273 nestlings (11%) were EP-young. Intensity of parental care was measured with risk-taking against a potential predator, mounted stoat Mustela erminea. The results showed that risk-taking by EPP males did not differ from that by monogamous males. Neither was the sexual difference in risk-taking different at EPP and monogamous broods. Our results are consistent with the hypothesis that males do not adjust their level of care to paternity, perhaps because they have no reliable cues for assessing their paternity. This may be related to the success of mate-guarding in their breeding environment, closed forests. Guarding is seemingly successful as the EPP levels are rather low, but it is not totally sure making the potential costs, rejection of own young, too high. We also discuss other population characteristics which may further prevent the evolution of paternity assessment in northern willow tits.
3677676|The role of salt glands in avian osmoregulation has been widely studied. Acclimation to saline habitats in aquatic birds involves increases in the relative size and complexity of the salt glands, and it is generally agreed that salt gland size varies as a function of salt loading, and is broadly correlated with habitat salinity. We report here salt gland sizes in three age classes of American avocet Recurvirostra americana chicks. Mean relative (mg/g body mass) salt gland masses for newly hatched (<24 h old) avocet chicks collected at a wetland supplied with pumped fresh water was 0.48 mg salt gland/g body mass. This value is comparable to the low end of published values for some strictly marine birds and similar to values for adult American avocets collected at saline lakes. These results suggest that American avocets, which are frequently raised in saline environments, hatch with salt glands that are large enough to cope with the osmoregulatory demands of saline environments.
3677368| The relative importance of pollen as a source of protein to vertebrates is controversial. In nectarivorous psittacine birds, field studies support its importance, but an experimental study in a nectarivorous parrot showed that less than 7% of pollen grains were emptied. We investigated pollen grain emptying by two nectarivorous Australian parrots, the Swift Parrot Lathamus discolor and the Musk Lorikeet Glossopsitta concinna. We used a controlled experiment, and examined pollen located at different levels through the alimentary tract of wild L. discolor. There was significant emptying of pollen grains (x = 45.4%  1.91 s.e.) by all birds in the experimental trials. There was also a progressive increase in the percentage of pollen grains emptied at different sites along the alimentary tract in wild birds (crop x = 24.2%  4.44 s.e., proventriculus x = 34.0%  7.29 s.e., duodenum x = 54.3%  5.42 s.e. and distal intestine x = 64.2%  4.68 s.e.). The percentage of pollen grains emptied by captive L. discolor in the experimental trial (x = 44.1%  2.77 s.e.) was not significantly different from that found in wild L. discolor (x = 40.3%  4.25 s.e.). Both species of nectarivorous parrot were able to rapidly ingest large quantities of Eucalyptus pollen and appeared to empty the pollen grains efficiently. Eucalyptus pollen appears to be an important source of protein for these birds. 
30244457|Variation in predator behavior has been proposed, but not tested, as a mechanism producing seasonal declines in avian nest success. We test this hypothesis by documenting seasonal activity of Texas ratsnakes Elaphe obsoleta and nest failure of endangered black-capped vireos Vireo atricapilla and golden-cheeked warblers Dendroica chrysoparia on which the snakes prey. Nest survival analysis was based on 880 vireo and 228 warbler nests and 3,060 snake locations from 62 radio-tracked snakes. Although nest success varied with snake activity for both birds, specific patterns differed substantially. Vireo daily nest survival was negatively correlated with snake activity over the three-year study, despite substantial variation among years in weather, and the fact that these birds are almost certainly a minor prey species of the ratsnakes. Warblers exhibited less clear-cut seasonal variation in nest success, and the association between nest success and snake activity was less pronounced than for vireos. Increased activity at warmer temperatures explained some of the seasonal change in snake movements, although mating may have accounted for a mid-season peak in activity. These results indicate that variation in predator behavior can be associated with and potentially cause seasonal changes in nest success, but also that these relationships are species specific even within the same community and may depend on aspects of the nesting ecology of the prey such as nest site selection.
30244818|The predator avoidance hypothesis suggests that the failure of subordinate birds to provision nestlings in communally breeding species is a consequence of increased predation risk. Parents exclude subordinates from the nest area and thus reduce the frequency of predator-attracting visits when the nest is most vulnerable, leading to increased reproductive success. I evaluated this hypothesis for the speckled warbler Chthonicola sagittata, a group-living member of the Pardalotidae in which subordinate males never feed nestlings or fledglings even though they are unrelated to the primary pair, compete for copulations and sometimes sire young in the brood. Parents did not modify provisioning behaviour relative to the risk of nest predation; provisioning rates to 10 d-old nestlings were similar on high and low risk territories. Furthermore, there was no evidence that parents modified the timing of deliveries or adjusted the relative size of deliveries in relation to predation risk. The condition (residual mass) of nestlings differed between high and low risk territories because nestlings on high risk territories had smaller tarsi but similar body mass to those at low risk. Tarsus length was the result of parental phenotype, not modified provisioning behaviour. Given that parents were unresponsive to predation risk, it seems unlikely that predation can account for the failure of subordinates to provision at the nest.
30243910|Understanding the factors that affect the occurrence of extrapair paternity (EPP) is one of the central issues in sexual selection. We investigated genetic parentage and the ecological factors affecting patterns of EPP in the vinous-throated parrotbill, Paradoxornis webbianus, a flock-living species with double broods. Using microsatellite DNA fingerprinting, we determined parentage of 246 offspring in 50 broods over two years (2005 and 2006). Nineteen offspring (8%) from 13 broods (26%) were sired by extrapair males and one offspring (0.4%) was probably the result of intraspecific brood parasitism. The prevalence of EPP varied significantly through the breeding season: 95% of broods with EPP (12/13) occurred in the first of two laying peaks. Parentage assignment revealed that half of extrapair males (6/12) were adjacent neighbours. The distribution of EPP was not significantly related to the ecological factors including breeding density and breeding synchrony. Instead, we suggest that social characteristics such as flocking and weak territoriality may determine the observed pattern of EPP in this study.
30244430|Lesser black-backed gulls Larus fuscus migrate regularly along coastlines or the Nile to their wintering grounds in sub-Saharan Africa. They usually avoid the interior of the Sahara, but occur occasionally far inland when moving upstream along rivers. We discovered several flocks of lesser black-backed gulls crossing the western Sahara about 500 km east of the Atlantic coast. Their concentrated flight directions along a northeast-southwest axis indicate that the gulls were on an intended migratory flight and not incidentally drifted inland. Ground speed of 8 flocks of gulls averaged 20 m/s and was considerably larger than the mean air speed (12 m/s) demonstrating that the gulls were strongly assisted by tailwinds. Highest ground speed was 26 m/s. Warmest temperature encountered when crossing the study site was 13 C due to relative high flight altitudes of 3,500 m above sea level. Thus, lesser black-backed gulls migrated under favourable conditions with respect to energy and water consumption. Our observations strongly suggest that the gulls performed long non-stop flights between the eastern Atlantic coast of sub-Saharan Africa and the Mediterranean Sea.
3677509|During a radar study of autumn migrating waterfowl Denmark, individual flight trajectories of bird flocks were seen to show zigzag-like patterns, rather than exact straight lines. An analysis of these small-scale changes in flight directions, which are too small to be detected by satellite telemetry, showed that geese and common eiders Somateria m. mollissima were flying on average 0.7% and 1.6% longer distances, respectively, than if they would have flown along exact straight lines. Thus, it is concluded that the flight paths are remarkably similar to straight lines. A multivariate regression analysis suggested cross wind as a factor increasing flight distance, and hence, the small-scale changes in flight directions could in part be a result of birds trying to compensate for wind drift.
3677770|We analysed genetic relatedness through DNA-fingerprinting in 38 two-chick families of Chinstrap Penguins Pygoscelis antarctica in the Vapour Col colony on Deception Island, Antarctica. Band-sharing coefficients between males and chicks in their nests, females and chicks in their nests and brood mates were very close to 0.50 and were not significantly different. Presumably unrelated pair mates showed much lower band-sharing coefficients (0.12), which differed significantly from those between putative parents and their chicks and between presumed siblings. No case of extra-pair paternity was detected according to the presence of novel bands or to band-sharing coefficients. Monogamy in the study population is not only social but also genetic.
10.2307/3677147|Polyandrous females in the Charadriiformes lay relatively small eggs, which is hypothesized to allow increased egg production. I examined the generality of this hypothesis by testing the prediction that the classical polyandrous Black Coucal C. grillii (Cuculiformes) will have relatively smaller eggs than its monogamous congenerics. Indeed, C. grillii did have smaller eggs than monogamous Centropus spp. In addition, Centropus spp. that lay larger eggs invest more in incubation and feeding of offspring, with C. sinensis (females both incubate eggs and feed young) having significantly larger eggs than predicted by body size alone.
10.2307/3677105|Behavioural studies indicate that the use of foraging niches in wintering tits is the outcome of a trade-off between using sites rich in food and keeping exposure to predators as low as possible. Previous studies suggest that predation risk varies within the tree and is higher for tits using outer parts of branches and low positions in trees. This is the first study of the use of foraging sites in the tree by Willow Tits Parus montanus that actually manipulates the perceived likelihood of a predator attack. Captive Willow Tits were subject to simulated attacks using stuffed predators. After spotting an avian predator the tits shifted to forage to a larger extent in sheltered parts of the tree than before the attack. The result shows that niche use in Willow Tits is directly linked to the perceived predation risk and that the birds assess the predation risk to be lower on the inner parts of the branches than further out.
3677397|The propensity of migratory waders to remain on the non-breeding grounds during the arctic breeding season ("oversummer") in their first biological year of life ("juveniles") may be latitude, and thus migratory distance dependent. We compared the extent of preparation for northward migration of western sandpipers Calidris mauri spending the non-breeding season in Mxico and Panam during 1995-1998. During winter residency and premigratory periods, we measured body mass and scored the extent of dull basic versus bright alternate breeding plumage of captured juveniles and adults (second biological year or older), and obtained additional plumage scores from observations of uniquely colour banded birds. Nearly all western sandpipers in Mxico prepared for northward migration by increasing body mass and moulting into breeding plumage. In Panam, most adults prepared for migration, but few, if any, juveniles did so. Patterns of body mass and breeding plumage development do not generally support the hypothesis that oversummering by juveniles results directly from less efficient foraging or from resource competition with adults. We suggest instead that costs directly associated with migratory distance per se influence the life history strategies of sandpipers spending the non-breeding seasons at different latitudes. This latitudinal difference should interact with the well documented sex-ratio cline in non-breeding distribution (male western sandpipers predominating in northern parts of the range and females in southern parts). This suggests that females have more conservative life histories, prioritizing first year survivorship, relative to males that instead weight first-year breeding opportunities.
3677410|We studied several determinants of laying date variation and the relationship between laying date and reproductive success in the Snow Petrel Pagodroma nivea. The effects of female body size and condition, year, individual laying period, colony size, mate fidelity, previous reproductive success, and duration of the pre-laying exodus on laying date, were investigated during a 3-year study. The average laying date was 4 December. The laying period was compressed into 10-16 days and was very constant from year to year, both for the population as a whole and for individual females. The laying period of individual females varied from year to year on average by less than one day. Body size explained 24% of the variation in laying dates, with large females laying their egg later than small ones. Laying in large colonies occurred c. 2 days later than in small colonies, mainly because a higher proportion of large females bred in large colonies. There was no effect of mate fidelity, age, body condition and previous reproductive success on laying date, but the duration of the pre-laying exodus was strongly correlated with laying date. Smaller females had shorter pre-laying exodus (c. 17.7 days) than larger ones (c. 20.4 days). During the three years of the study reproductive success either increased, decreased or did not vary with laying date. Although body size is not maintained by selection on laying date alone, the genetic body size component of this species suggests that balancing selection on body size may act through laying date.
10.2307/3676972|We examined the winter body mass patterns of a northern, ground-feeding passerine, the Snow Bunting Plectrophenax nivalis, which we attracted to artificial food sources in three different altitudinal habitat zones in north-east Scotland. Despite similar patterns of food availability in mid- and late-winter, Snow Buntings appeared to regulate their energy reserves by gaining body mass more quickly during the shorter days of mid-winter than during the longer days of late-winter. The increased rate of mass gain was more than sufficient to offset the longer periods of overnight fasting, so that dawn body mass peaked in mid-winter: the birds therefore showed true winter fattening. Birds also carried more reserves at higher altitudes. These seasonal and altitudinal trends suggest that Snow Buntings increase their reserves when the risk that food will become unavailable increases. However, we calculate that most birds still need to feed every day to avoid starvation.
10.2307/3677291|To establish a framework for detailed investigations of the roles of protein nutrition and metabolism as proximate factors limiting avian egg production, I analyzed the amino acid compositions of the mixed proteins in the albumen and yolk of eggs of Zebra Finches Taeniopygia guttata and Pigeons Columba livia and compared these data with analyses of eggs from three other avian Orders. I also analyzed the amino acid compositions of muscles and carcasses of a representative passerine, the White-crowned Sparrow Zonotrichia leucophrys gambelii and compared these analyses with analyses available for other species. The amino acid compositions of the mixed proteins of albumen and yolk were very similar, as were the amino acid compositions of eggs or tissues among the species examined. Using the aforementioned measures, I compared the apparent essential amino acid (EAA) requirements for egg production (i.e. the EAA deposited) with (1) the estimated daily EAA requirements for maintenance in nonproductive birds, (2) the amino acid composition of the mixed proteins of muscle (a source of amino acids during fasting or periods of trophic shortages) and (3) the average amino acid concentrations in several food types. For all species examined, during egg production, the daily requirements for Phe + Tyr increased most among the EAA, followed by Lys or Val. The sulfur amino acids (SAA) and Phe + Tyr, or Trp were the first and second limiting amino acids, respectively, for synthesizing egg proteins from amino acids derived from muscle proteins. The SAA and Lys were the most likely to be limiting for synthesizing egg proteins from dietary proteins. Even the most prolific passerines can probably meet their SAA demands for egg production without highly selective foraging, but some selective foraging may be needed. Many ducks, however, may need to forage intensively for SAA-rich foods to avoid severely depleting their body protein reserves and (or) very inefficient use of EAA and energy.
10.2307/3677236|The body water dynamics of egg-laying Zebra Finches Taeniopygia guttata was investigated by isotopic dilution of deuterium oxide or D
30245195|Many avian species initiate incubation before clutch completion, resulting in an asynchronous hatch of their eggs. Several studies suggest that early laid eggs in birds that exhibit synchronous hatching may be more vulnerable to the negative impacts of ambient temperatures and/or trans-shell infection by microbes. However, nearly all of these studies have exposed fertile eggs to environmental conditions in artificial cavity nests, and thus, the effects of exposure of eggs to environmental conditions in open-cup nests remains largely unknown. Therefore, we directly compared hatchability and rates of trans-shell infection in fertile domestic chicken eggs that were exposed for 1-5 days in either open-cup or cavity nests. Eggs in open-cup nests had significantly higher rates of trans-shell infection and lower hatchability than those in cavity nests. These differences may result from different environmental conditions in open-cup nests, as well as in rates of microbial colonization of eggs. Cavity nests maintained slightly higher temperatures than did open-cup nests in the same location; thus, eggs in cavity nests were exposed for a longer period of time to temperatures 27 C, the temperature at which antibacterial enzymatic activity is initiated in the albumen. Moreover, microbial growth on eggs was much higher in opencup nests even when eggs in these nests were cleaned daily with alcohol. It may be that the increased exposure to rain events in open-cup nests may facilitate microbial growth and egg infection. Thus, our data suggest that open-cup nesters may face constraints on reproduction different from those that cavity nesters face, and therefore may make choices regarding incubation that reflect these challenges.
10.2307/3677307|In Purple Martins Progne subis, adult males were found to have significantly longer wings and tails than subadult males whereas females of both age classes were equal in flight feather length. This male age class difference was not caused by higher mortality of long-winged subadult males because the pattern also existed for the same individuals measured at age one and two years, indicating that males postponed full feather growth for their first breeding year while females did not. Another male age class difference was that adult males were paired to their mates assortatively by wing-length while subadult males were not. This difference suggests either that females paired to subadult males were constrained in their choice of mates or they did not prefer to pair with longer-winged males. A possible lack of female preference for longer-winged subadult males is consistent with two apparent costs that females suffered by pairing with subadult males that had longer wings than themselves: (1) The greater the difference in wing-length between subadult males and their mates, the less the male provisioned the brood relative to the female, and (2) in a parallel study, females paired with longer-winged subadult males obtained many fewer extra-pair fertilizations from adult males. These findings suggest that, contrary to previous hypotheses, "delayed size maturation" may be primarily sexually selected in some species, rather than naturally selected.
3677476|In the jackdaw Corvus monedula, eggs hatch asynchronously with the youngest chicks in the brood often starving to death. So far, it is unknown whether there are sex differences in vulnerability to starvation. Adult females are smaller than males suggesting that daughters should be cheaper to produce than sons and so, less likely to starve when nest conditions are poor. Here, we determine whether sex, laying order and season interact to influence growth and fledging success. In a nestbox population of jackdaws, we found a non-significant female bias at both hatching (112:120) and fledging (37:52). Generalised linear models revealed that parents seemed to be investing differently in sons and daughters depending on their chances of success. Broods produced late in the season were significantly female biased, particularly those from small clutches. Females hatched towards the end of the season, when conditions were poor, were more likely to fledge than males. Nestlings that were relatively large at hatching were more likely to fledge. This effect was particularly important for last hatched individuals. Overall, males had a higher mortality rate than females. The most likely cause was starvation due to higher energetic requirements, because males were larger than females at fledging. We suggest that in species with brood reduction, sex-biased mortality may be at least as important as primary sex ratio manipulation in determining avian sex ratios.
30244429|Mating calls of animals are often detected by unintended receivers which use sexual signals to obtain information about the signaller. We investigated whether white storks Ciconia ciconia can eavesdrop mating calls of moor frogs Rana arvalis. White storks are dependent on moor frog abundance in early breeding season. Interspecific eavesdropping by predators is common and well documented in tropical anurans, whereas it is less known in temperate zone. We compared the frequency of approaches of white storks to loudspeakers when frog calls and the song thrush Turdusphilomelos songs were simultaneously played back using the later as controls. The loudspeaker broadcasting the calls of male moor frogs clearly attracted white storks at 22 out of 84 nests. The bird songs attracted white storks in only one case. In 19 cases birds left the nest for unknown reasons which were considered as potential foraging movements. The results of this field experiment report a new case of eavesdropping on acoustic signals showing that advertisement calls of temperate moor frogs are an important stimulus for white storks.
3677387|The abilities of some cave-nesting swiftlets to echolocate has traditionally been used to separate the genus Aerodramus, which includes echolocating species, from the genus Collocalia, thought to lack echolocation. Here we report the discovery of echolocation in a member of the latter genus, the pygmy swiftlet Collocalia troglodytes. We also present a well-supported molecular phylogeny for the swiftlets and their relatives based on DNA sequence data from two mitochondrial genes, which we use to reconstruct the evolution of echolocation. Our data provide strong evidence that the swiftlets are a monophyletic group. This monophyly plus the presence of echolocation in C. troglodytes indicate that either (1) echolocation evolved much earlier in the swiftlets than previously thought and has since been lost in most Collocalia taxa, or (2) this ability evolved independently in Aerodramus and Collocalia. Based on our results, echolocation can no longer be considered a useful character for distinguishing these two genera.
30243865|In Hungary an unusually high rate of parasitism on the great reed warbler Acrocephalus arundinaceus by the common cuckoo Cuculus canorus has been maintained for at least the last one hundred years. We evaluated parasitism rate, antiparasite defence and genetic differentiation among Hungarian great reed warblers at three sites located 40-130 km from each other, where hosts suffered from a high (41-68%), moderate (11%), and almost no (<1%) parasitism. We were especially interested in whether the level of antiparasite defence was related to the local parasitism rate, and, if not, to understand why. There was no difference among the three sites in the responses to experimental parasitism by nonmimetic model cuckoo eggs (rejection rate 71-82%), which can be explained by strong gene flow between populations: there was low level of philopatry and no genetic differentiation in the region. Reproductive success of the host in the heavily parasitised site was about 54% of that in the unparasitised site, indicating that long-term persistence of host populations in highly exploited areas depends on continuous immigration.
10.2307/3677118|Twenty-five kleptoparasitic attempts by Kestrels on Short-eared Owls were recorded in 16 afternoons of observation (70 hours) during the winter of 1996-97 in western France. Nine attempts were successful. The daily hunting yield of Kestrels is related to the time spent flight-hunting, an energetically costly hunting technique. Medium to strong winds allow Kestrels to use flight-hunting at a lower cost, hence increasing the rate of net energy intake. I found that kleptoparasitism occurred more frequently when wind speed was unfavourable for flight-hunting (i.e. weak winds). Food theft was more successful when done by a pair; the female always initiated the attacks. One stolen prey per day was estimated to compensate for 50% of the potential reduction in hunting yield caused by the lesser time spent flight-hunting in poor wind conditions.
10.2307/3677343|Extra-pair matings are now recognized as a fundamental component of avian mating systems. However, in tropical regions where breeding is typically asynchronous socially monogamous species appear to have low sperm competition and few extra-pair matings. We predicted that if breeding synchrony promotes the evolution of extra-pair matings, then tropical species that breed synchronously, like the Clay-colored Robin Turdus grayi, should have abundant extra-pair young (EPY). Breeding began relatively abruptly during the dry season (Feb-Mar) in this non-migratory species, with a mean of 25% of females fertile on a given day. Overall, 53% of females produced EPY, and 38% of nestlings were EPY. Males have a long and conspicuous dawn chorus, which could be a result of intense male-male competition for extra-pair matings. Male songs are individually recognizable and males vary greatly in song output. Male song output declined significantly from the pre-nesting stage through the incubation stage, as would be expected if song is important in mate choice. Our results support the idea that breeding synchrony favors extra-pair matings, however further studies of tropical songbirds are needed to fully explore how ecology is tied to extra-pair mating systems.
30244777|We present estimates of standardized selection (directional and quadratic) differentials via reproductive success on eight morphological traits in a newly founded long-term study population of great reed warblers Acrocephalus arundinaceus in Sweden. In order to predict the evolutionary response to selection in these traits we present estimates of heritabilities (h), phenotypic ( $r_{p}$ ) and genetic ( $r_{A}$ ) correlations among the same traits. We also examined the extent of parental effects in the expression of the phenotypic traits. Overall, the population is subject to low levels of directional selection and higher levels of stabilizing selection. This makes us predict that the population is changing very little if anything, even though h in many cases are considerable. Midparentmidoffspring h ranged from 0.14 and 0.94 (mean 0.58) and were significant for seven of eight traits. We found indications of positive maternal effects in tarsus length. Phenotypic correlations between traits ranged from 0.02 to 0.43 (mean 0.15) and showed generally much lower values than the corresponding genetic correlations that ranged between 0.08 and 1.04 (mean 0.46). Overall, the correlation between $r_{p}$ and $r_{A}$ was significant, although moderate, but they tended to differ in magnitude, possibly due to overestimation of additive covariance between traits.
3677557|A large body of theories on extra-pair paternity (EPP) in birds has proposed four main "genetic" hypotheses to explain this behaviour: the "good genes" hypothesis, the genetic diversity hypothesis, the genetic compatibility hypothesis and the fertility insurance hypothesis. Empirical tests have been scarce, mainly because high sample sizes are difficult to collect. We have tested these hypotheses in three Mediterranean populations of blue tits Parus caeruleus in which 50-68% of the broods contained extra-pair young. Results showed that the distribution of extra-pair young among broods was not random, and that survival to fledging of extra-pair young was higher than that of their within-pair sibs. These results support the idea of genetic effects benefiting extra-pair young. However, comparison of cuckolded and cuckolding males showed no significant difference in their body size, age, survival or relatedness with their paired females, and offspring morphometrics did not differ between extra-pair and within-pair young. We conclude that none of the genetic hypotheses can explain fully the high level of extra-pair paternity, at least in our populations of Mediterranean blue tits. We suggest that direct ecological benefits of EPP for females should be tested more often in correlative as well as experimental approaches.
10.2307/3677028|Laying date and clutch size were studied in Canada Geese Branta canadensis breeding in two areas in Sweden during five seasons. The objectives were to elucidate differences in individual laying dates and differences among years in the relationship between laying date and clutch size. Laying date differed significantly among years in both areas. Laying date and clutch size were negatively correlated only in early years. Standardized laying dates but not clutch sizes differed significantly among individuals. Clutch size increased between an individual's first and second breeding season, and the body mass of individual incubating females increased between breeding seasons. The results indicate that the amount of stored body reserves available for egg production was the main factor responsible for the seasonal clutch size decline in years with early breeding. The absence of such a decline in years with late breeding was likely the result of late-nesting females' access to fresh vegetation.
10.2307/3677280|We investigated spatial and temporal differences in the habitat associations of five New World vulture taxa (family Vulturidae auct. Cathartidae) in the Llanos of central Venezuela. Overall numbers of vultures were higher over open or semi-open savanna habitats than closed canopy riverine gallery forest. Black Vultures Coragyps atratus brasiliensis and Lesser Yellow-headed Vultures Cathartes burrovianus foraged principally in open habitats at all times. Although King Vultures Sarcoramphus papa were counted mainly over gallery forest they also sometimes foraged outside the forest area. During the wet season, resident Turkey Vultures Cathartes aura ruficollis foraged in all habitats but highest densities occurred over gallery forest, east of the main highway. This indicated that, to some extent, vulture species were ecologically segregated by habitat. During the dry season, a larger, dominant, migratory race of Turkey Vulture, C. a. meridionalis, coexisted with the resident subspecies. Migrants foraged at highest densities over open and semi-open habitats, but they also occurred in low numbers over gallery forest. When sympatric with these migrants, resident Turkey Vultures foraged almost exclusively in closed gallery and semi-deciduous tropical forest to the east of the highway, and, in contrast to the wet season, avoided open habitats. At the end of the dry season (March to April), migrant Turkey Vultures departed for North America to breed, resulting in a dramatic reduction in densities of Cathartes vultures. Despite the absence of migrants, densities of Cathartes vultures remained higher in open and semi-open savanna habitats than the gallery forest area. Support for a possible niche shift came from the proportion of carcasses visited in different habitats by resident Turkey Vultures, habitat sightings of wing-tagged birds and radiotracking studies.
30243874|How long is a sand martin Riparia riparia spermatozoon? In a recent study, Helfenstein et al. (2008) presented data on the intraspecific variation in sperm length, swimming speed and longevity in this species and some interesting correlations between these variables. However, the reported sperm lengths are remarkably short for the species, which casts doubts about whether sperm total length has actually been measured and how the observed relationships should be interpreted.
30244490|Many ecological studies use stress hormones to assess the condition, health or disturbance levels of wild organisms. Common blood sampling protocols for this research involve trapping individuals and taking blood within three minutes to obtain a "baseline" for analysis of stress hormones ("conventional method"). In some situations it may be difficult to get an accurate measure of baseline values; therefore, alternative sampling techniques may be preferable. We compared corticosterone levels in samples taken via a newly developed, minimally invasive blood sampling technique with corticosterone levels in blood taken via the conventional method. We collected samples from incubating adult common terns Sterna hirundo via blood sucking bugs (Heteroptera, Triatominae) contained in "dummy eggs" ("bug method") and compared measured corticosterone concentrations to concentrations in blood taken from the same birds using the conventional method. We found no significant differences in mean or variance of baseline corticosterone levels between samples collected via the different methods. This suggests that the bug method offers a viable alternative for hormone sampling.
30245212|Molecular tools are reshaping many traditional paradigms concerning the timeframe of avian diversification in North America. Phylogeographic studies have become essential for guiding the emerging paradigms. However, the current pool of such studies tends not to be evenly dispersed across the landscape, which limits the generality of inferences. The southeastern United States is one region where the tempo and mode of recent avian diversification is poorly understood. One phylogeographic break in particular, the Tombigbee River discontinuity, divides eastern and western phylogroups in Alabama, and, though it is known to have influenced the phylogeographic patterns of some fish and reptiles, its role in promoting recent avian diversification is not well understood. Eastern and western morphological subspecies of the yellow-throated warbler Dendroica dominica divide along the phylogeographic break created by the Tombigbee River discontinuity suggesting that this bird was also affected by this vicariance. To determine whether the phylogeographic patterns of the yellow-throated warbler are consistent with this biogeographic barrier, I analyzed mitochondrial control region sequences of 109 yellow-throated warblers from across the species' range and, from a subset of these samples, sequences from a sex-linked nuclear gene. Considerable variation was uncovered, but most of this variation was found within rather than among populations or subspecies. A shallow phylogenetic tree, star-like haplotype network, and unimodal mismatch distribution all suggested a recent expansion. Coalescent modeling indicated that modern populations are derived from a single common ancestral population and that differences among subspecies in morphology, ecology, and migratory pathways are the result of recent and rapid evolution, possibly driven by selection.
10.2307/3676959|Crested Parus cristatus and Willow tits P. montanus are severe food competitors owing to their similar body size, diet and foraging sites. In Belgium, they occupy overlapping territories and form mixed-species winter flocks. Earlier, we found environmental stress to govern foraging strategies of first-year Crested Tits (subordinates) in unispecific flocks. I here test whether niche shifts of Willow Tits (subordinates) in mixed flocks with Crested Tits (dominants) are in the direction expected if interspecific competition governs foraging site segregation when wind velocity increases. At high wind velocity, Willow Tits shifted to sites higher up and further out in trees in the presence, but downward and inward in the absence of Crested Tits. In the latter case, they used similar positions to allopatric Willow Tits. At high wind velocity, foraging shifts of Willow Tits decreased the niche overlap with Crested Tits foraging in the same tree, but there were no such shifts when foraging in neighbouring ones. The fact that Willow Tits frequently join coherent flocks with Crested Tits on windy days, suggests that environmental stress might govern flocking strategies adopted by subordinate tit species in dominance-structured associations.
3676988|We examined different song parameters leading to a complex song configuration, and song output (production), and their relation in male Moustached Warblers and discuss them with reference to female choice. With more than 120 different syllables per two minutes of song, male Moustached Warblers can be regarded as one of the most complex singers within the genus Acrocephalus. We found significant differences between males for almost all song parameters investigated (repertoire size, switching and repetition rate, song speed and strophe length) but not for time spent singing per 20 minutes. This individual variation probably is an important cue for female mate choice. Male Moustached Warblers achieve song complexity mainly via frequent syllable switching. Song complexity seems to be consistent throughout the song and our results suggest that females could assess the overall song complexity of a singer by examining even very short song bouts. Furthermore, a high proportion of motifs - clusters of syllables with the same sequence - occurs within the song of each male which would also facilitate assessment of song complexity by females. However, repertoire size and strophe length were positively related, thus it remains to be investigated which song feature, if any, females actually use.
10.2307/3677215|The costs of incubation were studied in a population of Pied Flycatchers Ficedula hypoleuca both by gathering non-manipulative data and performing clutch size manipulations in three successive seasons. Enlarging clutch size caused a prolonged incubation and increased hatching failures in every year. The length of incubation did not differ between control and reduced clutches but was extended by 0.8 d in enlarged clutches. The manipulation of clutch size did not affect the weight of incubating females. However, in 1993 the incubation weight of females was negatively correlated with the length of incubation. Adverse spring weather most likely caused the many abnormalities and failures during incubation in 1993. Seven females disappeared and three dead females were found in nest-boxes during the incubation period. Moreover, in six nests one or two eggs were rolled to the rim of the nest cup presumably by the incubating female. All these observations suggest that incubation might be an energetic bottleneck for breeding and thus could be a contributory factor in the determination of clutch size in this species.
10.2307/3677033|The acoustic competition hypothesis predicts that song variability within a species will be inversely correlated with the amount of acoustic competition from other species. To test this hypothesis, we recorded 10 territorial male American Tree Sparrows from each of 14 locations within a 500 km
3676935|Populations of Reed Buntings Emberiza schoeniclus in the western Palearctic are classified in two major subspecies groups according to morphology: northern migratory schoeniclus and Mediterranean resident intermedia. Songs of the two groups differ mainly in complexity and syllable structure, with intermedia songs being more complex. We explored the possibilities of song as a subspecies isolating mechanism by testing if male schoeniclus Reed Buntings reacted differently to field playbacks of songs from their own subspecies group, from the foreign subspecies group and from a control species, the Yellowhammer Emberiza citrinella. We tested 30 different males, each with a different song belonging to one of the three categories: own, foreign and Yellowhammer. Unlike songs of the two subspecies groups, Yellowhammer song elicited no response. Differences between reactions to own and foreign subspecies group songs were not significant, even though differences in response type (singing vs approaching) suggested some degree of uncertainty in classification of foreign song. We conclude from these results that the subspecies may be only in the first stages of the isolation process.
30243842|In cooperatively breeding apostlebirds Struthidea cinerea philopatry by both sexes is coupled with low levels of dispersal, resulting in large groups (up to 17 birds) that may include multiple males and females of varying age and relatedness. We investigated mating patterns within 18 groups of apostlebirds using a set of six polymorphic microsatellite loci. Apostlebirds appear to adopt flexible and context-dependent mating strategies, with both monogamy and polygamy detected in separate groups. Most groups (11/18, 17/26 group-seasons) were putatively monogamous, with a single pair matching all typed offspring. Despite the potential for inbreeding, members of breeding pairs were less closely related than other potential within-group mating combinations. Polygamy was inferred in four groups (four group-seasons) from the presence of more than four alleles at one locus among offspring within a brood. Pairwise relatedness was lower among adults in polygamous groups than those in groups that included a monogamous breeding pair. There was no conclusive evidence of extra-group paternity or egg dumping.
3677567|We used radio-telemetry to study autumn migratory flight initiation and orientation in relation to wind and air pressure in a nocturnal passerine migrant, the reed warbler Acrocephalus scirpaceus at Falsterbo, southwest Sweden. The majority of the reed warblers departed in the expected migratory direction towards south of southwest, while a low number of the birds took off in reverse directions between north and east. Flight directions at departure correlated with wind directions. These correlations were particularly prominent at higher wind speeds but were absent at wind speeds below 4 m/s. Birds departing in the expected migratory direction compensated completely for wind drift. The reed warblers preferred to depart during nights with tailwinds and when air pressure was increasing suggesting that reed warblers are sensitive to winds and air pressure and select favourable wind conditions for their migratory flights. Since air pressure as well as velocity and direction of the wind are correlated with the passage of cyclones, a combination of these weather variables is presumably important for the birds' decision to migrate and should therefore be considered in optimal migration models.
10.2307/3677244|This paper analyses the variation of several morphological traits in five populations of Blackcaps Sylvia atricapilla distributed along a latitudinal gradient in the Iberian peninsula. The northern and central populations differ from the southern ones in their longer and more pointed wings, narrower bills, shorter tarsi and smaller body size. These features define two morphological groups and correlate with differences in their migration and feeding habits. Birds from northern and central Iberia breed in habitats with harsh winter conditions, which they abandon in autumn when they migrate to their wintering grounds. Birds from the mild, southern sectors remain there throughout the winter. Their migratory behaviour, and a stronger specialisation for feeding on foliage invertebrates, could explain the morphological differentiation of northern Blackcaps relative to southern ones. Our results suggest that the Iberian migratory populations might have descended from ancestral, southern-like ones, that have become adapted to exploit their seasonal breeding grounds.
30244801|Stable nitrogen ( <tex-math>$\delta^{15}N$</tex-math> ), carbon ( <tex-math>$\delta^{13}C$</tex-math> ) and hydrogen (D) isotope profiles in feathers of nine migratory bird species trapped in Kenya were examined to test the extent to which they were segregated, geographically or by habitat, during an earlier autumn migration stopover in northeast Africa. We examined whether isotopic differences between species varied between years, and whether the isotope profiles of individual species appeared to be consistent. The relationship between mean feather <tex-math>$\delta^{13}C$</tex-math> , <tex-math>$\delta^{15}N$</tex-math> and D assorted the migrants into several clustered groups. Similar feather isotope values among successive years revealed that each species tended to return to the same or similar stopover areas and selected habitat and diet that generated similar isotopic signatures. Possible explanations are discussed for the existence of these isotopic groups.
30244838|Sexual ornaments might indicate better condition, fewer parasites or a greater immune responsiveness. Carotenoid-based ornaments are common sexual signals of birds and often influence mate choice. Skin or beaks pigmented by carotenoids can change colour rapidly, and could be particularly useful as honest indicators of an individual's current condition and/ or health. This is because carotenoids must be acquired through diet and/or allocation for ornamental coloration might be to the detriment of self-maintenance needs. Here, we investigated whether the carotenoid-based coloration of eye rings and beak of male red-legged partridges Alectoris rufa predicted condition (mass corrected for size), parasite load (more specifically infection by coccidia, a main avian intestinal parasite) or a greater immune responsiveness (swelling response to a plant lectin, phytohaemagluttinin, or PHA). Redness of beak and eye rings positively correlated with plasma carotenoid levels. Also, males in better condition had fewer coccidia, more circulating carotenoids and a greater swelling response to PHA. Carotenoid-based ornamentation predicted coccidia abundance and immune responsiveness (redder males had fewer coccidia and greater swelling response to PHA), but was only weakly positively related to condition. Thus, the carotenoid pigmentation of beak and eye rings reflected the current health status of individuals. Our results are consistent with the hypothesis that allocation trade-offs (carotenoid use for ornamentation versus parasite defence needs) might ensure reliable carotenoid-based signalling.
3677601|We sought to investigate the extent to which natural feather availability constrains avian nest construction by provisioning a site with feathers. Twenty patches, each of fifty marked feathers, were made available to naturally breeding passerine birds each week for three breeding seasons. The mean feather loss per week was 14.4% and only in one week of the study did it rise above 40%. The proportion of feathers recovered from local nests of ten passerine species that were marked was less than 3%. It was concluded that natural feather availability is high and that species requiring them for nest building can readily find them.
10.2307/3677006|The Eleonora's Falcon Falco eleonorae breeds on islands and islets in the Mediterranean region and feeds its young on migratory birds caught in the air. The breeding season is scheduled to coincide with the peak of bird migration. Between 12 and 20 September 1997 we measured flight tracks of falcons within a range of 4 km from their breeding cliffs on Isola di San Pietro 6 km off the south-west coast of Sardinia, by using an optical range finder. The male falcons left the colony in directions between W and NW to hunt far off-shore, probably intersecting migrants departing from mainland Europe in southern France. Flight tracks of falcons leaving for off-shore hunting and falcons searching for prey closer to the colony differed significantly, as revealed by a straightness index. Falcons leaving the colony for the far off-shore hunting area climbed to altitudes over 1000 m. The highest altitude recorded was 1649 m. The altitudes reported from radar studies on nocturnal migrants in the Mediterranean match the flight altitudes observed in the departing Eleonora's Falcons. Calculations based on the times taken for falcons to return with prey to the nest indicate a maximum distance to the hunting area of about 24 km. The falcons compensated partially for wind drift caused by cross winds when departing for off-shore hunting. Complete compensation might not be possible if the wave pattern of the sea is used for orientation, due to movements of the reference system relative the ground. The flight time of Eleonora's Falcons did not seem to be severely restricted by a metabolic ceiling, although such a ceiling does not allow extensive day and night hunting.
3677486|Flightless rails were once ubiquitous in the avifauna of Pacific oceanic islands. Most species have become extinct since human colonization of islands began about 2000 years ago. In this study, we use mitochondrial sequence data to estimate the phylogenetic relationships and ages of four species of flightless insular rails in the genus Porzana: palmeri, from Laysan Island in the Hawaiian archipelago; sandwichensis, from the island of Hawaii; monasa, from Kosrae Island in Micronesia; and atra, from Henderson Island in the Pitcairn group. Although all four species survived into historic times, all but atra are now extinct. The optimal trees show that palmeri is descended from Porzana pusilla, a volant crake distributed widely throughout the Old World. Porzana sandwichensis, P. monasa, and P. atra are each descended from the lineage leading to P. tabuensis, a volant rail widespread in northern and eastern Australia and on islands north to Micronesia and the Philippines and east through Polynesia. Loss of flight appears to have evolved rapidly in these insular rails, based on both sequence divergence values and data on the ages of the islands. In the case of the Laysan Rail (palmeri), divergences including loss of flight probably evolved in less than 125,000 years.
10.2307/3677318|Black-capped Chickadees Parus articapillus scatter hoard food. Because they live in social groups during the winter, flock members may observe caching by others and take their caches. We present two laboratory experiments that investigate the possibility of observational learning of cache location and related behaviours. In the first experiment, 15 chickadees were observed storing food in an indoor aviary, either individually or in pairs. Five percent of caches were taken within a few minutes by birds that observed the occurrence of caching. These cache thefts may have been assisted by observation. Dominant birds made more caches and subordinate birds were more likely to take another bird's caches. When cache recovery was tested several hours later, birds recovered their own caches more accurately than those of other birds but recovery of other birds' caches was not improved by the previous observation of caching. A second experiment with 6 additional chickadees examined whether birds attempt to conceal their caching activity. In this experiment 9% of caches were taken by birds that had the opportunity to observe caching. When birds carried seeds, they flew away from their companion more than they did when they were flying without a seed. Overall, these results are consistent with those of previous laboratory studies and suggest that conspecific cache theft may be relatively rare in flocks of food-storing chickadees.
30244773|The summer tanager Piranga rubra is a Neotropical migrant that has experienced noted declines in the southwestern United States caused by extensive habitat loss of native riparian woodlands. This species is composed of two morphologically and behaviorally distinct taxa that traditionally have been recognized as subspecies, each occupying unique habitats in the southern part of North America. Genetic analyses of intraspecific variation are important in studies of threatened or endangered species because they can indicate whether smaller management units exist below the species level and they also provide estimates of within population variability. Using a mitochondrial DNA marker, the intraspecific genetic variation of this species is explored to determine whether the morphologically and behaviorally distinct subspecies are also genetically unique. By using traditional phylogenetic methods and building haplotype networks, results from this study indicate that the subspecies represent two phylogenetic species and should be managed as separate units. In addition, the level of gene flow among geographically isolated populations of the western subspecies is explored using Nested Clade Phylogeographic Analysis and population genetic tests. These analyses show that populations are genetically diverse and that haplotypes are shared across populations. Newly colonized populations are as diverse as older populations. This suggests that as habitat degrades in traditional breeding areas of the summer tanager, if suitable habitat elsewhere becomes available for new populations, these new colonies should be genetically diverse.
10.2307/3677179|Hatchling sea turtles emerge from underground nests, scramble to the ocean, and migrate to the open sea. Loggerhead Caretta caretta hatchlings from eastern Florida, U.S.A., appear to use three different sets of orientation cues sequentially as they migrate offshore. On the beach, hatchlings crawl seaward by orienting toward the low, bright oceanic horizon. In the ocean, turtles initially orient offshore by swimming into waves, which can be detected as wave surge motion or orbital movements. As a hatchling crawls across the beach, swims offshore, or both, it apparently transfers the initial seaward heading to a magnetic compass. This transfer of directional information may allow turtles to maintain offshore courses in deep water where waves no longer move reliably toward land. Sea turtles may use the earth's magnetic field not only as a cue for compass orientation but also as a source of positional information. Results have demonstrated that loggerheads can detect inclination angle and field intensity, two geomagnetic features that vary predictably across the earth's surface. Hatchlings responded to magnetic features found along their migratory route by swimming in directions that would presumably favor retention within the North Atlantic gyre, an oceanic region favorable for growth and development. How adult turtles navigate to their natal regions to nest is not known. We speculate, however, that adults may exploit geomagnetic features in one of several different ways to guide themselves into the vicinity of a nesting area.
3677499|We report on a first DNA fingerprinting study of paternity in a Psittaciform bird, the burrowing parrot Cyanoliseus patagonus. In two consecutive breeding seasons, a total of 49 families was sampled, of which 11 breeding pairs were investigated each of two years. Extra-pair paternity was not encountered suggesting that burrowing parrots are socially as well as genetically monogamous. Strict genetic monogamy is comparatively rare in birds and occurs predominantly in some groups of non-passeriformes all of which exhibit long reproductive lifespans and essential paternal care. Psittaciformes fit this pattern. We conclude that paternal care plays a crucial role in the evolution and maintenance of genetic monogamy in the study species. Cases of intraspecific brood parasitism are rarely observed.
3677411| The foraging range and principal feeding areas of White-chinned Petrels breeding at South Georgia were determined using satellite telemetry. Foraging trips during incubation lasted 12-15 days and covered 3000-8000 km and 2-11 days and 1100-5900 km during chick-rearing. Adults covered less distance per day during chick-rearing (71 km) than during incubation (91 km) but the proportion covered at night (47%) was the same. Mean (31-34 km/h) and maximum (80 km/h) flight velocities were similar during both periods of the breeding season and during day and night. Between incubation shifts, White-chineed Petrels travelled to the Patagonian shelf; during chick-rearing they foraged more extensively. Most locations were between 30 to 55W and 52 to 60W around South Georgia/Shag Rocks and south to the South Orkney Islands. Diet samples from known foraging locations suggested birds fed mainly on krill and squid. They caught the squid Brachioteuthis? picta and Galiteuthis glacialis around Shag Rocks/South Georgia and also at sites close to the South Orkney Islands; Illex argentinus on the Patagonian shelf. Dispersal of adults after breeding failure was south to the South Orkney Islands then west to the Falkland Islands. This study confirms that breeding White-chinned Petrels are amongst the widest-ranging of seabirds; they may minimise competition with other Procellariiformes in the South Atlantic by their more extensive foraging range. The nature and extent of their range also brings substantial risk of high mortality rate in South Atlantic long-line fisheries. 
30244739|The 2004 invasion of northern bullfinches into parts of western Europe was the largest on record. It also involved some birds that gave the normal piping call of the species, and others that gave a different 'trumpet' call, previously unknown to most observers in the invasion areas. This suggests that many birds in the 2004 invasion were drawn from areas outside the usual breeding range of immigrants to western Europe, and a summer sound-recording of a similar trumpet call had previously been obtained from a bullfinch in the Komi Republic of northern Russia. Measurements of D values in feather samples suggested that bullfinches in the 2004 invasion could have come from a wide area of northern Europe eastward into Russia. No difference in the range of D values was apparent between the 2004 birds obtained in Scotland compared with Denmark, nor between birds obtained in the 2004 invasion and others from the 1910 invasion to Scotland. Northern birds obtained in autumn-winter in Denmark and Scotland showed a wider spread in D values than resident bullfinches from either Denmark or Scotland. In almost all the samples, females had generally lower D levels than males. The reason for this sex difference is unknown, but could not be attributed to differences in moult timing, location or diet between the sexes.
30243897|A bimodal foraging strategy has previously been described for procellariiform seabird species and is thought to have evolved in response to local resource availability being too low for adult birds to meet chick requirements and simultaneously maintain their own body condition. Here, we examine the dual foraging trip pattern of an alcid, the little auk Alle alle, at five colonies with contrasting oceanographic conditions. In spite of large variation in local conditions, little auks at all colonies showed the same general pattern of alternating a single long-trip with several consecutive shorttrips. However, we found that the foraging pattern was flexible and could be adjusted at three levels: (1) the length of long-trips, (2) the frequency of short-trips, and (3) the total time spent foraging. Birds facing unfavorable conditions increased the duration of long-trips and reduced the number of short-trips. These adjustments resulted in reduced provisioning rates of chicks despite the fact that birds also increased the time allocated to foraging. Travel times during foraging trips were positively correlated to the total duration of the trip suggesting that differences in trip length among colonies were partly driven by variation in the distance to foraging areas. Most birds spent substantially more time traveling during long compared to short-trips, indicating that they accessed distant foraging areas during long-trips but remained close to the colony during short-trips. However, the difference in travel times was small at the site with the most favorable conditions suggesting that bimodal foraging in the little auk may be independent of the existence of highquality areas at distance from the breeding ground.
10.2307/3677350|Increases in maximal capacity for thermogenesis (or Peak Metabolic Rate, PMR) are typically associated with winter acclimatization in passerines showing marked seasonal changes in cold tolerance. Thermogenic capacity also increases in spring migrant Warbling Vireos Vireo gilvus, a Neotropical migrant, relative to summer acclimatized individuals, but a similar increase does not occur in fall migrants. We tested whether migratory disposition was associated with variation in thermogenic capacity in another Neotropical migrant passerine, the Yellow Warbler Dendroica petechia, and in two passerine species migrating to mild temperate regions in winter, Yellow-rumped Warbler Dendroica coronata and Ruby-crowned Kinglet Regulus calendula. PMR was elicited by cold exposure in an atmosphere of 79% helium:21% oxygen during spring and fall migration for all species, and also during summer for Yellow Warblers. Yellow and Yellow-rumped Warblers both exhibited significantly higher thermogenic capacity in spring than at other seasons (23.3% greater than pooled summer and fall values in Yellow Warblers, 19.8% greater than in fall Yellow-rumped Warblers). For kinglets, males showed significantly higher PMR in spring than in fall (10.9%), but PMR did not vary seasonally in females. Thus, these species conform to a pattern of elevated thermogenic capacity in spring relative to other seasons, at least in the sex establishing breeding territories, suggesting that this may be a common pattern in migratory passerines. Mild temperate migrants migrate earlier in spring and later in fall than Neotropical migrants and, as a consequence, experience less variation in temperature between spring and fall migrations. Nevertheless, PMR varied similarly on a seasonal basis among Neotropical and mild-temperate migrants, despite the greater seasonal variation in temperatures encountered by Neotropical migrants. Moreover, ANCOVA on log PMR with log mass as a covariate did not demonstrate systematically lower PMR in Neotropical migrants than in mild temperate migrants for the species in this study, despite the differences in temperatures encountered during migration. This suggests that seasonal changes in PMR during migration are not associated with temperature acclimatization, but instead vary with other features of migratory patterns.
3677394|The feeding ecology of barnacle geese and pink-footed geese was studied in Sassendalen, Svalbard during the pre-nesting period (late May) to assess the potential for inter-specific competition. Barnacle geese fed almost exclusively (97%) by grazing above-ground plant material, mostly (79%) along snow edges in moss-mat habitats. Pink-footed geese fed mostly (93%) by excavating below-ground parts of plants, mostly (56%) away from snow and were more evenly distributed between habitat types. Bernacle goose faeces contained mostly (62%) moss, that of pink-footed geese mostly (48%) below-ground plant storage organs (especially Bistorta viviparum L.). Principal components analysis of dropping contents showed no overlap in species diet in allopatry or sympatry. There was little overlap in diet and feeding ecology of the two species at this pre-nesting feeding site. Hence, unless increased goose feeding densities affect future vegetation density and composition, under present circumstances, increasing numbers of either species is unlikely to affect foraging conditions for the other at this important stage in the annual cycle. However, such changes could have local density-dependent intra-specific effects.
3677374|Feather mites (suborder Astigmata, superfamilies Analgoidea, Pterolichoidea and Freyaniidae) are among the commonest ectosymbionts of birds. Most researchers have assumed they are parasites, having negative effects on hosts. Here we present evidence that suggests that feather mites may not be parasites. We develop a framework for considering conditional outcomes in these interspecific associations, dealing with different kinds of relationships between symbionts. The non-parasitic status of feather mites is supported by a literature review as well as by preliminary data on mites' food. We illustrate symbiotic relationships with a graphical model showing different scenarios in which hosts' cost-benefit relations are determined by the interactions among their symbionts.
3677507|Many Holarctic bird species have been shown to be laying progressively earlier in response to global warming. Most studies have been conducted on small-bodied species at northern latitudes. In Italy, black kite Milvus migrans populations are concentrated near large pre-Alpine lakes, whose water temperatures have been increasing steadily in recent decades. Annual black kite laying dates have become 10-11 days earlier during the last nine years. This shift was related to temporal variations in spring air temperatures, with earlier laying in warmer springs. The progressive advancement in laying dates was not associated with an increase in population level productivity, despite the fact that productivity declined with laying date at the individual territory level within years. Avian response to climate change may be occurring more rapidly than previously thought, even in relatively long-lived species, and not only at the most northern latitudes or highest elevations. Because this change has occurred so rapidly, and because laying dates match annual variations in spring temperatures, the response must be facultatively driven by prevailing conditions, rather than genetic in response to natural selection.
3677463|Although extra-pair fertilizations (EPF) are common in socially monogamous systems, the benefits to females remain elusive. One potential benefit that recently has begun to receive empirical attention is increased offspring heterozygosity. We tested the heterozygosity hypothesis in the black-throated blue warbler Dendroica caerulescens using a panel of five microsatellite loci. We did not find any evidence that male heterozygosity influenced female extra-pair mating patterns, that females choose genetically dissimilar extra-pair mates, nor that extra-pair offspring were more heterozygous than within-pair offspring. However, simple Monte Carlo simulations indicated that the number of microsatellite loci used in this study, and most other recent studies, would detect an effect of heterozygosity only if that effect is pronounced. Thus, we were unable to demonstrate any effect of offspring heterozygosity in our study species, but a more subtle effect remains possible. Researchers wishing to test this hypothesis should use a large number of genetic markers and interpret negative results cautiously.
10.2307/3677217|Nectarivorous birds are often territorial when nectar resources are scarce, but they relax their territory defence when resources are abundant. They are also likely to trade foraging efficiency against predation risk. We here present data indicating that sunbirds (Nectarinia) foraging on abundant nectar resources prefer to forage in a dense habitat type rather than in an open habitat type, and discuss our results in relation to travelling costs and predation risks.
30244834|Many species of birds exhibit brilliant ornamental plumage, yet most research on the function and evolution of plumage has been confined to the breeding season. In the American redstart Setophaga ruticilla, a long-distance Neotropical-Nearctic migratory bird, the acquisition of a winter territory in high-quality habitat advances spring departure and subsequent arrival on breeding areas, and increases reproductive success and annual survival. Here, we show that males holding winter territories in high-quality, black mangrove habitats in Jamaica have brighter yellow-orange tail feathers than males occupying territories in poor-quality second-growth scrub habitats. Moreover, males arriving on the breeding grounds from higher-quality winter habitats (inferred by stable-carbon isotopes) also had brighter tail feathers. Because behavioral dominance plays an important role in the acquisition of winter territories, plumage brightness may also be related to fighting ability and the acquisition and maintenance of territories in high-quality habitat. These results highlight the need for further research on the relationships between plumage coloration, behavior, and the ecology of over-wintering migratory birds.
3677417|Experimental Hoopoe Upupa epops songs prepared with synthetic sound to differ in strophe length were used to test whether Hoopoe females prefer long strophes. The songs were broadcast simultaneously in the field from two loudspeakers situated 100 m apart, in early spring, when females actively search for mates. The playbacks attracted a total of 87 individuals, both males and females, with a maximum of five individuals (three males and two females) per trial. A female was considered to have been attracted by the song broadcast from a loudspeaker when she approached unaccompanied by a male, and when there was no male nearby. A total of 15 females chose one of the songs and significantly more were attracted by the one with long strophes. These results suggest that in the Hoopoe, male song attracts females, and that strophe length is a sexually selected song cue. There were no differences in the number or kind of males (classified according to strophe length) attracted by each playback. Frequently the experiment attracted more than one male simultaneously. These aggregations cannot be explained as territorial responses, and their significance is discussed together with that of natural spontaneous groupings of displaying males. Apparently males aggregate where they expect to find females.
10.2307/3677027|I observed Orange-crowned Warbler Vermivora celata behavior at or near 40 nest sites over 287 h during the nest construction, egg laying, incubation, nestling, and/or fledgling stages. I recorded intrusions most frequently during nest construction (
30244424|Theory predicts that overall population sex ratios should be around parity. But when individual females can receive higher fitness from offspring of one sex, they may benefit by biasing their brood sex ratios accordingly. In lekking species, higher variance in male reproductive success relative to that of females predicts that male offspring gain disproportionately from favorable rearing conditions. Females should therefore produce male-biased broods when they are in a position to raise higher quality offspring: i.e., in better body condition or when they reproduce earlier in the breeding season. To investigate these hypotheses, we studied brood sex ratios of lance-tailed manakins Chiroxiphia lanceolata. We found that overall sex ratios and mean brood sex ratios were not different from random expectation. Brood sex ratios were not related to laying date or female body condition. However, we detected a quadratic relationship between brood sex ratios and maternal age: both young (1-2 years) and old (8+ years) females produced female-biased brood sex ratios. This relationship was most clear in a year also distinguished by early rainy and breeding seasons. We suggest that breeding inexperience in young females and senescence in older females is the most plausible explanation for these results, and that the relationship between female age and brood sex ratio is mediated by environmental conditions.
10.2307/3677181|Cage experiments with various species of migrating passerines indicate two distinct phases in migratory orientation in which magnetic and celestial cues interact in different ways. The first phase during the premigratory period involves the conversion of genetically coded information into an actual compass course. Celestial rotation and the geomagnetic field serve as external references. Celestial rotation alone, mediated by rotating stars at night or by the changing pattern of polarized light during the day, provides a reference direction away from its center, corresponding to geographic South. Population-specific deviations from this reference direction appear to be coded only with respect to the magnetic field. Both cue systems interact to produce the population-specific migratory course. In the role of providing the reference direction, celestial rotation dominates over the magnetic field during this first premigratory phase. Magnetic South, however, can also serve as reference direction when celestial cues are not available. The second phase involves orientation during migration, once the course is set and the birds have left their breeding area. Migrants en route have several options to locate this course, namely a star compass, sunset cues and the magnetic field, and they seem to make use of them all. During this phase, however, the magnetic compass dominates over celestial cues, as indicated by cue-conflict experiments. In case of conflict, the directional significance of stellar cues and sunset cues is adjusted to be in agreement with the ambient magnetic field. Migratory orientation is thus based on an integrated system of celestial and magnetic cues that reverse their dominant role between the premigratory phase and actual migration. The reasons may lie in the changes in the sky and in the magnetic field migrants experience when travelling from higher to lower latitudes towards their winter quarters.
10.2307/3677220|Migratory orientation of Dunlins Calidris alpina at sunset was studied by using orientation cages, during autumn migration in SW Iceland. The aim of the experiments was to examine whether orientation funnels can be used to record the directional behaviour of shorebirds. The results clearly demonstrate that Dunlins are capable of expressing their preferred migratory direction in funnels. Unmanipulated Dunlins showed a well-oriented mean direction towards geographical SSE which is in excellent agreement with available ringing recovery data on Dunlins linked to Iceland. This opens up the possibility to perform carefully controlled experiments to investigate the orientation and navigation mechanisms of migrating waders.
3677801|Parent-offspring recognition systems are used in bird colonies to avoid misdirected parental care. In penguins, where the risk of confusion is particularly high, recognition is achieved by acoustic signals that constitute highly efficient vocal signatures. Comparisons between species from the Pygoscelis and Aptenodytes genera have revealed interspecific differences on the encoding of information within the signatures which correlate with the presence/absence of nests in the colonies. However a recent study of individual recognition in macaroni penguins Eudyptes chrysolophus revealed diversity within nest-building species. This paper investigates whether the original and intermediate signature system found in macaroni penguins is shared by another species of Eudyptes, the rockhopper penguin E. chrysocome. Vocal signatures of rockhopper penguins were analysed and compared to macaroni penguins'. We used a methodology derived from the theory of information to determine which parameters of the call were likely to encode individual identity. Playbacks of modified calls in the field complemented the analyses, and parent-chick reunions were compared between the two species. Our results reveal a similar double signature system within the Eudyptes genus, which integrates information simultaneously from the temporal and spectral domains. This double encoding is made through the tempo given by the successive syllables of the call and the harmonic content of the call. While it confirms the hypothesis that signatures are simpler in nest-building species, this result reveals differences in the efficacies of signatures within this category. This suggests that other parameters such as the mean distance recognition should be considered to account for the differences in the encoding of the vocal signatures and in their resulting efficacies.
30243825|The loss of anti-parasite adaptations against the European cuckoo Cuculus canorus was studied in three European passerine species, song thrush Turdus philomelos, blackbird T. merula, and chaffinch Fringilla coelebs, introduced to New Zealand in the 19th century. Chaffinches in New Zealand ejected non-mimetic eggs at a rate similar to their source population in the United Kingdom, but both song thrushes and blackbirds in New Zealand rejected non-mimetic eggs at a higher rate than the United Kingdom. It is not clear if this difference reflects variation among hosts in their response to brood parasitism or if it is an artefact of subtle differences in the types of non-mimetic eggs tested. In contrast, all three introduced species showed little aggression to a taxidermic model of a European cuckoo presented at their nests. This differs from European populations of these species, where model cuckoos are typically attacked. Our results suggest that in the  130 years since their release in New Zealand, introduced birds have lost recognition of the European cuckoo but not their ability to discriminate non-mimetic eggs. The differential loss of anti-parasite adaptations by introduced birds in New Zealand suggests that cyclical models of host/parasite co-evolution may need to take into account the differing rates at which different host adaptations are lost and gained.
10.2307/3677172|During long-distance migration, passerine birds alternate between flight and stopover phases. Flight phases can last one to three consecutive nights with rest during the days; stopover phases last one to three weeks. During long flight phases, such as across the Sahara desert, the substrate of catabolism is fat and protein in proportions of about 3 to 1. Comparison of migrating Garden Warblers Sylvia borin before and after the desert crossing shows that the protein originates primarily from the muscles of the breast and leg and from the digestive tract. Breast and leg muscles are reduced by 19%, the digestive tract by 39% in mass. A simulation of the flight phase by food deprivation over 48 h results in the same extent of organ reduction in the digestive tract but not in the breast and leg muscles, which indicates that different mechanisms are involved. It is hypothesised that during extended flights, without food intake, protein metabolites serve as intermediates in the citric cycle for the oxidation of fat. Loss of protein metabolites is at the expense of tissue proteins from the above-mentioned organs. This hypothesis does not, however, exclude other hypotheses about the functional consequences of hypertrophy and atrophy in specific organs. Flexibility in size of the breast muscle may also be a mechanism to adjust the power output to the changing power requirement during flight with change in fat load. Flexibility in the digestive system may save maintenance energy during flight at the cost of restoration during stopover.
3677568|The response of foraging animals to human disturbance can be considered as a trade-off between the increased perceived predation risk of tolerating disturbance and the increased starvation risk of not feeding and avoiding disturbance. We show how the response of overwintering oystercatchers Haematopus ostralegus to disturbance is related to their starvation risk of avoiding disturbance. As winter progresses, oyster-catcher energy requirements increase and their feeding conditions deteriorate. To survive they spend longer feeding and so have less spare time in which to compensate for disturbance. Later in winter, birds approach a disturbance source more closely and return more quickly after a disturbance. Their behavioural response to disturbance is less when they are having more difficulty surviving and hence their starvation risk of avoiding disturbance is greater. These results have implications for studies which assume that a larger behavioural response means that a species is more vulnerable to disturbance. The opposite may be true. To more fully understand the impact of disturbance, studies should measure both behavioural responses and the ease with which animals are meeting their requirements. Conservation effort should be directed towards species which need to spend a high proportion of their time feeding, but still have a large response to disturbance.
10.2307/3677320|This study documents patterns of variation in abundance and prevalence of Docophorulus capillatus (Insecta: Ischnocera, Philopteridae) on the crown feathers of Pied Flycatchers Ficedula hypoleuca in relation to host sex, age, survival, physical condition, expression of secondary sexual traits and genetic relatedness. Louse populations were relatively stable over a 3-year period, with low prevalences in the range 15-30%. Pair mates had similar louse loads, indicating the possible role of direct contact between birds as an agent of louse dispersal. Females were consistently more heavily and frequently infested than males at almost all ages. Louse prevalence and abundance tended to decrease or oscillate with advancing age, with a major peak late in life which was much more marked in females; no surviving birds older than five years had lice on their crown. Although bird condition in a given year seemed not to be affected by louse infestations, there were decreases in individual condition between years which were linked to increases in louse infestations in females. Individual birds of both sexes had similar louse loads in successive years. Within-family resemblance in louse loads was only detected between mothers and daughters and, to a lesser extent, between females and their male offspring. We discuss different hypotheses to account for intersexual differences in parasite infestation.
10.2307/3677238|Interspecific brood parasitism is a strong selective force that has favoured the evolution of anti-parasite strategies. The Shiny Cowbird Molothrus bonariensis is a generalist parasite that uses more than 200 species as hosts. Scarlet-headed Black-birds Amblyramphus holosericeus are infrequently parasitized by Shiny Cowbirds in contrast to other sympatric marshbird species that are heavily parasitized. In this paper, we attempted to identify specific anti-parasite defences of the Scarlet-headed Blackbird. Parasitism by Shiny Cowbirds of Scarlet-headed Blackbirds averaged 14.2%, whereas in Brown-and-yellow Marshbirds Pseudoleistes virescens, a sympatric marsh-nesting species, it was 52%. Both host species reared Shiny Cowbird chicks. Scarlet-headed Blackbird did not reject artificially added parasite eggs and did not respond more aggressively toward a female Shiny Cowbrid dummy model than to control species, the Yellow-winged Blackbird Agelaius thilius or the Brown-and-yellow Marshbird. However, high levels of nest attentiveness were recorded during nest-building, egg-laying and incubation stages. About 95-98% of the time at least one parent remained less than 20 m from the nest. Our results show that the low frequency of parasitism on the Scarlet-headed Blackbird may be better explained by life-history traits such as territorial defence, rather than by evolved anti-parasite strategies.
10.2307/3677025|While clutch abandonment in birds is typically thought to be a result of the effects of poor weather, few studies have analyzed the characteristics of abandoning females. Female Collared Flycatchers typically abandon their clutches at low rates (average 8% over 4 years) and most do not attempt to re-nest in the same breeding season. Here we analyze clutch desertion data from five breeding seasons, including one season with particularly high desertion rates (23%). In most years, clutch desertion was associated with late nesting and (independent of date) with small clutch size. In addition, subsequent return rates were significantly lower for birds that deserted their clutches. During a particularly poor weather season, females that deserted their clutches were in poor body condition, relative to females that hatched young. We suggest that the decision to desert the clutch is typically made by low-quality parents with low energy reserves and poor prospects for offspring production.
3677565|Food provisioning in birds requires a considerable amount of time and usually has to be traded-off against other parental and non-parental activities. I investigated experimentally the rate at which blue tit Parus caeruleus parents deliver food to their brood after a change in food availability. The main argument behind this study is that parents enjoying an additional food source may use less time for self-feeding and therefore use more time for food provisioning. This could increase the rate at which food is brought to the nest. However, a prey choice model that takes the energetic needs of the parent into account allows for the possibility that the food-supplemented parents would deliver the same amount of food by increasing prey size (through an increase in prey selectivity) and reducing visit rate. The field data indicate that the parents changed provisioning strategy when food-supplemented: they fed the chicks natural food less frequently, but brought larger larvae. On the whole, delivery rate of natural food was the same or lower than in controls. The results suggest that food-supplemented parents used the time saved to increase their degree of food selectivity. When the gains from an increased delivery rate are not worth the increased costs (mainly resulting from an increased visiting rate), the parent with low energetic need may increase selectivity to provide the same amount of food to the brood as the unmanipulated parent, but at a lower cost.
30244754|Recent findings in non-migratory birds have reopened questions about the interpretation and seasonal organization of Zugunruhe. I address the relationship between Zugunruhe and migration by comparing underlying circannual patterns in captive populations of migratory and non-migratory stonechats. Zugunruhe was highly variable and lacked clear periodicity, indicating its sensitivity to external cues. Patterns of Zugunruhe were similar in African residents, European short-distance migrants, and Siberian long-distance migrants, revealing no major difference in circannual organization. Moult was regulated independently of Zugunruhe and timed more rigidly, particularly in stonechats from equatorial Africa. The persistent and variable circannual patterns of Zugunruhe suggest that non-migratory and migratory stonechats have similar underlying programs but have modified the expression of actual migration. The findings, together with published observations from other species, emphasize the importance of considering programs for migration in a wide range of species, without losing sight of its environmental context.
10.2307/3677180|Little attention has been given to the types of maps used in migration studies. However, we think that analyses of migration in two dimensions by applying different map projection rules may give valuable insights about biological control programmes for long-distance migration. The Earth, being a globe, cannot be projected on a two-dimensional plane without distorting one or more of the following properties: distance, direction or area. Map projections which correctly preserve two of the above-mentioned properties do so only from one point. For analysing the routes of long-distance migrants the distance and direction are the most important factors due to high costs of travelling, either in the form of energy or time. When migrants are not influenced by topographical features they are expected to follow either orthodromes or loxodromes. The orthodrome (great circle) is the shortest path between two points on the Earth's surface, the loxodrome (rhumbline) is the path of constant course between two points. Properties of several map projections and their usefulness for evaluating to what extent travelling paths of migratory birds incorporate the effects of a spherical Earth are discussed and illustrated. For studying orthodrome orientation principles the azimuthal projections are most relevant, mainly the gnomonic-, orthographic-, stereographic- and azimuthal equidistant projections. Mercator and related projections (oblique Mercator- and loximuthal projection) show migration in the light of loxodromes and orientation along constant geographic or magnetic courses.
30243863|Sperm mobility is known to be an important determinant of a male's sperm competitive ability. Although more debated, sperm length and its relation to sperm swimming ability has also been proposed to determine a male's fertilisation potential. Furthermore, both mobility and length may covary with a male's phenotype, either positively (the phenotypelinked fertility hypothesis) or negatively if, for instance, low-quality males have less access to females but invest more in sperm production. Using dummy females, we collected sperm samples from wild sand martins Riparia raparia males. We investigated the relationship between sperm length and sperm swimming speed as measured by sperm straight line velocity (VSL), and determined whether sperm traits are correlated with male body size and condition. We found that total sperm length is repeatable within-ejaculate and shows substantial inter-male variation. Sperm length was associated with sperm velocity: males with short sperm have sperm that swim initially faster but die sooner, whereas males with longer sperm have sperm that swim more slowly but for a longer time. Smaller males produced sperm with higher overall velocity. This correlation between male size and sperm behaviour may reflect alternative fertilisation strategies where small males having less mating opportunities invest more in sperm competitive ability. The existence of such alternative strategies would participate in maintaining variation in sperm length and velocity in this species.
10.2307/3677140|This study was designed to determine whether the development of an increased aerobic capacity (increased potential for oxygen uptake) during the initial growth stages of hatchlings is associated with an increase in blood hemoglobin content. We measured the resting (at thermoneutrality) and maximum (cold induced) oxygen uptake of Arctic Tern chicks from 0 to 9 days of age. In addition, blood hemoglobin content and hematocrit were measured. The results show that in spite of a marked increase in both resting and maximum oxygen uptake, indicating increased metabolic performance, there was a slight decrease in blood hemoglobin content during the first few days of development. A residual analysis, made to eliminate the effect of age, showed that blood hemoglobin content was not significantly correlated with either resting or maximum oxygen uptake. The conclusion is that, despite a wide variation in the hemoglobin content of individual chicks, blood hemoglobin content is not a limiting factor for oxygen uptake by Arctic Tern chicks.
10.2307/3677293|Pointed wings allow faster, more energy-efficient flight, and so are thought to be an adaptation for migratory movements. Here we compare wing-shape variation between Siskins Carduelis spinus that either remain in a single wintering area (residents) or move continually throughout the winter (transients). Wing shape was computed using the PCA technique of Chandler and Mulvihill (1988). We develop, however, a statistical modification that controls for allometric effects on body shape, allowing a size-independent interpretation of the data. Transients showed shorter proximal primary lengths (Principal Component 1) than residents, so that their wing was more pointed than that of resident birds. Since both winter-resident and transient Siskins are migratory, different strategies in the use of the same wintering area have apparently been sufficient to select for a different wing shape. Given the heritability of several body size variables, the difference in wing shape reported here suggests that there has been parallel evolution of morphological and behavioural adaptations to either a nomadic or a winter-resident lifestyle.
3677457|Comparison of 1017 nucleotides of mitochondrial ND2 and ND3 DNA sequences of 26 individuals of white-crowned forktail Enicurus leschenaulti from SE Asia revealed multiple evolutionary lineages within Borneo. Montane birds were genetically homogeneous across localities, but diverged by more than 4.3% from all other samples. Lowland birds formed two distinct clades, one consisting of individuals from northern Borneo, and the other including individuals from western Borneo, as well as Sumatra and Malaya. Relationships among the subspecies were not well resolved. These findings indicate another example of montane and north Bornean endemicity, support the seperation of the montane and lowland species, and define areas of conservation interest.
10.2307/3677263|Brood size of Zebra Finches Taeniopygia guttata was manipulated in an attempt to identify a trade-off between current and subsequent reproduction in a laboratory situation with ad libitum food availability. The birds were able to raise a larger brood than the most frequent brood size under the same conditions. Initiation of the subsequent clutch was advanced after raising a small brood, and delayed after raising a large brood. The size of the subsequent clutch was not affected by the previous, experimental brood size. Thus, a cost of reproduction was observed in modification of the reproductive interval. Brood size also affected the prospects of the current, experimental brood. Both nestling survival and nestling weight at independence decreased with brood size. It has often been suggested that food availability limits reproduction in the field. This study shows that under unrestricted access to food, other factors restrain reproduction. Time allocation, energy expenditure and nutrient reserves of the parents are discussed as potential alternative constraints.
3677658|There are seven species of Phylloscopus warblers breeding sympatrically in Central Siberia. In general they are very similar in morphology and behaviour. Slight differences in morphology, however, are often interpreted as having arisen through adaptation to distinct foraging ecologies, thereby mediating species coexistence. We studied the morphology and foraging behaviour of these warblers, taking into account phylogenetic relationships using Felsenstein's method of independent contrasts. Striking correlations were found between morphology and foraging techniques, as well as between morphology and microhabitat selection. Species with large hind limbs and short wings foraged in dense vegetation near the ground using gleaning techniques. In contrast, species with long wings and large bills favoured open vegetation, and foraged using sallying manoeuvres. Independently of these trends, small species foraged at higher levels in the vegetation, and used hoverflight more often than did larger species. Foraging methods were highly correlated with vegetation structure. Coniferous trees were exploited using hoverflight when they had short needles and gleaning when needles were long. Sallying predominated in light deciduous vegetation whereas gleaning was used most in dense, deciduous bushes. After controlling for the effects of vegetation structure on foraging behaviour, species differences became less pronounced, but were still significant. It is therefore concluded that morphology may be regarded as having adapted to enable more efficient exploitation of certain microhabitats. A preference for these microhabitats then further increases the observed behavioural differences between species. Morphology may therefore partly determine a species' ability to colonise new habitats.
3676998|Several studies on mass loss during breeding in female birds have shown a significant correlation between initial body mass and subsequent loss of body mass. The significant positive regression coefficient of mass loss on initial mass was interpreted as evidence for a greater mass loss of initially heavier birds. However, the positive correlation between mass loss and initial mass arises automatically even when initial and final body masses are uncorrelated and has no necessary biological meaning. This is shown analytically here. In general, a spurious correlation arises when one variable (e.g. mass loss) is part of another variable (e.g. initial mass) and then regressed on it.
30244415|Nesting birds use several behavioural or physiological defence mechanisms against parasites. On Corsica, female blue tits Cyanistes caeruleus incorporate fresh fragments of a limited number of aromatic plants in the nest cup, from the end of nest construction until fledging. Some of these plants negatively affect bacterial growth and host location by blood-sucking mosquitoes in laboratory conditions. In natural populations, Corsican blue tit chicks are exposed to the highest levels of blood-sucking ectoparasitic blow flies Protocalliphora spp. reported in Europe. These ectoparasites can have severe negative effects on chick development and survival probabilities, especially when food constraints are elevated. Here we investigated in several natural Corsican blue tit populations the hypothesis that aromatic plants brought to the nest have anti-blow fly effects during the chick-rearing stage. We predicted that: 1) the amount of aromatic plants should be negatively related to blow fly infestation intensity across nests, 2) experimental addition of aromatic plants in nests should reduce blow fly infestation intensity, and 3) nestlings should be in better physical condition in nests where aromatic plants were experimentally added. No significant relation was found between amount of aromatic plants in nests and blow fly infestation intensity. Experimental addition of aromatic plants did not reduce blow fly infestation intensity and did not affect the chick phenotypic parameters we measured. We conclude that aromatic plants in blue tit nests are not used as a defence against ectoparasitic Protocalliphora blow flies in our study population.
3677763|During severe weather, Redshanks suffer the heaviest mortality amongst all the shorebird species wintering around the North Sea coasts of the British Isles. An earlier study had suggested that this resulted from a failure to accumulate sufficient body fat reserves before mid-winter. Detailed field studies in northeast England between 1993 and 1995 of seasonal changes in body mass, and in estimated lean and fat masses, of two races of Redshank, both of which winter in the same estuary, were accompanied by similar studies of small numbers held in captivity with unlimited food. After differences in body size were allowed for, there were no differences in body composition and its seasonal pattern of change in birds of the Icelandic and British races. Body mass changes in wild birds paralleled those in captives between November and March, and mid-winter levels were not limited by food supply; indeed they were slightly higher in a winter with lower prey densities. It is concluded that Redshanks regulate body mass and, indirectly, fat reserves at levels set by a trade-off between the risks of predation and starvation. Unlike most other shorebird species, they take very small prey in relation to their body size and hence must feed for long periods during each tidal cycle to achieve their daily energy intake needs. Thus they have little scope to extend their feeding time during severe weather, which also forces them to feed on ice-free exposed coastal habitats where wind chill cannot be avoided. Both factors lead to more rapid depletion of fat reserves than in other species which have higher energy intake rates or lower total daily requirements.
10.2307/3677165|Micro Air Vehicles (MAVs) have excellent potential utility as flight platforms for optical, acoustic, electronic and chemical sensors for operation in hazardous sites with aerial access. The dimensions and performance specifications call for a 100 g take-off mass with 100-200 mm wingspan that must fly at 5-20 m/s for approximately 30 minutes. Owing to the low operating Reynolds number (Re), the aerodynamic performance of all lifting surfaces is degraded. The small scales and speeds also mean that atmospheric turbulence has a severe effect, and small thermal cycle engines that could profit from the high energy densities of fossil fuels are unavailable. It is thus difficult to obtain good performance. Studies have been made of wing plus propeller systems, rotor systems and flapping wing systems. In all cases, L/D is in the range of 5-10. Flapping is about as efficient as propeller motion at this Re, but more complicated mechanically. The ThrustWing is a configuration derivative of the dragonfly, with characteristics lying between a helicopter and an ornithopter. It has both zero and forward flight capabilities, and appears to have good potential as a MAV configuration. Finally, the effects of atmospheric turbulence are described and shown to fall into four qualitatively different categories as turbulence intensity increases. Due to favourable scaling, the stresses in MAVs will be very low, and although turbulence will cause large G loads on the MAV, no structural damage will result.
10.2307/3677050|Song flight in birds serves as a signal involved in mate choice and territoriality. In the Skylark Alauda arvensis the song flight is a noticeable feature during the breeding season. Single song flights sometimes lasted for more than 30 min, but the average duration was about 4 min. In this study I dissect the flight performance during the three phases of Skylark song flight: climbing, level and descending flight. During climb, the Skylark exhibits a power expenditure well below the estimated maximum capacity. The average climb speed was
3677452|Many migratory songbirds produce flight calls that vary, sometimes strikingly, among species in duration, frequency, modulation, and pattern, and little is known about what factors are responsible for this variation. Negative correlations between body mass or bill length and song frequencies are well documented in birds, but no studies have examined these associations for flight calls. We explored relationships between flight call and song frequencies and body mass or bill length in 33 species of wood-warblers. Phylogenetically controlled and uncontrolled analyses showed no significant relationship between body mass or bill length and flight call frequency; however, we found significant differences between flight call and song frequencies and a significant relationship between maximum frequencies of flight calls and songs. Our findings suggest that factors other than body mass and bill length are responsible for variation in flight call frequencies in wood-warblers. We suggest that different ecological and atmospheric properties might play important roles in selection for flight call frequencies.
30244741|We analyse the effects of rainfall, temperature, food availability and nest predation on the between-year variation in reproduction of the Canary Islands stonechat Saxicola dacotiae, a bird species endemic of the semiarid island of Fuerteventura (Canary Islands, Spain). We monitored the reproductive performance and output of the species across its whole distribution area during three consecutive breeding periods, also measuring rainfall, temperature and food (arthropod) availability on the ground monthly. Rainfall varied from 27.3 mm in 2000-2001 (dry year) to 124.5 mm and 125.1 mm (average years), respectively, in the 2001-2002 and 2002-2003 breeding seasons. The onset of breeding closely matched variation in the onset of the autumn-winter rains among years. Arthropod availability was strongly and positively related to rainfall one month before. Reproductive investment (number of clutches and clutch size) was correlated to arthropod availability both among years and among sites within years. Stonechat pairs bred once or did not breed at all in the dry year whereas they bred twice in the other two years. Clutch size was smaller in the dry year and larger in the second as compared with the first in the other two years. Reproductive investment largely determined reproductive output (number of fledglings) as there were no significant spatial or temporal variation in hatching success (90% on average) or nest predation (29% on average, mostly due to feral cats Felis catus). Within- and among years variability in temperature or predation did not match variability in the onset, length or reproductive investment and output recorded throughout the study years. These results suggest that variability in annual fecundity in the Canary Islands Stonechat was mainly driven by rainfall through a food-mediated process.
30243846|In many animals, an individual's social environment and status can change quickly and unpredictably, suggesting an advantage for signals capable of responding to these changes. However, many signaling traits are fixed for relatively long periods. In birds, for example, most plumage-based signals are constrained by molt and unable to respond to sudden changes in social environment. Soft parts, conversely, are vascularized and may provide an alternative signaling system that can be updated relatively quickly. In this study, the effects of changes in breeding status are documented for a putative plumage-based signal, plumage brightness, and a putative soft part signal, bill darkness, in the red-backed fairywren Malurus melanocephalus. Males that switched from unpaired helper to paired breeder within a breeding season developed significantly darker bills within three weeks of the switch relative to males that did not change status. There was no clear corresponding change in plumage brightness, though the data suggests that changes in plumage brightness are at least possible. These results suggest that bill color is a socially mediated trait capable of responding rapidly to changes in breeding status, and it is proposed that the importance of soft parts as labile signals in birds may be currently under-appreciated.
3677723|To test the influence of past vicariant events on population genetic structure of the sooty tern Sterna fuscata, we examined sequence variation in the mitochondrial control region of individuals from the Indo-Pacific and Atlantic Oceans. Our analyses indicate a rapid population expansion at a global scale during the last 100 000 years, consistent with global recolonisation during the interstade following the Pleistocene glacial maxima (125 000-175 000 years bp). We estimate islands of the Great Barrier Reef and Coral Sea were colonised no more than 16 000 years ago, most likely in association with the appearance of new breeding habitat following the final Pleistocene glacial retreat (19 000-22 000 years bp). Our results suggest that ice sheets linked to major glacial events not only impact genetic structuring in temperate seabirds, but that sea level changes in the tropics associated with these same events have also significantly impacted contemporary genetic structuring in tropical seabird species.
3677620|When the timing of breeding affects the reproductive value of sons and daughters differently, parents are expected to increase their fitness by changing the offspring sex ratio during the course of the breeding season. Previous studies have shown that in great tits Parus major hatching date has a stronger effect on the fitness of juvenile males than on that of juvenile females. We tested whether this difference was reflected in a seasonal decline in the proportion of sons per breeding attempt. Although offspring sex ratio was more variable than would be expected from a binomial distribution, there was no significant relationship between the proportion of sons and the laying date of the clutch. Moreover, individual females did not adjust the sex ratio of their offspring following an experimental delay of breeding. This study therefore fails to demonstrate adaptive seasonal variation in great tit offspring sex ratios.
30244461|The association between the distribution of blue-footed boobies Sula nebouxii (BFB) and marine productivity around their breeding grounds is unclear. In Peru, they breed in a region seasonally influenced by the cold, nutrient rich Humboldt Current, and by warm, nutrient poor oceanic waters. The foraging range of BFB in Peru is unknown, although some evidence suggest that they may feed in warm offshore waters. During the austral winter 2002 and summer 2003, we tracked 26 BFBs breeding on Isla Lobos de Tierra, Peru (located approximately 15 km west of the mainland), during 59 feeding trips using small direction recorders to determine their marine habitat use. BFBs preferentially moved to the east of the island and foraged over the continental shelf in cold water masses where marine productivity and the abundance of the main prey, the Peruvian anchovy Engraulis ringens, are usually higher than in other areas. Overall, the median maximum foraging distance from the colony was 39 km (range 3-109 km), with 90% of all trips located within 30 km from the mainland, and enclosed in an area of 13,113 km. These results reveal that BFBs exploit the productive waters of the Peruvian Coastal Upwelling System, rather than open oceanic waters as previously suggested. BFBs travelled a greater distance, dispersed in a broader area, and visited more offshore waters during the winter 2002, than during the summer 2003, following the typical seasonal horizontal dispersion of the Peruvian anchovy.
3677745|Variation in coloration with a strong underlying genetic basis is frequently found in birds, insects, anurans, molluscs and plants. Although such a variation can be large, little is known about its functional value. Correlative data, however, can help suggest testable hypotheses about potential covariation between reproductive parameters and a colour polymorphism displayed by individuals belonging to a single population. In this context, we studied two Swiss populations of tawny owls Strix aluco, a polymorphic species that varies in coloration from reddish-brown to grey. Observations in the first population showed that although greyer females had shorter tarsi, they produced heavier offspring in two of three years. Pairing with respect to plumage coloration was not significantly disassortative, indicating that these correlations were probably not inflated by plumage coloration of the mate. In the second population, where breeding females had been monitored for 14 years, the proportion of all breeding females that were reddish-brown was greater in years when the breeding density was lower. Capture-recapture analyses show that the latter result is explained by the fact that greyish females bred less often than reddish-brown females, although their survival probability was similar. The number of greyer breeding females was greater when spring/summer temperatures were lower. When combined, the results from the two populations lend support to the hypothesis that grey females do not breed every year, but produce offspring of higher quality. Whatever the mechanism underlying the correlations reported in this study, colour polymorphism in female tawny owls appears to reflect some components of individual quality.
30244482|Melanins are common feather pigments that contribute to signaling and crypsis. Melanins may also help feathers resist feather-degrading bacteria (FDB). Two recent studies (Goldstein et al. 2004, Grande et al. 2004) tested the resistance of melanized versus unmelanized feathers to FDB using in vitro experiments, but draw opposite conclusions. Goldstein et al. (2004) concluded that melanized feathers resist FDB more than unmelanized feathers, while Grande et al. (2004) concluded that unmelanized feathers resist FDB more than melanized feathers. To resolve this conflict in the literature, we replicated previous studies but included additional tests not previously used. We inoculated melanized and unmelanized feathers of domestic geese Anser anser domesticus, with the FDB Bacillus licheniformis and measured bacterial activity every two days over two weeks. Three metrics of bacterial activity on feathers were measured: soluble protein content around feathers in solution, bacterial growth on feathers, and loss of feather mass. The latter two metrics were not considered in the aforementioned studies, which indirectly measured bacterial activity. We conducted two trials, one in which feathers were sterilized by autoclaving before inoculation (Goldstein et al. 2004, Grande et al. 2004), and a second in which feathers were sterilized by ethylene oxide gas. This allowed us to test whether autoclaving, done in previous studies, influences bacterial activity on feathers and could confound results. In both trials, unmelanized feathers degraded earlier, supported greater bacterial growth, and lost more mass than melanized feathers. These results support the findings of Goldstein et al. (2004); melanized feathers are more resistant to FDB than unmelanized feathers. Thus, using direct metrics of bacterial activity, we resolve a current conflict in the literature. We also found that autoclaving feathers influences FDB activity on them, and thus autoclaving should be avoided in future studies.
10.2307/3676977|We used a PCR-based molecular DNA sexing technique to sex European Starling Sturnus vulgaris chicks from a nestbox colony at Wytham, Oxford, UK. The nestling sex ratio among 350 one-week-old chicks from 108 broods was significantly. There was no significant heterogeneity in brood sex ratio. We found no significant correlations between sex ratio and several environmental and parental variables, nor were there any significant differences in egg dimensions or growth rates of the sexes. Mortality but not fledging sex ratio, was strongly correlated with hatching order suggesting that the sex ratio imbalance was not due to sex-biased chick mortality. The possibility that the overall sex ratio bias is dictated by maternal adjustment of the sex is discussed.
30245187|For over a half century numerous hypotheses have surfaced aimed at explaining a key life history trait, the evolution of clutch size in birds. A principal goal has been to explain why clutch size generally increases with latitude both within species and among closely related species. Most hypotheses have stressed food limitation, predation, or seasonality. I present a novel hypothesis to explain geographic variation: a limitation of calcium resulting from broad scale variation in this element. Because the storage capacity of avian medullary bone is limited or nonexistent, during egg formation, female birds must intake supplemental calcium. Yet calcium and other exchangeable bases are much rarer in tropical soils. I briefly review the abundant experimental and observational evidence supporting how calcium limitation affects clutch size and other life history traits, and I present a series of predictions (and apparent support for them), stemming from the calcium variation and limitation hypothesis. The balance of evidence suggests that variability in availability of environmental calcium plays a proximate and ultimate role in the evolution of clutch size. Although this hypothesis is not mutually exclusive with others, it highlights another factor that needs to be considered in studies of the geographic variation in clutch size.
30244779|The quality of conditions provided by avian parents will have consequences for both parental and offspring fitness. While many components of avian reproduction appear to vary with parental age, the effect of age on incubation has largely been ignored so far. In this study, we tested whether young herring gulls provide a different incubation environment from mature ones and whether this has consequences for offspring performance. Laying and rearing conditions were standardised using a cross-fostering protocol. Egg predation rates tended to be higher in the nests of young parents. However, nest site, nest construction and egg temperature during incubation did not vary with parental age. Overall, the duration of incubation was shorter in young compared to mature birds and this reflected the later laying date of the former, since incubation duration generally decreased across the season. However, male eggs incubated by young parents had longer incubation periods than predicted for their laying dates. In contrast, incubation length of female eggs incubated by young pairs, and of male and female eggs incubated by mature birds did not deviate from the expected for any given laying date. Offspring that had been incubated by young parents had considerably poorer survival than those incubated by mature pairs, despite being reared under standardized, favourable conditions (singly, by mature parents). This was due to increased mortality among female chicks that had been incubated by young parents. The chicks incubated as eggs by young and mature birds, which survived until fledging, did not differ in body mass and size growth, or body condition. The results of this study demonstrate that parental age can influence offspring performance via variation in incubation environment, and that females are more susceptible than males to conditions experienced during embryonic development.
30244841|An animal's foraging decisions are the outcome of the relative importance of the risk of starvation and predation. Fat deposition insures against periods of food shortage but it also carries a cost in terms of mass dependent predation risk due to reduced escape probability and extended exposure time. Accordingly, birds have been observed to show a unimodal foraging pattern with foraging concentrated at the end of the day under conditions of predictable food resources and high predation risk. We tested this hypothesis in a tropical granivorous finch, the rock firefinch Lagonosticta sanguinodorsalis, in an outdoor aviary experiment during which food was provided ad lib and the risk of predation was varied by providing food either adjacent to, or 5 m away from cover. Rock firefinches showed a bimodal foraging pattern regardless of the risk of predation at which they fed. The results suggest that predation is relatively unimportant in shaping their daily feeding pattern despite mass gain during the day being similar to temperate birds. Foraging patterns closely follow diurnal temperature variation and this is suggested to be the main determinant of the observed bimodal pattern.
10.2307/3676970|Most reports of interactions between feather mites and their avian hosts have assumed that mites have detrimental effects on their hosts, i.e. that they behave as parasites. We investigate the effects of feather mites Gabucinia delibata on the body condition of Red-billed Choughs Pyrrhocorax pyrrhocorax, a highly social, medium-sized corvid species. Feather mites were absent in fledglings at the nest and were probably acquired by Choughs from 1 to 5 months after fledging, when they joined communal roosts. The abundance of feather mites on both wing and tail increased with age and development of social habits in non-breeding Choughs, but decreased when they reached breeding status. Mated Choughs had similar abundances of feather mites. The abundance of mites correlated positively with body condition (computed as the residuals of mass on a "size factor") in both males and females, and body condition was in general better for Choughs holding mites than for those lacking mites. The conclusion that feather mites do not have detrimental effects on Choughs was reinforced by the fact that feather mite abundance did not differ between Choughs with normal and crossed bills, respectively, suggesting that preening does not remove mites from the feathers. This particular association thus could be labelled as non-parasitic, suggesting at least a commensal, and possibly a mutualistic relationship. In the latter case, the hypothesised benefits accrued to Chough hosts from their association with mites may derive from an improved feather cleaning, and from the supposed protection against pathogenic organisms achieved primarily by preemption of resources by more benign species, such as feather mites.
3677740|According to sex allocation theory, females may benefit from a differential investment in sons and daughters, where fitness returns from male and female offspring vary. One way in which investment may be differentiated is by assigning male and female offspring to eggs of different sizes, and/or eggs laid early or late in the laying order. Here, we investigate whether such sex-specific adjustments occur in blue tits Parus caeruleus. We found that the proportion of males changed non-linearly with laying order showing the increase in early-laid eggs. Egg size increased with laying order, but this pattern differed between female and male eggs. Female eggs increased initially in size and became smaller later in the laying sequence, while male eggs exhibited constant increase in mass. However, egg size did not differ between genders. Egg size and laying order was found to interact in moulding sex of the embryo. Thus, females seem to simultaneously adjust the sex of the offspring in relation to their investments into eggs and the position of the egg in the laying sequence.
30244815|In altricial birds, nestlings usually respond to the sound and appearance of the provisioning adults by begging for food when the adults arrive at the nest. Nestlings can, however, also beg incorrectly on hearing misleading sounds in the environment and fail to beg when the adult arrives. This study uses the blue tit Cyanistes caeruleus to test the hypotheses that nestling begging strategies are influenced by the reliability of the stimulus to beg, and that nestling motivational state affects the response to different stimuli. Here, we show experimentally that nestling hunger strongly influences the response to stimuli that vary in their reliability. While hunger increases begging rate, it also increases the likelihood that nestlings will beg when the parent is absent. This is in agreement with both the predictions of signal detection theory and recent empirical work on other species. We found, however, no evidence that age-related perceptual constraints influence the begging response of ten day old nestlings to different stimuli.
30243287|Many open-nesting bird species orient their nests relative to surrounding vegetation to avoid adverse environmental conditions. In eastern England, tree pipit Anthus trivialis nests predominantly faced east, an orientation that provided shelter from prevailing WSW winds, allowed warming by the morning sun and which, together with relatively high field layer cover, shaded nest contents from the midday sun. Mean orientation moved from south to north through the breeding season as temperatures increased, suggesting that solar radiation was a key influence on nest placement for tree pipits in the study area. Tree pipit nests with eastward orientations experienced better hatching success than those in less-preferred orientations and it is suggested that this was due to their thermal advantages. In contrast, nest orientation had no influence on nestling survival.
10.2307/3677032|The importance of male presence on their territories for maintaining paternity in their mates' offspring was investigated in the Yellowhammer. Males were experimentally detained for one hour before and during their mate's fertile period. When males were detained, their territories received an increased number of intrusions and intruding males. Also the duration of intrusions increased compared with when they were present on their territories. No difference was found in intrusion patterns between the prefertile and the fertile period. No intrusions were observed during the post-fertile period. The rate of intrusion was not related to number of neighbouring males although young males suffered from a higher intrusion rate when the number of young neighbouring males increased. Old males with much yellow were subject to more intrusions than other males, predominantly by other older males, indicating a cost of wearing colourful plumage. In spite of the low intensity, or absence, of mate guarding found in a previous study of the Yellowhammer, results indicate that male presence on their territories may reduce the potential for extra-pair fertilizations.
25161511|We studied the reproductive strategy of a Rock Sparrow Petronia petronia population, breeding in nest boxes in the Western Alps (Italy). Over seven years of study (1991-1997) 19% of the females laid second clutches after successfully fledging the first one. Among these, about 50% deserted the first nest when nestlings were 14.3 d old (range = 8-19 d), 3.6 d before fledging (range = 1-8 d). In all these cases the primary male mate took over all parental duties and successfully reared the young. Inter-clutch time of deserting females was 8.1 d shorter than that of non-deserting double-brooded females. The breeding success of deserting females was significantly greater than that of both single-brooded females and double-brooded females that did not desert their first brood. The fledging success of the second clutches depended on the status of the secondary male: females paired with previously unpaired males had a higher fledging success than those that paired with a polygynous male. The frequency of deserting females varied among years from 0 to 16%, and was significantly and positively correlated with the frequency of males available as mates at the time of desertion. In this study we showed that sequential polyandry with brood desertion is a regularly occurring strategy in the female Rock Sparrow.
3677369| Hatching asynchrony in avian species often leads to the establishment of a size hierarchy among nestlings. Because the youngest nestlings in a brood are often at a significant disadvantage with respect to competition for parentally-delivered food, one might expect to find that mechanisms have evolved to alleviate the detrimental effects of hatching asynchrony and enhance the survival of last-hatched offspring. The musculus complexus, or hatching muscle, is responsible for breaking the shell during hatching and for dorsal flexion and extension of the neck during begging. An increase in its strength in last-hatched nestlings could therefore reduce the duration of hatching or enhance the ability to beg for parentally-delivered food, thereby enhancing the competitive abilities of those nestlings. I previously found in the Red-winged Blackbird Agelaius phoeniceus that the mass of the complexus increases with laying order and that its development is mediated by the actions of yolk testosterone. I investigated the hypothesis that yolk steroids also affect the development of the complexus in the European Starling Sturnus vulgaris. I asked, first, whether the mass of the complexus increases with laying order and, if so, whether this increase is at least partially attributable to a corresponding increase in the concentration of yolk testosterone. Because exogenous progesterone increases the water content of the complexus in the domestic fowl Gallus gallus I also asked whether an increase in complexus mass, if present, could be partially attributable to an increase in progesterone concentration across the laying order. I found that both yolk testosterone concentration and the mass of the complexus increased with laying order; however, there was no variation in the concentration of either yolk progesterone or the proportion of water in the complexus across the laying order. There were no differences in the concentrations of either androstenedione or 5-dihydrotestosterone across the laying order. 
10.2307/3676945|Genetic parentage was studied in a Norwegian, sub-alpine population of Willow Warblers Phylloscopus trochilus by means of multilocus DNA fingerprinting. We found that 33% (36/109) of the offspring were unrelated to the putative father, and that one additional offspring was unrelated to both putative parents. Altogether 50% (10/20) of the broods contained illegitimate young. The distribution of extra-pair paternity was bimodal, with several broods containing many extra-pair offspring. These results contrast markedly with a previous study of the same species, reporting no cases of mismatched parentage in a Swedish lowland population. Potentially, the high frequency of extra-pair paternity could be attributed to a higher breeding density and/or synchrony in our study population. Cuckolded males had a lower body mass, but no shorter tarsi or wings, than non-cuckolded males. This suggests that a male's loss of paternity is somehow related to his body condition. The data set includes five broods in which the pair male was permanently removed on the day the first egg was laid. There was no tendency that the manipulation increased the frequency of extra-pair paternity.
30244474|We describe an unknown mode of solar-assisted egg development in the crab plover Dromas ardeola, a shorebird that breeds in self-excavated burrows. The insulating properties of the nest burrow and the intense solar radiation allowed egg development at near-optimal temperature (35.2C0.2) and humidity (60.2%4.4), allowing a very low incubation attendance by the parent birds (28.3% of time, with recesses lasting up to 58 h). Crab plovers did not abandon completely parental incubation, possibly because of the need to turn their egg, and because the slight warming provided by parents (0.8C) may improve hatching. This is the first case of solar assisted incubation in a species unrelated to the Megapodiidae, the only birds known to develop their eggs without contact incubation.
3677367|The Noisy Miner Manorina melanocephala (Meliphagidae) is a cooperatively breeding bird species in which sons often remain on their natal home ranges and help one or both of their parents. In a population of Noisy Miners in SE Queensland, Australia, a molecular technique was used to explore adult and offspring sex ratios, and also hatching sequences. Among the adult population, there were 2.31 males for every female, and roughly 99% of helping was performed by males. At hatching and fledging, the population sex ratio was even, with exactly 57 males and 57 females. However, in 17 out of 18 broods the first egg to hatch was male. First-hatched males were significantly larger and heavier than their sisters just prior to fledging. Through their helping behaviour, large healthy sons could clearly enhance the future reproductive success of parents, and benefit the entire group. Sex-biased hatching sequences could potentially provide cooperatively breeding birds with a subtle and precise way of varying investment in the helping sex.
3677495|During 1995-1997, we monitored Carolina chickadee Poecile carolinensis nests in a fragmented forest landscape in northcentral Ohio, USA. Nest success was positively correlated with woodlot area and most nest loss was due to nest destruction by house wrens Troglodytes aedon. During 1998 and 1999, we conducted an experiment in both large (> 6.8 ha) and small (< 6.8 ha) woodlots in which we gave chickadees a choice of nesting on edges of woodlots (preferred wren habitat) or in the center of woodlots. We found no difference in nest success between large and small woodlots, but regardless of woodlot size, nest success was lower on edges than in the center. In the experiment, 100% of nest loss was due to nest destruction by house wrens. Given a choice, Carolina chickadees preferred to nest centrally more often than on edges. These results suggest that in fragmented landscapes where house wrens are common, nest destruction by house wrens is a major cause of nest failure in the Carolina chickadee. Such edge-dependent interspecific nest-site usurpation has not been previously recognized as a potentially important selective factor in nest site selection.
10.2307/3677132| We looked at the routes taken by Magellanic Penguins up the beach while moving between the sea and the colony at a breeding site in San Julian, Argentina. Birds swam parallel to the shore for a period before leaving the water to cross the beach but trajectories over the beach were not perpendicular to the water's edge but at an angle of 39. We examined the premise that birds might be optimizing for a trade off between time or energy by adopting this procedure and found that birds can gain little or no time by walking obliquely but can, under particular circumstances, save energy. These circumstances require that the previously-calculated costs of transport for walking have been over-estimated by a factor of two. 
10.2307/3677171|Energy management for endurance flight critically determines the ecological options in the life history of migrant birds. Apart from the amount of energy stores, the types of fuel used and metabolic constraints determine endurance performance in long-distance migrants. The three main types of fuel (lipids, glycogen, protein) are evaluated regarding (a) costs of transport and maintenance, (b) supply to the muscles during flight, (c) adverse effects during, and (d) after, flight, and (e) refuelling. Lipids are the best fuel type with respect to three of these five criteria, but pose problems regarding the supply from adipose tissues to the muscles and regarding oxidation. Nevertheless, birds can maximize the contribution of energy derived from lipids as a proportion of the total energy expenditure to about 95% during migratory endurance flight. Mechanisms to do so may include enhancing fatty acid transport to the flight muscles, increasing initial fat stores and increasing aerobic capacity. A very low relative contribution of energy derived from protein (RPC) is attained by migrating birds (around 5%), similar to that of long-term fasting birds. RPC values of fasting birds depend on initial fat content and are lower than in fasting mammals. This suggests that in fasting birds the absolute amount of protein catabolism is roughly proportional to metabolic rate. Mechanisms to increase the relative contribution of energy derived from fat are costly. Hence, they are expected to modify the power curve relating energy expenditure to flight speed and predictions derived from it. It is also expected that migrants flying short non-stop distances or risking dehydration will not maximize lipid utilization to the same extent as birds flying long distances non-stop. Hence, the optimal amount and proportions of fat and protein stored and functional organ sizes are expected to depend on the migration strategy, particularly on the duration of non-stop flights and the risk of dehydration.
30244833|We investigated sex-specific parental care behaviour of lesser spotted woodpeckers Picoides minor in the low mountain range Taunus, Germany. Observed parental care included incubation, nest sanitation as well as brooding and feeding of nestlings. Contributions of the two sexes to parental care changed in progress of the breeding period. During incubation and the first half of the nestling period, parental care was divided equally between partners. However, in the late nestling stage, we found males to feed their nestlings irrespective of brood size while females considerably decreased feeding rate with the number of nestlings. This behaviour culminated in desertion of small broods by females shortly before fledging. The fact that even deserted nests were successful indicates that males were able to compensate for the females' absence. Interestingly, the mating of one female with two males with separate nests could be found in the population, which confirms earlier findings of polyandry in the lesser spotted woodpecker. We conclude that biparental care is not essential in the later stage and one partner can reduce effort and thus costs of parental care, at least in small broods where the mate is able to compensate for that behaviour. Reduced care and desertion appears only in females, which might be caused by a combination of two traits: First, females might suffer higher costs of investment in terms of mortality and secondly, malebiased sex ratio in the population generally leads to higher mating probabilities for females in the following breeding season. The occurrence of polyandry seems to be a result of these conditions.
3677766| The Chiffchaff Phylloscopus collybita is represented in Sweden by two different subspecies; the northern well-established abietinus and the southern recently established collybita which has expanded its range northward during the past two decades. At present, an area approximately 500 km wide separates the two subspecies. In order to document differences between the northern and southern populations we compared morphology, vocalisation, habitat choice, and neutral genetic variation in mitochondrial (mt) DNA and at four microsatellite loci of 30 male Chiffchaffs from each subspecies. Our results show significant differences in several morphological traits and in song. Playback experiments revealed a significant difference in aggressive behaviour depending on which population-specific song that was played to the birds. Mitochondrial DNA was geographically structured with  90% of the birds carrying a mt haplotype matching their sample population. No allelic differences at the microsatellite loci were found between populations. Our data demonstrate a substantial differentiation between the northern and southern populations despite gene flow, clearly separating them into the subspecies abietinus and collybita. 
30244813|Many evolutionary studies of birds rely on the estimation of molecular divergence times and substitution rates. In order to perform such analyses, it is necessary to incorporate some form of calibration information: a known substitution rate, radiometric ages of heterochronous sequences, or inferred ages of lineage splitting events. All three of these techniques have been employed in avian molecular studies, but their usage has not been entirely satisfactory. For example, the 'traditional' avian mitochondrial substitution rate of 2% per million years is frequently adopted without acknowledgement of the associated uncertainty. Similarly, fossil and biogeographic information is almost always converted into an errorless calibration point. In both cases, the resulting estimates of divergence times and substitution rates will be artificially precise, which has a considerable impact on hypothesis testing. In addition, using such a simplistic approach to calibration discards much of the information offered by the fossil record. A number of more sophisticated calibration methods have recently been introduced, culminating in the development of probability distribution-based calibrations. In this article, I discuss the use of this new class of methods and offer guidelines for choosing a calibration technique.
10.2307/3677226|We use two approaches to compare the reproductive success of secondary (S) females to the reproductive success of monogamous and primary (M/P) females in two populations of the polygynous Red-winged Blackbird Agelaius phoeniceus. One approach is to calculate x, the mean reproductive success of all S females divided by the mean reproductive success of all M/P females. Estimates of x are corrected for seasonal declines in reproductive success of M/P females when necessary. Considering all nests, the mean x is 0.98 for two years in a Washington population and is also 0.98 for four years in an Indiana population. Considering only successful nests, and pooling data over years, x is 0.98 for Washington and 0.96 for Indiana. A second approach is to perform pair-wise comparisons of the reproductive success of each S female to the reproductive success of those M/P females that choose unmated males available to, but not chosen by, the S female. In both redwing populations, individuals more often than not have higher success breeding as S females than they would have breeding as M/P females with available unmated males. The implications of these results for polygyny models are discussed.
3677592|Lack (1946) suggested that male songbirds exhibit consistent individual differences in the vigor or manner in which they defend their territories against intrusion. The causes and consequences of such individual variation have not been incorporated into models of territoriality, however, because of a lack of experimental data confirming Lack's suggestion. In this paper, we test the possibility that male song sparrows Melospiza melodia who are successful territory holders differ consistently in the vigor with which they defend their territory, by conducting repeated song playback trials with the same set of territory-holding subjects across a breeding season. We found only relatively weak seasonal trends in responsiveness: the amount birds sang in response to playback increased significantly across the breeding season and responsiveness was generally lower when a male's social mate was egg laying. By contrast, we found extensive variation among males in how closely they approached a simulated territorial intrusion. These individual differences remained significantly consistent across four rounds of playback trials that spanned the breeding season as determined by Kendall's coefficient of concordance. Our results confirm that some individual song sparrows are consistently more vigorous than others in territory defense, at least in one conspicuous aspect of their behavior, and suggest that further work is needed to understand the nature and consequences of variation in patterns of defense among successful territory holders.
3677783|The red-chested cuckoo Cuculus solitarius parasitises many passerines in Africa, but some common species sympatric with this brood parasite are rarely used as hosts. We tested the responses of three turdid hosts to parasitism with artificial cuckoo eggs. The kurrichane thrush Turdus libonyana, which is not regularly parasitized by the cuckoo, rejected 60% of mimetic model eggs and 81% of non-mimetic eggs. We observed female thrush behaviour during the first visit after parasitism, and thrushes appeared to be initially fooled by mimetic eggs in completed clutches in all cases, and incubated. By contrast, in half of the experiments with non-mimetic eggs, these were ejected by the thrushes, with the host grasping the egg and flying away with it. The time spent nest checking prior to ejection was only one third of the time spent nest checking when females decided to incubate the clutch, suggesting that females were immediately aware of a foreign egg in the nest. By contrast, southern olive thrushes T. olivaceous rejected all non-mimetic and accepted all mimetic model eggs, whereas cape robins Cossypha caffra accepted all model eggs, irrespective of whether or not they were mimetic. Our results support the hypothesis that rejection behaviour in these two thrush species evolved as a defence against interspecific nest parasitism, with thrushes appearing to be ahead in this particular host-parasite arms race. The cape robin, by contrast, appears not to reject cuckoo eggs, either because it is to unable to recognize them, or because the costs associated with removal may be too high.
30243293|To evaluate the importance of tree leafing for the start of laying and clutch size of birds, we compared the breeding phenology of great tits Parus major and blue tits P. caeruleus between one coastal and two inland sites in the same geographical region. Because of the cooling influence of the sea, trees at the coastal site were known to initiate budburst about a week later than at the inland sites. During 5 years, breeding by the tits and the leaf phenology of birch Betula pendula, and oak Quercus robur were monitored. The leaf phenology of birch and oak explained a significant part of the between-year variation in the start of egg laying in blue and great tits, respectively. The tits started laying earlier at the sites with an early budburst, i.e. normally inland. However, leaf phenology was not an absolute cue to the start of laying, since blue tits laid earlier relative to leafing at the inland site than at the coastal site, and both tit species laid eggs earlier relative to leafing during late springs. In neither species was clutch size affected by leafing phenology. However, great tit females at the coastal site consistently produced fewer eggs than did those at the inland site. No such difference was found in the blue tits. Although leafing phenology may predict the start of laying in tits, other factors also influence its timing. These factors might include other cues, or differing life-history trade-offs depending on site or general climatic factors during the spring.
10.2307/3677146|We tested whether the age-related differences in reproductive success in male American Redstarts are caused by differences in date of arrival on the breeding grounds. By relating arrival date to three measures of reproductive success we determined what stage of the breeding cycle is affected by date of arrival. Adult male redstarts were more successful than subadults at obtaining mates. Adult males were also more likely than subadults to have nests built in their territories, and to fledge young. Among mated males, neither age class was significantly more likely to obtain nests. However, among males that nested, there were significant age-related differences in fledging success. Adult males arrived on the breeding grounds before subadults. Within both age classes, males that mated had arrived significantly earlier than those that did not mate. Similarly, males that nested had arrived significantly earlier than those that did not. There were no significant differences in arrival date between males that fledged young and those that did not. Finally, adult males were more likely to renest after nest failure. Therefore, we conclude that reproductive success in male redstarts is independently affected by both arrival date and age, and that the lower success of subadults may not be a consequence solely of their age and late arrival, but also of their lack of experience in selecting territories early in the breeding season.
3677802|A chick of the Horsfield's hawk cuckoo Cuculus fugax has a vivid yellow skin patch on each wing-bend, which is very similar in colour to its own gape. Almost every time a host parent delivers food, the chick explicitly displays the wing-patch by raising and shaking the wing. We observed that host parents tried to place food onto the wing-patch of the nestling instead of into its mouth. The wing-patch would be perceived as a gape by host parents, possibly resulting in an overestimation of brood size. Signals induced by the wing-patch may vary with the luminosity of environments.
30245211|Sexual selection theory posits that ornamental traits can evolve if they provide individuals with an advantage in securing multiple mates. That male ornamentation occurs in many bird species in which males pair with a single female is therefore puzzling. It has been proposed that extra-pair mating can substantially increase the variance in reproductive success among males in monogamous species, thus increasing the potential for sexual selection. We documented the frequency of extra-pair paternity and examined its effect on variation in male reproductive success in the mountain bluebird Sialia currucoides, a socially monogamous songbird in which males possess brilliant plumage ornamentation. Extra-pair paternity was common in our Wyoming study population, with 72% of broods containing at least one extra-pair offspring. The standardized variance in actual male reproductive success (i.e., the total number of within-pair and extra-pair offspring sired) was more than seven times higher than the variation in apparent success (i.e., success assuming that no extra-pair mating occurred). Success at siring within-pair and extra-pair offspring both contributed to the variation in overall male reproductive success. Within-pair success, however, did not predict a male's level of extra-pair success, suggesting that males do not sacrifice within-pair paternity to gain extra-pair paternity. Calculation of the sexual selection (Bateman) gradient showed that males sire approximately two additional offspring for each extra-pair mate that we identified. Thus, in this sexually dichromatic species, extra-pair mating increases the variance in male reproductive success and provides the potential for sexual selection to act.
3677479|We measured thyroid hormone (T3) levels and energy expenditure of pre-breeding house sparrows Passer domesticus in relation to the timing of breeding and reproductive success. The onset of reproduction was synchronised in two waves, separated by a three-week interval. On an annual basis, early breeders (birds that bred for the first time during the first wave) made significantly more breeding attempts, laid significantly more egg and raised 2.3 times more chicks to fledging than late breeders (birds that bred for the first time during the second wave). By the end of March, about one month before the first egg was laid in the population, plasma titres of testosterone in males and estradiol in females were still low and did not differ between early and late breeders. However, birds that subsequently bred early had higher titres of plasma triiodothyronine (T3) than birds that started to breed late. We show for the first time in a free-living bird population that Basal Metabolic Rate (BMR) is positively correlated with the plasma titre of T3. Differences in plasma T3 accounted for 48% of the inter-individual variation in BMR. Elevated T3 levels indicate that energy requirements increase prior to breeding. Although early breeding appears to be advantageous in terms of the number of offspring raised on an annual basis, the increased energy requirements prior to breeding are thought to delay the onset of reproduction in those birds that cannot afford the additional energy expenditure early in the season.
30244478|To assess regression models for lipid and lean body mass in small birds, we recorded live body mass 0.1 g, total body electrical conductivity (TOBEC; from "third generation" TOBEC machine EM-SCAN SA-3000) or E-Value, visual fat score (VisFat), and seven body measurements for 52 migratory passerine birds of 13 species (5-40 g). We determined lipid and lean mass of each bird after petroleum-ether extraction of lipids. We obtained "net" E-Value (NEV) for each scanned bird by subtracting the E-Value of the empty bird-restraining tube, because these showed an inverse temperature dependence (P <0.005). Leave-one-out cross validation was used to assess model selection and construct 95% confidence intervals. Although precision of TOBEC increased with bird size (CV of NEV vs. live mass: r = -0.276, P = 0.002) and it explained an increasing proportion of variation in lean mass moving from small- to medium- to large-bird classes of our data, it did no better than head length in single-variable prediction of lean or lipid mass and was included in five of the 14 multivariate models we developed. The best multiple regression to predict lean mass included live weight, VisFat, bill length, tarsus and lnNEV (adjusted R = 99.0%); however, the same model lacking only lnNEV yielded aR = 98.9%. A parallel to the above pair of models, but predicting lipid mass, yielded aR = 90.3% and 90.0%, respectively. Subdividing the data by three size classes and three taxa (American redstart Setophaga ruticilla, ovenbird Seiurus aurocapilla, warblers), best-subset multiple-regression models predicted lean mass with aR from 94.7 to 99.6% and lipid mass with aR from 85.4 to 98.3%. Best models for the size- and species-groups included VisFat and zero to five body measurements, and most included live weight. lnNEV was included only in the models for ovenbird (lipid), warblers (lipid), all birds (both), and large birds (both). Actual lipid mass of all birds was more highly correlated with multiple-regression-predicted lipid mass (r = 0.955) than with visual subcutaneous fat-scoring (r = 0.683). These multiple-regression models predicting lipid content using live-bird measurements and visual fat score as independent variables represent more accurate and precise estimates of actual lipid content in small passerines than any previously published. They are particularly accurate for placing birds into percentage body-fat classes.
3677799|Male eastern bluebirds Sialia sialis have striking ultraviolet (UV)-blue coloration on their heads, backs, rumps, wings, and tails and bold chestnut coloration on their breasts. These colored areas are ornaments that correlate with pairing date and reproductive effort, and thus probably influence the choice of mates by females. Such ornaments are expected to increase in color with age and body condition. We investigated the effects of age on body condition and the UV-blue and chestnut coloration of males over four years using both cross-sectional (comparing age classes) and longitudinal analyses (following individuals as they age). We found that both the body condition index and brightness of UV-blue rump coloration increased with age, while UV-blue tail plumage coloration increased between yearling and older males, and the chestnut breast coloration decreased in the oldest age class. The proximate mechanisms whereby individuals reliably signal age via rump brightness and tail coloration are probably different. Contour feathers, including rump feathers, are molted at approximately the same time in all age classes and are likely subject to the same production costs in all age classes. In contrast, the molt schedule of the tail and wing feathers differs between individuals of yearling and older age classes, with yearlings retaining wing and tail feathers for several months longer than adults. The relationship between tail color and age was probably, in part, a consequence of yearlings expressing tails that have increased feather wear and accumulation of dirt. In general, UV-blue coloration increased with age while chestnut plumage decreased with age, indicating that older individuals may tradeoff investing energy in structural and melanin ornaments. By assessing overall plumage coloration, female eastern bluebirds could estimate age class when choosing mates.
10.2307/3677275|Offspring number was manipulated in Willow Ptarmigan Lagopus lagopus to determine the effect of brood size on parental effort in defence of young. Three chicks were added (n = 8), exchanged (n = 10) or removed (n = 12) among broods of females that had laid 7-9 eggs. If parents based effort on the value of the brood, it was predicted that defence should increase with offspring number because ptarmigan parents receive greater returns from large broods. Parental effort in defence was unaffected by brood size, probably because a predator cannot threaten the entire brood simultaneously when ptarmigan young are scattered. This evidence supports theoretical models which predict that if the young are able to disperse, patterns of defence will be different in precocial birds from that in fish or altricial birds.
3677595|Restriction fragment length polymorphisms of mtDNA were used to assess genetic structure at two geographic scales for five species of Neotropical forest-understory birds. At the local scale (in northeastern Bolivia), I studied populations of each species from six sites within 200 km of one another. At this scale, I studied the effects of forest fragmentation on mtDNA genetic structure: three sites were in natural forest fragments separated by cerrado (savanna), and three sites were in continuous forest. Genetic variation did not appear to have been lost in the forest fragment populations of any species. However, for three antbirds (Thamnophilidae), patterns of haplotype distributions suggest fragmentation affected genetic structure in an unusual way. For these species, numerically dominant haplotypes in forest fragments did not occur in continuous forest, whereas predominant haplotypes in continuous forest are widespread (occurring in fragments and continuous forest). These results suggest that forest fragmentation on a local geographic scale can affect genetic differentiation even in birds, a group that is considered to disperse well. The two other taxa studied were a woodcreeper (Dendrocolaptidae) and a tyrant-flycatcher (Tyrannidae). These two taxa did not show genetic effects of forest fragmentation, but they possessed notably different numbers of haplotypes per total individuals surveyed. The woodcreeper had few haplotypes (5 in 58 individuals), whereas the flycatcher had many (31 in 34 individuals). The numbers of haplotypes per individuals surveyed for the three antbirds were intermediate. Such variable levels of polymorphism can greatly influence analyses of genetic structure. At the regional geographic scale (across southwestern Amazonia), the flycatcher exhibited lower levels of differentiation than the other taxa. Levels of estimated sequence divergence within the other four taxa are similar to levels of differentiation between species from other avian studies, suggesting that genetic diversity is underestimated by current species-level taxonomy in these birds.
3677791|Climate change has advanced the breeding dates of many bird species, but for few species we know whether this advancement is sufficient to track the advancement of the underlying levels of the food chain. For the long-distance migratory pied flycatcher Ficedula hypoleuca the advancement in breeding time has been insufficient to maintain the synchrony with their main food sources. The timing of arrival in the breeding areas from their African wintering grounds is likely to constrain the advancement of breeding date. We hypothesise that this is because in Africa they cannot predict the advancement of spring in their breeding habitat. However, long-distance migrants may advance their arrival time by migrating faster when circumstances en route are favourable. In this study we show that both arrival and breeding date depend on temperatures at their main North African staging grounds, as well as on temperature at the breeding grounds. Male arrival and average laying date were not correlated, but the positive effect of temperature in North Africa on breeding dates suggests that breeding date is indeed constrained by arrival of females. Long-distance migrants thus are able to adjust arrival and hence breeding by faster spring migration, but the degree of adjustment is probably limited as timing schedules in spring are tight. Furthermore, as climate change is affecting temperatures differently along the migratory flyway and the breeding areas, it is unlikely that arrival dates are advanced at the same rate as the timing of breeding should advance, given the advancement of the underlying levels of the food chain.
3677638|On the offshore island Helgoland, passerine birds killed by predators (feral cats Felis catus and raptors, mainly sparrowhawks Accipiter nisus) during stopover were measured and weighed when found freshly killed and still intact. Supplemented by data of migrating birds ringed on Helgoland and predated on the island later on, age and body mass of victims were compared to live birds trapped on Helgoland during ringing operations. In the eleven species considered, most predator kills fell within the lightest 20% of birds measured during ringing, regardless of which type of predator was involved. It seems that the risk of being heavy due to fuel loads with respect to reduced escape performance is overestimated. The higher exposure of light birds due to more intense foraging and displacement to suboptimal habitats is probably of higher biological significance by offering conspicuous prey for predators. The lower risk of heavy birds when prey of different body condition is available for predators has implications for modelling optimal migration behaviour, and predation risk is perhaps not an important factor for migrants when deciding on site use.
3677699|From 1976 to 1997 passerines were mist-netted and ringed on the island of Christians, in the Baltic Sea. Here we present analyses of phenological changes (i.e. time of arrival) for 25 species based on the entire populations of mist-netted songbirds during spring migration. We used two approaches (least square and quantile regression) to test for changes in arrival time of first individuals and three different parts of the songbird populations (i.e. first 5%, 50% and 95% of the total number of trapped individuals corrected for trapping effort). Our results generally confirm earlier spring arrival of migratory passerines with an overall earlier arrival of 0.26 days per year. Changes in the arrival time of first individuals are often the only data available. They are typically analysed on the assumption that they are representative of their respective population. We found a unidirectional, significant change towards earlier arrival for all four measures of arrival timing which seem to support this. However, the four measures of arrival are changing at different rates. First individuals changed arrival time more rapidly than the first 5%, 50% and 95% of the spring total. Such differences are likely to be important for our understanding of population-dynamic changes in relation to climate change. These differences may also have long-term evolutionary consequences. Migration distance seems to affect the degree of change in arrival time, but we found no difference between species wintering in different regions of Africa.
3677650|There is considerable evidence that reproductive success improves with age in birds. It is often suggested that improved performance of older birds is because they are more experienced. Less consideration has been given to the possibility that improvements may be a consequence of age-related changes in reproductive physiology. One factor that consistently changes with age is laying date - first year birds lay later than older birds. In European starlings Sturnus vulgaris, older males begin reproductive activity earlier than first year males and dominate available nest sites. I monitored changes in testicular volume in captive starlings exposed to natural changes in day length and temperature, from their first autumn through the next two annual cycles. Testicular maturation was advanced by 3-4 weeks in birds during their second year compared to the first, and testicular regression occurred about 2 weeks later. The period of full sexual maturation was 50% longer during the second year. The timing of the post-nuptial moult was the same. A possible physiological mechanism to explain this is discussed. The results show that earlier reproductive activity in older birds can be explained, at least in part, by intrinsic physiological mechanisms. This does not preclude additional effects of experience of an individual in the improvement in reproductive performance between first and second year birds.
10.2307/3677103|Survival rates, natal dispersal, and age at first breeding of Little Egrets Egretta garzetta breeding in the Camargue (southern France) were estimated using individually marked birds observed in nesting colonies from 1987 to 1995. Survival and probability of resighting were estimated separately, using capture-mark-recapture models. Annual survival rates of adult breeding birds were constant (71.4%) during the study period, whereas the survival rates of yearlings showed marked variations between years, ranging from 6.54% to 55.19%. Rank in the brood at fledging had no effect on subsequent first-year or adult survival. There was no evidence for an effect of winter severity or trophic conditions at fledging on first-year survival during the study period. Age and time (study year), but not rank in the brood, had a significant interactive effect on resighting rates. A higher proportion of philopatric individuals was observed among birds first observed breeding at age one, compared to individuals observed breeding for the first time at an older age. Little Egrets that settled in colonies other than the natal one, dispersed at fairly even distances, with only a slight tendency to stay close to their natal colony. There was no influence of rank in the brood on the degree of philopatry. Direct observations and estimates from demographic models revealed that a substantial proportion of birds started breeding at age one, with large variations between years. This pattern of recruitment contrasts markedly with previous records for Ciconiiforms.
3677480|We investigated whether trace elements in tail feathers of an insectivorous and long-distance migratory bird species could be used to identify moulting areas and hence migratory pathways. We analysed tail feathers from birds of different age and sex collected from a range of different breeding sites across Europe. The site of moult had a large effect on elemental composition of feathers of birds, both at the European and African moulting sites. Analysis of feathers of nestlings with known origin suggested that the elemental composition of feathers depended largely upon the micro-geographical location of the colony. The distance between moulting areas could not explain the level of differences in trace elements. Analysis of feathers grown by the same individuals on the African wintering grounds and in the following breeding season in Europe showed a large difference in composition indicating that moulting site affects elemental composition. Tail feathers moulted in winter in Africa by adults breeding in different European regions differed markedly in elemental composition, indicating that they used different moulting areas. Analysis of tail feathers of the same adult individuals in two consecutive years showed that sand martins in their first and second wintering season grew feathers with largely similar elemental composition, although the amounts of several elements in tail feathers of the older birds was lower. There was no difference between the sexes in the elemental composition of their feathers grown in Africa. Investigation of the trace element composition of feathers could be a useful method for studying similarity among groups of individuals in their use of moulting areas.
3677737|Nestling parasites typically beg more intensively than do host nestlings yet these exaggerated displays are also honest in that they are modulated by hunger and age. We hypothesized that honesty was also maintained in the food solicitation behaviors of fledgling brood parasites because the benefits and costs of their begging displays are similar to those of nestling parasites. Begging displays of hand-reared 14-32 days old brown-headed cowbirds Molothrus ater that had experimentally manipulated nutritional needs were recorded to analyze variation in the peak frequency, duration, and rate of fledglings' begging bouts. Peak frequency of bouts decreased with greater age and was lower for females. Bout rate was greater with increasing hunger levels of fledgling parasites but did not vary with age. Consistent and predictable variation of acoustic begging displays with age, sex, and hunger-level indicates honesty in host-parasite communication systems through conveying truthful information about the many possible needs of parasitic fledglings.
10.2307/3677063|The mitochondrial genetic differentiation and molecular phylogenetic relationships of western and eastern Bonelli's Warblers (Phylloscopus b. bonelli, P.b. orientalis) and Green Warbler Phylloscopus nitidus were investigated. The cytochrome b gene was amplified by polymerase chain reaction and 1038 nucleotides were sequenced directly in these and several other Phylloscopus species plus Sylvia atricapilla and Acrocephalus scirpaceus. The mitochondrial genetic distance between eastern and western Bonelli's Warblers was as large (8.3-8.6%) as between each of them and the Wood Warbler P. sibilatrix. Compared to the amount of mtDNA differentiation between other closely related species and subspecies of birds, the divergence between the Bonelli's warblers is far greater than among typical subspecies. Together with the distinct differences in calls and structure of song elements the genetic data support full species status of the two taxa. The cytochrome b sequence of P. nitidus differed by 2.5-3.1% from P. trochiloides, to which it is most closely related. This divergence is also larger than between most subspecies of birds studied so far at this locus and is consistent with the placement of P. nitidus as an allospecies within the superspecies P. [trochiloides]. We discuss population-genetic scenarios for a potentially accelerated rate of mtDNA differentiation in relatively small, geographically isolated populations that might help to explain the large sequence divergence observed. A phylogenetic tree was constructed by maximum parsimony and neighbour-joining. Chiffchaff P. collybita and Willow Warbler P. trochilus are sister species and together form the sister group of Bonelli's and Wood Warblers. As expected, Arctic Warbler P. borealis was found to be the sister species of the Greenish Warbler complex (including nitidus), whereas the relationships of P. (inornatus) humei relative to the other species could not be resolved. Among the taxa studied, those without wing-bars belong to a phylogenetically older clade than those with wing-bars. MtDNA sequence data promise to be very useful in quantifying the genetic differentiation and phylogenetic relationships among closely related species, especially in morphologically poorly differentiated genera like Phylloscopus.
10.2307/3677353|Reproductive performance of Great Tits and Blue Tits breeding in highly fragmented woodland was investigated in relation to woodland area in a landscape dominated by intensive arable agriculture in eastern England. Breeding performance was recorded for five years (1993-1997) for tits breeding in nestboxes in up to 43 woods ranging in size from 0.1 to 157 ha. Trends in the components of breeding success with woodland area were investigated using a linear, mixed model including both fixed and random effects, and logistic regression analysis. In both Great Tits and Blue Tits, breeding performance declined with decreasing woodland area. For Blue Tits, the decline was accounted for by the timing of breeding which was later in smaller woods. Great Tits showed a similar trend in laying date with woodland area, but over and above this effect of timing on breeding success, they also reared lighter young in smaller woods. The variation in first egg date accounted for by woodland area was about 25% for Great Tits and 33% for Blue Tits. In some years, failure at the nestling stage was frequent for Great Tits (but not Blue Tits) in small woods, but was not recorded to the same extent in large woods. The results are discussed in the context of previous studies of tit breeding success in relation to individual bird quality, habitat quality and availability, and the consequences of habitat fragmentation.
10.2307/3677111|The clutch size, a-egg volume and hatching success of Great Skuas on Foula, Shetland, were examined on successive breeding attempts following recruitment. Clutch size and a-egg volume increased with breeding experience but hatching success was not affected. The increase in clutch size was evident only between the first and second breeding attempt, but increase in a-egg volume was apparent up to at least the third breeding attempt. Improvements in clutch size were associated with breeding experience rather than age of the bird. There was evidence that improvements in clutch size and a-egg volume occurred within individuals from the first to the second breeding attempt, thus providing support for the maturation hypothesis. Primiparous Great Skuas (those breeding for the first time) that laid a two-egg clutch were more likely to return to breed in the following year than those with one egg. This would give an apparent increase in breeding performance with experience in cross-sectional analyses, because poor-quality birds would be under-represented in the second breeding attempt. This finding provides support for the selection hypothesis.
10.2307/3677260|Raptor migration was studied at two locations in southern Israel in spring 1992. Tracking radars provided exact data on individual flight paths throughout the day, whereby emphasis was on recording entire 'inter-thermal gliding' and 'thermal circling' phases. Steppe Eagles Aquila nipalensis adjusted their flight tactics to the actual wind and thermal conditions: They increased their gliding airspeed under strong thermal convection and in opposing winds. Under certain conditions the usual circling in thermals and inter-thermal gliding tactic was combined with soaring in straight line gliding, suggesting large scale updrafts. Cross-country speeds were considerably enhanced if birds used this combined flight tactic, since it provides gain of altitude as well as progress in the direction of migration. Cross-country speed was positively related to climbing rate in thermal circling. Over the whole diurnal cycle, the mean climbing rate in thermal circling was 1.9 m/s. The highest climbing rates, occasionally up to 5 m/s, were reached around noon. Mean cross-country speed was 12.4 m/s, mean gliding airspeed 15.6 m/s. The upper limit of migration was at about 1600 m above ground level, but 90% of the Steppe Eagles flew below 1000 m above ground, 50% even below 400 m. A comparison with Steppe Buzzard Buteo buteo vulpinus and Honey Buzzard Pernis apivorus, observed under the same conditions, revealed similar flight characteristics. However, Steppe Eagles reached higher cross-country speeds, reflecting a higher selectivity for optimal flight conditions combined with the use of updrafts while soaring in straight line gliding.
3677656| The requirements of the orientation system of nave long-distance night migrants were analysed by comparing data on Barred Warbler Sylvia nisoria, Marsh Warbler Acrocephalus palustris and Spotted Flycatcher Muscicapa striata with data from a computer model of a clock-and-compass system. These species show, respectively, a rather restricted winter distribution in East Africa, migration through a very narrow corridor in East Africa, and rather widely distributed recoveries in the Mediterranean with more concentrated recoveries south of the Sahara. For all three species, to obtain the observed concentrations either a very high directional migratory concentration was needed in computer simulations to bring the birds successfully to their wintering areas or misorientating individuals would be subjected to a very high mortality. Neither the very high directional concentration nor the high mortality amongst misorientating individuals fit the empirical data sets. On the basis of the present study, the observed patterns seem difficult to explain by a simple clock-and-compass system only, and to account for the exceptionally precise migratory routes shown in this study it is proposed that first-time migrants might be able to use landscape topography on a regional scale in combination with corrections of directional mistakes/wind displacements. 
30245202|Despite two decades of research into over one hundred species, the function of extrapair paternity to female birds remains unclear. Recent studies have demonstrated patterns between extrapair paternity and the genetic similarity of females with social partners and extrapair males. We believe that selection on females to gain genetically compatible fathers for their offspring offers a possible general explanation for the function of extrapair paternity. The idea of sexual selection being driven by genetic compatibility is widely considered by workers on other taxa but has been largely ignored by studies of birds. Genetic compatibility could be optimised by females through a behavioural process before copulation or through a postcopulatory process. Postcopulatory processes such as cryptic female choice have been recently demonstrated in birds and would allow female birds to use a 'genetically loaded raffle' to target compatible genes through sperm competition. We discuss the general weaknesses of studies of extrapair paternity to date and suggest a number of avenues for future research that will help to elucidate the function of extrapair paternity and widespread genetic polyandry in birds.
3677558|Eastern curlews Numenius madagascariensis spending the nonbreeding season in eastern Australia foraged on three intertidal decapods: soldier crab Mictyris longicarpus, sentinel crab Macrophthalmus crassipes and ghost-shrimp Trypaea australiensis. Due to their ecology, these crustaceans were spatially segregated (=distributed in 'patches') and the curlews intermittently consumed more than one prey type. It was predicted that if the curlews behaved as intake rate maximizers, the time spent foraging on a particular prey (patch) would reflect relative availabilities of the prey types and thus prey-specific intake rates would be equal. During the mid-nonbreeding period (November-December), Mictyris and Macrophthalmus were primarily consumed and prey-specific intake rates were statistically indistinguishable (8.8 versus 10.1
3677790|Data on nest success and brood productivity of three ground-nesting, three canopy-nesting and four hole-nesting (non-excavator) passerines were gathered in a primeval lowland temperate forest (Biaowiea National Park, E Poland). Natural holes were superabundant and the birds had to cope with a heavy pressure of a diverse assemblage of nest predators. We tested whether in such conditions nesting in holes is more productive, and whether nesting on the ground is most risky, as expected from some earlier generalisations. The nesting success varied significantly across the nest types. As predicted, the success of hole-nesters (51-74%) and their brood productivity were the highest. Contrary to expectations, the ground-nesters (27-40%) did not breed less successfully than the canopy-nesters (22-33%). Nest predators, responsible for 64-94% of nest losses in individual species, were the major cause of the differences among nest types. The Biaowiea results confirm the long-held view that holes tend to be the safest breeding places, but lend no support for the idea that nesting on the ground is more dangerous than in tree crowns.
10.2307/3677317|Scanning and flocking behaviour of 16 species of wader showing three different foraging strategies (pause-travel, visual continuous, tactile continuous) was studied to test predictions regarding the effect of foraging technique on such behaviours. The scanning hypothesis predicts that (1) pause-travel foraging species will spend less time vigilant and will scan less frequently than species using a continuous foraging strategy (either visual or tactile); the flocking hypothesis predicts that (2) visually hunting species (both pause-travel and visual continuous) will tend to form smaller flocks than tactile-foraging species. The results show differences between pause-travel and continuous foraging species in vigilance rate but not in time spent vigilant or in mean scan duration. The two continuous strategies did not differ in any variable related to scanning behaviour. However, with respect to flocking behaviour, both pause-travel and visual continuous-foraging species differed from tactile continuous-foraging species in foraging flock size. These results are discussed in the light of the syndrome hypothesis.
30245213|The uropygial glands of birds serve multiple functions, and there is great interspecific variability in the composition and properties of their secretions. A special case is the secretion in the hoopoes Upupa epops, and green woodhoopoes Phoeniculus purpureus, which, contrary to the commonly white and odourless secretions, are dark with pungent odour. Recently, bacteria have been isolated from glands of both woodhoopoes and hoopoes and here we test the hypothesis that bacteria are responsible of some of the special properties of glands and secretions of this group of birds. We explore natural seasonal changes and intersexual differences in the properties of hoopoe glands and secretions, check the natural occurrence of bacteria within secretions, and analyse the effect of experimental injection of antibiotics on uropygial gland properties. Male glands underwent no seasonal changes, and their secretions were invariably white and odourless, very similar to female glands outside the breeding season. However, in comparison to the uropygial gland of non-breeding females, those of incubating females showed a marked increase in size and volume of secretion produced, which became dark and pungent. All these parameters increased until the hatching date and returned to values similar to those in the prelaying phase towards the end of the nestling period. Nestling glands produced secretions similar to those of females in colour and odour. Gland size of both females and nestlings predicted the amount of secretion produced. Microscopic techniques confirmed the presence of bacteria at high density and in active division in all dark secretions examined. The antibiotic treatment significantly reduced the load of enterococci in nestling glands, did not affect size of glands, but diminished the volume of secretion, which was lighter in colour than that of control nestlings. In nesting females, the experimental injection of antibiotic affected some measurements of gland size and secretion colour. Because the experiment did not affect general health estimates (immunocompetence, body condition or growing) of nestlings, our results suggest that some of the special properties of hoopoe glands are mediated by the presence of symbiotic bacteria.
10.2307/3677089| The Osprey is a long-distance migrant breeding in the northern Holarctic and wintering in the tropics. Two breeding females in Sweden were provided with satellite transmitters and their autumn migration to Africa was followed in detail. Both birds left the nest area before the young were independent, leaving the final care to the male. One female left Sweden in late August and spent 30 days migrating to a winter site in the Ivory Coast. Ringing recoveries indicate that most Swedish Ospreys spend the winter in West Africa. The other female, however, left in early August and first went east to spend 30 days in an area north of the Caspian Sea, before continuing south to winter in Mozambique. En route she made two more stopovers and the whole journey lasted 83 days. On average the Ospreys covered 270 km on a day of active migration and they were apparently stationary at night. The southward tracks of the two birds were strikingly parallel with a mean orientation of 200 and 196 respectively. In contrast to other raptors more dependent on thermal activity, the Ospreys maintained a constant heading across sea passages, as well as mountain ranges and deserts. It is suggested that the Osprey is more time-selected on migration compared to other thermal migrants. Both females were very stationary at their winter sites, staying within a very limited area. Early arrival to gain a good winter and stopover territory may be a driving force for time minimization during migration. 
3677446|Sexually selected displays, such as bird song, are expected to be costly. We examined a novel potential cost to bird song: whether a less favourable microclimate at exposed song posts would be predicted to raise metabolic rate. We measured the microclimate and height at which willow warblers Phylloscopus trochilus sang and foraged. Song posts were higher than foraging sites. The wind speed was 0.60.3 ms<sup>-1</sup> greater at song posts (meanSD, N = 12 birds). Song rate and song post selection were not influenced consistently by temperature or wind speed, but the birds sang from lower positions on one particularly windy day. This may have resulted from difficulty in holding on to exposed branches in windy conditions rather than a thermoregulatory constraint. The results suggest that the extra thermoregulatory costs at song posts would increase metabolic rate by an average of 104% and a maximum of 258% (N = 12 birds) relative to birds singing at foraging sites. We estimated that metabolic rate would be 3-8% greater during singing than during quiet respiration because of heat and evaporative water loss in exhaled gases. The combined energy requirements for sound production, thermoregulation at exposed song posts and additional heat loss in exhaled air could increase the metabolic rate of willow warblers by an average of 14-23%, and a maximum of 42-63%, during singing. The energetic cost of singing may thus be much greater for birds in a cold, windy environment than for birds singing in laboratory conditions.
25161525|We propose that growth bar size may indicate the quality of individuals in Styan's Grasshopper Warblers Locustella pleskei. Positive correlations of an individual's standardized growth bar width between years showed that some individuals of both sexes were usually in better condition than others. The survival rate of males with wider growth bars was higher than that of other males. These survivors might have survived better because of a better body condition. We also examined the relationships between growth bar width and reproductive parameters (arrival date, pairing date and reproductive success). Males with wider growth bars arrived earlier, acquired a mate earlier and achieved higher total reproductive success by breeding twice. In females, growth bar width was correlated with reproductive parameters (arrival date, pairing date and total reproductive success), but not with survival. These results suggest that males with wider growth bars were of higher quality than those with narrower bars. The contrasting results for the two sexes may be explained by differences in their breeding tactics.
3677787|In sexually size-dimorphic species, the larger sex can be more sensitive to stressful environmental conditions, often resulting in reduced growth and elevated mortality rates. Development of the immune system is regarded as highly resource dependent, and recent data suggest that nestling passerines experience a possible resource-based trade-off between growth and immunity. Given the hypothesized importance of maximizing growth for the larger sex, the corresponding immune system may also exhibit similar sensitivity to limited resources. To better understand how natural variation in brood size and resources might differentially affect growth and immune function in nestlings of a sexually size-dimorphic species, we examined the relationship between brood size and inter-sexual differences in cell-mediated immunity (CMI) and survival in European starling Sturnus vulgaris nestlings where males are larger in both mass and structural size. We hypothesized that male CMI response should be negatively impacted by increasing sibling competition (brood size), especially during periods of low resource availability. In a year of reduced parental provisioning rates and reduced chick growth rates, male offspring exhibited the predicted negative relationship, whereas female CMI response was unaffected. However, in a year of improved provisioning rates and chick growth, neither sex exhibited a negative relationship between immune response and brood size. Thus, natural variation in brood size can affect sex-specific immunity differently in offspring of a sexually size-dimorphic passerine. However, this relationship appears resource-dependent, suggesting that the hypothesized resource-based trade-off may be compensated for in years of adequate resource abundance.
3677516| Plantcutters (Phytotomidae) represent the only Passeriformes with a predominantly folivorous diet. Little is known however about their feeding habits and adaptations for leaf consumption. Here we analyze the relationship between diet composition and nutritional value in the white-tipped plantcutter Phytotoma rutila in a Chaco woodland in Crdoba, Argentina. The white-tipped plantcutter consumed mainly dicot leaves (91%), complemented with a small proportion of fruits (7%) and flowers (2%). Eleven plant species were utilized, of which five were strongly dominant: Lycium cestroides (38%), Prosopis alba and P. nigra (28%), Celtis tala (22%), and Schinus longifolius (8%). No animal food was consumed. The leaf material ingested by the white-tipped plantcutter had high protein content and low proportion of fibers and phenols. In multivariate analysis, leaf chemical properties accounted for over 81% of the variation in diet composition throughout the year. However, only protein and phenols content related significantly with diet composition in single regressions. The quality index that relates protein with lignin and phenols showed the highest correlation with diet composition. Availability of highly nutritive leaves of Lycium cestroides during the dry season seems to be a key factor for the occurrence of the white-tipped plantcutter in the study area. Our results confirm that plantcutters are truly folivorous passerine species, being able to obtain a highly nutritional diet throughout the year. 
10.2307/3676949|The polygyny threshold model was introduced in the 1960s in order to explain why females in some species choose to mate with already mated males. Since then, a number of complementary or alternative hypotheses have been suggested. By using a hierarchical testing approach Searcy and Yasukawa (1989) organised the models that proposed to explain the maintenance of territorial polygyny. Here, I point out that there is no true way to organise the models, and that the organisation itself may influence which explanation the observations will support. In particular, I discuss Searcy and Yasukawa's distinction between cost and no-cost models. As an alternative to the hierarchical approach I suggest careful comparisons of those variables that inflict costs of sharing with those that provide compensation. While the hierarchical approach may put very similar systems in different model families, a cost and benefit evaluation might instead show that the difference is quantitative rather than qualitative. Also, an identical cost of polygyny can arise from several different combinations of costs of sharing and benefits of sharing. Hence, the hierarchical approach may put systems with different mechanisms behind polygyny into the same model family.
30244737|Host-parasite interactions are central in evolutionary and behavioural ecology. In the last few years, skin injections of the mitogen Phytohaemagglutinin (PHA) have become one of the most important and widely used in-vivo assays of immune function in birds. However, there are no studies of the circadian variation suggesting that care should be taken interpreting results when using this technique. This 3-year study assessed PHA responses as a function of daylight time in 310 Eurasian kestrel Falco tinnunculus nestlings at 24 days of age in Central Spain. I found that T-cell-mediated immunity was positively related to nestling mass and varied among years. Controlling for these variables, I also found that T-cell-mediated immunity decreased with the hour of sampling, and that this pattern was consistent between years. In addition, I found that at the end of the day only, T-cell-mediated immunity decreased with brood size. Parasites seem not to be behind this pattern, but I suggest that the cumulative effect of sibling competition during the day might explain the decrease of cellular immunity with the hour of sampling. Thus, I strongly recommend that future studies of cellular immunity should control for this potential source of variation when nestling self-maintenance is evaluated by the PHA-induced skin-swelling response.
3677668| How birds respond to the recent phenomenon of calcium deficiency in acidified areas is still poorly known. This study, carried out in the Jesenky Mountains (heavily polluted, acidified area in the Czech Republic), in alpine ecosystems of central Norway, and in the limestone part of the Mal Fatra Mountains (Slovak Republic), provides the first experimental evidence that birds select and bring supplemented calcium-rich items to their nestlings more often in an acidified area. Meadow Pipits Anthus pratensis and Water Pipits A. spinoletta selected calcium-rich items (mainly snail shells) from various materials placed near their nests and this selectivity did not differ between areas or species. Thinning of egg shells (8% at blunt pole, 5% at egg side) suggests that Meadow Pipits in the Jesenky Mountains were negatively influenced by the low calcium availability, in spite of their ability to adjust foraging behaviour. 
30245192|High variation in egg coloration among birds has traditionally been explained as adaptation for camouflage. We tested this hypothesis by conducting reciprocal clutch exchanges (n = 301) among Brewer's blackbirds Euphagous cyanocephalus, red-winged blackbirds Agelaius phoeniceus, and yellow-headed blackbirds Xanthocephalus xanthocephalus. We predicted that clutches placed against their natural nest backgrounds would have higher survival rates than heterospecific clutches. Intraspecific clutch exchanges were used as a control. Clutch survival was monitored for a 9-d period at all nests, during which time incubation rhythm and nest defense were quantified. Intraspecific clutch exchanges did not influence incubation or nest defense. For two of the species, intraspecific clutch exchanges did not influence clutch survival; in red-winged blackbirds, however, intraspecifically exchanged clutches had somewhat depressed survival curves relative to control clutches (P = 0.08). The effect of interspecific clutch exchanges differed by host species. In Brewer's nests, eggs of the yellowheaded blackbird had lower survival than Brewer's eggs (P = 0.02), but survival of red-winged blackbird eggs did not differ from Brewer's eggs (P = 0.50). In nests of red-winged blackbirds, all three clutch types had approximately equal survival. In yellow-headed blackbird nests, eggs of the red-winged blackbird had lower survival than yellow-headed blackbird eggs (P = 0.06), and survival of Brewer's eggs did not differ from yellowheaded blackbird eggs (P = 0.31). These findings support a role for egg coloration as camouflage in two of the three species studied.
30244755|Molecular clocks have seen many applications in ornithology, but many applications are uncritical. In this commentary, I point out logical inconsistencies in many uses of clocks in avian molecular systematics. I call for greater rigor in application of molecular clocks - clocks should only be used when clocklike behavior has been tested and confirmed, and when appropriate calibrations are available. Authors and reviewers should insist on such rigor to assure that systematics is indeed scientific, and not just storytelling.
3677609|Use of artificial nests in studies of nest success in birds has become increasingly popular, but this practice has been criticised because the appearance and success of artificial nests may differ from natural nests. Typically, artificial nests are presented with few visible eggs throughout the entire exposure period while natural nests during their life have different appearances, possibly producing stage-dependent predation rates. In ducks, nests may appear with openly visible eggs, eggs covered with nest material and covered by an incubating female. To test how nest appearance may affect nest survival, I simulated such duck nest appearances, and used direct observations to record responses of marsh harriers Circus aeruginosus, the dominant duck nest predator at the Lake Engure, Latvia, during the breeding seasons 2000-2002. I recorded 274 harrier flights over all types of artificial nests, 74 nest discoveries and 54 predation events. Logistic regression analyses showed that nest appearance was a significant predictor of the fate of the nest: nests with openly visible eggs were discovered more often than nests covered with nest material. Nests with dummy females had discovery rates similar to the average of all artificial nest types suggesting that they best reflect the predation risk of artificial nests and could be used in future studies. After discovering nests covered with dummy females, harriers never attacked but tried to scare them off to get access to the eggs. In 52% of cases of nest discovery, harriers gave up before touching the dummy. This shows that duck passive nest defence may prevent clutch predation.
3677373|In altricial birds, asynchronous hatching often results in a size hierarchy among nestlings. However, laying order and hatching order may affect components of offspring condition differentially. Since parasites can have a heavy impact on their hosts, strategies may have evolved that allow parents and offspring to allocate critical resources to immunity depending on hatching order. In this study of the Barn Swallow Hirundo rustica we (1) analyse the relationship between laying and hatching order of eggs, (2) compare morphological, serological and immunological traits between early- and late-hatched siblings, and (3) compare the begging behaviour of early- and late-hatched nestlings. Hatching order strictly reflected laying order. Late-hatched chicks begged more for food but had smaller body mass throughout the nestling period. Immunoglobulin concentration and intensity of T cell-mediated immunity were larger in late-hatched nestlings. Large concentration of immunoglobulins in late-hatched nestlings may reflect transfer of immunity from the mother via the egg. Alternatively, in association with larger T cell-mediated immunity, immunoglobulin production may indicate larger investment in immunity by late-hatched nestlings. Laying order and hatching order may therefore affect components of nestling condition differentially.
3677439|Cooperatively breeding groups may be constrained in size by the territory available to them, or territories may be expanded to accommodate extra group members. Here, we show that there was no relationship between the number of adult green woodhoopoes Phoeniculus purpureus in a group and the size of its territory. Furthermore, territories were remarkably stable between seasons, with no significant changes in area, despite fluctuating group sizes. These results suggest that food was not limiting at the group sizes found in this study: sufficient resources were available within existing territories for groups that were expanding in size. Following an increase in group membership, a larger proportion of the available area was utilised. Groups also used a larger area in the non-breeding season compared to when breeding: in the latter instance, foraging was concentrated in the vicinity of the nest.
3677764|The single young of shearwaters grows slowly and is fed at long, often highly variable, intervals. We monitored the growth patterns of nestling Short-tailed Shear-waters Puffinus tenuirostris exchanged between nests in order to assess whether the patterns of parental visits or the demands of their young determined the rate of food provisioning in this species. These cross-fostering trials indicate a strong parental influence upon the rate of food delivery, but did not exclude the possibility of a minor influence from chicks.
10.2307/3677289|We analyzed the effects of weather during prelaying, incubation, and early chick periods on the reproductive success of Hazel Grouse Bonasa bonasia in southwestern Finland (14 years) and southern Poland (6 years). Reproductive success was most clearly correlated with weather during the prelaying period in both areas, with days of precipitation correlating negatively and temperature positively. We suggest that the availability of nutritionally rich food and the ability of the females to obtain it during the prelaying period, when the females are rapidly gaining mass and forming eggs, determine in large part the reproductive success of Hazel Grouse. A literature review suggested that this is generally true for small grouse species. The larger species, which have greater endogenous reserves and invest relatively less in their clutches, are less affected by prelaying weather conditions. Chicks of larger species have higher growth rates and energy requirements, however, which is probably the reason why the reproductive success of the larger species is more affected by weather during the early chick period.
10.2307/3676941|A long-term colour-ringing and resighting programme on the Isle of May, Scotland which involved 734 adult Puffins Fratercula arctica was used to estimate annual survival rates over the period 1973-94 and to investigate some of the factors which influenced survival. Except in 1990 when survival was extremely low, estimated annual survival always exceeded 0.89. There was, however, evidence of a temporal change with survival rates being consistently lower during the second half of the study. This pattern was best described by a stepped model with survival rates of 0.975 (SE 0.004) between 1973 and 1980, 0.924 (0.006) between 1981 and 1994 and a separate value of 0.806 (0.026) for 1990. The decline in survival after 1980 was apparent in all age classes and could not be attributed to a slight change in the study area covered shortly afterwards. There was no evidence that survival rates differed between the sexes but we did find a significant age effect with birds estimated to be 20-25 or more years old either surviving or reproducing much less well than younger individuals.
30244416|Large numbers of passerine migrants cross the Sahara desert every year on their way to-and-from wintering areas in tropical Africa. In the desert, hardly any fuelling opportunities exist and most migrants have to prepare in advance. A central question is how inexperienced birds know where to fuel. Inexperienced garden warblers Sylvia borin were studied in Greece just before the desert crossing in autumn. Body mass data collected at two sites indicate that most birds do not fuel for the desert crossing further north. For the first time, detailed information about stopover duration close to the Sahara desert was studied by using light weight radio-transmitters. Results from Crete show that most first-year garden warblers arrive with relatively small fuel loads in relation to lean body mass (< 30%), stay for 13-20 d and depart with an average fuel load of about 100%. Radio-tagged birds performed small scale movements initially and took advantage of fig fruits. Birds trapped at fig trees were heavier than birds trapped with tape lures, showing that tape lures can bias the sample of migrants trapped. The precise fuelling pattern found indicates that first-year migrants must also include external spatial cues to make the preparation for crossing the desert in the right area.
3677510|Projected body frontal area is used when estimating the parasite drag of bird flight. We investigated the relationship between projected frontal area and body mass among passerine birds, and compared it with an equation based on waterfowl and raptors, which is used as default procedure in a widespread software package for flight performance calculations. The allometric equation based on waterfowl/raptors underestimates the frontal area compared to the passerine equation presented here. Consequently, revising the actual frontal areas of small birds will concomitantly change the values of the parasite drag coefficient. We suggest that the new equation
30243839|We used the stable isotope composition of body feathers to show the extraordinarily varying regional provenance of an irruptive conifer seed specialist, the common crossbill Loxia curvirostra. In the boreal region of the western Palearctic, this species specialises on the seeds of Norway spruce Picea abies. The patterns of deuterium in the feathers of migrant common crossbills collected in Britain suggested that irruptions in different years originated in widely separated regions of the Palearctic boreal forest. The birds from some irruptions were relatively narrow-billed compared with those from others, but bill width was not correlated with deuterium values. However, deuterium values did co-vary with the dates that the irruptions reached Britain, with the lowest deuterium levels in years with the latest arrivals. This finding was consistent with the idea that birds with low values came further, from regions far to the northeast. This pattern was very different from that found in irruptive northern bullfinches Pyrrhula p. pyrrhula which had larger variation in deuterium values within an irruption, suggestive of a much more widespread provenance. It is argued that the difference between species is the result of their differing foraging ecology. Bullfinches have a varied summer diet and, unlike common crossbills, do not concentrate regionally to breed where a single type of food is available that year.
10.2307/3677312|In a two-year study of an area in central Sweden a population of Black Grouse Tetrao tetrix was found in which displaying males were not clustered on leks. The study area which covered approximately
3677576|Egg rejection behaviour towards parasitic eggs was studied in a great reed warbler Acrocephalus arundinaceus population in central Hungary, which was heavily (about 65%) parasitised by the common cuckoo Cuculus canorus. Clutches were experimentally parasitised during the egg-laying period with artificial, moderately mimetic cuckoo eggs or with conspecific eggs that were good mimics of the hosts' eggs. Great reed warblers rejected 76.2% of the artificial cuckoo eggs, mainly by ejection, but accepted most of the conspecific eggs (87.5%). Cuckoo eggs in naturally parasitised clutches were rejected at a lower rate (32%). When, in addition to the egg mimicry experiments, a stuffed cuckoo was placed near the nest, accompanied by the recording of a female cuckoo call, hosts' rejection rate of the artificial cuckoo egg increased from 76% to 96%. The sight of the cuckoo, on the other hand, did not influence host's rejection behaviour when a conspecific egg was used in the experiment. A stuffed collared dove Streptopelia decaocto, accompanied by its call, was used as a control, and did not cause any increased rejection. Great reed warblers were more aggressive towards the cuckoo than to the dove dummy. When the cuckoo eggs in naturally parasitised clutches were exchanged with artificial cuckoo eggs, we observed no increase in the rejection rate. We conclude that great reed warblers in our heavily parasitised population are capable of detecting brood parasitism in their clutch by identifying the parasitic egg. The efficiency of this identification depends mainly on the mimicry of the foreign egg. The sight of the cuckoo at the nest may increase rejection rate by stimulus summation, and this conditional effect is mainly affected by the degree of mimicry of the parasitic egg.
30243295|I studied the breeding biology of pied avocets Recurvirostra avosetta in natural habitats (alkaline lakes), and in semi-natural sites (dry fishpond, reconstructed wetlands) in Hungary to relate habitat selection patterns to spatial and temporal variation in breeding success. Colonies were initiated earlier in semi-natural sites than in natural habitats, and earlier on islands than on the mainland. Hatching success was higher on islands than on the mainland, in semi-natural sites than in natural habitats, in colonies of at least 15 pairs than in smaller colonies, and for nests initiated earlier than later within a colony. Fledging success was higher in the wet years (1999-2000) than in the dry year (1998), decreased strongly by season in both habitats and increased with average daily temperature in the first week post-hatch in 1999-2000. Most pairs hatching young in semi-natural sites attempted to lead their chicks to feeding areas in natural habitats, whereas no such movement occurred in the opposite direction. Chick mortality due to predation was high during brood movements and only 23% of the pairs moving their young produced fledglings, compared to 43% for pairs remaining in semi-natural sites and 68% for pairs hatching and rearing young in natural habitats (total n = 192 broods). These results suggest that semi-natural sites were more suitable for nesting, whereas natural habitats were more suitable for chick-rearing. The opposing trends in habitat-related breeding success between nesting and chickrearing suggest sub-optimal habitat selection by Pied Avocets due to an incorrect assessment of the potential for successful reproduction of semi-natural sites, which may thus function as ecological traps.
3677754|The Madagascar Paradise Flycatcher Terpsiphone mutata and Common Newtonia Newtonia brunneicauda frequently form two-species flocks in the deciduous dry forest of western Madagascar. In T. mutata, some males have long tails, while other males and females have short tails. When foraging in mixed flocks, each type of bird captured prey more rapidly than otherwise, but the degree of increase in feeding rate was smaller in long-tailed males. When in mixed flocks, all T. mutata caught prey on leaves in the canopy where N. brunneicauda foraged. Long-tailed males changed feeding habits from sallying when not in mixed flocks, whereas short-tailed birds showed no change of feeding habit. The elongated tails of long-tailed males may have made their foraging less efficient owing to decreased agility in the canopy. N. brunneicauda is monomorphic and often formed groups of three to five individuals. In monospecific flocks, subordinates fed at low rates on branches owing to frequent hostile encounters. When foraging in mixed flocks, however, subordinates foraged among leaves, and their feeding rates increased because the frequency of intraspecific interference decreased greatly. Dominants did not show any difference in feeding pattern with social situation. Thus, heterospecific flocking was more advantageous for subordinates.
30243856|Conflicts among siblings are widespread and their resolution involves complex physical and communication tools. Observations in the barn owl Tyto alba showed that siblings vocally communicate in the absence of parents to negotiate priority of access to the impending food resources that parents will bring. In the present paper, we hypothesize and provide correlative evidence that after a parent brought a food item to their progeny, sibling competition involves vocal sib-sib communication. A food item takes a long time to be entirely consumed, and hence siblings continue to compete over prey monopolization even after parents gave a food item to a single offspring. When physical competition is pronounced and thereby the risk of prey theft is high, the individual that received a prey item consumes it in a concealed place. Concomitantly, nestlings vocalize intensely probably to indicate their motivation to siblings to not share their food item, since this vocal behaviour was particularly frequent in younger individuals for which the risk of being robbed is higher than in their older siblings. Furthermore, nestlings consumed more rapidly a food item when their siblings vocalized intensely presumably because the intensity of siblings' vocalizations is associated with a risk of prey theft. Our correlative study suggests that sibling competition favoured the evolution of sib-sib communication under a wide range of situations.
30245191|Individuals of some species differentiate each other on the basis of the acoustic features of their vocalizations, and this can be used in individual-based population monitoring studies. No research has tested for the effectiveness of individual marking through voice recognition as compared to traditional monitoring methods relying on physical marks. We compared voice recognition and physical marking using the Dupont's lark Chersophilus duponti as a study species. This bird needs to be attracted with playback in order to be seen (or captured). We first demonstrated that the territorial calls from a sample of banded males were individually distinctive and constant over time by means of discriminant function analysis, which correctly classified 100% of marked males. Then, we applied similarity techniques on call spectrotemporal features to define a threshold value of similarity within banded individuals, to be combined with qualitative spectrogram inspection for the classification of all recorded birds. Eventually, we compared the voice and the capture samples, to test for differences in relation to re-location rate, territory fidelity and dispersal movements both within and between years. Voice recognition was less time-consuming than capture-recapture method in the field, but it was useless for monitoring yearlings in call development stage. The two methods provided the same results in terms of territory fidelity and dispersal movements, but differed in re-location rates, which were significantly greater in the case of voice recognition method. By means of physical captures we possibly trapped a large sample of young and silent floaters, with low probability of recapture or recording. This mismatch between methods could bias the estimates of annual survival, which strongly depend on re-location rates. We suggest considering the two methods as complementary rather than alternatives for monitoring populations. Each technique offers unique information, and the two sources should be combined to provide correction factors that would eventually sharpen our knowledge on bird population ecology.
30243848|Between 1970 and 2006 reed warblers Acrocephalus scirpaceus started breeding progressively earlier; both the initiation of breeding (the earliest first egg dates) and peak of breeding (median first egg dates) advanced. Median first egg dates correlated significantly with increasing May-July mean temperatures. However, in contrast to other studies showing the advancement in laying dates, the end of the season did not shift. As a result, the breeding season is now longer increasing re-nesting opportunities. Individuals are able to re-nest 4-5 times, which might have important implications for the species. It was also found that in warmer seasons the population suffered fewer nest losses. Both factors, higher re-nesting potential and a trend toward fewer losses, should lead to increased fitness of individuals in the studied population.
30244428|Trading-off food and safety is considered a predominant component of foraging behavior. We examined whether predators' response to potential prey is state-dependent, and suggest that risk of injury while pursuing the prey affects the predators' foraging behavior in a similar manner as predation risk affects prey foraging behavior. We examined how the daring of steppe buzzards Buteo buteo vulpinus in pursuing their prey varied with body condition. We measured the time it took juvenile buzzards to attack a mouse placed in a Bal-Chatri cage trap and related it to their body condition. We found that buzzards in poorer body condition tended to hesitate less before pursuing their prey than did buzzards in better body condition. We suggest that behavioral decisions of buzzards are state-dependant and are influenced by the risk of injury involved in pursuing their prey.
3677755|The sexes' share in parental care and the social mating system in a marked population of the single-brooded Lesser Spotted Woodpecker Dendrocopos minor were studied in 17 woodpecker territories in southern Sweden during 10 years. The birds showed a very strong mate fidelity between years; the divorce rate was 3.4%. In monogamous pairs, the male provided more parental care than the female. The male did most of the nest building and all incubation and brooding at night. Daytime incubation and brooding were shared equally by the sexes, and biparental care at these early breeding stages is probably necessary for successful breeding. In 42% of the nests, however, though still alive the female deserted the brood the last week of the nestling period, whereas the male invariably fed until fledging and fully compensated for the absent female. Post-fledging care could not be quantified, but was likely shared by both parents. Females who ceased feeding at the late nestling stage resumed care after fledging. We argue that the high premium on breeding with the same mate for consecutive years and the overall lower survival of females have shaped this male-biased organisation of parental care. In the six years with best data, most social matings were monogamous, but 8.5% of the females (N = 59) exhibited simultaneous multi-nest (classical) polyandry and 2.9% of the males (N = 68) exhibited multi-nest polygyny. Polyandrous females raised 39% more young than monogamous pairs. These females invested equal amounts of parental care at all their nests, but their investment at each nest was lower than that of monogamous females. The polyandrously mated males fully compensated for this lower female investment. Polygynous males invested mainly in their primary nest and appeared to be less successful than polyandrous females. Polyandry and polygyny occurred only when the population sex ratio was biased, and due to strong intra-sexual competition this is likely a prerequisite for polygamous mating in Lesser Spotted Woodpeckers.
10.2307/3677243| Migratory birds can use celestial and magnetic cues to locate their migratory direction. The relative importance of the two cue systems was analyzed by testing Australian Silvereyes for their orientation behavior in a cue-conflict situation during spring at dusk. Control birds tested under the natural sky in the local geomagnetic field headed in their southerly migratory direction. The experimental birds, tested under the natural sky in a magnetic field with magnetic North turned to 240 WSW, followed the shift in magnetic North and preferred ENE directions that corresponded to magnetic South. Subsequently, all birds were tested under the sky in the absence of magnetic information. Both groups continued in their previous direction, control birds south and experimental birds northeast, by celestial cues alone. Tested indoors with the magnetic field as the only cue, both groups headed southward. These findings indicate a dominant role of magnetic cues: in case of conflicting cues, the birds maintained their magnetic heading and recalibrated the celestial cues on the basis of the altered magnetic field. This is in contrast to recent findings with Savannah Sparrows Passerculus sandwichensis; one possible reason for these differences may be that the Savannah Sparrows were tested in their breeding area at high latitudes where celestial cues might generally be of greater importance, whereas our Silvereyes were tested at lower latitudes where the magnetic field appears to play a more important role. 
10.2307/3677178|Current models of bird migration consider the optimal decision making of individuals irrespective of the behaviour of conspecifics. We observed the foraging behaviour of Bewick's Swans Cygnus columbianus during their stop-over in the Dvina Bay in the White Sea in spring 1995 and 1996. Here the swans could only feed on their main food, tubers of fennel pondweed Potamogeton pectinatus, during low tide. In the course of the staging period, the swans tended to forage at progressively lower water levels, indicating that they depleted their main food and exploited increasingly deeper parts of the tuber-bank. This reduced the swans' main foraging period from 6.0 h/tide on 20 May to 3.3 h/tide on 28 May 1996. We calculated that this must have greatly decreased the rate of refuelling during the staging period. In accordance with this, swans arriving early stayed shorter than those arriving late. It seems of paramount importance to the swans to arrive as early as possible at the stop-over site. We conclude that when food depletion occurs, a game theoretical approach is needed to improve our understanding of the birds' adaptive behaviour during their migration.
10.2307/3677274|I propose that if laying interval varies depending on daily energy intake, then laying interval should also play a basic role in the determination of clutch size. A supplemental feeding experiment with European Kestrels Falco tinnunculus was performed to test this hypothesis. Supplemented females laid larger clutches with shorter intervals between eggs than control females, but did not take longer to complete their clutches. Clutch size was negatively correlated with mean laying interval. Clutch size also declined seasonally, but the effect of laying date disappeared when laying interval was controlled for statistically. Therefore, food supply affected clutch size through laying interval, not through laying date.
3677384|The present study was aimed at testing a novel idea, that rather than maximizing their distance from a predator during close-distance encounters, prey species are better off moving directly or diagonally toward the predator in order to increase the relative speed and confine the attack to a single available clashing point. We used two tamed barn owls Tyto alba to measure the rate of attack success in relation to the direction of prey movement. A dead mouse or chick was used to simulate the prey, pulled to various directions by means of a transparent string during the owl's attack. Both owls showed a high success rate in catching stationary compared with moving food items (90% and 21%, respectively). Success was higher when the prey moved directly away, rather than towards the owls (50% and 18%, respectively). Strikingly, these owls had 0% success in catching food items that were pulled sideways. This failure to catch prey that move sideways may reflect constraints in postural head movements in aerial raptors that cannot move the eyes but rather move the entire head in tracking prey. So far there is no evidence that defensive behavior in terrestrial prey species takes advantage of the above escape directions to lower rates of predator success. However, birds seem to adjust their defensive tactics in the vertical domain by taking-off at a steep angle, thus moving diagonally toward the direction of an approaching aerial predator. These preliminary findings warrant further studies in barn owls and other predators, in both field and laboratory settings, to uncover fine predator head movements during hunting, the corresponding defensive behavior of the prey, and the adaptive significance of these behaviors.
10.2307/3677189|Two hypotheses have been suggested to explain why individual variation in breeding time persists. The constraint hypothesis posits that the optimal laying date will be the same for every pair of a population. However, because egg formation is proximately constrained by the food supply, laying occurs after the ecologically optimal time. Females in poor condition cannot lay as early as females in better condition. By contrast, the individual optimization hypothesis proposes that individual variation in timing of breeding is adaptive since the optimal laying date depends on parental quality. To test these hypotheses I manipulated hatching date in a European Kestrel Falco tinnunculus population by cross-fostering clutches of equal size but differing in laying dates. Experimentally advanced clutches produced fewer fledglings and fledglings of worse quality than control clutches. Moreover, control clutches were also more productive than experimentally delayed clutches despite young being of similar quality. These results are consistent with the individual optimization hypothesis.
10.2307/3676978|When mating between members of differentiated populations results in the production of unfit hybrids, selection may favour mechanisms that reduce the probability of interbreeding. One such mechanism is a mate preference for own type. Hybridisation between sympatric Pied Flycatchers Ficedula hypoleuca and Collared Flycatchers Ficedula albicollis, occurs less frequently than expected from random mating and hybrids have very low fertility. In two aviary experiments we tested the hypothesis that males and females prefer to mate conspecifically. First, females had a simultaneous choice between one male of each species. The female showed the strongest sexual response to the conspecific male. Second, males had a simultaneous choice between a conspecific and a heterospecific female. The males showed no preference for conspecific or heterospecific female flycatchers. We discuss possible factors behind this sexual difference in species recognition.
3677382|We measured basal metabolic rate (BMR), body mass, lean mass, and gizzard mass of captive red knots Calidris canutus islandica maintained on a trout chow diet (soft-texture, low ash and water content) for several years and then shifted to small mussels Mytilus edulis (hard-texture, high ash and water content). During a 3-week period of feeding on mussels, body mass, lean mass, and gizzard mass increased 7.3 g (+7%), 10.5 g (+12%), and 4.9 g (+213%), respectively, yet BMR decreased from 0.96 to 0.89 W (-8%). Under the new mussel regime, red knots must have reduced the metabolic intensity of some of the tissues. This suggests that the experimental red knots experienced the transition to a mussel diet as stressful and energy limiting, resulting in an energy-saving strategy by reducing BMR in spite of hypertrophy of the gizzard and other organs.
3677571|The babblers (Timaliidae) form a large songbird family, which achieves its highest diversity in South-East Asia. As part of an ongoing phylogenetic investigation of this group, we focus here on the systematic position of two Asian genera, Yuhina and Stachyris, using cytochrome b, 16S and 12S sequence data. The analysis suggests that the two genera, as defined by morphological characters, are not monophyletic. The white-bellied yuhina Yuhina zantholeuca, which has been placed among the typical yuhinas by most authors, is not a babbler. The other yuhinas studied, six continental species and a species endemic to Taiwan, form a clade that includes also three species of Stachyris endemic to the Philippines. The other Stachyris are not related to this clade, and can be divided into two groups that correspond to morphological and geographical differences among the species.
10.2307/3677113| Hummingbirds foraging for nectar in mountains of the western USA encounter spatially-variable rewards under energetically-demanding environmental conditions. Previous workers have found that hummingbirds respond quickly to the average quantity and quality of reward; in addition, one might expect a response to reward variance. To explore this possibility we observed free-flying hummingbirds visiting two arrays of the native plant Ipomopsis aggregata. All flowers in one array received a 1 l aliquot of artificial nectar whereas every fifth flower in the other array received 5 l. This yielded a mean nectar standing crop similar to that found in nature, and variances in standing crop that were only slightly more extreme than those in nature. Over 12 days we recorded 362 foraging bouts by male and female Broad-tailed Selasphorus platycercus and Rufous S. rufus Hummingbirds. The "high-variance" (HV) array received 8.9% fewer foraging bouts than the "low-variance" (LV) array, and this difference was significant statistically at the  = 5.4% level. Bout frequency varied among periods of the day, but not differentially by nectar treatment. Foraging bouts tended to be longer in the LV array, though not significantly so, and hummingbirds visiting both arrays in sequence were significantly more likely to visit the LV array first. These results suggest weak risk-aversion under natural conditions. Lack of a stronger response may derive from the fact that hummingbirds sample thousands of flowers a day, so that the total profit realized over a day is not strongly influenced by flower-to-flower variation. 
3677491| Western sandpipers Calidris mauri on southward migration fly over the Gulf of Alaska to the Strait of Georgia, British Columbia, where they stop for a few days to replenish reserves before continuing. In the Strait, individuals captured on the extensive tidal mudflats of the Fraser estuary ( 25000 ha) are significantly heavier (2.71 g, or > 10% of lean body mass) than those captured on the small (< 100 ha) mudflat of nearby Sidney Island. Previous work has shown that the difference cannot be attributed to seasonal timing, size, age or gender effects, and here we compare predictions made by six hypotheses about a diverse set of data to explain why, partway through a migratory journey of  10000 km, birds have such different body masses at two stopover sites within 40 km of each other. The 'trade-off' hypothesis - that the large Fraser estuary offers safety from predators, but a lower fattening rate, while the small Sidney Island site is more dangerous, but offers a higher fattening rate - made six successful predictions, all of which were upheld by the data. All other hypotheses failed at least one prediction. We infer that calidrid sandpipers arriving in the Strait of Georgia with little fat remaining (and therefore low body mass) choose to take advantage of the high feeding rate at small sites like Sidney Island because they are less vulnerable to avian predators than are individuals with higher fat reserves, who instead elect to feed at large open sites like the Fraser estuary mudflats. 
10.2307/3677258|We recorded the population growth of two mite species, Dermanyssus hirundinis and Androlaelaps casalis, during the nesting cycle of an Illinois population of House Wrens in 1993-94. We tested two hypotheses concerning mite population growth which explain why these two mite species do not usually reach numbers detrimental to House Wren reproductive success. Since mite populations seem to grow slowly during the early stages of the nesting period, we tested the hypothesis that this is due to difficulties the mites have feeding during the early stages of the nesting cycle. This was done by determining the proportion of mites with blood in their gut throughout the nesting cycle. We also tested the hypothesis that mite populations are reduced when male House Wrens remove old nests prior to nest-building by comparing numbers of mites in nestboxes before and after nest-removal. Populations of D. hirundinis increased exponentially during the nesting cycle, but populations of A. casalis did not. The proportion of mites with blood in their gut did not change during the nesting cycle, suggesting that mites feed throughout the House Wren's nesting cycle. There was a significant decrease in mite numbers after males removed old nest material and initiated construction of the stick base of a new nest. We propose that this initial reduction in mite numbers at the beginning of nest-building usually slows mite population growth enough to allow the nestlings time to leave the nest before mite populations reach detrimental levels.
3677400|Phylogenetic relationships were studied based on DNA sequences obtained from all recognized genera of the family Corvidae sensu stricto. The aligned data set consists 2589 bp obtained from one mitochondrial and two nuclear genes. Maximum parsimony, maximum-likelihood, and Bayesian inference analyses were used to estimate phylogenetic relationships. The analyses were done for each gene separately, as well as for all genes combined. An analysis of a taxonomically expanded data set of cytochrome b sequences was performed in order to infer the phylogenetic positions of six genera for which nuclear genes could not be obtained. Monophyly of the Corvidae is supported by all analyses, as well as by the occurrence of a deletion of 16 bp in the -fibrinogen intron in all ingroup taxa. Temnurus and Pyrrhocorax are placed as the sister group to all other corvids, while Cissa and Urocissa appear as the next clade inside them. Further up in the tree, two larger and well-supported clades of genera were recovered by the analyses. One has an entirely New World distribution (the New World jays), while the other includes mostly Eurasian (and one African) taxa. Outside these two major clades are Cyanopica and Perisoreus whose phylogenetic positions could not be determined by the present data. A biogeographic analysis of our data suggests that the Corvidae underwent an initial radiation in Southeast Asia. This is consistent with the observation that almost all basal clades in the phylogenetic tree consist of species adapted to tropical and subtropical forest habitats.
3677780|In general, Arctic-breeding waders leave non-breeding grounds in Australasia from March (New Zealand) to mid-April (Northwest Australia). Here we provide evidence from radio-tracking and visual observations that many red knots Calidris canutus do not leave Roebuck Bay, Northwest Australia, until early or mid-May. Late-departing red knots probably belong to the subspecies piersmai, which breeds on the New Siberian Islands, 10,400 km from Northwest Australia. Based on comparisons of temperatures on the breeding grounds of different knot subspecies, we predict that piersmai knots would not arrive on the breeding grounds until early June, leaving at most 3-4 weeks refuelling in Asia. Using a model of fuelling capacity in relation to prey quality and gizzard mass, we show that these knots must fuel very differently in Australia and Asia. In Australia, knots have seemingly suboptimal gizzard sizes and deposit fuel slowly. In the Yellow Sea, birds could only fuel up within the available time if they either enlarged their gizzards substantially or encountered prey qualities much higher than in Australia, for which we provide quantitative predictions.
30244439|Wild bird feeding is one of the most common forms of human-wildlife interactions in the Western world. Originally a practice providing nutritional assistance to over-wintering birds, especially in more northern latitudes, birds throughout the cities of the world are now provided with considerable amounts and a variety of foods year-round. Despite the global nature of the practice, remarkably little is known about the outcomes and implications of what may be seen as a supplementary feeding experiment on a massive scale. Although many claims are made about the benefits of feeding, there are growing concerns about the spread of disease, poor nutrition, risk of dependency and many other important issues. Constructive debate among increasingly vigorous proponents and opponents is currently constrained by a lack of reliable information. Here we argue that bird feeding provides an important, if challenging, opportunity for fundamental research in urban ecology.
10.2307/3677122|Attaching radio-tags to highly dynamic organisms can bias the data collected. The nature and extent of any bias should be understood and quantified. This is vital with an untested attachment method or when tagging a new species or age-class. The suitability of a new back-pack harness design was field tested on 39 adult thrushes (33 Blackbird Turdus merula and 6 Song Thrush T. philomelos) at a study site in England. Direct chronic effects were assessed by examination of recovered corpses and recaptured birds. The harness caused the development of a small subcutaneous lipid mass on the patagium but no epidermal abrasion or inter-scapular blistering or bruising. Indirect measures of possible chronic effects came from behavioural observation and breeding performance measures. For female birds, the attachment of a back-pack tag did not significantly reduce clutch size or egg volume compared with untagged females. Nest survival rates were also unaffected. The number and quality of young fledged by tagged females were as high as those for untagged females. Video data showed that provisioning rates of the nestlings did not differ significantly between tagged and untagged parents. The proportion of time spent brooding by tagged female Blackbirds was non-significantly higher than for untagged birds.
10.2307/3677044| We examined how microhabitate features surrounding nest-sites influence probability of nest predation by testing unique predictions generated from the "distance to human activity," the "habitat complexity," and the "multiple nest-site" hypotheses. During spring and summer 1990, we quantified nine features of nest-sites and 11 features of 0.1 ha nest-patches surrounding 42 nests of suburban Blue Jays Cyanocitta cristata in Fayetteville, Arkansas, to determine differences associated with depredated and successful nests. Overall nesting success was 52% and mean daily survival rate of nests was 0.983 ( 0.004 SE). Twenty-four nests fledged at least one young, and 18 failed as a result of nest predation. Features of the nest-site, including nest height, size of the nest tree, and nest concealment, were not related to nest predation, although distance from a nest to the nearest building was inversely related to duration of nest survival. The latter relationship suggests human activity may decrease nest predation in suburban areas. Density of vegetation surrounding nests did not influence nest fate, thus providing no support for the habitat complexity hypothesis. Instead, failed nests occurred in patches containing fewer trees of the same species, size class and vine cover as the nest tree. Because this pattern was not an effect of size or species of either the nest tree or neighboring trees, nor an effect of vines in the nest tree or neighboring trees, it provides support for the multiple nest-site hypothesis. 
30244795|Complexity in bird song is often argued to be advantageous in processes of sexual selection, and numerous studies show that characteristics of song are associated with increased success in territory defence or mate attraction. Less evidence exists on the relationship between bird song characteristics and patterns of extra-pair paternity. We tested whether males that suffered from extra-pair paternity differed in song characteristics from males with no extra pair paternity in the willow warbler Phylloscopus trochilus. In the Scottish population that we studied, we found that 23.5% of young were not related to the social father, and that 47% of nests contained at least one extra pair young. Older males were less likely to suffer paternity loss. While song repertoire size was not related to loss of paternity, males with short songs suffered higher paternity loss than males with long songs. Although arrival date is a good correlate of social mate choice in this population, it was not related to extra-pair paternity. These results suggest that females use song length, or a trait correlated with this song characteristic, as a cue for choosing extra-pair partners in this species, or alternatively that variance in the success of mate guarding or female coercion is related to this song variable.
3677450|Although it is well established that brown-headed cowbirds Molothrus ater are host generalists, the parasitism strategies of individual females are not well documented. Here we use microsatellite genotyping to characterize host use by individual female cowbirds. Of 205 offspring sampled at a site in northeastern Illinois during one breeding season, we identified or inferred 33 mothers of 141 offspring, with up to 13 (mean 4.72) offspring assigned to individual females. Most (83%) females were host generalists and parasitized up to five host species, indicating that community-wide patterns of parasitism do not result from different individuals specializing on different host species. However, some females (17%) parasitized a single species, suggesting that alternative host-use strategies may exist within a single population. For host generalist females, individuals often parasitized host species that differed in body mass, nest-site placement, and quality, indicating that female cowbirds exhibit extremely flexible host ranges. However, female cowbirds consistently discriminated among potential hosts, for example, by completely avoiding some common, but unsuitable species.
10.2307/3677336|I examined the feeding rates and foraging niches of seven species regularly participating in heterospecific avian flocks in a deciduous dry forest of western Madagascar in two different social situations, viz. when the species was foraging alone or with conspecifics, and in heterospecific flocks, respectively. The species responded differently to mixed-flocking. A change in feeding sites and/or techniques was found in six species, five of which increased their feeding rates when foraging in heterospecific flocks. In mixed flocks, they tended to use similar substrates. That such interspecific convergence enhanced feeding rate might be explained by social learning, kleptoparasitism or a beating effect. Benefits gained through these effects were greatest in two species consistently acting as followers, Crested Drongo Dicrurus forficatus and Paradise Flycatcher Tersiphone mutata. Although as leaders, Newtonia Newtonia brunneicauda and Long-billed Greenbul Phyllastrephus madagascariensis often attracted other species, they also increased their feeding rates through some mutualistic effects. Another leader, Rufous Vanga Shetba rufa was the only species that neither changed foraging niche nor feeding efficiency in different social situations. Its participation in heterospecific associations probably resulted from other species exploiting the vanga's ability to detect predators. Therefore, the organization of multispecies flocks in Madagascar was mainly based on mutualism and commensalism which increased feeding efficiency.
3677365|In many passerines, juveniles have shorter and more rounded wings than adults. Given that (1) long and pointed wings improve endurance in migratory flights, (2) shorter and rounded wings improve manoeuvrability, and (3) juvenile birds are more vulnerable to predators than adults, it has been hypothesised that ontogenetic variation in wing shape results from a greater importance of predation avoidance relative to migration performance during the first year of life. If so, wing shape should not change with age in the absence of migration-related selection for longer and more pointed wings. We test this by studying the variation with respect to age in wing length and wing pointedness of migratory and sedentary Blackcaps wintering in southern Spain. Migratory Blackcaps had longer and more pointed wings than sedentary Blackcaps. Juveniles had shorter wings than adults in migratory populations, but not in sedentary populations. The variation with age in wing pointedness was less pronounced, and was found in migratory females only. These differences between the two traits could be related to a stronger selection for pointed wings than for longer wings with increasing distance of migration, and to an increased migratoriness of females in partially migratory Blackcap populations. We hypothesise that, in migratory Blackcaps, a shorter and more rounded wing in juveniles could be selected for if the decrease in predation rate compensated for the somewhat greater costs of the first migration attempt. On the other hand, there are no costs of migration in sedentary Blackcaps, which hence maintain a similar wing shape, giving high manoeuvrability, both as juveniles and as adults.
30243286|Summaries of recent rapid range expansions shown by the house crow Corvus splendens have provided insights into the global nature of this invasion process, but its long-term potential has not yet been evaluated. To explore the potential dimensions of this geographic expansion, we used ecological niche modeling based on known occurrences of the species on its native distributional area, in the context of GIS data sets describing climatic variables, topographic information, and human presence. Our models provided predictions of areas already invaded that were statistically significantly more coincident than expected under random (null) models. The predicted potential range of the species includes areas already affected, as well as potentially suitable areas in Central America, the Caribbean, equatorial and West Africa, and mainland and insular Southeast Asia, not yet colonized.
10.2307/3677015|For many species, distribution across different habitats may be a dynamic process affected by population size and the position of individual habitats on the continuum of habitat quality from most preferred to least preferred. Species that exhibit density-dependent habitat preferences should show a negative relationship between the proportion of a population in a particular habitat and total population size over time in those habitats that are relatively preferred, and positive relationships in habitats that are relatively less preferred. Such relationships were analysed within 13 farmland study areas for 12 bird species. At least one significant relationship was detected per species, but no species showed consistent significant relationships in any habitat across plots. Furthermore, both negative (relatively preferred habitat) and positive (relatively less preferred habitat) relationships were detected in different study areas for a particular species in a given habitat. When habitat variation across study areas was controlled in a combined analysis, only four species showed strong evidence of density-dependent habitat use. The lack of stronger relationships between population size and habitat use is likely to be a consequence of defining habitat at too crude a scale. Density-dependent habitat processes may be more usefully examined when specific micro-habitat features that contribute to territory quality can be identified. Inability to detect consistent patterns of habitat preference may be caused by spatial variation in habitat availability, habitat quality and inter-specific competition.
3677436|Reproductive success in many avian populations declines throughout the breeding season. Two hypotheses have gained attention to explain such a decline: the "timing" hypothesis proposes that deteriorating food availability causes the decline in reproductive success (causal effect of breeding time), whereas the "quality" hypothesis proposes that individuals of lower phenotypic quality reproduce at the end of the breeding season, causing the correlation between breeding time and breeding success. We tested both of these hypotheses in a monogamous single breeder, the magpie Pica pica, by experimentally inducing some pairs to lay a replacement clutch, after removal of the first clutch. The first clutch was left in the nest of another magpie pair (matched by laying date and clutch size), and incubated and raised by these foster parents. In this way we obtained two clutches from the same magpie pair with full siblings raised in conditions of the first and second reproductive attempts. High quality pairs (with laying dates in the first half of the breeding season) reached similar breeding success in replacement clutches as compared to first clutches of the same female. In addition, experimental pairs reared significantly more offspring of similar quality in their replacement clutches as compared to late-season first clutches, thereby suggesting that late season first clutches were produced by pairs of lower phenotypic quality. Results indicate that high quality pairs trade-off clutch size for larger eggs in replacement clutches, which could help magpie pairs to partly compensate for poorer environmental conditions associated with a delayed breeding attempt.
30245190|The red-billed quelea Quelea quelea, one of the most abundant birds in the world, presents two fundamental conundrums that we investigate here with a novel approach using blood parasite assemblages at two spatial scales, landscape and individual. The quelea of southern Africa Q. q. lathamii are split by a hypothesized migratory divide, where birds follow rain fronts in one of two directions (NW or SE). This divide is not detectable in the host population using microsatellite data, and here we show that it is also not apparent from our large-scale phylogeographical analyses of the haematozoan parasite. At a finer scale, the colourful and variable breeding plumage of male red-billed quelea has not previously shown a correlation with predictors of quality, as it does in many other bird species. The male's breeding plumage is partially based on carotenoid colouration, the quality of which has been correlated with haematozoan infection in other bird species. However, we found no correlation between intensity of male carotenoid colouration and haematozoan infection. Our results do not contradict the hypothesis that male breeding plumage in this species serves to identify individuals rather than to indicate quality. Finally, we recovered the greatest number of haematozoan lineages from any phylogenetic survey of a single host species to date. Understanding the reasons for the extreme diversity of parasite lineages in this species may assist in explaining the success of the red-billed quelea in anthropogenic landscapes.
10.2307/3677060|Evidence of the pathogenicity of haematozoa in wild bird populations is limited, possibly because infected birds alter their behavior to avoid the costs of being parasitized. We tested this hypothesis by examining dominance relationships relative to parasite status in captive Red-winged Blackbirds Agelaius phoeniceus, and Brown-headed Cowbirds Molothrus ater. There was some evidence that uninfected individuals tended to be dominant to infected individuals, but the pattern was variable, even within two studies involving male Red-winged Blackbirds. Dominant parasitized individuals were not consistently larger than the uninfected individuals they dominated, although other, untested asymmetries might have allowed the infected birds to overcome any cost associated with being parasitized.
3677574|Several bird species breeding in acidified habitats face serious problems caused by lowered availability of calcium-rich foods. Moreover, recent studies have revealed that calcium shortage causes phenotypic variation in certain reproductive parameters of passerines even in non-acidified habitats. However, to date, no clear evidence has been found of the limiting effect of calcium deficiency on the reproductive output of birds breeding in such habitats. In this paper, we present experimental evidence from a long-term study that calcium shortage may indeed limit reproductive output of passerines that breed in non-acidified habitats. We carried out calcium-supplementation experiments with great tits Parus major breeding in coniferous and deciduous woodlands in Estonia. Calcium-supplemented birds laid more eggs, tended larger broods and raised more fledglings with longer tarsi compared with control birds. Calcium shortage constrained reproduction of tits not only in spring, but also in mid-summer, during second breeding attempts. Moreover, no significant differences were detected between deciduous and coniferous habitats with respect to the effect of calcium supplements on reproductive success.
3677550|For decades, carotenoids have attracted attention for their roles as vitamin-A precursors, antioxidants, and immunostimulants, but we still understand very little about the metabolic processes that accompany these compounds. Animals like birds use carotenoids to color their feathers and bare parts to become sexually attractive. They commonly metabolically derive their body colorants from dietary sources of carotenoids, but the sites of pigment metabolism remain unidentified. Here I test the hypothesis that songbirds manufacture their colorful feather and beak carotenoids directly at these tissues. I offer two lines of evidence to support this idea: (1) in a study of 11 colorful species from three passerine families, metabolically derived feather and beak carotenoids were found neither in the liver (a purported site of carotenoid metabolism), nor in the bloodstream (the means by which metabolites would be transported to colorful tissues from anywhere else in the body) at the time when pigments were being deposited into keratinized tissue, and (2) in a more detailed study of pigmentation in the American goldfinch Carduelis tristis, carotenoids sampled from the lipid fractions of maturing feather follicles yielded a mix of dietary and synthetic carotenoids, suggesting that this is the metabolically active site for feather-pigment production. This fresh perspective on carotenoid metabolism in animals should aid our efforts to characterize the responsible enzymes and to better understand the localized biological functions of these pigments.
30243826|Evaluating consequences of habitat selection is an important step in understanding life history strategies and behavioural decisions of animals. Kilpi and Lindstrm (1997) found that incubating common eiders Somateria mollissima on exposed, treeless islands lost weight faster than females nesting on wooded islands and proposed that this difference was due to adverse incubation conditions at exposed nests. Therefore, we tested whether common eiders gained an advantage when nesting in sheltered habitats by placing artificial shelters over randomly-selected females after the onset of incubation within an eider colony in arctic Canada. We predicted that sheltered females would be heavier on completion of incubation than control hens lacking shelters. Females nesting in artificial shelters experienced a more moderate thermal environment at both cold and warm temperature extremes. Eiders nesting in shelters were heavier than control females during mid incubation, consistent with habitat-specific rates of weight loss reported by Kilpi and Lindstrim (1997). Natural overhead cover was available at potential nests but few eiders used those sites. We suspect that microclimatic advantages offered by sheltered sites may be offset by costs of increased female vulnerability to predators. Further work is needed to test this hypothesis, and to determine mechanisms responsible for lower weight loss in eiders attending well concealed nests.
3677445|Birds often exhibit greater reproductive tract development on the left side than right side. Behavioral evidence from the three species for which data has been published indicates that these species copulate more frequently on the left side of females than on the right side. Missing from the literature are studies that compare asymmetry in copulation behavior to asymmetry in reproductive tract morphology of the same individuals of both sexes within a single species. To better understand the potential for cryptic sexual selection to influence avian copulation, we measured asymmetries in chukar Alectoris chukar copulation using 24 male and 29 female chukar brought into captivity from the wild. Chukar copulated (n = 37) more from the left side (n = 30) of females than the right side (n = 7). The left testis of males was consistently greater in size, mass and volume than the right testis. The left ovary and oviduct of females was consistently functional with no observable development of the right ovary or oviduct. Left-side bias in direction of copulation, larger left testes, and functional left vaginal openings may act in concert to deliver spermatozoa to the oviduct, promoting fertilization.
10.2307/3677123|Different populations of kiwi Apteryx spp. live in very different habitats and climatic conditions, and they vary greatly with regard to population densities and sex ratios. Populations also differ remarkably in their social and mating patterns. By comparing four populations, we asked whether kiwi mating systems are primarily shaped by the availability of mates as caused by different operational sex ratios ("environmental polygamy potential"), or whether they depend on the costs and benefits of desertion by either sex from parental care, especially on the limitations to desertion due to high precopulatory investment ("parental limitation"). Most kiwi have long-term partnerships and very high partner fidelity, but in one population half of all pairs split each year. This is a relatively dense population with a strongly female-biased sex ratio and a complete lack of territorial behaviour. We argue that pair stability and territoriality are related in kiwi, and that the loss of territoriality and the high divorce rate in this divergent population result from the female-biased sex ratio. Data analyses did not reveal any reproductive advantage from divorce and re-mating with a different partner in kiwi. We suggest that divorce results from the interaction of surplus females with paired males and is hence "forced" upon the pair. Our analyses of social systems of the four populations of kiwi suggest that both territory defence and the degree of polygamy depend primarily on parental demands and not on the distribution of resources and mates. Hence, we regard the "parental limitation hypothesis" as being the more adequate one to explain mating patterns in kiwi.
30244463|Breeding populations of southern dunlin Calidris alpina schinzii in South Fennoscandia and the Baltic are severely fragmented and declining dramatically. Information on the genetic structure and diversity is therefore of importance for the conservation and management of these populations. Here we present the results of comparative genetic analyses of these populations with other populations of the schinzii, alpina and arctica subspecies in northern Europe. We sequenced the mitochondrial DNA control region and the Z-chromosome intron VLDLR-9, and analyzed microsatellites and AFLPs, for analyses of within-population genetic diversity. We also extended previous analyses of the phylogeographic structure of dunlins in northern Europe with a larger sample of individuals and populations. Our results revealed no evidence of reduced genetic diversity or increased levels of inbreeding in the small and fragmented populations around the Baltic Sea as compared to the more vital and larger populations elsewhere. Nevertheless, their small population sizes and presumably high degree of isolation may lead to local extinctions, indicating that demographic and ecological factors may pose a greater threat to the survival of these populations than purely genetic factors. Phylogeographically, the schinzii populations in Scandinavia and the Baltic do not form a separate genetic clade, but are part of larger cline of genetic variation encompassing several recognized subspecies of dunlins in the western Palearctic region. Only the Icelandic population showed some distinctiveness in genetic structure and might therefore be considered a separate management unit. Our study highlights the general problem of lack of genetic support for subspecies in avian taxonomy and conservation genetics.
3677636|We tested the importance of nest cleaning in egg rejection behaviour of the great reed warbler Acrocephalus arundinaceus in a highly parasitised population in which about 64% of nests are parasitised by the common cuckoo Cuculus canorus. Three types of objects of the same weight, texture and colour but with different shapes (dummy cuckoo eggs, sticks and disks) were placed into great reed warbler nests. We investigated the response of hosts in two stages of breeding: pre-incubation when the risk of brood parasitism is high, and during incubation when the risk of parasitism is low. The dummy cuckoo eggs were rejected less often than the other objects in both breeding stages, although we did not find any difference in the frequency of rejection between pre-incubation and incubation. We integrate these results into current views on the evolution of host-parasite interactions, and propose a hierarchical concept to understand egg rejection behaviour: (1) hosts reject all non-egg shaped objects as a general cleaning mechanism; (2) adaptations for the hosts' ability to recognise their own eggs allows them to distinguish these eggs from similar objects and parasitic eggs.
3677710|Extra-pair paternity (EPP) is common in many socially monogamous birds, but large variations in frequency of EPP are found both between and within species. Local ecological factors can affect the costs and benefits of extra-pair mating behaviour, and may therefore influence the chance that individuals engage in extra-pair copulations (EPCs). We investigated the effect of weather conditions during the peak fertile period of the female on the levels of EPP in reed buntings Emberiza schoeniclus. The reed bunting is a socially monogamous passerine, with extremely high levels of EPP (50% of offspring in 80% of broods). We found that higher daily minimum temperatures and more rainfall during the peak fertile period were associated with lower proportions of EPP. As during adverse weather conditions individuals have to invest more in self maintenance, we suggest that during long periods of rain the extra-pair mating behaviour of all individuals will be restricted, leading to lower proportions of EPP. During cold mornings, time-consuming activities such as mate guarding are likely to be more strongly affected than less time-consuming activities such as EPCs, leading to higher proportions of EPP.
30243906|Birds moult to maintain plumage function through life, but the factors that determine moult duration are poorly understood. In temperate areas, variation in moult duration could be largely associated with between-species differences in migratory behaviour (migrants have less time for moulting after breeding), and body mass (because the aerodynamic cost of rapid moult increases allometrically with body size). Moreover, if the energetic cost of transport favours a smaller body size in migratory species, then the effects of migratory behaviour and body mass on moult duration could be confounded. We conducted a comparative study of the duration of adult complete moult in 48 European passerine species, in relation to body mass and migratory behaviour (sedentary, short-distance migrants and long-distance migrants). Lighter and more migratory species moulted faster than heavier and more sedentary species, but migration was not associated with body mass. If accelerated moult compromises the success of migration, changes in the physiology or phenology of moult in migratory birds are better interpreted as adaptive responses to compensate for such costs.
30243817|We present compelling evidence of the continued existence of the large-billed reed warbler Acrocephalus orinus, hitherto known only from the unique type specimen collected in NW India 139 years ago. Morphological and genetic analyses of an unusual Acrocephalus warbler mist-netted south-west of Bangkok, Thailand, on 27 March 2006, confirmed its identity as A. orinus, and revealed that it was heterozygous at four out of eight microsatellite markers, indicating the continued existence of a viable population whose breeding and wintering areas are still unknown.
25662900|The New Guinean songbird fauna contains numerous enigmatic species and genera whose phylogenetic affinities have been difficult to resolve. Two such genera are ditypic Amalocichla and monotypic Pachycare. Here we obtained DNA sequences of two nuclear gene regions and a mitochondrial gene to ascertain the phylogenetic positions of these genera. Amalocichla was identified as the sister of the Australasian robins (Petroicidae) contrary to most recent classifications, which align it with the New Guinean mouse-warblers Crateroscelis in the family Acanthizidae. The morphological characters used to place Amalocichla in the Acanthizidae appear to be convergent and linked to ground-living adaptations. Pachycare was found to be most closely related to the Acanthizidae and not to the Pachycephalidae, corvine assemblage, or Petroicidae, as most commonly assumed. Morphological and behavioural characters support the molecular data in this conclusion. Previous taxonomic placements appear to have been based on superficial similarities in plumage coloration and vocal characterizations.
10.2307/3677214| One aim of studies in evolutionary biology is to estimate the fitness of a phenotype within a population. One of the most natural estimates of fitness is , the multiplication rate, or finit rate of increase, which results from the demographic parameters of that particular phenotype. Even though ad hoc computations of  may be strongly biased, they are still widely used, in particular in bird population biology. We compare ad hoc computation of the multiplication rate and exact ones using demographic models. The magnitude of the discrepancy increases sharply with the departure of  from unity. This may alter our perception of population functioning. Other outputs of demographic models, which play prominent roles in bird evolutionary biology and population management, are briefly discussed. As a whole, demographic models provide a link between empirical and theoretical approaches. 
30244793|Biparental care in birds is less common during incubation than in other nesting stages. Males share in incubating eggs in a minority of bird species, and male effort is generally thought to be lower than females when sharing does occur. However, male assistance and incubation efficacy is poorly studied in such species. We examined sex differences in incubation effort in 12 pairs of a species with biparental incubation, the chestnut-vented tit-babbler Parisoma subcaeruleum. Males and females did not differ in the amount of time spent incubating during the day, time of day spent incubating, nor in their ability to rewarm eggs. Yet, males consistently maintained eggs at higher temperatures than their female partners, despite the absence of a brood patch.
30243880|Central-place foraging seabirds alter the availability of their prey around colonies, forming a "halo" of reduced prey access that ultimately constrains population size. This has been indicated indirectly by an inverse correlation between colony size and reproductive success, numbers of conspecifics at other colonies within foraging range, foraging effort (i.e. trip duration), diet quality and colony growth rate. Although ultimately mediated by density dependence relative to food through intraspecific exploitative or interference competition, the proximate mechanism involved has yet to be elucidated. Herein, we show that Adlie penguin Pygoscelis adeliae colony size positively correlates to foraging trip duration and metabolic rate, that the metabolic rate while foraging may be approaching an energetic ceiling for birds at the largest colonies, and that total energy expended increases with trip duration although uncompensated by increased mass gain. We propose that a competition-induced reduction in prey availability results in higher energy expenditure for birds foraging in the halo around large colonies, and that to escape the halo a bird must increase its foraging distance. Ultimately, the total energetic cost of a trip determines the maximum successful trip distance, as on longer trips food acquired is used more for self maintenance than for chick provisioning. When the net cost of foraging trips becomes too high, with chicks receiving insufficient food, chick survival suffers and subsequent colony growth is limited. Though the existence of energetic studies of the same species at multiple colonies is rare, because foraging metabolic rate increases with colony size in at least two other seabird species, we suggest that an energetic constraint to colony size may generally apply to other seabirds.
3677513| To test whether wing shape affects the kinematics of wing motion during bird flight, we recorded high-speed video (250 Hz) of four species flying in a variable-speed wind tunnel. The birds flew at intervals of 2 m s
25161523|In fasting-incubating seabirds, it has been proposed that egg abandonment and refeeding should be induced when a low body mass (BM) threshold is attained, thus ensuring adult survival at the expense of immediate breeding. In the context of life-history trade-offs in long-lived birds, we have tested this hypothesis by comparing short-term survival and restoration of BM in King Penguins Aptenodytes patagonicus that abandoned their egg to those that were relieved normally by their mate at the end of the first incubation shift. Since King Penguins have an extended laying period, the possible influence of seasonal factors was also examined by comparing early and late breeders. Forty incubating males were experimentally forced to fast until egg abandonment by preventing relief by the female. At egg abandonment of both early and late breeding males, BM was below the BM threshold, fasting duration was eight days (about 30%) longer than for relieved birds, and plasma uric acid level was elevated (signature of increased body protein catabolism, phase III of fasting). All abandoning birds survived and came back from sea at a BM similar to that of relieved penguins. The duration of the foraging trip of abandoning early breeders was the same as that of relieved birds, and some abandoning birds engaged in a new breeding attempt. Abandoning late breeders, however, made foraging trips twice as long as those of relieved males. This difference can be explained by time constraints rather than nutritional constraints, abandoning early breeders having enough time left in the breeding season to engage in a new breeding attempt in contrast to abandoning late breeders. These observations lend support to the suggestion that not only BM but also an internal clock intervene in the decision to engage in breeding or not. By preventing a lethal energy depletion ashore and by acting at a fasting stage where the capacity to restore BM at sea is unaffected, abandonment at a low body condition threshold plays a major role in the trade-off between adult penguin survival and reproduction.
3677553|Nest predation often is reported to be the major cause of nest failure in birds and by extension the predominant influence on annual fecundity. However, other factors such as the ability of some individuals to renest after a failed nest or to lay additional clutches after successful ones, both of which may in turn be influenced by food availability, can also contribute to individual fecundity. We evaluated the relative importance of nest predation, multiple brooding, renesting, and food availability on mean annual fecundity of a migratory songbird population, using
25161534|Although not previously emphasized, colonization of habitat patches by cognitive animals involves both decisions bringing an animal to a particular patch and decisions causing the animal to remain in the patch. We focus on the latter form of decision by examining the habitat and landscape correlates of persistence in chickadees (Poecile spp.) that we introduced into small woodlots previously cleared of conspecifics. The birds' decisions to remain were associated importantly with the presence of a canopy layer of large trees, and less so with area of the woodland patch and distance they had been transported from the capture site. The decision to persist was little related to landscape features near the focal habitat patch. The future holds promise for application of principles of cognition to landscape biology.
3677588|Body mass loss is frequently observed in breeding birds: whether this is an adaptive response to a change in the relative value of body stores and locomotion performance or a consequence of energetic constraint is still in debate. The male alone cares for most nests of the Eurasian dotterel Charadrius morinellus, although females assist at a proportion of nests. Energetic costs are probably high in the dotterel's arctic-alpine environment and uniparental care restricts the foraging time available to meet these costs, so that incubating dotterel may have to fuel themselves partly using body stores. Nesting male dotterel lost 7.8% of their mass through the incubation period but were 6.8% heavier during periods of high food abundance. Males that were assisted in incubation by a female were 6.7% heavier than uniparental males. We conclude that, since dotterel were heavier when energetic constraints were lifted, mass loss through incubation was principally a consequence of energetic constraint, rather than adaptive mass optimisation.
3677419|Seabirds' behavioural activity budgets have been proposed as an indicator of changes in marine food supplies. Reduced recruitment and a low biomass of sandeels Ammodytes spp. around Shetland in the late 1980s were associated with a dramatic increase in the foraging effort of breeding skuas. We present data on the territorial attendance patterns of breeding Great Skuas Catharacta skua and Arctic Skuas Stercorarius parasiticus in Shetland in 1987 and examine three aspects of the recorded increase in foraging effort. Time budget studies indicate that recording territorial attendance by infrequent, daily spot observations provides an accurate measure of the time spent off-territory by both skua species. None of the pairs of Arctic Skua studied ever left their chicks unattended in 1987. The same was true of 10 out of 27 pairs of Great Skuas. Although the remaining pairs of Great Skuas frequently left their chicks unprotected, evidence of pair co-ordination to minimise this suggests that their foraging schedules were still constrained by the need to protect their offspring. During periods of high chick-demand, variation between pairs' foraging efforts largely reflected variation in those of the females. Thus, we suggest that increased chick neglect in years of food shortage arises as females abandon their role of guardian for that of provider. By the end of the breeding season in 1987, both male and female Great Skuas foraged from 65 to 89% of daylight hours. The lack of any further increase in the foraging effort of Great Skuas in subsequent years of poorer reproductive success was almost certainly because time and energy constraints prevented either sex from doing so. We suggest that the comparatively short amount of time spent foraging by Arctic Skuas in 1987 may reflect an advantage conferred by their role as specialist kleptoparasites.
30245325|The avian family Accipitridae has historically been divided into subfamilies or tribes based on features such as general resemblance, feeding ecology, and behavior. Consequently, the monophyly of those groups has been questionable. Recently, three phylogenetic analyses of a majority of the genera have appeared, one based on osteology, one on DNA sequences from a single mitochondrial gene, and the third on mitochondrial plus nuclear DNA sequences, and the resulting phylogenies were in substantial disagreement concerning the composition and basal branching patterns of the clades and hence require further analysis and confirmation. Here we use DNA sequences from the large nuclear RAG-1 exon to investigate the phylogenetic relationships of these birds. Our results largely corroborated the prior study that included nuclear genes. We found strong support for a monophyletic clade comprising the secretarybird Sagittarius serpentarius, the osprey Pandion haliaetus, and the traditional accipitrids. However, every one of the traditionally recognized subfamilies of accipitrids was found to be polyphyletic. The most basal nodes in the phylogeny separate small clades of insectivorous and scavenger species, such as kites and Old World vultures, from the rest of the family. The speciose genera of bird and mammal predators are all relatively derived (terminal) in the phylogeny. Many of the basal clades are cosmopolitan in their distributions, consistent with the great mobility of these raptors. A new classification is proposed that eliminates the problem of polyphyletic intrafamilial taxa.
10.2307/3677150|We manipulated clutches of Chinstrap Penguins to examine the effects of brood size and offspring age on brood defence levels. Nest defence intensity increased with increasing offspring age. Experimental birds reduced nest defence intensity after losing one egg. These results support predictions derived from life-history theory which assumes changes in nest defence intensity to be related to changes in the reproductive value of the brood.
30244440|In vertebrates, males are often more parasitised than conspecific females. This bias in parasitism might result from sex differences in parasite exposure and/or susceptibility to infection. Such information is important for testing hypotheses about allocation of resources to life histories of males and females and for testing hypotheses about factors thought to influence parasite fitness and parasite dynamics. We tested whether double-crested cormorants Phalacrocorax auritus exhibit male-biased parasitism by gut helminths. The prevalence of nematode Contracaecum spp. and trematode Drepanocaphalus spathans infections was ~90% and 39%, respectively. Cestode, primarily Paradilepis caballeroi and acanthocephalan Andracantha gravida infections were less common (<10%). Male and female cormorants did not differ in prevalence of infection by any helminth species. However, males had twice the abundance and intensity of Contracaecum spp. infections and twice the intensity of D. spathans infections than found in females. For common parasites showing male-biased parasitism, degree of parasitism was also unrelated to body size or mass in either sex. Males and females did not differ in spleen mass and spleen mass was unrelated to abundance of common parasites. Furthermore, abundance of trematodes and nematodes was not correlated. At present, male biases in parasitism by nematodes and trematodes in cormorants are independent patterns that remain unexplained, but are most likely attributable to sex differences in exposure and/or immunological differences not yet assessed.
30244839|Sexual differences in food provisioning rates of monomorphic seabirds are well known but poorly understood. Here, we address three hypotheses that attempt to explain female-biased food provisioning in common guillemots Uria aalge: (1) males spend more time in nest defence, (2) females have greater foraging efficiency, and (3) males allocate a greater proportion of foraging effort to self-maintenance. We found that males spent no more time with chicks than females but made longer trips and travelled further from the colony. There was extensive overlap between sexes in core foraging areas, indicating that females were not excluding males from feeding opportunities close to the colony. However, as a result of their longer trips, the total foraging areas of males were much greater than those of females. There was no difference between sexes in overall dive rate per hour at sea, in behaviour during individual dives or in a number of other measures of foraging efficiency including the frequency, depth and duration of dives and the dive: pause ratio during the final dive bout of each trip, which was presumably used by both sexes to obtain prey for the chick. These data strongly suggest that sexes did not differ in their ability to locate and capture prey. Yet males made almost twice as many dives per trip as females, suggesting that males made more dives than females for their own benefit. These results support the hypothesis that female-biased food provisioning arose from a difference between sexes in the allocation of foraging effort between parents and offspring, in anticipation of a prolonged period of male-only post-fledging care of the chick, and not from differences in foraging efficiency or time spent in nest defence.
30243919|The rate at which a young bird grows is highly diverse across taxa. We investigated the influences of ecological variables on growth rates of shorebirds, gulls and their allies (order Charadriiformes) using comparative analyses of 68 species. We investigated three hypotheses: (1) exposure to cold temperatures results in reduced growth rate due to the increased energy expenditure required for thermoregulation, (2) fast growth rates allow offspring to complete development in habitats with short periods of fair ecological conditions, and (3) parental feeding allows the offspring to grow faster than self-feeding offspring. Charadriiform species are suitable for testing these hypotheses, because they breed in diverse environmental conditions that include Arctic and Antarctic habitats, temperate zones and tropics, and in some species the offspring feed themselves (precocial) whereas in others they are fed by the parents (semi-precocial). First, we tested the influence of ambient temperature on growth rate and we found that species breeding in cold habitats had faster growth rates than species breeding in warm temperatures. The relationship between growth rate and ambient temperature was not significantly different between precocial and semi-precocial offspring. Second, we tested the influence of the length of the breeding season on growth rate, and we found that species with shorter breeding seasons had faster growth rates than species with longer breeding seasons. Finally, we show that precocial offspring grew slower than semi-precocial offspring, and this relationship remains significant when the influences of ambient temperature and breeding season length are statistically controlled. In conclusion, our work, using phylogenetically corrected models, confirms that ambient environment and developmental mode of young together influence the growth of Charadriiform chicks, and their effects are additive.
10.2307/3677133|We evaluated the relationship between the intensity of parasites (the chewing lice Columbicola columbae and Campanulotes bidentatus, and the haematozoon Haemoproteus columbae) and the magnitude of fluctuating asymmetry (FA) of their Rock Pigeon Columba livia hosts. We measured the length of four morphological traits of 91 Rock Pigeons (both left and right sides) in Singapore between June and September 1996: wing, tail, tarsus and third digit. FA was either detected or assumed, after statistical correction, in the tail, tarsi and third digits of both sexes and in the wings of males. Correlations between parasite intensity (either ectoparasite or blood parasite) and FA in each measured trait were not significant (P > 0.15). We suggest that one of the possible reasons for the lack of a relationship between parasitism and FA in the Rock Pigeon is that the parasites studied may have little effect on the four host traits examined.
3677461|Much previous research has focussed on the role of food supply in determining the growth and the survival of avian offspring. More recently, acid deposition in some ecosystems has demonstrated that in addition to energy, birds also need to acquire sufficient nutrients such as calcium to be successful. Whether procurement of adequate levels of calcium can limit reproductive success in areas that have not been impacted by acid rain remains equivocal. We tested whether calcium affected reproductive success of tree swallows Tachycineta bicolor by feeding extra calcium to nestlings during the brood-rearing period. Our manipulation did not enhance the survival of offspring, however, provisioning of extra calcium resulted in nestlings showing enhanced rates of growth of mass (all nests) and of ninth primary flight feathers (nests with after-second year female parents), compared to control nestlings. Calcium supplementation also resulted in nestlings having longer feathers and tarsi at age 16 days, and there was evidence that some nestlings receiving extra calcium were heavier at 16 days old. As offspring that have faster growth, or that are in good condition at fledging, often survive better after leaving the nest, these results suggest that calcium availability can limit fitness. Our results are noteworthy because our experiment was conducted in an area with abundant soil calcium where acid deposition has not occurred. The role of calcium in limiting the reproductive performance of avian species may therefore be more pervasive than previously thought.
30243291|In many species of passerine birds yearlings display a less elaborate version of the adult secondary sexual traits, but the causes of such differences in ornamentation are not always well understood. We studied age-related changes in blue tit Parus caeruleus UV/blue structural crown coloration, a sexually selected trait. In our Austrian study population, older blue tits, irrespective of sex, displayed on average a more ultraviolet (lower hue, higher UV chroma), more chromatic and brighter crown coloration than yearlings. This age dichromatism was caused by within-individual changes in the expression of crown coloration between years since males and females became more UV, more chromatic and brighter as they aged. Colour biased survival did not contribute to the observed pattern of age dichromatism since crown coloration was largely unrelated to overwinter survival. Between-year repeatability of crown colour was significant for most colour variables but low in general, and lower for females than for males. In the blue tit, yearling males might benefit from being less ornamented by avoiding adult aggression but at the expense of sexual attractiveness. Adaptive explanations of blue tit age dichromatism should however take into account that age effects were of similar magnitude in males and females. This suggests that both male and female yearlings could benefit from being less ornamented and hence that sexual selection might be acting on both sexes simultaneously in this species.
30244451|The Chatham Island taiko Pterodroma magentae (tchaik) is one of the World's most endangered seabirds with a population size of between 120-150 individuals that includes only 8-15 breeding pairs. Molecular techniques were used to identify the sex of taiko, which is difficult to assign morphologically. Blood samples were obtained from almost the entire known living population and from some birds now thought to be dead. We report an approximately even sex ratio in taiko chicks and adults associated with breeding burrows, but a large male-biased ratio in non-breeding adult birds caught on the ground. This finding suggests that unpaired males may be having difficulty in attracting females to burrows and that this situation may be an example of the Allee effect, that reduced density of potential mates acts to decrease population productivity. Identification of the sex of taiko using a molecular technique has important implications for the conservation management of this critically endangered species, including the future transfer of taiko chicks to a predatorexcluded breeding site.
3677767| Carotenoid pigments are used by many bird species as feather colorants, creating brilliant yellow, orange, and red plumage displays. Such carotenoid-based plumage coloration has been shown to function as an honest signal that is used in female mate choice. Despite recent interest in carotenoid-based ornamental traits, the basis for individual variation in expression of carotenoid-based plumage coloration remains incompletely understood. I tested the hypothesis that, independent of carotenoid access, food stress during molt would cause reduced expression of carotenoid pigmentation. I fed molting male House Finches Carpodacus mexicanus seed diets supplemented with either the red carotenoid pigment canthaxanthin or the yellow/orange carotenoid pigment -cryptoxanthin (in the form of tangerine juice). Within each diet treatment, one group of males was given restricted food access and the other group was given unrestricted food access. Carotenoid supplements were placed in water so carotenoid access was controlled independent of food access. The results indicated a strong effect of both carotenoid access and food access on color display. Some males in the -cryptoxanthin-supplemented group grew red plumage, suggesting that they can metabolically modify yellow pigments into red pigments, but no bird supplemented with -cryptoxanthin grew plumage as red as birds supplemented with canthaxanthin. Males in the unrestricted food groups grew redder and more intensely pigmented plumage than males in the restricted food groups. These observations provide the best evidence to date of an energetic cost of carotenoid utilization in the generation of colorful plumage. 
25161524|Inca Terns Larosterna inca are medium-size seabirds that breed along the Peruvian and Chilean coast. They are monogamous and both sexes incubate and contribute to chick provisioning. The sexes are similar in appearance and have elaborate ornaments, including a long white moustache of feathers and fleshy yellow wattles. In this paper we report the differences in ornamentation between sexes and examine whether the trait predicts body condition, reproductive performance or chick quality in either sex. The ornaments were similar in size and coloration between the sexes, except for the wattle length, the difference in which can be due to greater head length in males. Moustache length was the most reliable signal of body condition in both sexes. Moreover, there was a significant relationship between the moustache length and reproductive category of adults (non-breeder, unsuccessful breeder, or one or two chicks fledged). Both asymptotic chick body mass and the T-cell mediated response of chicks (a measure of immunocompetence) were related to the moustache length of male and female adults. These results provide support for the role of ornaments in mutual signalling of condition in this species. Female and male ornaments predict body condition, reproductive performance and chick quality, as predicted by sexual selection models.
25161522|Recent studies have shown that the Antarctic Circumpolar Wave and the related sea-ice cover around the Antarctic continent may have a profound effect on the lower trophic levels of the marine environment. In particular, extensive sea-ice cover enhances the survival of krill. However, the effects of sea-ice cover on top predators remain poorly understood. Using time series from 1973 to 1999, we examine the influence of regional sea-ice extent on a number of indices of breeding performance of an avian predator, the Snow Petrel, in Antarctica. The percentage of breeding pairs was highly variable and there were fewer birds breeding when sea-ice cover was extensive during July. By contrast, overall breeding success and fledgling body condition were improved during years with extensive sea-ice cover during the preceding November and July-September. These results indicate that the same sea-ice conditions may have different effects on the breeding performance of a species. The overall increase in winter sea-ice extent during the last decade appears to have resulted in an overall improvement of the quality of fledglings produced, and thus probably of future recruitment.
3677477| Flight and diving activity of rhinoceros auklets Cerorhinca monocerata breeding on Teuri Island, Japan, were monitored during the summers 1999 and 2000 using miniaturized time-depth and acceleration recorders. Birds made 14.5 dive bouts per day of on average 15.4 min duration, which consisted of on average 16.2 dives of 12.1 m depth and 42.7 s duration. Birds made 13.8  7.3 flight bouts per day, which lasted on average 11.5  4.5 min. Daily total flight duration was 2.7  1.7 h (range 54 s-5.1 h) and the mean potential foraging range was estimated to be 87 km (maximum 164 km). Most birds stayed at the colony or rested on the water surface during the night. Rhinoceros auklets dived more actively in early morning and in late afternoon than during mid-day. Compared to results from studies of time allocation in other alcids species, rhinoceros auklets spent longer time flying
3677641|We examine the provisioning constraints of a pursuit-diving seabird in a cold ocean regime by comparing the behaviour of common murres Uria aalge rearing chicks at two colonies in the Northwest Atlantic during 1998-2000. Funk Island is the largest (340,000-400,000 breeding pairs) and most offshore (60 km) colony of common murres in eastern Canada. Seventy-five percent of the Northwest Atlantic population of common murres breeds on this island. Great Island is one island within the Witless Bay Ecological Reserve, which is the second largest breeding aggregation (100 000 breeding pairs) and is located near-shore (2 km). The primary forage fish species in Newfoundland waters is capelin Mallotus villosus, which spawns on or near coastal beaches during summer. Therefore, the two study colonies differ in their distance to food resources and colony size. It is within this natural context that we compare: (1) prey types and frequency of delivery (amount of prey), (2) parental time budgets, and (3) the mass and condition (mass/wing length) of fledglings at both colonies. Similarly sized female capelin (100-150 mm) were delivered to chicks at both colonies. Foraging time per day per parent, a proxy of foraging effort, was similar at both colonies (Great Island: 5.1 h; Funk Island: 5.5 h), as was the percentage of time spent with mates (Great Island: 12.3%; Funk Island: 10.9%). Foraging trips, however, were longer at Funk Island (4.1 h) than at Great Island (2.9 h). This resulted in lower feeding rates of chicks (0.17 feeds per h) and poorer condition of fledglings (2.9 g/mm) at Funk Island compared to those at Great Island (0.22 feeds per h; 3.9 g/mm). We hypothesize that provisioning efforts are constrained at Funk Island by (1) distant food resources and increased competitor density, resulting in longer foraging trip durations and (2) the time spent paired with mates at the colony, which may reflect a minimum time required to maintain breeding sites due to higher breeding densities at Funk Island compared to Great Island. Demographic consequences of this poor fledgling condition at Funk Island are unknown, but fledglings may sufficiently accelerate growth at sea due to their closer proximity to an important nursery area. If fledgling survival is compromised, however, the lower potential for growth at Funk Island will impact the entire Northwest Atlantic population of common murres.
10.2307/3677223|Theoretical studies have suggested that birds in winter should carry higher energy reserves when food supply is lower, or less predictable, in order to maximize their probability of survival until the end of winter. In the Willow Tit Parus montanus, a passerine wintering in dominance-structured flocks, subdominant birds were found to carry higher energy reserves than dominant birds (Ekman and Lilliendahl 1993, Behav. Ecol. 4: 232-238). Since food supply is probably lower (and less predictable), for subdominant birds, this seemed in agreement with theoretical results. However, we analysed the effect of social dominance on energy reserves using data from another Willow Tit study (Hogstad 1987, Auk 104: 333-336), and found that in this study dominant birds carried the highest energy reserves. In Willow Tits, social dominance is known to affect predation risk during foraging. Using a simple analytical model, we show that when social dominance affects predation risk while foraging, but not food acquisition rate, the optimal level of energy reserves is higher for dominant than for subdominant birds. When social dominance affects both food acquisition rate and predation risk, its effect on the optimal level of energy reserves depends on the relative importance of these two factors. Thus variation in the effect of social dominance on food acquisition rate and predation risk may explain the difference between the two studies compared.
10.2307/3677342|Distress vocalisations were recorded from 65 species of Australian birds, including passerines, parrots and raptors while held in the hand or entangled in mistnets. Distress vocalisations were shown to have similar structural properties in many species: a noisy and/or harmonic structure with a wide frequency range. The finding that distress calls from a range of Australian species have similar physical characteristics that appear to be convergent fits well with Marler's (1955, 1957) classic analyses of mobbing and aerial alarm calls in a variety of European passerines. The spectral structure and high amplitude of distress vacalisations also demonstrate that they are designed for ease of location and effective transmission over long distances. Incidence and rate of calling showed both intraspecific and interspecific variation, with a higher proportion of larger species calling more often. There were significant relationships found between mass and various distress call parameters; larger birds produced louder distress calls which were longer in duration with lower minimum and dominant frequencies.
30243914|We describe the migration performance of three long-distance migrating raptors, osprey Pandion haliaetus, honey buzzard Pernis apivorus and marsh harrier Circus aeruginosus, and one short-distance migrating raptor, common buzzard Buteo buteo based on Swedish ringing recoveries and satellite telemetry, respectively. Tracking by satellite can provide detailed information about the exact timing of migration, migration speed, migration directions, stopover sites, and detours, thereby overcoming many of the potential biases found in ring recoveries. Comparison of the results from these two methods revealed agreement in the geographical distribution of the studied Swedish raptor populations during autumn migration and the winter period. Satellite tracking, nevertheless, provided much more detailed information in Africa and revealed significantly faster migration progress than indicated by ring recoveries. The implications of our findings for interpretation of migratory connectivity and the understanding of migration are discussed.
10.2307/3677141|The ARGOS satellite system was used to follow seven migratory flights of six Whooper Swans, comprising five autumn flights from Iceland to Scotland in 1994 and 1995, and two spring flights in the opposite direction in 1995. We monitored the wind and weather in detail at migration times. The transmitters were type PTT-100 from Microwave Telemetry, equipped with air pressure and temperature sensors for altitude telemetry, and were attached by a harness made from neoprene tape. None of the swans flew any higher than necessary for terrain clearance when crossing land. Two swans migrating on 27 October 1995 flew at heights between 500 and 1700 m ASL when crossing the ocean, with evidence of small climbs in lee waves downwind of Iceland. Otherwise, the swans flew very low, with frequent, and sometimes prolonged stops on the water. The swans flew by day, or at night when there was moonlight or clear sky without moon, but landed in conditions of low cloud and poor visibility, and also in darkness when there was heavy cloud cover and no moon. The southbound swans flew straight tracks across the ocean, three making landfall in the Outer Hebrides, one on the north coast of Scotland, and one in Donegal Bay after a direct crossing from northeastern Iceland. The two northbound swans were both forced away from the direct track by contrary gales, but eventually made their landfalls near their respective staging areas on the south coast of Iceland. One was four days at sea, and the other over 30 hours. Flight performance calculations indicated that an amount of fat equivalent to 25% of the lean mass should suffice for the crossing with adequate reserves. A medium-sized female should have sufficient muscle power to fly with 25% of her lean mass as added fat, whereas this would be marginal for a large male. Females, being smaller, would be able to arrive in Iceland in spring with more reserve fat. Little or no excess power would be available for climbing, even at sea level. It is not credible that these swans could climb by muscle power alone to the great heights previously reported, although this might be possible if they can indeed soar in lee waves.
10.2307/3677080|Sexual behaviour of colonial House Martins was studied to reveal any behavioural strategies of males to protect their paternity. House Martins copulated inside their nests and resident males frequently intruded at their neighbours' nests. Intrusions were frequent, especially during the morning hours of the resident female's fertile period, when intrusions occurred on average every 10 min per nest. A limited data set on copulations indicated a rather low copulation rate, which contrasts with the general pattern for colonial birds. Evidence from the pre-fertile and fertile periods suggested that males tried to minimize the time the female was alone in the nest: males spent approximately 80% of their time in the nest, pair mates spent significantly more time together in the nests than would be expected from a random model, and males did not leave the nest when the female was inside. These observations suggest that staying together with the female in the nest is more important to the male than guarding the nest per se. Hence, male House Martins seem to perform mate guarding restricted to the nest. However, the time budget data are also consistent with the hypothesis that males stay with the female all the time in order to be present when she is ready to copulate. This idea and the mate-guarding hypothesis are not mutually exclusive, but the fact that resident males fought forcefully to evict intruders supports the mate-guarding hypothesis. The selective value of a male mate guarding strategy restricted to the nest is discussed.
10.2307/3677216|The feeding habits of an alpine passerine bird community was studied during the breeding season in the Pyrenees (Northeastern Spain). Five of the six species often fed on arthropods found on snow, and their use of this resource increased with elevation. Two high alpine birds, Montifringilla nivalis and Prunella collaris, mainly used snow patches. Two species that primarily forage at lower elevations, Oenanthe oenanthe and Anthus spinoletta, preferred alpine tundra despite the fact that all species had higher foraging rates (both per unit distance and unit time) on snow. High foraging rates on snowfields can be explained by greater prey detectability and accessibility. A smaller size and thus lower profitability of snow arthropods compared with those of alpine tundra may be the reason why alpine birds preferred snow patches only at the highest elevations, where arthropod abundance in other habitats is very low.
10.2307/3677142|The sex of Great Tit Parus major nestlings was determined using PCR RAPDs. Because this technique requires minute amounts of DNA, chicks could be sampled soon (0-2d) after hatching, before any nestling mortality occurred. The proportion of males among 752 chicks hatching in 102 broods (98.9% of those that hatched) increased with hatching date from 42.4% male in first broods (n = 585 chicks) to 50.9% male in second broods (n = 167). The proportion of males among hatchlings also decreased with increasing clutch size and increased with increasing hatching asynchrony. These three variables are intercorrelated and it was not possible to separate them statistically. Hatchling sex ratio was not correlated with the age, weight or wing-length of either of the parents, brood size at hatching or fledging, hatching or fledging success, mean chick weight, or position in the hatching sequence. The functional significance of the sex ratio variation found is unknown.
10.2307/3677090|Neonate Shags Phalacrocorax aristotelis do not respond metabolically to cold surroundings and depend completely for thermal protection on heat provided by the brooding parent. We examined whether neonate Shags have developed an ability to sense cold, even though a metabolic response to cold surroundings is completely absent. Such information is important in order to identify the sequence by which the different mechanisms needed to maintain a stable body temperature are developed. During cold exposure, 1-9 day old Shag nestlings were unable to produce heat by physiological means and responded to body cooling by vocalization. Nestlings 12 days old were able to maintain a stable body temperature during cold exposure and did not call. These results strongly suggest that neonate Shags have developed an ability to sense cold, which can trigger a behavioural thermoregulatory response well before they are capable of facultative thermogenesis. The lack of a metabolic cold response may be due to either the immature state of the skeletal muscles, or to an underdevelopment of neuromuscular connections. Vocalization is probably mediated by dynamic activity of thermoreceptors, as the body temperature per se seems to be of minor importance in terms of controlling the response. It is suggested that vocalization is mediated by fast-acting cutaneous thermoreceptors.
10.2307/3677225|To examine whether variability in the basal metabolic rate (BMR) of migrant shorebirds is a function of a variably sized metabolic machinery or of temporal changes in metabolic intensities at the tissue level, BMR, body composition and activity of cytochrome-c oxidase (CCO, a marker for maximum tissure respiration) were measured in 14 captive Knots Calidris canutus islandica in late spring, during the period of mass loss after the migratory body mass peak. Although the body mass cycle of captive birds closely followed the changes of free-living conspecifics, their fat-free mass of muscles and organs was somewhat lower and their fat content higher. BMR significantly declined during mass loss, as did the fat-free dry mass. BMR was an allometric function of both body mass (exponent = 0.687) and lean dry mass (exponent = 1.132). Fat-free dry mass of heart and flight muscle decreased with the loss of fat. CCO-activity was determined in heart, flight muscle, leg muscle, liver and kidney. It was highest in heart and flight muscle and low in the other tissues. CCO-activity was not correlated with total fat mass. Intraspecific migration-related variation in BMR seems better explained by variation in the mass of organs with a high metabolic scope (as indicated by high CCO-activity), than by variation in the intensity of tissue metabolism.
3677696|This study was designed to determine the spring, summer, autumn, and early winter distribution, migration routes, and timing of migration of the Atlantic population of Steller's eiders Polysticta stelleri. Satellite transmitters were implanted in 20 eiders captured in April 2001 at Vads, Norway, and their locations were determined from 5 May 2001 to 6 February 2002. Regions where birds concentrated from spring until returning to wintering areas included coastal waters from western Finnmark, Norway, to the eastern Taymyr Peninsula, Russia. Novaya Zemlya, Russia, particularly the Mollera Bay region, was used extensively during spring staging, moult, and autumn staging; regions of the Kola, Kanin, and Gydanskiy peninsulas, Russia, were used extensively during spring and moult migrations. Steller's eiders migrated across the Barents and Kara seas and along the Kara Sea and Kola Peninsula coastal waters to nesting, moulting, and wintering areas. The majority of marked eiders (9 of 15) were flightless in near-shore waters along the west side of Novaya Zemlya. Eiders were also flightless in northern Norway and along the Kanin and at Kola Peninsula coasts. We compare and contrast natural history characteristics of the Atlantic and Pacific populations and discuss evolutionary and ecological factors influencing their distribution.
3677630|Microsatellite analysis was used to analyse the level of extra-pair paternity (EPP) in the semi-colonially breeding linnet Carduelis cannabina in Denmark. During the breeding seasons of 1998 and 1999 EPP accounted for only 3.8% of young (4/106, 95% CL = 1-13%). These extra-pair young were found in 9.1% of the broods (2/22, 95% CL = 1-29%). We hypothesize that this low level of EPP is due to an efficient use of both mate guarding and frequent copulations as paternity guards. However, experimental tests with temporary detainment of males would be needed to establish whether there is a causal relationship between the low EPP level and the double paternity guard.
3677425| Calcium availability might limit reproductive output in birds either by effects on eggshell formation or on skeletal growth of nestlings. Quantitative data on calcium intake by nestlings of free-living passerines are needed to test the second hypothesis. In an acidified area of the Jesenky Mountains (Czech Republic), estimates were made of calcium requirements and intake in Meadow Pipit Anthus pratensis nestlings during the nestling period. Analyses of nestling diet, determined by neck ligatures, showed that only snail shells were an important source of calcium. During the whole nestling period dry matter intake per nestling was 31.1 g, of which snail shells contributed 0.626 g. The total calcium necessary for successful development of each nestling was estimated as 139.8 mg. Arthropods in the diet provided only 16% of the calcium requirement. However, sufficient calcium was ensured by intake of snails (mainly Arianta arbustorum), despite their low abundance in the area. 
30244431|Females of the obligate brood parasitic common cuckoo Cuculus canorus are assumed to lay eggs of consistent colour and pattern and egg characteristics have been used to separate between different individuals. We tested the "constant egg-type hypothesis" in blind tests using test persons who grouped cuckoo eggs into "potential clutches" based on similarity in appearance. A correct classification of eggs laid by known (radiotagged) females supported the hypothesis. However, comparisons between maternity based on visual assessments and DNA-based parentage analyses revealed rather poor concordance between the two methods. Our findings indicate that egg characteristics cannot be used to separate between cuckoo females, even if they lay eggs with constant appearance. The reason is probably that there are only small or negligible variations in egg appearance between some females like mothers and daughters or other closely related individuals.
25662899|Substantial amounts of maternal androgens are found in birds' eggs and have been shown to benefit offspring development. Within-clutch patterns of increasing androgen concentrations over the laying sequence are often hypothesized to compensate for the negative effects of hatching asynchrony. However, detrimental effects to offspring fitness of exposure to high yolk androgen levels have also been demonstrated. This suggests that mothers should forego these costs to their offspring when the need for compensation for hatching asynchrony is low or when alternative compensatory strategies, e.g. in terms of increasing egg mass, are available. Here we show that in the south-temperate lesser double-collared sunbird Nectarinia chalybea, a species with hatching asynchrony but also with high survival of last-hatched chicks, mothers do not deposit resources differentially in terms of either yolk androgen concentration or egg mass across the laying sequence. We discuss to what extend this challenges the original explanation of within-clutch variation in these egg parameters and offer some explanation for their between-clutch variation which was related to female body mass.
25161510|Breeding Ospreys were studied in southern Sweden and 13 birds were tracked by satellite telemetry on autumn migration to the African wintering grounds. This was supplemented with studies of migrating birds at Falsterbo and radar trackings from southern Sweden. Females generally left the nest site 2-3 weeks ahead of males and juveniles. Among males, failed breeders migrated significantly earlier than successful breeders. At Falsterbo, Ospreys passed in the order adult females (median 22 Aug), adult males (26 Aug) and juveniles (30 Aug). Birds tracked by radar achieved cross-country speeds of 18-47 km/h. Most of our birds wintered in an area from The Gambia to the Ivory Coast, with one juvenile in Cameroon and one female in Mozambique. Ospreys spent on average 45 days travelling an average distance of 6742 km with no significant differences between sex and age categories. Between 0 and 44 days were used for stopovers en route. Females generally made more stopovers at northerly latitudes than males. Average speed on migration was 174 km/d, which is similar to speeds reported for other large raptors followed by satellite. Speed on travelling days was on average 257 km/d with males generally moving fastest. There was a clear tendency for lower speeds and more stopovers in Europe than during the crossing of the Sahara. Migratory activity generally took place between 8 a. m. and 5 p. m. local time and we have no indications of birds flying at night. With 9 hours travelling time the expected cross-country speed, derived from the theory of thermal soaring flight and assuming thermal climb rates of 1-2 m/s, varies from 251 to 360 km/d, which is similar to the observed mean speed on travelling days. Even so, one male travelled 746 km/d between Sweden and Spain. Some Ospreys need a much larger fraction of travelling days than expected from theory, suggesting that they deposit fuel on the breeding grounds before departure. This is supported by a correlation between the observed fraction of days spent travelling and departure date. In late departing Ospreys, especially males and juveniles, a major part of the energy for migration is probably deposited on the breeding grounds.
30243820|There are three breeding taxa of crossbills in highland Scotland, the common crossbill Loxia curvirostra, parrot crossbill L. pytyopsittacus and endemic Scottish crossbill L. scotica. These taxa show no genetic differentiation in neutral DNA (microsatellites and mitochondrial DNA), but do show some differentiation in morphology and have distinct calls. Mating patterns and bill size inheritance were examined to test four different hypotheses for their genetic similarity: (1) the three taxa belong to the same species and differences in bill sizes are caused by phenotypic plasticity, (2) the taxa are a result of genetic polymorphism at a single locus, (3) the taxa largely act as species but occasionally cross-breed, such that gene flow results in genetic homogenisation of part of the genome, and (4) the taxa are fully reproductively isolated species but diverged only recently, such that insufficient time has passed for neutral DNA to differentiate by genetic drift. Hypotheses 1 and 2 could be excluded because wild crossbills mated assortatively with respect to bill depth (a measure of bill size) and bill depth was highly heritable; narrow-sense heritabilities of 0.58 for female and 0.71 for male Scottish crossbills. Only two of 46 pairs (4.3%) were not assortative by bill size. Pairing was strongly assortative by flight calls (50 out of 52 pairs, 96.2%) and excitement calls (88 out of 93 pairs, 94.6%). Therefore, the three crossbill taxa do not cross-mate freely, nor do they seem totally reproductively isolated (excluding hypothesis 4). Thus, the results mostly favour hypothesis 3. The small amount of gene flow among crossbill taxa may contribute to the lack of genetic differentiation in neutral DNA. However, this appears to be insufficient not to classify them as species, as long as the calls can be regarded as diagnostic.
25161533|Marine animals equipped with data recording devices sometimes show changes in their foraging behaviour, which can indicate an adverse effect of the instrument. We attached time-depth recorders (TDRs) and radio-transmitters to study foraging behaviour in Humboldt Penguins Spheniscus humboldti and observed an increase in the duration of foraging trips. We suggest that further tagging of this endangered species be approached with caution since this increase in trip duration may negatively affect reproductive and foraging success.
30244743|Animals should invest in the immune system to protect themselves from parasites, but the cost of immune responses may limit investment depending on resource availability. In birds' broods, senior and junior chicks in size hierarchies face different rearing conditions, and thus we predicted that factors affecting immune response should differ between them. In asynchronously hatched hoopoe Upupa epops broods, we found that the immune response of senior nestlings was not related to their body condition, but positively related to risk of parasitism (which was indirectly estimated by laying date). This suggests that their immunocompetence is not limited by access to resources, and they can differentially invest in immune response with increasing risk of parasitism. On the other hand, immune response of junior nestlings was related to their body condition, but secondarily also to risk of parasitism. Our results agree with previous studies that have found significant influence of nutritional status and risk of parasitism on nestlings immune defence, but show that the effects of these environmental factors on nestling immunocompetence differ between nestlings occupying high and low rank positions in size hierarchies. The possible influence of maternal effects on the results found is also discussed.
30244748|Parasite infections are often more common in male vertebrates than in females. Sexual selection leading to dimorphism can cause sexual differences in immune defence, behaviour or body size. Possible proximate explanations for male bias in parasitism are the immunosuppressive effect of male sex hormones and the large body size of males which increases the likelihood of being parasitized. To evaluate these hypotheses, we studied the prevalence and abundance of intestinal helminth parasites in three boreal grouse species, the capercaillie Tetrao urogallus, the black grouse Tetrao tetrix, and the hazel grouse Bonasa bonasia. The first two are sexually dimorphic polygynous species while the latter species is sexually monomorphic and monogamous. We found a male-bias in the prevalence and abundance of the nematode Ascaridia compar. The bias was most pronounced in the polygynous black grouse and capercaillie. In the monogamous hazel grouse, there was a slight male-bias in occurrence of ascarids, but no bias in abundance. In juvenile grouse, the male-bias was larger than in adult grouse. No sexual bias was found in regard to the cestodes (Skrjabinia cesticillus, Paroniella urogalli and Hymenolepis spp.). However, age was a factor in cestode prevalence: juvenile grouse were more commonly infected than adults. Differences in growth rates and body size are potential factors that may lead to male-biased parasitism in these grouse species, and their impact requires further studies.
3677700|Geographic variation in male bird songs has been studied extensively, but there have been few investigations of geographic variation in female songs or sex differences in patterns of geographic variation. We compared patterns of variation in male and female songs of eastern whipbirds Psophodes olivaceus by analyzing recordings from 16 populations across the species' geographic range in eastern Australia. We found remarkably different patterns of geographic variation between the sexes. Female eastern whipbird songs are easily categorized into discrete song types. Song types are shared between nearby females, but female songs show pronounced differences at a continental scale. In contrast, male eastern whipbird songs show high consistency throughout the species' geographic range. All recorded males share the ability to transpose the frequency of the introductory whistle and most recorded males share the ability to vary the direction of the slope of the terminal whip crack. For eight of nine measured variables, female songs show significantly higher levels of variation than male songs. We discuss whether sex differences in dispersal, song learning strategies, and song function may explain these sex differences in patterns of song variation. We suggest that eastern whipbirds have experienced a decoupling of male and female song learning strategies and that the songs of each sex have responded to different selective pressures in the context of countersinging interactions. We speculate that consistency in male songs throughout the geographic range of eastern whipbirds may arise through female preference for males that perform large bandwidth whip cracks.
30243904|Eadie (1989) developed a method based on variation between females in egg length, width and weight to detect conspecific brood parasitism in the field: using these three egg measures, Euclidean distance between all pairs of eggs within a clutch is calculated, and if maximum Euclidean distance (MED) between any two eggs exceeds a threshold value the nest is considered parasitized. The MED method has been tested in Finnish and Scottish common goldeneye Bucephala clangula populations but the results have been contradicting. Here we use protein fingerprinting to assess the validity of the MED method. Data comprised 35 clutches of which we knew, based on protein fingerprinting, how many different females laid the clutch (range 1-5 females). The mean MED of non-parasitized clutches (laid by 1 female only) was 1.470 (95% CI: lower 1.169, upper 1.771; n = 21) and that of parasitized clutches (laid by 2 or more females) was 3.654 (95% CL: lower 3.083, upper 4.225; n = 14). Using a MED > 3.0 as a criterion to identify parasitized clutches 89% of all clutches were classified correctly either parasitized or non-parasitized when compared to the identification based on protein fingerprinting. Clutch size and the number of females (beyond 2 females) did not affect the clutch MED, whereas the status of parasitism did. Repeatability of egg length, width and weight were: 0.63, 0.76 and 0.80, respectively, implying that, variation in these egg measures occurs among rather than within females. Our new results confirm that the MED method is reliable enough to detect parasitism in common goldeneye.
30243886|A recent study reported the incidence of intraspecific brood parasitism (IBP) in the blue tit, based on differences in pigmentation between eggs within clutches and the appearance of multiple eggs within a nest in a single day. Here we present data from another population of blue tits Cyanistes caeruleus in which we show that such evidence is not necessarily indicative of IBP. As in many other studies of birds, we found that the patterning and degree of pigmentation on eggs is individually highly characteristic of a female. As in the previous study of blue tits, a minority of clutches (about 3% of 904 clutches) contained one, two or three eggs that were distinctly different from the other eggs in the clutch, either in size or patterning, but not both. Molecular genetic analyses of parentage in a sample of these clutches with suspected IBP demonstrated unequivocally that all eggs within each clutch had in fact been laid by a single female, in all cases the social parent. We also found no evidence of IBP from paternity analyses of a sample of 3,529 offspring from 427 broods in this population, adding to previous evidence of the absence of IBP in this species. These findings cast doubt on the utility of purely observational approaches to provide evidence of intraspecific brood parasitism; our study suggests that egg morphology and records of laying patterns are inadequate to enable the identification of IBP.
30244485|Experiments on captive animals, in which conditions can be controlled, are useful for examining complex biological phenomena such as immune function. Such experiments have increased our understanding of immune responses in the context of trade-offs and pathogen pressure. However, few studies have examined how captivity itself affects immune function. We used microbial killing, leukocyte concentrations and complement-natural antibody assays to examine non-induced (constitutive) immunity in captive and free-living red knots Calidris canutus. Univariate and multivariate analyses indicated that captive and free-living birds differed in their immune strategies. Captive birds showed reduced S. aureus killing, C. albicans killing, heterophils, and eosinophils. In a principal component analysis, the affected variables fell onto a single axis, that reflected phagocytosis and inflammation based immunity. We discuss possible reasons for this result in an immune cost and protective benefit framework.
3677424|We present a new type of equation to describe the growth patterns of procellariiform seabirds and other species whose chicks characteristically lose mass towards the end of the rearing period. Our equation is based on the Gompertz curve; our principles are also applicable to logistic and von Bertalanffy curves. From our model, five coefficients can be derived to characterise the patterns of growth. These are: growth rate, peak mass and age at which it is attained, loss rate and an index describing the overall shape of the curve. We illustrate the use of this new equation with data collected, using automated weighing platforms, on six years of chick growth of Black-browed Diomedea melanophris and Grey-headed D. chrysostoma albatrosses at Bird Island, South Georgia. In comparison with Grey-headed Albatross, Black-browed Albatross chicks grow at a faster rate and to a higher peak mass; they also reach their peak mass at an earlier age, and lose mass at a faster rate in the mass recession period. However, in both species, chicks reached peak mass when 72% of the rearing period had elapsed; within species, only this did not vary between years. This new equation not only enables the period of mass recession to be incorporated into growth analysis, but, because it does not require assumptions about asymptotic mass, greatly facilitates inter-species comparisons.
3677728|Several studies have found that the peak in bird density in the atmosphere during nocturnal migration occurs before midnight, while the peak in vocalizations from migrating birds occurs after midnight, in the hours just before dawn. In a recent study, the patterns of calling from a single species of migrating birds correlated well with the patterns of density estimates of migrating birds. We test the null hypothesis that the patterns of reflectivity measurements and number of vocalizations during nocturnal migration are not related. We sampled radar data and nocturnal flight calls during spring and fall 2000 in northwestern South Carolina and southeastern New York. We analyzed changes in the hour-to-hour patterns of bird density and vocalizations for 556 hours on 58 nights. We also analyzed the night-to-night changes in the patterns of peak hour bird density and peak hour of vocalizations on 32 nights. We found that most of the hour-to-hour and night-to-night patterns of density and vocalization counts are significantly related and reject the null hypothesis. However, despite significant relationships between reflectivity measurements and vocalization counts, a great deal of variation in vocalization counts remains unexplained. These results suggest that factors other than bird density are responsible for the variation in vocalizing by migrating birds.
25161526|The Yellow-legged Gull Larus cachinnans is monogamous with bi-parental incubation. In this study, the effects of high levels of plasma testosterone in male Yellow-legged Gulls during the incubation period were analysed. Free-living male gulls were implanted with testosterone (T-males), and their sexual behaviour within the pair was observed and compared with that of control pairs. Egg temperatures, length of incubation and hatching success were also analysed. T-males and their mates displayed more sexual behaviour than the controls. T-males engaged in mounting behaviour with their mates, whereas control males did not. Proportionally less time was spent incubating (in relation to time present in the colony) by T-males than control males. However, the mates of T-males did not spend more time incubating than control females to compensate for male neglect, although they did spend more time on the territory. Egg temperature in T-male nests was significantly lower than in control nests, but no significant difference in the length of incubation or hatching success between the two groups was found. In birds, the effects of high testosterone levels on male behaviour during incubation have only been analysed in a polyandrous species whose females usually do not contribute to incubation. The present results thus suggest that those males of a monogamous species with biparental incubation that sustain high testosterone levels after laying, thus reducing their contributions to incubation, will be confronted with a lack of compensation from their mates during incubation. Finally, this lack of female compensation seems to be mediated by behavioural interactions with the male rather than by her absence from the colony.
3677470|When birds are attacked by aerial predators they should benefit by adjusting their escape to the prevailing attack situation. One important factor likely to affect escape decisions of prey, to our knowledge not previously studied, is the distance at which the attacking predator is detected. We investigated if great tits Parus major and blue tits P. caeruleus alter their escape behaviour to two different detection distances (2.3 m and 1m) by simulating surprise attacks using a predator model. Both species used the information about detection distance when escaping by increasing the escape angle at the shorter detection distance. In addition, blue tits adjusted to the shorter detection distance by dodging sideways more frequently. Great tits escaped initially steeper and faster than blue tits, whereas blue tits increased escape angle and speed more than great tits along the measured distance after taking wing.
3677794|An increasing number of studies have demonstrated that brood sex ratios are frequently unequal, but the proximate mechanisms underlying this deviation are largely unknown. In the current study we analysed deviation from expected 1:1 sex ratio among dead embryos from unhatched eggs collected from partially unhatched clutches of three passerine bird species. We showed that male embryos were significantly overrepresented among unhatched eggs of great tit Parus major, blue tit P. caeruleus and collared flycatcher Ficedula albicollis. Moreover, the bias in sex ratio differed among species and tended to differ among study years. We discuss several hypotheses to explain the observed male bias among unhatched eggs. We conclude that sex specific embryo mortality may contribute to explain the observed variation in sex ratios in several species of wild birds and that sexing unhatched eggs is important in studies of sex ratio allocation.
3677769|Importance of within-species (population) variation in trait values to correlations of traits among species has received very little attention in comparative analyses. We use randomization and bootstrapping techniques to provide a sensitivity analysis of the influence of population variation on correlations between clutch size and propensity to excavate. These traits are predicted to be negatively correlated under the limited breeding opportunities hypothesis, but opposing results have been found by two studies using different population estimates for western Palearctic Paridae. Our analyses support the limited breeding opportunities hypothesis and suggest low sensitivity to within-species variation in trait values. Yet, a small proportion of population data provide non-significant results. Checking for the effects of this variation on the postulated association between traits is necessary in comparative studies if one wishes to avoid type I and type II errors.
3677623|I examined the growth of surviving nestlings in broods of the cooperatively breeding laughing kookaburra Dacelo novaeguineae, which has complex patterns of brood reduction. Laughing kookaburras usually lay three eggs that hatch asynchronously. Brood reduction occurs in nearly half of all broods and always affects the youngest nestling. In most cases, the youngest nestling is killed within a few days of hatching by aggressive attacks from its older siblings. In a smaller proportion of nests, the youngest nestling dies from starvation, rather than physical attack, much later in the nestling period when nestling growth rates and adult feeding rates peak (about 20 days post-hatching). These mechanistically and temporally distinct episodes of brood reduction were associated with very different patterns of growth in the senior nestlings. Seniors that killed their youngest sibling reached higher asymptotic weights than seniors that did not commit siblicide. In contrast, if the youngest nestling was not killed by its older siblings, but later starved to death, the surviving seniors were skeletally smaller and had retarded feather development compared to seniors from other broods. These differences in nestling growth may have longer-term fitness consequences, because kookaburra fledging weight is positively associated with both juvenile survival and successful recruitment into the breeding population. Therefore, although parents of broods without mortality produce the highest number of fledglings and also the highest number of independent juveniles, if parents are unable to raise a full brood, early siblicide may represent the best brood reduction option. Early siblicide is at least associated with high quality young that have enhanced survival and recruitment prospects. In contrast, the poor growth of seniors in broods where the youngest nestling starved suggests that parents overestimated the size of the brood they could provision.
3677493|The influence of climate, age and egg-laying experience on reproductive performance (propensity, fecundity, timing) of a flock of captive houbara bustards was determined. The flock, established in Saudi Arabia for reintroduction purposes, was housed in outdoor pens, and fed food and water ad libitum. Birds were artificially inseminated when they came into breeding condition and eggs were removed soon after laying. Winter temperatures, rather than rainfall, synchronized reproduction in the captive flock. Cooler winter temperatures led to higher proportions of females laying, an earlier start to laying, and greater numbers of eggs laid per season. The first significant rainfall of the season stimulated some females to lay their last egg. Age per se had little effect on breeding performance independent of egg-laying experience. Females with no previous egg-laying experience laid fewer eggs than similarly aged females with previous experience. This difference, in combination with a pattern of increasing recruitment into the breeding population between 1 and 5 years of age, led to improved breeding performance in the population with age. The inferior performance of first-time egg-layers, despite ad libitum food, indicates restraint in the onset of breeding, which may be an adaptation for optimizing life-time fitness.
10.2307/3677221|Interactive playback experiments to singing male Great Tits Parus major were used to compare the effects of overlapping their songs with alternating playback which avoided such overlapping. The results showed that the means of measures of approach response and amount of song sung did not differ significantly between the two treatments. However, the variation in song length (phrases/song) differed significantly, being largest during overlapping. The lack of overall differences in average response between the two treatments is evidence against the idea that males may escalate threat by changing from an alternating to an overlapping pattern of singing. On the other hand, the difference in variation in song length supports the idea and is in accordance with classical ethological theory that an escalation of threat will not necessary result in an increased counter threat, but rather in an increased variation of the counter threat. The variation in song length during overlapping may have resulted from test males using a number of different ways of responding to the escalated threat of overlapping.
30244760|Multi-factor analyses of territory quality in relation to fitness components of adults are rare, especially in non-migratory species. I studied the influence of multiple attributes of territory quality (habitat type and the abundance of food and predators) on the reproductive success and survival of a threatened Australian passerine, the southern emu-wren Stipiturus malachurus. The abundance of frequently-selected prey types (lepidoptera, diptera, hemiptera and larvae) varied significantly across territories according to habitat type. Reproductive success (number of offspring fledged) was highest in territories containing a greater proportion of tall shrubland, which had the highest insect abundance of any habitat. Closed heathland and sedge/rushland also had high food abundance compared to other habitat types, but higher fledging success occurred only within closed heathland, possibly because predator density was lower in this habitat type. High snake density was associated with reduced adult survival during the breeding season and a lower probability of nest success. In sedge/rushland, any benefits of prey abundance may therefore be offset by a high density of predators. Emu-wren age and size were unrelated to breeding output of pairs, suggesting that ecological factors may swamp effects of individual quality on emu-wren fitness components. Preservation of tall shrubland and closed heathland habitats appear to be of key conservation priority for emu-wrens.
10.2307/3677106|We studied how variation in different reproductive traits (hatching date, clutch number and clutch size) in addition to mass, size and condition of the fledgling influenced its probability of survival until recruitment in a House Sparrow population living on islands off the coast of northern Norway in 1993 and 1994. Twenty-three and 21% of the fledglings were recorded alive in the population the year after hatching, respectively. Most mortality occurred just after fledging. In both years larger-sized fledglings survived better than smaller ones. Juvenile survival was independent of clutch size. Multiple logistic regression analyses showed that in both years juvenile survival increased with body size (expressed as tarsus length). In addition, in 1993 fledglings in high body condition survived better, whereas in 1994 hatching day explained a significant proportion of the variation in juvenile survival. However, this last year both body condition and size increased significantly with hatching date, suggesting that juvenile survival rate may have been dependent on body condition also in this year. These results demonstrate that losses of juveniles during the non-breeding season are strongly influenced by factors during the breeding season that affect the size and condition of the fledglings.
10.2307/3677099|The plumage colour of Pied Flycatcher Ficedula hypoleuca males varies geographically, with darker-coloured populations occurring in Fennoscandia and lighter-coloured populations in central Europe and Russia. Our data show that males, regardless of age, were darker in northern than in southern Finland. There are two potential explanations for this. First, higher predation pressure in the south compared to the north may favour more cryptic individuals. Second, there may be more extensive gene flow to southern than to northern Finland from adjacent Pied Flycatcher populations living in sympatry with the Collared Flycatcher F. albicollis on Gotland (Sweden) and in central Europe. The later assumption agrees with the idea that gene flow from areas of sympatry might maintain high colour variation of males in nearby areas of allopatry.
10.2307/3676962|Sex ratios of 368 fledglings from 145 broods of Montagu's Harrier over the period 1987-93 are analysed. The sex ratio of fledglings was biased toward males, and this bias was close to statistical significance (203 males and 165 females, P = 0.052). Published data confirm this bias (N = 591, P = 0.003). The effects of several parameters on the sex ratio are then examined: food abundance, egg laying date, egg rank order, harrier density, breeding success and harrier colony size. We found significant effects of egg rank order, the first eggs being female biased, the others male biased, and to a lesser extent, colony size. The other factors did not affect sex ratios significantly. We discuss these results, compare them with other published harrier and raptor sex ratios, and show that there is no congruence amongst them.
30244465|Age-related differences in plumage characteristics of birds can be the result of differential survival of more ornamented individuals, within-individual changes in plumage attributes with age, or a combination of both. In this study, we investigated age-class related differences in plumage attributes of male tree swallows Tachycineta bicolor by performing both cross-sectional and longitudinal analyses. Male tree swallows in their first breeding season do not display delayed plumage maturation, and possess, like experienced breeders, metallic green to metallic blue iridescent plumage on their dorsal surface. Our results showed that, at the population level, older males were brighter and reflected light maximally at shorter wavelengths (i.e. were more blue). Differences in plumage brightness were most likely caused by changes within individuals as males increased in brightness between the first time they were captured and the subsequent year. Differences in hue, however, were not due to within-individual changes, but rather appear to be the result of greener individuals having lower survival and/or nest site fidelity. Indeed, relatively dull, greener birds had a lower probability of being recaptured the subsequent year. In contrast, we found that if birds captured in their first year as breeding adults were relatively bright, hue was not related to the probability of recapture. These results suggest that plumage attributes in male tree swallows have the potential of being honest signals of quality. Furthermore, plumage brightness and plumage hue might signal different aspects of male quality in this species.
10.2307/3677309|To study parental responses during the incubation and nestling periods, nestling growth and adult moult, two eggs were either removed from or added to Pied Flycatcher Ficedula hypoleuca clutches shortly after clutch completion. Incubation period and hatching success did not differ between experimental groups. In the enlarged group the rate of male incubation feeding of the female was higher than in the other groups. Fledgling mass and tarsus length were negatively related to the experimental change in clutch size, and this effect arose entirely in the first four days after hatching. The results suggest that the embryo development during the incubation period and nestling growth during the first days after hatching are important for the subsequent nestling growth and should be taken into account when analysing the results of brood size manipulations. Fledging and breeding success, fledgling mass and tarsus length differed between experimental groups with lower values in the enlarged group. There was an effect of experimental treatment on female and male feeding rates, with higher number of feeding visits in the enlarged group. The onset of adult moult was related to calendar date and there was no effect of the experiment on the proportion of birds moulting at any given time. At least in this population, moult may not be a mechanism mediating costs of reproduction.
3677655|Sequence variation was examined in domain I of the mitochondrial control region in three Queensland populations of Hall's Babbler Pomatostomus halli, a geographically restricted, monotypic songbird in eastern Australia. Surprisingly, we found that domain I sequences were strongly differentiated into two major clades differing by 3.29%. These two clades exhibited nearly complete geographic concordance with northern and southern populations, except for two haplotypes which were sampled in the north of the range but were phylogenetically allied to the southern clade. We also found a seven-fold higher level of genetic diversity in the northern than in the southern populations. Neutrality and molecular clock tests suggested that selection or differences in substitution rates were not responsible for this difference in diversity. However, a maximum likelihood analysis of gene flow between the north and south suggested that the difference in diversity could be due to both greater population size in the north and asymmetric gene flow dominated by south to north dispersal events. A likelihood ratio test rejected a model in which population sizes were equal and rates of gene flow symmetric, and came close to rejecting a model in which only population sizes were constrained to be equal. These results suggest that different population sizes and asymmetric gene flow could be a major source of differences in genetic variation between populations of Hall's Babbler, although ecological and biogeographic causes for these differences are obscure.
3677501| Sex ratio and age structure of Tengmalm's owls Aegolius funereus crossing the Gulf of Bothnia between Sweden and Finland were investigated by catching owls on the island of Stora Fjdergg during autumn 1999. Using a molecular sexing technique, we investigated the assertions of previous studies that only adult female and juvenile Tengmalm's owls undertake nomadic movements. Juveniles were generally more frequent than adults, and the sex ratio of juvenile owls was significantly female-biased. However, contrary to expectation, adult males as well as females were caught. Additionally, among juveniles, males migrated earlier than females. Thus we infer that adult males as well as females are nomadic to some extent, and that the difference between the sexes in migratory habits is not as clear as previously thought. 
30245215|Investment in signalling is subject to multiple trade-offs that vary with life-stage, leading to a complex relationship between survival and trait expression. We show a negative relationship between survival and song rate in response to simulated territorial intrusion in male banded wrens Thryophilus pleurostictus, and test several explanations for this association. (1) Male age failed to explain the association: though age affected song rate in a cross-sectional analysis, longitudinal analysis showed that individuals did not increase their song rate as they got older. Reconciling these results suggests differential selection against young males that respond to intrusion with low song rates. (2) Mortality costs of high song rates did not appear to explain the negative relationship between song rate and survival because, though song rate in response to playback was condition-dependent, high song rates in a different context did not appear to impose mortality costs. (3) High levels of territorial pressure may have increased mortality, but were not associated with high song rates in response to playback. (4) Since song rates did not increase with age, but tended to increase only in the last year of life, we tentatively suggest that the negative relationship between song rate and survival could represent a terminal investment in territorial defence by males in their final breeding season, though further work is needed to confirm this conclusion.
25161515|The behaviour of Magellanic Penguins Spheniscus magellanicus commuting between their foraging areas and breeding areas in San Julian Bay, Argentina was studied to examine whether tidal rip currents affected travelling patterns. Although there was no apparent relationship between departure and arrival patterns and the state of the tidal cycle, birds travelling against the current dived for longer periods and had shorter rests on the surface than birds travelling with the current. In addition, birds swimming against the current hugged the banks of tidal rivers much more closely than did birds swimming with the current, thus reducing the magnitude of the current against which they had to swim. In cases of extremely high current speeds, birds travelling upstream walked. Models regarding the energetics of movement indicate that the strategies adopted by Magellanic Penguins can result in substantial energy savings.
10.2307/3677164|Understanding bird flight and migration depends on field observations, theory and laboratory experiments. Like the legs of a tripod, these three elements depend on each other for support. No one leg can be extended too far beyond the others, without destabilising the structure. At the lowest level of theory is the physics of flight, which predicts the mechanical power required from the flight muscles. The purpose of the second level is to convert the primary power requirement of the flight muscles into a rate of fuel consumption, and to predict secondary power requirements from the heart and lungs, and basal metabolism. The third level, strategic theory, uses predictions from the lower levels to investigate migration strategies, which are supposedly optimal in the ecological and evolutionary contexts. A number of questions require attention to bridge existing gaps in the lower levels of theory, especially (1) the direct measurement of mechanical power output (not oxygen consumption), (2) the measurement of two "biological constants", the isometric force exerted by one myosin filament, and the inverse power density of mitochondria, (3) the prediction of the mass and secondary power requirements of the heart and lungs, from the primary power requirement of the flight muscles, and (4) the nature of basal metabolism, and the manner in which it combines with other demands for power in the active animal. A complete theory at the physical and physiological levels can be used to construct computer simulations of migratory flight by particular birds. Such simulations can be used to approach the third (strategic) level of theory if values for input variables are obtained from field observations of real birds. The results can then be used to infer what the underlying strategy is, rather than postulating that the bird is selecting from a limited choice of possible strategies, derived analytically. The traditional emphasis on measurements of oxygen consumption, with little or no reference to the physics of the bird or the conditions of flight, does not help in building up a comprehensive body of theory, but this type of experiment could still be useful, to check the predictions of theory at the physical and physiological levels.
30243836|Migration speed in passerines is generally assumed to be higher in spring than in autumn. So far this has been only shown for the western Palaearctic-Afrotropic migration system. I compiled published records of the movements of Siberian stonechats Saxicola torquata maura in Central and northern Asia to reconstruct their spatiotemporal movement patterns in this region and to estimate migration speed in spring and autumn. My estimate of spring migration speed in the Siberian stonechats does not differ from that in autumn and is lower than the reported spring migration speeds in European passerines. Northward progression of Siberian stonechats seems to be constrained by the prevailing environmental conditions, as indicated by low temperatures and vegetation indices. Low food availability at stopover and the obstruction of the migration route by steep environmental gradients may apply also to other migratory species in the area.
30245318|I explored the fitness implications of individual and sex differences in foraging strategy in the Eurasian oystercatcher Haematopus ostralegus by monitoring the survival of individually colour-ringed birds of known sex and known feeding specialisation. Over the period of this study, adult female annual and overwinter survival was significantly lower than adult male survival. However, contrary to previous findings, no differences in survival were found between birds of different feeding specialisations. Lower female survival was not due to sex differences in feeding specialisation. Possible mechanisms for sex differences in survival and the survival implications of different feeding specialisations are discussed. I conclude that sex differences in survival may be due to differences in social status. I also suggest that worm/clam feeders and mussel-stabbers, feeding specialisations previously associated with lower survival rates, may have benefited more than mussel-hammerers from milder winter temperatures in recent years.
10.2307/3677354|The composition and frequency of occurrence of mixed flocks among foraging insectivorous birds were compared between several tropical forests from South America to the Indian Ocean and Southeast Asia, and related to forest structure, foraging behaviour and abundance of predators (diurnal raptors), to investigate relationships between flocking behaviour and antipredator defence. Foliage gleaners, the most conspicuous and least vigilant foragers, were usually the most abundant flock members and the birds with the highest flocking propensity. In contrast, species foraging low above ground or in dense vegetation were the least likely to join flocks. Flocking propensity of all insectivores pooled, or of gleaners alone, generally declined from primary lowland forest to open (semi-deciduous), disturbed (logging gaps), managed or montane forest (broken canopy), i.e. when predator detectability was likely to increase. There was also a significant positive correlation between bird-hunting raptor diversity or abundance and flocking rates of foliage gleaners or all insectivores. The results supported the hypothesis that foraging birds most vulnerable to predators were most likely to form mixed species flocks and that flocking tendency decreased when vegetation structure became more protective and/or when predator pressure became lower.
10.2307/3677073|To examine the relationship between social dominance and exposure to predation risk, we allowed natural groups of Willow Tits Parus montanus to choose between two nearby feeding sites differing in safety. The birds preferred to feed at the safe site. Socially dominant individuals used safe sites more than did subordinates. However, adult females mated with alpha males, used safe sites more than expected from their rank, possibly as a result of protection offered by their mates. Subordinates increased their use of safe sites after experimental removal of dominants, implying that the greater risk-taking of subordinates in natural flocks is due to interference from dominants. The observed pattern of risk-taking at feeders may influence survival also in natural conditions, because dominants survive better than subordinates, as documented earlier for this population.
10.2307/3677324|Natal and breeding dispersal of yearling and adult Superb Fairy-wrens Malurus cyaneus were studied for five years in Canberra, Australia. Superb Fairy-wrens are co-operative breeders and exhibit male philopatry and female-biased dispersal. Dispersal by yearling males was prompted mainly by breeding vacancies in nearby territories, and most males acquired a social mate without leaving their natal territory. All females dispersed in their first year, in two discrete phases. Early dispersal by females appears to be volitional, whereas late dispersal is forced by aggression by mothers. Early-dispersing females fledged earlier and dispersed further than late-dispersing females. Females travelled further than males, and either gained a breeding position at age one year, or disappeared. Obligate dispersal by young females appears to be costly, contradicting predictions of philopatry by co-operative breeding theory. Dispersal by established breeders was uncommon, and was female-biased. The role of the unusual mating system of the species is discussed, and dispersal patterns in this species are compared and contrasted with those of its congener M. splendens.
30244824|For many bird species, growth is negative or equivocal during development. Traditional, parametric growth curves assume growth follows a sigmoidal form with prescribed inflection points and is positive until asymptotic size. Accordingly, these curves will not accurately capture the variable, sometimes considerable, fluctuations in avian growth over the course of the trajectory. We evaluated the fit of three traditional growth curves (logistic, Gompertz, and von Bertalanffy) and a nonparametric spline estimator to simulated growth data of six different specified forms over a range of sample sizes. For all sample sizes, the spline best fit the simulated model that exhibited negative growth during a portion of the trajectory. The Gompertz curve was the most flexible for fitting simulated models that were strictly sigmoidal in form, yet the fit of the spline was comparable to that of the Gompertz curve as sample size increased. Importantly, confidence intervals for all of the fitted, traditional growth curves were wholly inaccurate, negating the apparent robustness of the Gompertz curve, while confidence intervals of the spline were acceptable. We further evaluated the fit of traditional growth curves and the spline to a large data set of wood thrush Hylocichla mustelina mass and wing chord observations. The spline fit the wood thrush data better than the traditional growth curves, produced estimates that did not differ from known observations, and described negative growth rates at relevant life history stages that were not detected by the growth curves. The common rationale for using parametric growth curves, which compress growth information into a few parameters, is to predict an expected size or growth rate at some age or to compare estimated growth with other published estimates. The suitability of these traditional growth curves may be compromised by several factors, however, including variability in the true growth trajectory. Nonparametric methods, such as the spline, provide a precise description of empirical growth yet do not produce such parameter estimates. Selection of a growth descriptor is best determined by the question being asked but may be constrained by inherent patterns in the growth data.
3677643|Using daily counts of birds seen at six coastal bird observatories in southern and eastern England, we explored the migration phenology of turtle doves during the period 1963 to 2000. Annual totals increased threefold up to the late 1970s then decreased again, in accordance with the BTO Common Birds Census (CBC) index of abundance. Median annual spring arrival and autumn departure dates of turtle doves were not related to abundance (CBC index) or mean temperature in spring or summer respectively. Although median annual spring arrival date has not altered over the 38-year period, median annual autumn departure date has become earlier by 8 days. This has resulted in a shortening of the breeding season by 12 days, which ties in with a reduction in average number of nesting attempts per pair observed by a recent autecological study. It is possible that breeding turtle doves are now out of phase with peaks in food availability. This may have resulted in reduced breeding performance and earlier termination of the breeding season, and may have partly contributed to the decline of the species.
3676985|We investigated patterns of variation of feather and bill ornaments of Crested Auklets Aethia cristatella, a monogamous seabird, based on 963 individuals measured in the years 1990 to 1998. Three prominent ornaments were displayed: a forehead crest, composed of 11-31 curved feathers averaging about 40 mm in length, bilaterally symmetrical white auricular plumes on the sides of the head behind the eyes, averaging about 30 mm in length, and brightly coloured semi-circular rictal plates at the corners of the bill. As in other putative sexually selected traits, auklet ornaments were more variable across individuals than non-ornamental traits. Crest length and auricular plume length were positively correlated within individuals but not across years. Among the traits measured there was evidence for slight sexual dimorphism for the auricular plume and rictal plate ornaments and for culmen length and tarsus (males were slightly larger than females) but not for the crest ornament. Breeding adult females and males had greater crest and plume ornament expression than non-breeding adults. Paradoxically, females' crests and rictal plates were more variable than males' crests and rictal plates. Based on independent samples, the expression of feather ornaments and rictal plate varied among years between 1990 and 1998. Crested Auklet ornaments did not vary in concert with the ornaments of Whiskered Aethia pygmaea and Least Auklets Aethia pusilla during this period. Crested Auklet subadults had smaller ornaments than adults. Based on adults remeasured after an interval of one to seven years, the size of individuals' feather ornaments increased with age. We found no relationship between auricular plume length and asymmetry. Male auricular plumes and female crests were weakly correlated with body condition.
30243920|Understanding why males of many species exhibit two or more sexual ornaments depends upon identifying both the information conveyed and the intended receiver(s) for each signal. Here we focus on identifying the intended receivers for two sexual signals exhibited by male red-backed fairy-wrens Malurus melanocephalus, extent of nuptial plumage and tail length. In doing so we test the multiple receiver hypothesis, which predicts that each trait is directed toward a different type of receiver (e.g., males vs females). Male red-backed fairy-wrens in nuptial plumage exhibit reversed sexual dimorphism for tail length in the breeding season, when their tails are significantly shorter than those of females or males in eclipse plumage. Using both aviary-based experiments and indices of mate choice and social dominance from a natural population, we found that extent of nuptial plumage and age primarily affected female mate choice and that shorter tails were primarily associated with male:male dominance signaling. The field and aviary studies combined are consistent with the multiple receiver hypothesis, in that each trait appears to be directed primarily to a different set of receivers (plumage for females and tail length for males), though each trait may also signal information to the other set of receivers as well. We propose that sexual selection may favor shorter tail lengths in male red-backed fairy-wrens through social competition mechanisms.
3677618|In contrast to the high productivity of black-legged kittiwakes in Britain, kittiwakes at many colonies in Alaska have failed chronically to reproduce since the mid 1970s. To determine if food is limiting productivity and, if so, at what stages of nesting food shortages are most severe, in 1996 and 1997 we supplementally fed kittiwakes nesting on an abandoned building. The effects of feeding were stronger in 1997 than in 1996, possibly because naturally occurring prey were of poorer quality in 1997. Consumption of supplemental herring declined as egg laying approached then increased slowly during incubation and more rapidly after hatching. All of the six components of productivity we studied were improved by supplemental feeding to some degree. Supplemental food did not significantly alter laying success in either year, although fed pairs bred at slightly higher rates than unfed pairs in 1997, the poorer food year. In 1996 and 1997, extra food noticeably increased clutch size and hatching success, but significantly so only in 1997. Fledging success and productivity were substantially augmented by feeding in both years. Fed pairs fledged twice as many chicks per nest as did unfed pairs in 1996 and three times as many in 1997. Fed and unfed pairs lost most of their potential productivity through the inability to hatch eggs, and secondarily because of their poor success at raising chicks. The benefits of supplemental feeding did not carry over from one stage of breeding to another. Pairs cut off from supplemental food after laying or hatching performed similarly to pairs that had not been previously fed. This study provides benchmark values of breeding performance attainable by kittiwakes in Alaska under optimal conditions. These values are comparable to highly productive colonies in Britain and suggest that differences in life-history characteristics between Pacific and Atlantic breeding populations are primarily controlled by food supply.
10.2307/3677057|Bird species distributions in 151 woods (0.02-30 ha) in a lowland arable landscape in eastern England were investigated using logistic regression analysis. Of 31 species included in the study, only Marsh Tit Parus palustris, Nightingale Luscinia mega-rhynchos and Chiffchaff Phylloscopus collybita failed to breed in woods of <0.5 ha. For many woodland species, the probability of breeding was positively related to woodland area and other variables decribing the woods themselves. For other species, including Blackbird Turdus merula and Sparrowhawk Accipiter nisus, woodland perimeter, rather than area, was significant. Variables describing the landscape surrounding the woods were important for both woodland species and those more typical of open country. The length of hedgerow in the surrounding landscape was positively related to the breeding presence in particular woods of Long-tailed Tit Aegithalos caudatus, Robin Erithacus rubecula, Bullfinch Pyrrhula pyrrhula, Garden Warbler Sylvia borin and Blackcap Sylvia atricapilla, and the area of surrounding woodland was important for Long-tailed Tit, Great-spotted Woodpecker Dendrocopos major and Chaffinch Fringilla coelebs. The presence of Treecreeper Certhia familiaris was negatively related to the distance to the nearest wood, whereas that of Tree Sparrow Passer montanus was negatively related to the amount of woodland in the surrounding landscape. Thus species breeding distributions were influenced by factors associated with the wider landscape, on a scale larger than that of their immediate habitats.
30243867|We measured plasma concentrations of variables associated with lipid metabolism (free fatty acids, glycerol, triglyceride, and -hydroxybutyrate), protein metabolism (uric acid), and baseline corticosterone to characterize the nutritional state of incubating king eiders Somateria spectabilis and relate this to incubation constancy at two sites, Kuparuk and Teshekpuk, in northern Alaska. King eiders at both sites appeared to employ a partial-income incubation strategy, relying on both endogenous and exogenous energy resources. Females maintained high invariant levels of free fatty acids, -hydroxybutyrate, and glycerol throughout incubation, indicating that fat reserves were a major energy source, and not completely depleted during incubation. Similarly, uric acid did not increase, suggesting effective protein sparing or protein ingestion and adequate lipid reserves throughout incubation. Baseline corticosterone and triglyceride levels increased during incubation, indicative of an increase in foraging during late stages of incubation. Incubating females at Kuparuk had higher triglyceride concentrations but also had higher -hydroxybutyrate concentrations than females at Teshekpuk. This dichotomy may reflect a short-term signal of feeding overlaying the longer-term signal of reliance on endogenous lipid reserves due to higher food intake yet higher metabolic costs at Kuparuk because of its colder environment. Incubation constancy was not correlated with plasma concentrations of lipid or protein metabolites.
10.2307/3677299|Data are provided on the density and distribution of an oceanic island population of Ravens (El Hierro, Canary Islands). The density of both the breeding population (
3676934| Changes in tissue masses associated with egg production were investigated in female Zebra Finches Taeniopygia gutatta using dietary and hormonal manipulations. We tested three hypotheses: that changes in organ masses, (a) reflect utilisation of endogenous nutrient stores due to inadequate daily dietary intake, (b) involve changes in organ structure or 'functional capacity', and (c) are initiated by onset of reproductive development (e.g. elevated plasma estrogen or yolk precursor levels, oviduct growth). Pectoral muscle lean dry mass was 18-22% lower in breeding females at the 1-egg stage compared to non-breeders, and this was independent of nutritional plane, i.e. similar changes occurred in birds provided with supplemental protein or egg food. Heart lean dry mass was also lower (16%) in breeding females, but only in birds on a low-quality seed diet, not in birds on supplemented diets. Decreases in total liver mass (14%) were due to changes in lipid content not lean dry mass, and were diet-dependent. These results demonstrate that changes in organ masses associated with egg production are complex, and do not simply reflect a general mobilisation of stored protein. We discuss why there is no hypertrophy of biosynthetic or metabolic 'machinery' associated with egg production in birds (cf. reproducing mammals). Exogenous 17-estradiol induced plasma levels of yolk precursors typical of breeding birds, and initiated oviduct growth (to 31% of mature size). However, estradiol treatment caused no change in mass of pectoral muscle, heart or liver, demonstrating that there is no simple relationship between onset of reproductive development and associated tissue mass changes. 
10.2307/3677174|Prior to migration, many migratory birds accumulate large stores of lipids as the prime energy for their migratory flights. Although this phenomenon is well known, comparatively little is known about the mechanisms of fat accumulation, and the nutritional demands and nutritional adaptations of fattening migrants. This paper shows recent findings on the role of nutrients in fattening, and how migrants are likely to achieve optimal rates of fattening by diet selection. Dietary energy and nutrient composition of foods clearly influenced the rate of daily body mass gain during migratory fattening. However, it was neither energy nor a single nutrient alone which accounted for migratory fattening. Most of the variation in body mass gain was explained by the combined effects of high energy intake, where the energy was provided by fat, and by protein intake, whereas the role of carbohydrates is less clear. The data are discussed with respect to the adaptive role of seasonal shifts in diet selection during fattening periods known for many species, and the consequences of diet for fat deposition time, fat deposition rates, and fat loads at departure as major predictors in optimal migration models.
10.2307/3677035| We tested the effects of unpredictable temperatures on fat reserves in Great Tits Parus major. During one treatment, the temperature was constant at 8.5C. In the other, temperatures fluctuated between 1.5 and 15.5 on a 24-h basis, with changes occurring just after lights-out. Residual evening weights were higher during the period of unpredictable temperatures. At the end of the period with unpredictable temperatures, more weight was gained on cold than on warm days. During the unpredictable temperature treatment, birds defecated less while eating the same amount. Nightly weight loss depended upon evening weight level, but not upon overnight temperature. Our results suggest that Great Tits use daily temperatures to predict conditions for the following night and that they regulate overnight expenditures to match reserve levels. 
10.2307/3677082|Sperm competition is a potential source of variance in male mating success. Therefore the evolutionary interpretation of sperm competition should be made within the framework of sexual selection theory and should include both male-male competition and female choice mechanisms. Previous sperm competition theory has suffered because it has generally focussed on just the conflict between males. Here we argue that sperm competition and its impact on sexual selection cannot be fully understood without considering female choice and the associated conflicts between females and their mates. For example, male mate guarding and other paternity guarding behaviours have generally been interpreted as an outcome of male-male competition because they prevent other males from fertilizing passive or resisting females. However, they could also arise out of a conflict between mates in which paternity guards prevent females from seeking fertilizations with other males. We show that a balanced approach of contrasting the two mechanisms of sexual selection yields new and testable predictions about traits associated with sperm competition.
10.2307/3677036|The reproductive success of female Tengmalm's Owls Aegolius funereus mating with already-mated males is poor: only 55% to 70% of the number of fledglings raised by simultaneously mating monogamous females. This "bad" mating decision may be best explained by a "non-compensation" model, the "deception" model, in which high-quality males exhibit high provisioning rates during courtship and conceal their marital status. A "compensation" model, the polygyny threshold model, states that secondary females can compensate for lowered success due to sharing a territory and mate by getting territories or males of higher quality. In addition, two recent models suggest that nest predation may lower the polygyny threshold and explain territorial polygyny in birds. Based on the data collected during 1985-92 in western Finland, I here demonstrate that high nest predation rate during the evolution of mate choice is not likely to explain the poor breeding success of secondary female Tengmalm's Owls. The two predation models would only work when nest losses are "unnaturally" high (>90%).
3677448|The development and the continual expansion of urban areas have not only destroyed natural habitats, but also have drastically changed the environmental and ecological conditions of these areas. Consequently, species that have settled in these new man-made ecosystems are exposed to considerable alternations in environmental conditions compared to their 'wild' conspecifics. To understand the impact of human-induced environmental changes on life history events such as reproduction, we compared the timing of the reproductive season and its underlying endocrine control in free-living European blackbirds Turdus merula inhabiting urban and nearby forest areas. Body mass, fat score, gonadal size, luteinizing hormone (LH), testosterone (T), and estradiol ( E<sub>2</sub>) were measured. Urban blackbirds developed their gonads approximately three weeks earlier than forest birds, whereas the timing of gonadal regression did not differ. There are several factors (e.g. artificial light, temperature, food availability, and social cues) which may have caused the differences in the temporal organization of gonadal growth between the urban and forest-living populations. The advanced gonadal development of urban blackbirds did not coincide with an earlier secretion of reproductive hormones. In contrast, urban males had lower plasma LH and T levels during testicular growth than forest males. Differences in social interactions and environmental conditions may explain the contrast of gonadal development and the timing of hormone secretion between urban and forest blackbirds.
3677748|The amount of time a bird allocates to incubation is likely to be limited by energetic constraints. If food is abundant, energetic constraints may be reduced and the time spent incubating (incubation attendance) may increase. Moreover, the onset of incubation in relation to clutch completion may be advanced, resulting in a higher degree of hatching asynchrony. We measured the effect of experimentally increased food availability on incubation attendance and an estimate of hatching asynchrony in the Australian reed warbler Acrocephalus australis. Supplementary food was provided every other day, from a few days before the start of egg laying until just prior to hatching. Incubation attendance was measured with temperature loggers at nests receiving supplementary food and control nests. Hatching asynchrony was inferred from mass and size differences between siblings shortly after hatching. We found that 1) food supplementation resulted in an increase in incubation attendance, when comparing both nests receiving supplementary food to control nests as well as feeding to non-feeding days in nests receiving supplementary food, and 2) food supplementation resulted in a greater hatching asynchrony, without affecting clutch size, average egg volume or the likelihood of eggs hatching. This suggests that food availability acts in a proximate way to modify the extent of incubation attendance and hatching asynchrony. We discuss the adaptive significance of increased incubation attendance and a shift in the degree of hatching asynchrony in relation to food availability.
30243895|Self-feeding precocial development is associated with high energy requirements and potentially vulnerable to short-term reductions in food availability, yet few studies have investigated development of foraging in precocial chicks and its sensitivity to environmental conditions. We studied time budgets and foraging behaviour during the 25-d prefledging period in the insectivorous chicks of a grassland shorebird, the black-tailed godwit Limosa limosa. Until 8-10 d old, parental brooding was the main determinant of chicks' daily foraging time. Brooding decreased with age and temperature and increased during rainfall. Foraging time increased to 70-90% of the daylight period in chicks older than a week, during which distances of 3-12 km d were covered. Chicks took 98% of their arthropod prey from the grassland vegetation. Prey ingestion rates increased in the first week and slowly declined thereafter, modified by wind speed, temperature and time of day. Chicks in poor body condition were brooded more than chicks growing normally and hence had less feeding time, potentially leading to a negative condition spiral under adverse conditions. However, we found no effect of condition on prey ingestion rate that would preclude recovery when conditions improve. Combining behavioural observations with data on energy expenditure revealed that mean prey size was small (1-4.5 mg), necessitating a high feeding rate, but increased notably after 7-10 d of age. This coincided with a decrease in walking speed, suggesting that chicks fed more selectively. Prey of older chicks approached the upper limit of sizes available in exploitable densities in the grassland vegetation, and this enhances the chicks' sensitivity to variation in prey availability due to weather and agricultural practice.
3677694|Where there is seasonal disparity among opportunities, the season with those in shortest supply is most likely to limit populations. Among migrant birds that travel between different breeding and winter ranges, any of breeding, migratory or winter conditions could exclusively constitute such population-limiting factors. In both the New and Old Worlds, landmass is disproportionately concentrated in temperate latitudes. In the Americas, most passerine bird species that breed in the USA and Canada spend the winter further south, commonly in parts of the tropics where landmass is significantly less. Using a sample of 89 migratory species (eight passerine families) that breed in eastern North America, I considered patterns of geographic breeding range size, winter range size and winter distribution. Winter range size is usually smaller than breeding range size (84 of 89 species), often substantially so (minimum 8%, mean 52%). Wintering latitude explains significant variation in both breeding range size and winter range size, as well as in winter range size relative to breeding range size. In particular, all three measures vary latitudinally in patterns similar to latitudinal variation in landmass. These patterns collectively suggest that the reduction in landmass in the latitudes of Central America and the Caribbean is a limiting factor for migrant bird populations, adding to other research concluding that winter conditions sometimes prevail over breeding conditions in the limitation of populations. Hectare for hectare, habitat destruction in the tropics is likely to have the greater impact on the welfare of passerine populations breeding in North America.
30243900|Condition-dependent resource allocation to eggs can affect offspring growth and survival, with potentially different effects on male and female offspring, particularly in sexually dimorphic species. We investigated the influence of maternal body condition (i.e., mass-tarsus residuals) and two measures of female resource allocation (i.e., egg mass, yolk carotenoid concentrations) on nestling mass and growth rates in the polygynous and highly size dimorphic yellow-headed blackbird Xanthocephalus xanthocephalus. Egg characteristics and carotenoid concentrations were obtained from the third-laid egg of each clutch and were correlated with the mass and growth rates of the first two asynchronously hatched nestlings. Maternal body condition was associated with the growth of first-hatched, but not second-hatched nestlings. Specifically, females in better body condition produced larger and faster growing first-hatched nestlings than females in poorer body condition. As predicted for a polygynous, size-dimorphic species, females that fledged first-hatched sons were in better body condition than females that fledged first-hatched daughters. Associations between egg mass, yolk carotenoid content, and nestling growth were also specific to hatching-order. Egg mass was positively correlated with the mass and growth rates of second-hatched nestlings, and yolk concentrations of -carotene were positively correlated with second-hatched nestling mass. Surprisingly, the relationship between yolk lutein and hatchling growth differed between the sexes. Females with high concentrations of yolk lutein produced larger and faster growing first-hatched sons, but smaller first-hatched daughters than females with lower lutein concentrations. Mass and growth rates did not differ between first- and second-hatched nestlings of the same sex, despite asynchronous hatching in the species. Results from this study suggest that maternal body condition and the allocation of resources to eggs have carotenoid-, sex-, and/or hatch-order-specific effects on yellow-headed blackbird nestlings.
10.2307/3677173| Few studies of flight physiology have used birds that are in the migratory state. Thus, we obtained behavioural and physiological data from a group of Svalbard Barnacle Geese before and during the autumn migration from their breeding area around Ny-lesund (79N) to their wintering grounds around the Solway Firth, Scotland (55N). We attached lightweight (33 g) satellite transmitters (PTTs) to some birds in order to determine their behaviour, and implanted small (20 g) data loggers into the abdominal cavity of other birds to obtain some indication of their energy expenditure during migration. The maximum single non-stop flight duration was approximately 14 h and all the geese flew along the Norwegian coast, with a number of stops en route. All birds showed impressively long bouts of flight with little opportunity for significant refuelling, with one bird flying for 49 h out of a possible total time of 59 h. Thus, from the perspective of taking on fuel, these periods of flight could be considered as being "physiologically" non-stop. Average heart rate at the beginning of migration was 317 beats min
10.2307/3677076|Many bird species begin incubation before the clutch is complete, which leads to asynchronous hatching of the young. Several hypotheses have been proposed to explain this hatching pattern, most of them assuming that asynchronous hatching is of adaptive value. Pied Flycatcher broods were induced to hatch either synchronously or asynchronously in order to compare the breeding success resulting from these two hatching patterns. Experimental maximization of hatching synchrony led to an increase in the production of young. Synchronously hatched young also had longer tarsi and higher fledging weights than young from asynchronous broods. Synchronous hatching was favourable in both years of study, even though one was cold and rainy and the other warm and dry. Survivors in asynchronous broods in which some mortality had occurred were not in better condition than young in synchronous and unreduced broods, in contrast to what the brood reduction hypothesis predicts. Thus, this study does not support Lack's (1947, 1954) original presentation of this hypothesis as an explanation for the presence of the semi-asynchronous hatching pattern occurring naturally in Pied Flycatchers. However, the raising of experimentally synchronous broods might induce a larger parental effort perhaps affecting parental survival probability or subsequent fecundity. It is not possible to decide whether the absence of complete synchrony in the Pied Flycatcher is due to hormonal constraints, or whether some factor, such as predation on the nest contents (eggs, young or adults), may also make hatching asynchrony adaptive.
3676983|Actuarial senescence in captive populations of 28 species of bird was quantified by estimating the parameters of Weibull models fitted to survival curves constructed from data obtained from zoos. Samples of natural and captive populations were compared using phylogenetically independent contrasts, which revealed that extrinsic mortality rates in captive populations are, on average, less than 30% of those of natural populations but that the component of mortality related to aging does not differ significantly between natural and captive birds. This result supports the hypothesis that aging-related mortality is associated with intrinsic causes of death that kill independently of the external environment. A logical implication of this result is that birds in natural populations maintain a high level of physical fitness into old age and do not become more vulnerable to extrinsic mortality factors with increasing age. Additional comparisons showed that the rate of aging in this sample of birds is correlated with body mass, but not with embryonic or postnatal growth rate. These analyses suggest that studies of aging in captive populations can provide powerful tools to help us understand senescence in natural populations.
30244462|The blue-green eggshell pigment biliverdin is an efficient antioxidant, the deposition of which may be costly and act as a handicap to the female's antioxidant capacity. Thus, it is hypothesized that there exists a positive correlation between the degree of eggshell coloration and the condition and health state of the mother. In this study, we measured the blue-green chroma of collared flycatcher Ficedula albicollis eggs, and investigated the associations between egg colour and parental characteristics, laying date, clutch size and laying order. We also analysed the possible correlations between egg size, yolk carotenoid and antibody levels and eggshell pigmentation. Our results revealed no significant relationships between egg colour and female age, morphological and serological variables. Blue-green colour intensity of eggs increased throughout the breeding season, which could be the result of either a proximate constraint or an adaptive strategy. We found a positive association between egg colour saturation and yolk lutein concentration. This relationship could be the result of the seasonal improvement of caterpillar supply, which could influence the deposition of both components into the egg. Furthermore, we found that females mated to lower-quality males produced eggs with higher biliverdin pigmentation. It is possible that deposition of biliverdin is correlated to some unmeasured aspect of egg quality that could enhance the viability of offspring of lower-quality fathers. We found that intensity of blue-green coloration increased with laying order between the first and fifth eggs.
3677389| The metabolic rate of moulting macaroni penguins Eudyptes chrysolophus was investigated using three techniques in order to test two hypotheses concerning the energetic cost of the moult fast in penguins. First, that energy expenditure during the moult is greater than that while penguins are onshore during the breeding season. Second, techniques that do not measure energy expenditure throughout the moult fast do not accurately determine the true cost of the moult. Mass loss calculations, measurement of the rate of oxygen consumption and estimation of the rate of oxygen consumption from heart rate in the field were used with captive and free-ranging penguins. Comparison of the results from these techniques suggest that metabolic rate is higher in the field than in a respirometer due to an increase in thermoregulatory costs. Furthermore the average metabolic rate of female penguins during the moult at 5.04  0.85 W kg
30245327|Traditionally, studies of sexually size-dimorphic birds and mammals report that the larger sex is more sensitive to adverse environmental conditions during ontogeny. However, recent studies in avian species that exhibit moderate size-dimorphism indicate that the smaller sex may be more sensitive to poor rearing conditions. To better understand sex-specific sensitivity in a passerine exhibiting moderate size-dimorphism, we examined growth, cell-mediated immunity (CMI) and survival of European starling Sturnus vulgaris nestlings following an experimental reduction of maternal rearing ability (via a feather-clipping manipulation). Contrary to conventional theory, daughters showed reduced growth in both body mass and measures of structural size in response to the maternal treatment. In contrast, sons showed no reductions in any of these traits in relation to the treatment. No sex-specific differences in nestling CMI were found for either group, although CMI of nestlings raised by manipulated mothers were higher than those of control nestlings. Finally, fledging sex ratios did not change from those at hatching indicating that neither sex appeared differentially sensitive to the maternal treatment in terms of mortality. These results reveal that variation in the quality of the rearing environment can have significant effects on the smaller sex of a passerine exhibiting moderate dimorphism and as such support recent studies of species with small-moderate sexual size-dimorphism. Combined results suggest that sex-specific effects of environmental variation on nestling development may be both context- (i.e., brood size, resource level, hatching order) and temporally- (when during development they occur) specific. Furthermore, more studies are needed that examine multiple traits at several developmental stages and then follow the sexes over the longer-term to examine potential effects on fitness.
3677512|Global warming is expected to increase the frequency and intensity of inter-annual variation in Sea-Surface Temperatures (SST) associated with a latitudinal shift of frontal structures in the Southern Ocean. However, the long-term consequences of these major climatic events on the biotic environment remain poorly understood. We studied the effect of SST anomalies in the southern Indian Ocean on the breeding success of eight seabird species, and found these temperature anomalies to have different effects depending on the foraging habitat of the species. The breeding success of four seabird species foraging mainly south of the Polar Front in Antarctic waters was significantly depressed by warm SST occurring mainly in winter and spring, prior to breeding. Conversely, warm SST anomalies were associated with a higher breeding success for species foraging mainly north of the Polar Front, while no significant effect was found for two species that forage on the Kerguelen plateau. These different responses to changes in the SST were also observed for two closely related species (sooty albatross Phoebetria fusca and light-mantled sooty albatross P. palpebrata) breeding at Kerguelen. These observations highlight the importance of multi-species long-term monitoring programs for understanding the ecological consequences of environmental variability. Our results suggest that the predicted southward shift of the Polar Front caused by oceanic warming could lead to an important decrease in the breeding performance of top predator seabirds depending on the location and changes of their foraging habitat in relation the Polar Front.
30245196|The immune system has a crucial importance determining animal health and survival. Its maintenance and activation are costly and usually trade with other physiologically costly functions. In birds, number and size of siblings in a nest are likely to determine the development of immunity. Indeed lower immunocompetence is expected in large than in small broods. Moreover, in asynchronous breeders, siblings are expected to differ in immunocompetence because asynchrony produces marked size hierarchy within-broods. Here we studied the effect of environmental conditions at the nest, chick sex and size, and natural mass differences among siblings due to hatching asynchrony on the development of the innate and acquired immune systems in the threatened non-size dimorphic asynchronous breeder European roller Coracias garrulus. Constitutive innate immune function was estimated by using a new technique proposed by Matson et al. (2005). Natural Antibody (NAb) and Complement levels, innate immunity, varied with the mass difference between each chick and its heaviest sibling. NAb levels were higher in late-hatched siblings compared to early-hatched ones, indicating that the smallest offspring in each brood has the most developed innate immune system. This relationship was independent of the nest environment. The heterophil/lymphocyte (H/L) ratio, which may indicate the level of stress, was higher in the heaviest siblings of each brood. In addition, the H/L ratio and white blood cell count (WBC) of nestlings, measures belonging to both the innate and acquired arms of the immune system, were related to conditions suffered in the nest. Our results may be explained by differential allocation of resources by female rollers as a way to improve the survival of the whole brood.
3677721|We analysed five data sets of flight directions of migrating arctic waders in relation to winds, recorded by tracking radar and optical range finder, in order to find out if these birds compensate for wind drift, or allow themselves to be drifted by winds. Our purpose was to investigate whether arctic waders use adaptive wind drift strategies or not. The data sets were collected in Siberia (two sets) and Canada during post-breeding (autumn) migration, and in Mauritania and South Sweden during pre-breeding (spring) migration. Both significant drift and compensation effects were found in three of the data sets, Canada, Mauritania and South Sweden. Almost no compensation was found in birds departing in easterly directions from the Siberian tundra (complete drift), while no drift effect was found in birds departing in westerly directions (complete compensation). There were indications that at least some populations of waders may use an adaptive drift strategy consisting of drift at high altitude and/or in high wind speed combined with compensation at low altitude and/or in lower wind speeds, but support for this idea was rather weak and not consistent. Our results were instead more in accordance with the adaptive drift theory that predicts initial drift during the migratory journey, followed by compensation during later stages as the birds are approaching their destinations. Such a strategy implies that arctic waders, at least adult birds, have the capacity of true navigation. A comparison with earlier studies of migrating arctic waders from different parts of the world show that all results so far may be interpreted in accordance with this general adaptive drift strategy. An element of non-adaptive drift can, however, not be completely ruled out.
10.2307/3677252|Molecular sexing is an attractive means to determine the sex of sexually monomorphic birds, e.g. chicks of most species. A universal approach for molecular sexing of birds would require that a conserved W chromosome-linked sequence could be analysed, but no single gene has previously been known from any avian W chromosome. The recent discovery of the CHD1W gene, apparently W-linked in all non-ratite birds, has opened new possibilities in this direction, although there is a problem in that the gene also exists in a very similar copy on the Z chromosome (CHD1Z). Here we describe a universal method for molecular sexing of non-ratite birds which is based on the detection of a constant size difference between CHD1W and CHD1Z introns. Using highly conserved primers flanking the intron, PCR amplification and agarose electrophoresis, females are characterised by displaying one (CHD1W) or two fragments (CHD1W and CHD1Z), while males only show one fragment (CHD1Z) clearly different in size from the female-specific CHD1W fragment. With one particular pair of primers (2550F and 2718R) we applied this test to 50 bird species from 11 orders throughout the avian phylogeny, successfully sexing 47 of the species. Using an alternative pair of primers, the three failing species could be reliably sexed. This means that a simple, rapid and cheap universal system for molecular sexing of non-ratite birds is now available.
10.2307/3677176|Tracking radar measurements of winds at the flight levels of bird migration during several migratory seasons in central Europe, southern Israel and the western Mediterranean are analysed with regard to optimal migratory behaviour in relation to wind. Birds migrating through central Europe and the Mediterranean area have to cope with windspeeds commonly ranging from 50 to 100% of their normal airspeed. Opposing winds prevail in central Europe, while at the western and eastern edge of the Mediterranean head- and tailwinds occur in similar frequencies. Winds are highly variable in time and altitude. A bird migrating selectively during nights with favourable wind conditions speeds up its flight by 30% (on average) compared to an individual disregarding the wind situation. Selecting the most profitable flight altitude may result in an additional gain of 40% in flight speed. Therefore, taking into account the wind situation carefully, a bird can almost double its flight speed and save about half of the energy required for its migratory journey through central Europe and the Mediterranean. The time needed for refuelling decreases accordingly or the safety margins provided by fat reserves can be increased. For birds flying long distances in one step, the selection of favourable winds should be more important than adjusting departure to local fat accumulation rates.
25662892|Innate immunity plays an important role in protecting birds early in development. The strength of innate immunity in nestlings appears to be affected by heritable and early maternal effects, as well as later environmental effects. To explore factors affecting innate immunity, we conducted a partial cross-fostering experiment in nestling tree swallows Tachycineta bicolor. The ability of nestling blood plasma to kill Escherichia coli in vitro was influenced by heritable or early maternal effects and was unrelated to body condition of nestlings or brood size of the foster nest. The relative importance of heritable and early maternal effects versus environmental effects on nestling hematocrit (packed volume of red blood cells) and body condition were also examined. Hematocrit was significantly influenced by the nest in which nestlings were reared, though it was not related to nestling body condition. Body condition was significantly influenced by the nest in which nestlings were reared, though it was also weakly influenced by heritable or early maternal effects. In summary, heritable and early maternal effects are stronger predictors than rearing conditions of innate immunity in nestling tree swallows. Furthermore, hematocrit is largely environmentally determined but is not related to body condition or innate immunity, as measured in this study.
25161514|We used data from three Common Goldeneye Bucephala clangula populations in Finland to study if the variation between females in egg morphology, as measured using a method developed by Eadie (1989), can be used to identify parasitized clutches. Eadie's method is based on z-score standardized measures of length, width, and weight of eggs. Using these measures, Euclidean distance for each pair of eggs within a clutch was calculated. Euclidean distance between the two most dissimilar eggs (maximum Euclidean distance, MED) was used as the criterion to identify parasitized clutches. Test clutches of 3 eggs that included one egg from each of three different females had a higher MED (2.80) than 3-egg clutches that included eggs from one female only (2.05), proving that there is statistically significant variation in egg morphology between females. Test clutches that included three eggs from each of three different females (9 eggs in all) had a mean MED of 4.51. The mean MED of naturally parasitized clutches (4.83) was higher than that of nonparasitized clutches (2.12). Further analyses suggested that MED > 3.0 can be used as a conservative and reliable criterion to identify parasitized clutches. Our results confirm that Eadie's method is reliable enough to identify parasitized clutches in Common Goldeneyes.
10.2307/3677311|The large-scale dynamics of bird communities in central Victoria, Australia, were studied in relation to eucalypt flowering by recording community changes throughout the annual cycle in sites north and south of the Great Dividing Range (GDR). Two kinds of forest habitat were considered, one of which flowers profusely in winter ('ironbark') while the other flowers little but over the warmer months ('stringybark'). There were eight sites, two of each habitat in both the northern and southern regions. In the absence of flowering in ironbark sites during summer, the avian communities of both kinds of habitat are virtually the same in each region. However, the sets of communities in each region differ significantly from one another at this time. With the onset of winter flowering, avian community composition in ironbark habitats in each region diverges greatly from the non-flowering ironbark and stringybark communities, but converges back to those communities as flowering declines. Most of these changes are due to the influx of high densities of nectarivores, especially honeyeaters and lorikeets. Such influxes in stringybark habitats did not occur, probably because the flowering intensity was at most an order of magnitude less than that in ironbark sites. The results show the dramatic impact that eucalypt flowering has on avian communities in south-eastern Australia, and the influence of habitat differences. Thus, although nectarivores move into the northern region of the study area to capitalize on winter flowering, they show high habitat specificity and virtually avoid the non-flowering stringybark habitats. The results are discussed in terms of landscape and regional dynamics of birds and the possible interactions among avian sub-communities (the 'nectarivores' and 'non-nectarivores').
10.2307/3677169|Numerous reports on homogeneous streams of nocturnal migrants over land and water, crossing coastlines without taking any notice of the habitat change underneath, seem to contradict recent infrared observations along the French and Spanish Mediterranean coasts in autumn, suggesting important deviations from the standard SSW or SW flow of migrants associated with the geographical situation and the course of the coastlines. In order to look for potential reactions of nocturnal migrants to the sea/land transition, the flight paths of night-migrating birds were recorded by tracking radar in autumn 1996 at the southern tip of Mallorca and at the E-W leading coast near Malaga. Within the tracking time of 40 s per individual there was no short-term adjustment of direction when crossing the coastline, neither were there differences in the average vertical speeds of birds approaching and leaving the coast. The mean altitudes of tracked birds, however, were about 9% higher above land than over water at both sites. Between-site comparison revealed higher average flight speeds of birds above the island than when leaving the mainland. At both sites important variation in flight behaviour was observed in the course of the night: near Malaga a continuous shift towards the E-W leading coast, simultaneously over water and land, suggests diminishing motivation to continue flights across the sea at times when decreasing fat reserves and/or an endogenous rhythm dissuade from crossing an obstacle of unknown dimensions. Increasing proportions of reverse migration in the course of the night at both sites, with birds flying at low levels and low speeds, are additional indications of motivational conflicts between continuing migration and landing. Optimal migratory behaviour therefore does not necessarily imply that birds should follow the shortest route, but appears to be an adjustable compromise between risk avoidance and straight flight depending on endogenous and environmental conditions.
3677677|The distribution of feather mites (Astigmata) along the wing of passerine birds could change dramatically within minutes because of the rapid movement of mites between feathers. However, no rigorous study has answered how fine-tuned is the pattern of distribution of feather mites at a given time. Here we present a multiscale study of the distribution of feather mites on the wing of non-moulting blackcaps Sylvia atricapilla in a short time period and at a single locality. We found that the number and distribution of mites differed among birds, but it was extremely similar between the wings of each bird. Moreover, mites consistently avoided the first secondary feather, despite that it is placed at the centre of the feathers most used by them. Thus, our results suggest that feather mites do precise, feather-level decisions on where to live, contradicting the current view that mites perform "mass", or "blind" movements across wing feathers. Moreover, our findings indicate that "rare" distributions are not spurious data or sampling errors, but each distribution of mites on the wing of each bird is the outcome of the particular conditions operating on each ambient-bird-feather mite system at a given time. This study indicates that we need to focus on the distribution of feather mites at the level of the individual bird and at the feather level to improve our understanding of the spatial ecology of mites on the wings of birds.
10.2307/3677246|Habitat edges affect several ecological phenomena, usually known as the edge-effect concept. One of its basic principles is the ecological trap hypothesis which assumes that birds are attracted to nest near habitat edges where food supplies may be greater but nest predation is higher. We studied nest-site selection in relation to the lake shore/forest habitat edge in the Common Goldeneye Bucephala clangula, a hole-nesting duck, using two types of experiment. First, we examined nest-site prospecting by erecting nest boxes with traps at the shoreline and inside the forest at varying distances from the shoreline. Secondly, we examined nest-site selection in three study areas by erecting nest boxes in pairs: at the shoreline and at varying distances inside the forest. In addition we experimentally measured nest predation rate in shore and forest boxes using artificial nests. Goldeneye females prospected shore and forest boxes equally. However, the final decision was in favour of shore boxes: within a box pair, the shore box was occupied first in all three study areas. There was no difference in nest predation rate between shore and forest boxes, except in one study area where predation rate was lower, not higher, in shore boxes. Thus, while Goldeneye females clearly exhibit a pattern of nest-site selection in relation to habitat edge, the ecological trap hypothesis is not supported so far as the risk of predation is considered. Increased predation risk associated with the period of getting hatched young out of the nest to a brood-rearing lake may be the reason for the rejection of forest boxes.
10.2307/3677135|The proportion of extrapair paternity is known to vary greatly among species, but differences between populations of the same species have rarely been considered. We used microsatellite DNA markers to assess parentage of offspring in a subarctic population of the socially monogamous Yellow Warbler Dendroica petechia nesting near Churchill, Manitoba. We found a significantly lower proportion of extrapair young in the Churchill population than in a temperate population nesting approximately 1500 km to the south near the Queen's University Biological Station (QUBS) in Ontario. We show that the Churchill population also had significantly lower nesting density and significantly higher breeding synchrony; both are factors that have been hypothesized to affect extrapair paternity negatively. We suggest that inter-population comparisons can be used to test proximate mechanisms affecting extrapair paternity and in some cases may be better than interspecific or inter-individual comparisons. Towards this end we list eight other species that have had extrapair paternity measured in different populations.
10.2307/3677209|We studied the fattening strategies of two insectivorous passerines, the Robin Erithacus rubecula and the Wren Troglodytes troglodytes, during their wintering stage in a study area of the eastern Po valley (Northern Italy). We analysed the relationship between some environmental (temperature, photoperiod, rainfall) and social factors (density of migrant competitors, territoriality, home range size) on the one hand, and levels of fat reserve on the other. Although average body fat depots differed between the two species, both increased their daily fat stores as the photoperiod shortened with the progress of winter. The amount of fat accumulated by day was more than that required for overnight consumption. Both species also responded to short-term variations in weather conditions: fat depots were inversely related to the maximum temperature on the day of capture. The use of space and the social structure of the wintering populations seem to affect fattening strategies: fat reserves of resident Robins were negatively related to the density of conspecific migrants, early in the season. The same relationship was not observed for Wrens, which were dispersed in extensively overlapping home-ranges. In this species, the home-range size was positively, and fat reserves negatively, correlated with the body size of the bird.
3677597|I propose that the existence of imperfect adaptations (e.g. egg mimicry) in brood parasites and their hosts (e.g. discrimination abilities) could reflect age-dependent territory and nest-site selection patterns of the host. Studies of various passerines indicate that (1) older breeders tend to occupy nest sites of higher quality than do young birds (ideal despotic distribution resulting from interference competition), (2) nest-site selection affects the risk of parasitism in various habitats, (3) egg recognition in passerines has a strong learning component (therefore naive breeders tend to accept whereas older birds tend to reject parasitic eggs). Because young naive birds, who tend to accept parasitic eggs, usually breed in low-quality areas where they are frequently parasitised, while old experienced birds, who tend to reject parasitic eggs, breed in high-quality areas where they are rarely parasitised, the distribution of acceptors and rejecters with respect to the risk of parasitism is non-random, i.e. populations of some host species may consist of heavily parasitised acceptors and weakly parasitised rejecters. Therefore, the selection pressure exerted by the host on the parasite should be weaker than if brood parasitism was randomly distributed among naive and experienced breeders and affect adaptations such as egg mimicry. This could explain the existence of imperfect adaptations in some brood parasite-host systems.
3677688|Carotenoids are a large group of biochemicals, with similar properties, synthesised by bacteria, fungi, algae and plants. Vertebrates obtain these biologically active pigments through the diet, and they are a disproportionately common component of animal colour signals and play important roles in immune functions and as antioxidants. Carotenoids are believed to be a limited resource and because of the trade-off between allocation of carotenoids to signals and to other functions, carotenoid based signals are often thought to be handicap signals. The purpose of this study was to investigate the signalling potential of carotenoid-based tissue coloration in the great black-backed gull Larus marinus. The intensity of carotenoid-based coloration in bill, gape and eye-ring coloration was investigated in relation to body condition, reproductive parameters, levels of immune activity, and sexual dimorphism. In males there was a positive relationship between colour intensity and body condition, but in females no such relationship was found. However, females with high colour intensity had larger eggs and clutches. Additionally, females with high red scores tended to have high density of circulating lymphocytes. There was no sexual dimorphism in coloration and there was a negative relationship between colour intensity and sampling time, which indicates that this coloration is most intensely expressed early in the breeding season. The results in this study suggest that carotenoid-based coloration in great black-backed gull are partly condition dependent and reveal information about individual quality in both males an females. Hence, it might have evolved as an important signal for assessing the quality of potential mates.
10.2307/3677129|Many birds perceive, and some seem to communicate, in the UV-A waveband (320-400 nm) invisible to humans, but the morphological mechanism and thereby scope for ultraviolet plumage signalling remain largely unstudied. No avian pigments or iridescence that reduce or enhance primarily UV reflectance are known, but a UV version of the common Tyndall "spongy structure" has been found in a parrot. A similar UV structure is here described for the first time in a passerine, the Blue Whistling-thrush Myiophonus caeruleus. Among patches of its plumage, and across other investigated species, a correlation between spongy structure dimensions and "hue" (spectral location of the reflectance peak) is consistent with current models of the optical mechanism, in particular the "hollow cylinder model" by Dyck (1971). Variations in "brightness" (intensity) and "chroma" (spectral purity) seem due mainly to modifications of ramus shape (flattening and a unique type of lateral flanges) and spongy layer thickness, here quantified by light paths laid out on the cross sections. The results suggest a wide potential for UV signals in passerines, but pure ("hidden") UV ornaments might be rare for other reasons. Keratin absorbance and declining ambient light in this spectral range, and perhaps also the 370 nm sensitivity maximum of the avian UV receptor, might constrain UV signals to the 400 nm region where they will be perceived as conspicuously violet also by humans. Finally, some possible "honesty-maintaining" ontogenetic costs of UV/violet plumage colours are discussed.
3677535|Experimental synchronization of onset of incubation was employed in laboratory held zebra finches Taeniopygia guttata to study whether differential resource allocation and possible bias of offspring sex in subsequent eggs in the laying order could mitigate the effects of hatching asynchrony. We found that egg mass increased with laying order, but offspring sex was not related to laying order. Among synchronized clutches, eggs hatched more synchronously than eggs from control nests. Survival probability was related to egg mass, and as expected, this effect differed between experimental groups: it was positive among synchronized broods and not significantly related among asynchronous broods. This suggests that increase in egg mass with the laying order might reduce disparities between early and late hatching chicks. Female nestlings survived better than male nestlings. However their growth was impaired in synchronized broods, whilst growth of males was not affected by hatching synchronization.
10.2307/3677011|In long-lived birds, reproductive performance is considered to increase with breeding experience, influencing site and mate retention. However, breeding success also depends on external factors. We therefore increased experimentally the breeding success of a population of White-chinned Petrels Procellaria aequinoctialis that had been suffering from black rat Rattus rattus predation. Thus, we were able to control for intrinsic and extrinsic factors when studying relationships between reproduction and fidelity in this long-lived and faithful species. Rat poisoning led to a significant increase of breeding success, site and mate fidelity. Breeding success increased with individual experience and breeding failure affected burrow fidelity significantly, but only during the period when rats were not poisoned. After rat poisoning had started, birds were more likely to retain their burrows as they became more experienced, but breeding success and experience had no effect on mate fidelity in either period. Although White-chinned Petrels seemed to change burrow or mate in order to improve their breeding success, the major factor causing changes was disturbance caused by rats rather than breeding failure per se. Variations in mate fidelity appeared to be merely a consequence of variation in burrow fidelity. Our results disagree with most studies on long-lived and faithful species. Therefore, controlling for both intrinsic and extrinsic factors is desirable, and comparisons within and between populations should be combined whenever possible when studying life-history traits.
3677785|Several hypotheses have been proposed to explain the adaptiveness of hatching asynchrony for the parents, but delayed hatching is generally detrimental for the late hatched young. These offspring often experience competitive disadvantage and delayed development. If hatching asynchrony has a reason other than producing competitive differences among offspring, it would be advantageous, not only for the offspring but even for the parents, to compensate for its detrimental effects. In some species, increasing investment into later laid eggs has been reported and discussed as a compensation mechanism, but its effect on nestling growth and fledging size has not been examined in details. In this study we investigated nestling growth and size at fledging in terms of body mass and length of primaries in relation to the accurate laying and hatching order in collared flycatcher Ficedula albicollis broods. We found that females laid larger eggs at the end of the laying sequence, and this helped to decrease the disadvantages for the last offspring. The last offspring had lower body mass growth rate and fledged with shorter feathers, but in both cases the larger the last egg was, the smaller the lag of the offspring was. We conclude, that even if females were not able to fully compensate for the detrimental effects of hatching asynchrony, larger eggs may improve the survival prospects of late hatched nestlings.
3677702|The application of modern spectrometry to the study of avian colour variability has revealed ignored patterns of colour variation such as male-biased sexual dichromatism and seasonal variability in the plumage. However, the variation in the achromatic property of such traits, that is in the total light reflectance of the spectrum (i.e., brightness), has commonly been overlooked. The evolution of signals based on brightness should be favoured in those species that are active when light is scarce, i.e. at dawn and dusk. The eagle owl Bubo bubo is monogamous and apparently monomorphic in plumage-coloration. In this species, sexual and territorial call behaviour is mainly performed at dawn and dusk, during which a white patch on the throat is repeatedly exposed at each call. We measured the total light reflectance of the feathers of this badge in 39 eagle owl specimens from museum collections. We found seasonal variability and sexual dichromatism in the brightness of the plumage badge. The total reflectance of this trait peaked during the territorial-mating period. Moreover, females showed higher values of brightness than males, in agreement with the reversed body size dimorphism present in this and many other raptor species. Finally, female but not male body size was positively correlated with white badge reflectance.
3676987|We investigated the distributional dynamics of piscivorous seabirds in relation to the distribution of young fish outside the breeding season in the Skagerrak and Kattegat, using synoptic bottom trawl and seabird surveys. Kittiwake Rissa tridactyla, Common Guillemot Uria aalge and Razorbill Alca torda were significantly correlated with herring Clupea harengus abundance at coarse spatial scales (> 20 km). The association between the three seabird species and other abundant fish species like sprat Sprattus sprattus, whiting Merlangius merlangus and Norway pout Trisopterus esmarki was considerably weaker. In the Skagerrak and Kattegat, the location of aggregations of immature herring during winter is relatively stable and predictable. The correlation with herring and the lack of correlation with the abundant, but less stable occurrence of sprat of similar caloric value suggest that the tendency among piscivorous seabirds to depend on predictable concentrations of prey during the breeding season is a common feature during the non-breeding season as well. The results are discussed in relation to ecological and winter habitat characteristics of wintering piscivorous seabirds in the eastern North Atlantic, and in relation to the management and conservation of nursering herring in the Skagerrak and Kattegat.
3677706|Waders (Charadriiformes) undergo particularly long migratory flights, making them ideal vectors for long-distance dispersal. We present a study of dispersal of plant seeds by migratory waders in the Odiel saltworks in south-west Spain. This is the first field study to demonstrate excretion of viable seeds by waders. Viable seeds of Mesembryanthemum nodiflorum (Aizoaceae), Sonchus oleraceus (Asteraceae) and Arthrocnemum macrostachyum (Chenopodiaceae) were frequent in pellets and faeces of redshank Tringa totanus, spotted redshank Tringa erythropus, and black-tailed godwit Limosa limosa during spring and autumn migrations, but less frequent during winter. Another 11 seed types were recorded at low density. More intact M. nodiflorum seeds were present in redshank faeces than in their pellets, but seeds extracted from pellets were more likely to germinate. More S. oleraceus seeds were transported per redshank pellet in spring, but more redshank migrated through the area in autumn. The distributions of the plants transported are consistent with an important role for long-distance dispersal by waders. M. nodiflorum and S. oleraceus are introduced weeds in the Americas and Australasia, and dispersal by birds may contribute to their rapid spread. Although S. oleraceus is generally thought to be wind-dispersed, birds may be responsible for longer distance dispersal events.
3677420| Unlike most seabird families, the vast majority of small petrel species are nocturnal on their breeding grounds. Further, they reduce markedly their activity when the light level increases. Moonlight avoidance might be a consequence of reduction in foraging profitability, as bioluminescent prey do not come to the sea surface on bright nights. Alternatively, petrels may avoid colonies during moonlit nights because of increased predation risk. We studied predation on petrels by Brown Skuas Catharacta antarctica lnnbergi at Kerguelen, and the influence of moonlight on behaviour of both skuas and petrels, to test the 'predation risk' hypothesis. On the study area, Brown Skuas hunt at night and prey heavily upon the Blue Petrel Halobaena caerulea and the Thin-billed Prion Pachyptila belcheri. Predation risk was higher on moonlit nights, as skuas caught more prey, and particularly more Blue Petrels when the light level increased. Nightly intakes of Blue Petrel and Thin-billed Prion by skuas was related to colony attendance of non-breeders rather than that of breeders. Biometry of prey also suggested that skuas caught a higher proportion of non-breeding birds than was present at the colonies. Predation risk was thus greater in non-breeders and on moonlit nights. Colony attendance by non-breeding Blue Petrels and Thin-billed Prions was also reduced during moonlit nights. Vocal activity, which is mainly by non-breeders, was also drastically reduced when the light level increased in the species suffering the highest predation rate. Our results supported the 'predation risk' hypothesis, although the 'foraging efficiency' and the 'predation risk' hypotheses are not mutually exclusive: the former might explain the moonlight avoidance behaviour of breeding, and the latter that of non-breeding individuals. 
30244449|When females mate multiply, sperm competition can generate strong selection for traits that provide males with a fertilisation advantage. This study examined the cloacal tip, a unique morphological structure of males that appears to be associated with sperm competition in Australian Maluridae. Species in this group appear to experience a range of sperm competition intensities and exhibit a diversity of associated reproductive adaptations and behaviours. A prominent cloacal tip was present in the striated grasswren Amytornis striatus striatus, and superb Malurus cyaneus cyanochlamys, splendid M. splendens melanotus, red-backed M. melanocephalus and white-winged fairy-wrens M. leucopterus leuconotus, while variegated M. lamberti assimilis and blue-breasted M. pulcherrimus fairy-wrens possessed a rudimentary tip, and the southern emu-wren Stipiturus malachurus malachurus lacked a tip. The tip was a muscular hydrostatic appendage of the cloacal protuberance comprised of longitudinal striated muscle, a two-dimensional matrix of connective tissue and a keratinised epithelium. After controlling for phylogenetic relationships, cloacal tip length was positively related to combined testes mass but not body mass. Therefore, species inferred to experience more intense sperm competition exhibited a longer cloacal tip. We discuss the potential function of the cloacal tip and suggest that it may increase a male's likelihood of paternity success and represents a novel adaptation to sperm competition.
3677736|Male-male mountings appear to be very common in polyandrous bearded vulture Gypaetus barbatus trios. We observed sexual activity in two trios that occupied the same territory in different years. We recorded a total of 167 copulation attempts. The percentage of male-male mountings recorded was 26.1 and 11.4%, in the period of 1991-1992 and 2000-2001, respectively, with respect to total, homo- and heterosexual matings. We conclude that homosexual interactions do not appear to be directly associated with intrasexual competition (i.e. hierarchical dominance, sperm competition). Rather, our results are more consistent with the idea that this behaviour can regulate the aggression of the males in these groups.
25161504|I examined age effects on reproduction in the Brown Thornbill Acanthiza pusilla in Canberra, Australia. I found that the reproductive performance of both males and females improved with age, although only age-related improvement in male performance had a significant effect on annual reproductive success. Reproductive success improved with male age as a result of improved performance during two stages of the breeding cycle: first-year males were less likely to fledge young than those aged two or more, while both first and second-year males were less successful at raising fledglings to independence than males of three or more. Male performance appears to improve over three years as they gain experience at provisioning nestlings and caring for fledglings without attracting predators, rather than as a direct result of improved foraging skills. In contrast, reproductive success only improved slightly with female age, although females of two or more years initiated their first clutch earlier in the season than one-year-old females, and tended to be more likely to re-nest if a breeding attempt failed. The poor performance of young females appears unlikely to be related to their foraging ability but may be associated with costs imposed by dispersing to a breeding vacancy earlier in the year. Although the reproductive performance of Brown Thornbills improves considerably with age I found no evidence that performance improved as a result of repeated breeding attempts with the same partner.
3677590|Hatching asynchrony in altricial birds may result in a competitive disadvantage for the youngest nestlings compared to older siblings. We studied the effects of a size hierarchy on the growth rate of Eurasian kestrels Falco tinnunculus chicks in nests with and without access to supplemented food in western Finland. Body mass stopped increasing on the 19th day after hatching while body size, estimated by a combination of bone and feather lengths continued to increase at least until fledging at 26 days. Body condition, reflecting muscle and fat, did not change markedly during the growth period from the 12th day to fledging. Body temperature and resting metabolism were usually lower in nestlings 12 days old than in nestlings at fledging. Growth of body mass, size and condition, and resting metabolism were delayed in last-hatched nestlings aged 19 days. Just before fledging, last-hatched nestlings attained a similar body mass and size, and had a similar resting metabolism to those of older siblings. At fledging, only in nests without access to supplemented food was the body condition of last-hatched chicks lower than that of its siblings, but in nests with access to supplemented food no such difference was detected. Our results highlight that the level of lipids in the last-hatched nestling can be affected by the food restriction imposed by hatching order.
3677611|Sexual ornaments may enable females to discriminate amongst potential mates and choose those having either fewer parasites, or those which are more immunocompetent, or better able to cope with parasites. Tetraonid birds exhibit supra-orbital combs that function in both intra-sexual competition and mate choice. Through a correlative and experimental approach we investigated whether comb size of male red grouse Lagopus lagopus scoticus was related to infection intensity by their main parasite, the gastro intestinal nematode Trichostrongylus tenuis, and to immune function. We first looked at the relationships between immune function, parasite infection and condition. We found that spleen mass, an indirect measure of immune response, correlated positively with T. tenuis load, and negatively with condition. Cell-mediated immunity, a measure of immune defence, correlated positively with condition, and although not significantly related to T. tenuis load, increased when nematode parasites were experimentally reduced. Secondly, we investigated whether comb size was related to condition, T. tenuis load or immune function. Comb size was not significantly related to T. tenuis infection and did not change significantly after nematode parasite removal. However, males with bigger combs were in better condition, had a lighter spleen, a lighter spleen than expected from their T. tenuis load and had greater cell-mediated immunity. The findings suggest that comb size relates to immune function rather than T. tenuis parasite infection intensity. Males with bigger combs are likely to be of higher phenotypic quality because they are more immunocompetent and might be better able to cope with the detrimental effects of parasites.
3677687|Hybridization in birds is a widely acknowledged phenomenon. It often occurs when one species is absent or rare which leads to mixed pairings between different species (Hubb's principle). However, Hubb's principle cannot explain hybridization in one of the most common Passeriform hybrids, barn swallow Hirundo rustica house martin Delichon urbica, since these hybrids usually occurred in areas where both species were common. Such hybrids were often found as singletons between true barn swallows siblings suggesting that extrapair copulations, and not mixed breeding pairs, might be the reason for the existence of these hybrids. Extrapair copulations are common in both these species. Here, I tested the idea, that EPP and hybridization may be linked on a macro-evolutionary scale across species. I used data on EPP from review studies and assigned each species a dichotomous variable whether it has produced hybrids or not. Hybridizing species did not show a higher percentage of extrapair copulations compared to non-hybridizing species. However, while these data did not show any influence on the macro-ecological scale, these factors could, nevertheless, facilitate hybridization in some species pairs as in the example of the swallows.
3677642|We use data on pigeon guillemots Cepphus columba to test the hypothesis that discretionary time in breeding seabirds is correlated with variance in prey abundance. We measured the amount of time that guillemots spent at the colony before delivering fish to chicks ("resting time") in relation to fish abundance as measured by beach seines and bottom trawls. Radio telemetry showed that resting time was inversely correlated with time spent diving for fish during foraging trips (r = -0.95). Pigeon guillemots fed their chicks either Pacific sand lance Ammodytes hexapterus, a schooling midwater fish, which exhibited high interannual variance in abundance (CV = 181%), or a variety of non-schooling demersal fishes, which were less variable in abundance (average CV = 111%). Average resting times were 46% higher at colonies where schooling prey dominated the diet. Individuals at these colonies reduced resting times 32% during years of low food abundance, but did not reduce meal delivery rates. In contrast, individuals feeding on non-schooling fishes did not reduce resting times during low food years, but did reduce meal delivery rates by 27%. Interannual variance in resting times was greater for the schooling group than for the non-schooling group. We conclude from these differences that time allocation in pigeon guillemots is more flexible when variable schooling prey dominate diets. Resting times were also 27% lower for individuals feeding two-chick rather than one-chick broods. The combined effects of diet and brood size on adult time budgets may help to explain higher rates of brood reduction for pigeon guillemot chicks fed non-schooling fishes.
10.2307/3677222|The osteological basis for the proposed close phylogenetical relationship of anseriform and galliform birds is evaluated and found to be very weak. Out of eleven postulated synapomorphies in cranial morphology (Cracraft 1988), three must be excluded since they express variation that is already covered by any of the other eleven characters. Another six of the postulated synapomorhies either cannot be verified to occur in most anseriforms and galliforms, or have a wide distribution outside this group. A re-analysis of the combined morphological and biochemical data set of Cracraft and Mindell (1989) with the questionable osteological characters excluded, does not corroborate an anseriform-galliform sister-group relationship, but leaves the Neognathae unresolved.
30243844|We used controlled aviary experiments to study the role of male ornaments in male-male competition and female choice in the common yellowthroat Geothlypis trichas, a sexually dichromatic warbler. Previous aviary studies in Wisconsin, USA, indicated that males with larger black facial masks were dominant over males with smaller masks and preferred by females in mate choice experiments. In this study, we replicated those experiments in a population in New York, USA, where male mating success was related more consistently to the size of the yellow bib (throat, breast, and belly) than to the size of the mask. Similar to the study in Wisconsin, we found that males with larger masks were more likely to be dominant in New York, however, we found that males with larger bibs were preferred by females in New York, and there was no significant preference for males with larger masks. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that carotenoid-based ornaments are selected by female choice and melanin-based ornaments are selected by male-male competition. However, the pattern of female choice appears to vary between New York and Wisconsin. This geographic difference could be related to a variety of environmental factors (habitat, carotenoid and parasite abundance) that affect the costs and benefits of choosing males with particular ornaments in each location.
3677645|Although trogons (Aves, Trogonidae) are well characterized by the possession of heterodactyl feet, their phylogenetic relationships to other extant birds still are only poorly understood. Molecular studies did not show conclusive results and there are amazingly few comparative studies of the anatomy of trogons. Virtually the only hypothesis on trogon relationships that was supported with derived morphological characters is a sister group relationship to alcediniform birds (bee-eaters, kingfishers, and allies), which share a derived morphology of the columella (ear-ossicle) with trogons. However, in this study a very similar columella is reported for the oilbird (Steatornithidae) and additional previously unrecognized derived osteological characters are presented, which are shared by trogons and oilbirds. A numerical cladistic analysis of 28 morphological characters also resulted in monophyly of Trogonidae and Steatornithidae, although the corresponding node was not retained in a boot-strap analysis.
3677456|Cormorants are assumed to have a "partially wettable" plumage as a mechanism to reduce buoyancy while swimming underwater. This assumption is mainly based on 3 observations: 1) the volume of air in the plumage of submerged carcasses is small compared to other water birds, 2) cormorants assume a "wing drying" posture when they exit the water, and 3) the feather structure of the plumage. An alternative mechanism to reduce buoyancy is to release air out of the plumage by ptilomotion without allowing water to penetrate. How wet cormorants actually get is an open issue that has important implications for the energy budget of these warm blooded aquatic predators. Here we report empirical measurements on the amount of water retained in the plumage of live great cormorant Phlacrocorax carbo sinensis during voluntary swimming and diving in an experimental design that simulates a foraging diving bout. The amount of water retained in the plumage increased as a function of time spent in water. However the birds limited their dive bouts to less than 18 minutes so that the added mass of retained water did not exceed 6% of their body mass. This maximal level of water retention is estimated to reduce the buoyancy of the dry bird by 18%. This maximal level is also similar to measurements of water retention of carcasses and suggests that measurements preformed on carcasses yield only the upper level of water absorption while live birds slow down water penetration, allowing longer periods of foraging.
3677627|It is widely known that many upland-breeding shorebirds tend to nest on plateaus but to date no studies have put forward explanations for this phenomenon. We examined the effect of slope and habitat on the distribution of ground-nesting golden plover Pluvialis apricaria at two study sites in County Durham, U.K. Golden plovers showed strong selection for nesting on flat ground. Habitat significantly affected nest-site location on one study site (heather burnt within the past 2 years was favoured and older stands of heather were avoided) but not on the other. Fifty-nine per cent of all nests failed. We attributed 95% of all losses to predation. Seventy-five per cent of nests, in which the predator was identified, were taken by ground predators, mainly stoats Mustela erminea. Nests on flat ground had significantly higher rates of survival than those on slopes. Nest survival did not vary significantly with habitat type nor with vegetation height or density around the nest. Neither habitat type, vegetation height nor vegetation density around nests differed between nests on slopes and on flat ground. In addition, individuals that nested on flat ground tended to have less black on their underparts (a suggested indicator of dominance). We suggest that birds nesting on slopes are less efficient at avoiding nest predation than those nesting on the flat. The nature or degree of a bird's response to a predator may be related to the efficiency of individual anti-predator responses and/or to visibility from the nest. This study cannot differentiate between these two explanations. We encourage further work to investigate differences in behaviour between individuals nesting on slopes and those on flat ground.
10.2307/3677182| The possibility that albatrosses use a geomagnetic bi-coordinate map for long-distance navigation at sea was investigated by evaluating how five different geomagnetic parameters (i.e. total field intensity, horizontal and vertical field intensity, inclination and declination) vary in areas where foraging albatrosses have been recorded by satellite telemetry in the Southern Ocean. Our objective was to investigate if any combination of these magnetic gradients was feasible as a geomagnetic bi-coordinate map. In particular we were interested in testing whether the bi-coordinate magnetic map hypothesis (i.e. gradient map based on total field intensity and angle of inclination; Lohmann and Lohmann 1996a) could explain the albatrosses' navigation system at these latitudes. Three satellite tracks were selected for Wandering Alba-trosses breeding in South Georgia in the south-western Atlantic and eight from the Crozet Islands in the south-western Indian Ocean. From the South American continent in the west (70W) eastwards to the Kergulean Islands in the east (70E), there is a considerable variation in the geomagnetic gradients. On the basis of our analyses we conclude: (1) There is no particular combination of two geomagnetic gradients that assigns every geographic location a unique set of co-ordinates in the South Atlantic Ocean. Hence, a gradient map could not explain the albatrosses' ability to navigate during their foraging excursions in the two breeding areas nor during their circumpolar non-breeding travels. (2) In subregions of the area under investigation, in particular around South Georgia, a useful grid was formed with a combination of two of the five magnetic gradients. In contrast, no such useful geomagnetic grid exists in the subregion around the Crozet Islands. (3) Because of irregular and weak gradients a bi-coordinate magnetic map seems highly unlikely to explain the albatrosses' navigation across major parts of the Southern Ocean. However, since we do not know the sensitivity of birds' magneto-receptors we cannot exclude the possibility that geomagnetic gradients in some way, perhaps in combination with other cues, are incorporated in the navigation system of albatrosses. 
10.2307/3677292|Several falcons were trained to fly along a 500 m course to a lure. The air speeds of the more consistent performers averaged about 1.5 times their calculated minimum power speeds, and occasionally reached 2.1 times the minimum power speed. Wing beat frequencies of all the falcons were above those estimated from earlier field observations, and the same was true of wild Sage Grouse Centrocercus urophasianus, a regular falconer's quarry in the study area. Measurements of grouse killed by falcons showed that their wings were short, with broad slotted tips, whereas the falcons' wings were longer in relation to their body mass, and tapered. The short wings of grouse result in fast flight, high power requirements, and reduced capacity for aerobic flight. Calculations indicated that the grouse should fly faster than the falcons, and had the large amount of flight muscle needed to do so, but that the falcons would be capable of prolonged aerobic flight, whereas the grouse probably would not. We surmise that Sage Grouse cannot fly continuously without incurring an oxygen debt, and are therefore not long-distance migrants, although this limitation is partly due to their large size, and would not apply to smaller galliform birds such as ptarmigan Lagopus spp. The wing action seen in video recordings of the falcons was not consistent with the maintenance of constant circulation. We call it "chase mode" because it appears to be associated with a high level of muscular exertion, without special regard to fuel economy. It shows features in common with the "bounding" flight of passerines.
30244742|We examined which egg parameters warbling vireos Vireo gilvus use to discriminate brown-headed cowbird Molothrus ater eggs and, by comparing our results to other studies, tested the prediction that ejecter species with eggs more similar in appearance to cowbird eggs will be less tolerant of foreign eggs. In addition, we tested the hypothesis that egg characteristics influence the cost of ejection and probability of committing ejection errors. Warbling vireos ejected 100% of eggs with a cowbird spot pattern and only spot pattern significantly influenced the probability of ejecting a foreign egg, whereas size and nest stage did not. Foreign eggs that differed in two parameters were not ejected significantly more than those that differed in one parameter. Thus, warbling vireos appear to be less tolerant of foreign eggs than species with eggs more divergent from cowbird eggs. There was no significant difference in the number of vireo eggs that were damaged when foreign eggs of different sizes and spot patterns were ejected, which is counter to the assumptions of the evolutionary equilibrium hypothesis. Similarly, foreign egg characteristics did not significantly influence the probability of ejection errors. Finally, egg discrimination in warbling vireos appears to have evolved directly to counter cowbird parasitism because all conspecific eggs switched into their nests were accepted.
3677522|The onset of incubation varies in birds, with many species beginning incubation prior to clutch completion. Here we examine whether early onset is more likely to occur during high temperatures, a critical prediction of the egg-viability hypothesis, which suggest that birds begin incubation prior to clutch completion in order to maintain egg-viability. We examined onset of incubation in tree swallows Tachycineta bicolor at two locations at the extremes of their breeding range, Alaska and Tennessee. A majority of individuals (68%) began incubation prior to clutch completion. While females in Tennessee were more likely to begin incubation early, there was no difference between sites when differences in temperatures inside nestboxes were controlled in analyses. Rather, early onset of incubation was predicted by the proportion of daily temperatures above physiological zero during laying, a critical prediction of the egg viability hypothesis. Both warm weather and early onset led to shorter incubation periods and increased levels of hatching asynchrony. We found no effect of timing of nesting, female body condition index or clutch size on the probability of beginning incubation prior to clutch completion. Our results are consistent with the egg viability hypothesis, not consistent with a threshold clutch size rule, and do not support the hurry-up hypothesis, that individuals breeding later in the season would begin incubation early to reduce the time spent nesting. Overall, our results suggest that broad scale geographic differences in incubation behaviour may be explained by individual-level responses to environmental conditions.
30244798|The pygmy kingfishers of the Old World tropics (Alcedininae) display a range of feeding behaviors, plumage types, and morphologies that have caused much taxonomic confusion in the group. We sequenced mitochondrial and nuclear genes to reconstruct a phylogenetic hypothesis for the subfamily, which was then used to examine the utility of common taxonomic characters. The phylogenetic hypothesis reveals multiple shifts between insectivory and piscivory, as well as homoplasy in bill color and plumage color. Piscivores and insectivores are interspersed across the tree, as are blue and rufous plumage types. It is apparent that reliance on these characters to delineate genera has resulted in classifications that do not describe natural groups. The sole taxonomic character examined that defines a natural division in the subfamily, toe count, is also the one generally dismissed as non-informative in the alcedinines, yet all species with a reduction in the number of toes form a clade. It is recommended that four genera be retained to describe the variation within pygmy kingfishers.
10.2307/3677328|In many tropical habitats, the number of birds can more than double with the arrival of migratory birds in the autumn. This influx often occurs at a time when the total biomass of potential food resources is at an annual low. Previous food-related hypotheses have usually focused on migratory species that consume fruit or other plant products, and are more difficult to extend to insectivorous birds, which make up the bulk of tropical migrants. I hypothesize that inter-habitat and inter-seasonal variation in the size distribution of arthropods may underlie the use of habitats by migratory birds. Most habitats have a few taxa of large arthropods that serve as "breeding" currency. The abundance of these arthropods may not be coupled with the abundance of small arthropods during the non-breeding season. Where small arthropods are abundant during the non-breeding season and large arthropods rare during the breeding season, the surplus non-breeding food is available to the large number of small insectivorous birds that comprise most of the migratory species.
30244745|The subfamily Picumninae (piculets) includes 3 genera and 30 species of tiny and short-tailed woodpeckers with a pantropical distribution. Within the Picumninae, two cases of intercontinentally disrupted distributions at the genus level occur. The first one concerns the genus Sasia (one species in Africa and two in southeast Asia) while the second concerns Picumnus (one species in southeast Asia and 25 in South America). These disrupted distributions, as well as several morphological differences, have lead some authors to place the African representative of Sasia and the southeast Asian representative of Picumnus in their own monotypic genera (Verreauxia and Vivia, respectively). To address the taxonomic status and biogeographic history of the piculets, we sequenced 2676 bp of DNA from one mitochondrial (ND2) and two nuclear markers (myoglobin intron 2 and P-fibrinogen intron 7). Monophyly of Picumninae could not be recovered with confidence, while monophyly of Sasia and Picumnus were always strongly supported. Molecular dating analyses revealed that the splits both between the African and Indo-Malayan Sasia and between the New World and Old World Picumnus occurred at ca 7.9 Myr BP. This time corresponds to the beginning of the formation of the northern Hemisphere ice sheets and the accompanying expansion of grasslands throughout the world. The spread of open areas in the northern parts of Eurasia and America prevented gene flow between tropical forest birds, such as the piculets, in Africa, southeast Asia and South America, respectively.
30243298|In this paper we report the observation of a rapidly developed vertebrate symbiosis involving ectoparasite cleaning by a native corvid of northern Australia, the Torresian crow Corvus orru, on a recently introduced bovid ungulate, the banteng Bos javanicus. Facultative symbioses benefiting both participants (mutualisms) between birds and mammals appear to be rare, despite the apparent advantages obtained by the participants (ecto-parasite removal from the host and food provision to the cleaner). On three separate dates we observed a total of four C. orru individuals eliciting facilitation behaviours by a total of ten female banteng to assist in the removal of ectoparasites. Our observations document the first-known incidence of facultative cleaning behaviour by a native bird species on a non-native, wild vertebrate that has developed in approximately 150 years since the banteng's introduction to Australia.
3676986|Variation of brood sex ratio was studied in a Finnish population of Eurasian Kestrels Falco tinnunculus breeding in an unpredictably variable environment. From those young that survived until 2-4 weeks of age, blood was collected and their sex determined from polymorphic DNA profiles produced by hybridisation with a human minisatellite probe. The sex ratio was male-biased during a year of food (vole) scarcity. Furthermore, in broods without mortality, contrasting seasonal trends in sex ratios emerged. In this subsample, the proportion of males increased with later laying date during years of low and moderate food supply, whereas the opposite was true in a year of relatively high food supply. These trends may indicate circumstances that favour the raising of different sex. The proportion of males in the brood was also negatively correlated with body condition of both male and female parents, reflecting an adaptive condition-dependent sex-ratio adjustment, or alternatively the inability of the parents to meet the requirements of the more energetically expensive female offspring. We discuss the limitations that unpredictable conditions during brood raising can impose on adaptive sex-ratio manipulation, particularly in species with sexual size dimorphism and consequent differences in the cost of raising the two sexes.
30244446|In passerine species with frequent extrapair mating, young (second calendar year) males often have a lower fertilization success than older (after second calendar year) males. This pattern might be explained by male- or female-driven mechanisms, such as female preference for older males or higher competitive ability of older males. In this study we measured the size of the testes, the seminal glomera and the cloacal protuberance as well as the size and motility of the sperm, in individual bluethroats Luscinia svecica. In this species, nearly all extrapair fertilizations (EPFs) are obtained by older males. We found that the mass of the testes and the seminal glomera were highly positively correlated and that older males had significantly larger testes (38%), seminal glomera (15%) and cloacal protuberance (23%) than young males. In contrast, there was no difference between age groups in average sperm size or sperm motility. Our results are consistent with the idea that higher fertilization success by older males in this species is due to their higher rate of sperm production, allowing larger ejaculates and/or more frequent copulations. Unequal sperm production capacities by young and older males have important implications for the interpretation of paternity patterns in extrapair mating systems.
3677712|Variation in egg size and composition can have important consequences for the quality of offspring. We investigated the factors influencing the yolk mass and egg mass of tree swallows breeding in Ithaca, NY. Using a nondestructive technique to estimate yolk mass via standardized digital-candler photographs, we compared yolk size and egg size of tree swallows Tachycineta bicolor in response to variation in food availability and individual quality. Insect availability one to three days prior to laying, but not four to six days, predicted yolk mass, while insect availability two to three days prior to laying predicted total egg mass. This suggests that, while eggs are formed over longer periods, food availability closer to time of laying has the greatest influence on egg size. These results were supported by collected eggs, as yolk rings revealed that tree swallow eggs are formed over 5-6 days. There was an influence of female quality as well, with early laying birds, independent of food availability, laying larger eggs. Eggs laid later in the laying sequence had larger yolks and greater egg mass. Overall, variation in egg quality appears to be due to a combination of environmental conditions, reflected in food resources, individual quality, and allocation tradeoffs during the laying period.
25161530|Natural selection theory suggests that there should be fitness consequences for animals that possess morphological abnormalities such as missing or deformed appendages and other structures. As these characters are expected to be detrimental, morphological abnormalities could be considered "handicaps". However, little information exists about the nature, prevalence or consequences of naturally occurring handicaps in birds, even though experimental handicapping has been used in some behavioural studies. Here, we document and describe the frequency of natural handicaps in American Kestrels Falco sparverius, and investigate their influence on condition and survival. We considered three different categories of handicap that should negatively impact falcons: missing remiges and rectrices, broken remiges and rectrices, and foot handicaps. Broken feathers, followed by missing feathers, were the most common handicaps detected in kestrels and their prevalence increased throughout the breeding season. Foot handicaps were relatively rare and showed no seasonal trends. There was no effect of any handicap type on body condition or return rates of male kestrels. In contrast, females with either foot handicaps or broken feathers were in significantly poorer condition than control females, and females with broken feathers were less likely than control females to return to the study area in years following initial capture. Given that female kestrels with broken feathers have more fault bars than those without broken feathers, and fault bar formation is related to stresses in a bird's past, we suggest that female kestrels that had broken feathers were of poorer quality than those without broken feathers or those with missing feathers. Females with broken feathers may therefore have been in poorer condition initially than other birds, or if broken feathers are indicative of poor quality, then females with broken feathers may have been less able to cope with the negative impacts of feather loss on flight performance compared to birds with missing feathers.
30244796|Seabirds are important predators in marine ecosystems and are commonly used to monitor the productivity of their marine environments. However, different measures of seabird breeding success differ in their sensitivity to environmental conditions. Here, we present an analysis of provisioning rates and chick growth as well as hatching and fledging success, in thin-billed prions Pachyptila belcheri at New Island, Falkland Islands between 2003 and 2005 and relate these patterns to ocean climate. During the study period, SST were rising within and between breeding seasons and were negatively correlated with provisioning frequencies of thinbilled prions. Chick mass was reduced and begging intensities increased at low feeding frequencies, but overall breeding success and fledging success were not affected, because most chicks in survived to fledging despite poor provisioning rates. Chick numbers and survival therefore may not be sensitive indicators of environmental conditions in all seabird species and ranges of food abundance. Monitoring behavioural buffering mechanisms, such as feeding rates, may be more effective in some ranges of food abundance and time scales and provide an earlier warning of ecological change. As a novel technique, the use of begging intensities as indicator of chick body condition is proposed in species where repeated handling causes disturbance. The present data suggest that begging rates can serve as a non-invasive method to monitor chick condition.
3677536|Unlike the majority birds that replace their primaries once each year, most Sterna terns practice an unusual repeated wing molt, wherein a variable number of inner primaries are replaced twice or even three times in a single year. This seemingly redundant replacement of the primaries may serve as a sexually selected indicator of quality in that terns may evaluate potential mates based on the number of primaries they were able to replace twice or three times prior to the breeding season. To evaluate the potential of repeated molt as a social signal, we compared light-reflectance curves and photon catches for new (twice-molted) and old (once-molted) primaries in three species of terns. We observed that old feathers reflected considerably less light across all wavelengths and found that in two of the three species examined the ultraviolet reflectance was disproportionably reduced in old feathers relative to the reduction in visible reflectance. Thus, the UV component of coloration in tern wing feathers may accentuate the difference between the new feathers generated by repeated wing molt and older, more worn feathers, thereby reinforcing a sexually selected signal of quality.
10.2307/3677016|We examined the influence of hatching date, nestling condition (body mass), size and sex on the age at the onset, and on the duration and extent of postjuvenile moult in a Great Tit population in southern Finland. Date of hatching explained most of the variation in moult parameters. Onset of moult was closely connected with hatching date: Great Tits from first broods started moulting in July and birds from second broods started in mid-August. The age at the start of moult decreased from 56 to 42 days from first to repeat and second broods and the duration of moult decreased from 67 to 59 days. Variation of moult parameters with date of hatching and the timing of moult are in concordance with experimental data on photoperiodic control of moult. Females started to moult older and moulted less extensively than males, especially in first broods. Residual body mass during moult reflected the state and intensity of moult, but did not correlate with the final extent of moult. This contradicts the recent protein stress and condition hypotheses.
3677735|The generation of artificial light by human activity can have far-reaching detrimental impacts upon a wide variety of organisms. A great deal of attention has been paid to well-lit buildings, television towers, and communication towers as sources of mortality for nocturnally migrating songbirds. However, despite being among the first human structures known to generate migratory bird kills, little is known about the current impact of lighthouses on birds, or the impact of light design. We examined the impact of a lighthouse on nocturnal avian migrants at Long Point, Lake Erie, Ontario, Canada. From 1960-1989, mean annual kills were 200 birds in spring, and 393 in autumn, with kills of up to 2000 birds in a single night. In 1989, the Long Point lighthouse was automated, with a simultaneous change in beam characteristics - the new beam is narrower and less powerful. This change brought about a drastic reduction in avian mortality at the lighthouse to a mean of only 18.5 birds per year in spring, and 9.6 in autumn from 1990-2002. Our results highlight the effectiveness of simple changes in light signatures in reducing avian light attraction and mortality during migration.
30245216|Hormone-mediated maternal effects may be an important mechanism for adjusting offspring phenotype to particular requirements of the environment. We manipulated the levels of testosterone and androstenedione in the yolk of collared flycatcher Ficedula albicollis eggs to investigate the effects of pre-natal exposure to androgens on growth and immune function. Androgen treatment tended to reduce the growth of males, and enhance the growth of females, as indicated by significant interaction between sex and androgen treatment. Cellular immune function was not affected by androgen treatment or sex. Survival of nestlings until fledging was not related to androgen treatment. Our results indicate that in the collared flycatcher yolk androgens do not involve clear overall benefits during the nestling stage, and that growth-enhancing effects of increased yolk androgen levels on female nestlings are counterbalanced by detrimental effects on male nestlings.
10.2307/3677197|The balance between investment in current reproduction and future survival or reproduction may be particularly important to long-lived species. Many of these species are single-egg layers for which incubation costs cannot be realistically measured by manipulation of clutch size. Here I report an experiment in which I manipulated the costs of incubation in the British Storm-petrel Hydrobates pelagicus by prolonging and shortening the incubation period by exchanging eggs between clutches with an average difference in laying dates of 9 days. Hatching success was higher in nests in which the incubation period was shortened than in nests in which it was prolonged. However, neither fledging success nor chick growth differed between treatments. Experimental manipulation of the incubation period affected laying date in the subsequent year. This finding suggests that incubation is costly in Storm-petrels and that the reproductive effort in one breeding attempt may influence reproductive decisions in subsequent breeding attemps in long-lived seabirds.
30244835|Diversity of the gut bacterial community is of prime importance for optimal food digestion and, therefore, for nutritional condition of avian nestlings. Consequently, bacterial community should be considered as a predictor of the future survival and recruitment of young birds. To explore this hypothesis, we studied the cloacal microbiota, by using RISA procedure, in two avian species sharing environmental conditions during growth, the avian brood parasitic great spotted cuckoo Clamator glandarius, and their main host in Europe, the magpie Pica pica. As estimates of phenotypic condition of nestlings we studied two nutrition-dependent traits, the immune response to an innocuous antigen (phytohemagglutinin), and the residuals of body mass on tarsus and wing length of nestlings. According to the hypothesis, we found significant relationships between microbial diversity and nestling phenotypic traits related to probability of recruitment. Briefly, both magpie and cuckoo nestlings having more similar microbial diversity were also those with similar immune response and body condition index respectively. Our results show a possible association between bacterial communities and variables related to the probability of post-fledging survival and recruitment of birds, as well as possible reasons explaining magpie-cuckoo differences in the nutritionally conditioned variables better associated with their bacterial diversity.
3677659|Extra-pair paternity (EPP) in monogamous birds may result from either extra-pair copulations (EPCs) or mate switching. In this study of King Penguins in South Georgia, we observed no EPCs at all, an effect of very efficient mate guarding. Onshore males fast and need not divert attention to foraging or to defending nest or territory, as this species has neither. However, we found that mate switching was common. On average 38% (range: 29%-56%; three years pooled) of the birds established pair bonds with at least one initial partner before switching to the partner they bred with (i.e. the "pair mate"). Of the observed copulations of 44 studied females, 22% were with initial partners and 78% with the pair mate. This and the high proportion of mate switching suggest that roughly 10% of the females could have received sperm from males other than the pair mate. The average copulation frequency was 0.026 h
25161535|Feather wear is the natural degradation and breakage of feather structure during the interval between moults. Different rates of feather wear have been observed for primaries of free-living populations of several species of passerines and waders, and this variability has been linked to different concentrations of melanins. In this study primary moult duration explained 59% of the variation in annual rates of primary abrasion (percentage wing length loss) of seven Grey Plover wintering populations, while migration distance explained 14%. The analysis suggests that primary moult duration plays a key role in determining primary durability and hence primary quality. Long distance migrants might evolve more durable primaries, despite the higher predation risks and energetic costs of a prolonged moult. Partial or complete pre-breeding primary moults of first-year waders and complete biannual moults of some passerines might have evolved under selective forces favouring migration with unabraded primaries.
10.2307/3676955|There was a seasonal biomodality in the distribution of breeding activities of King Penguins Aptenodytes patagonicus, studied from 1991 to 1994 at South Georgia, with peaks of courtship and egg-laying 2-3 months apart. The late peak was of birds that bred successfully the previous year, whereas the early peak was of birds that had failed. Successful birds were delayed because the median time for a complete breeding cycle, including moult, was > 14 month. Although most birds made a breeding attempt each year, none bred successfully in two consecutive seasons. Hence, in practice the cycle was biennial. The egg-laying period spanned four months but only pairs that laid within the first quarter of this period were successful. Parental quality, rather than laying date, strongly influenced the outcome of first quarter breeding attempts. No late breeding attempt was successful and why they are undertaken is unclear. At least they posed no measurable cost, either by delaying subsequent breeding or by increasing mortality; this may be important for balancing the low benefit. After the over-wintering fast the chick could be fledged by a single parent; but no sex-specific difference in invested time in the chick near to fledge was observed.
30244447|Decline of migrant wader populations worldwide implies that their demography may be affected by phenomena occurring in a large geographical scale. Knowledge about vital rates affecting population growth and viability helps in finding the processes behind the declines. We estimated the rate of population growth () of a dramatically declined population of Temminck's stints Calidris temminckii using a ten year capture-recapture data. We assessed the viability of the population by projections based on  and its variation. We also studied sensitivity of  to changes in vital rates (breeding success, recruitment and adult survival). Both adult and juvenile survival and breeding success were lower than c. 30 years earlier. Adult survival seemed to have dropped during the study period. Population growth appeared strongly negative and viability analyses predicted an almost certain extinction within a few decades. Adult survival formed the main component of the growth rate suggesting that population crash is mainly caused by a drop in adult survival. Still, sensitivity analyses showed that a moderate rise in adult survival or any other single vital rate would not make the population viable. Most probably, survival has dropped due to factors operating along migration routes and wintering areas, at sites shared by birds from other parts of the breeding range. Therefore, the observed population crash and decline in adult survival may indicate parallel changes in poorly monitored arctic populations. Migration habits (continental wide flyways and scattered wintering areas) imply that factors responsible for the drop in survival have a wide geographical range.
3677416|Current theory and empirical evidence suggests that, if a character is sexually dimorphic as a result of sexual selection, it should be positively allometric (i.e. relatively larger in larger individuals), whereas if the dimorphism is the result of natural selection (e.g. niche divergence), it should be isometric. I show how this can be used to study the selective forces responsible for dimorphic morphological characters, using the monochromatic Marbled Teal Marmaronetta angustirostris as an example. In absolute terms, first-year male teals have a higher body mass, wing length, head length and bill length than females. In relative terms (controlling for body size), males still have longer wings, heads and bills. The scaling in Marbled Teal suggests that bill and head dimorphisms are due to sexual selection, whereas wing dimorphism is due to natural selection. Tail length is sexually monomorphic but positively allometric, possibly because of a display function. Such scaling studies are easy to carry out, and provide a useful complement to direct investigation of the influence of variation in the size of dimorphic characters on mating success, foraging efficiency etc.
3676997|The importance that the density of breeders has on the opportunity for extra-pair fertilisations (EPFs) is controversial. Some evidence supports the idea that population density and frequency of extra-pair paternity are positively associated, whereas other work does not. In the present paper we estimate EPF frequency in a dense House Sparrow Passer domesticus colony. We detected extra-pair nestlings in 9.3% of 54 broods studied, and 7% of 171 nestlings were sired by extra-pair fathers. The number of clutches laid per female, the change of male or female between two consecutive breeding attempts and the age of the partners showed no association with the presence or absence of extra-pair fertilisations. Morphometric variables of paired males and females did not discriminate broods with EPFs from those without. We detected a single case of a female laying a "parasitic" egg in the nest of a male that in a previous breeding attempt was the extra-pair genetic father of her entire brood. The frequency of extra-pair fertilisation recorded in this study was low compared with that in other House Sparrow populations breeding at lower densities, or other species that breed in colonies. This result does not support the claim that EPF frequency is associated with population density. We propose, as an explanation for this result, that under high intra-sexual competition for nest sites (1) males may have limited opportunities to search for females for extra-pair copulations and (2) the high quality of male nest-owners may reduce female propensity to search for additional sexual partners.
30243879|Although evidence is accumulating that mothers can transfer antibodies to their offspring, little is known about the consequences of such a transfer to the offspring immune system. Because maternal antibodies are effective only during a short period of time after their transfer to offspring, one hypothesis is that maternal antibodies provides a transitory antigen-specific protection to offspring, thus lessening the need for offspring to mount their own humoral immune response towards these specific antigens. In birds, this scenario predicts that offspring immune response towards a specific antigen is inhibited to a larger extent in hatchlings than in older nestlings. We tested this hypothesis in tawny owls Strix aluco by cross-fostering clutches between nests and then challenging siblings with a vaccine either two times (at 4- and 11d-old) or only one time at 11-d-old to compare the strength of the humoral response between nestlings born from mothers with naturally high and low levels of antibodies against this vaccine. Because maternal antibodies are expected to be effective only during a short period of time after hatching, we predict that maternal antibodies should inhibit the immune response of nestlings vaccinated from the fourth day after hatching more than in nestlings vaccinated only at a later age. As expected, the inhibitory effect of maternal antibodies was stronger in nestlings vaccinated soon after hatching than in siblings injected at a later age. Therefore, in wild avian populations pre-hatching maternal effects may confer offspring with a transitory immune protection in the first days following hatching.
10.2307/3677277|Most male Willow Warblers at a site in southern England established territories during April or early May, shortly after their arrival. A smaller number of territorial males arrived from late May to early July, but none attempted breeding. There was no evidence of non-territorial 'floating' males during the breeding season, and observations of previously ringed birds indicated that some of the late arrivals had already held territories elsewhere in the same year. Most of these birds were thought to be from poorer quality habitats; their occupation of a 'late territory' in a high quality habitat may help them to establish a breeding territory there in the following year. The site fidelity of late territorial males did not differ significantly from that of males holding primary territories at the same site.
3677800|The New Zealand stitchbird or hihi Notiomystis cincta is unique in that it has two distinct mating positions, in addition to the male standing on the female's back, as is seen in all other birds, it also copulates face-to-face. In this study, 43 male stitchbirds first attracted a female to their territory and supplemented their within-pair matings by intruding into other territories and attempting forced copulations - often resulting in high levels of female harassment. I recorded the temporal variation of both attempted and successful copulations relative to the female's fertile period in order to understand the function of copulation variation in this species. Each of 105 observed copulations were classified according to whether they were: (1) within-pair or extra-pair, (2) forced or unforced, and (3) face-to-face or standing. Two copulation categories 'within-pair unforced standing' (50%) and 'extra-pair forced face-to-face' (27%) accounted for the majority of all observed copulations, and this supported the previous categorisation of face-to-face copulation being forced by extra-pair males in this species. However, in 10% of copulations the female conceded to copulate with an extra-pair male in a standing position while displaying only subtle signs of resistance, thus, female stitchbirds may show convenience polyandry when the costs of resistance are high. The peak in copulation frequency centred on two days prior to the laying of the first egg and occurred within a period of six days before and seven days after the first egg was laid. Unsuccessful extra-pair forced copulation attempts closely followed the distribution of all copulations. Male age and morphometrics did not predict whether a female would resist or accept extra-pair copulation attempts, and female resistance did not appear to depend on male quality. Despite the current trend focussing on female fitness benefits associated with EPCs, it appears that male stitchbirds gain EPCs through forced copulation and females gain no apparent benefit.
30243864|The bright colours of parrots are caused by psittacofulvin pigments, which appear unique to this Order, and by structural colours. We measured red (psittacofulvin), green (mixed) and blue (structural) colours of wild burrowing parrots Cyanoliseus patagonus of northeastern Patagonia, Argentina, and measured nestlings regularly to obtain data on breeding success and nestling growth. As adult feathers are moulted outside the breeding season, adult body condition could not be measured directly during feather growth, and climatic conditions were used as an indirect parameter. The colony of burrowing parrots is surrounded by Monte steppe habitat, the breeding success has been shown to depend strongly on the climatic patterns. The area experienced a drought with very poor breeding success as well as a year of above-average precipitation during the study period, serving as a natural experiment. We thus analysed the variability of colouration within the population among and within breeding seasons. We observed strong inter-annual differences in nestling and adult colouration. Nestlings grew blue feathers with lower achromatic brightness during better conditions, and when controlling for year effects, nestlings with higher mass and from more successful families also had blue feathers with lower achromatic brightness. Adult blue feathers showed the same trend, with lower achromatic brightness in the moult following breeding seasons of better conditions. In contrast, during better conditions, adults grew red feathers with higher achromatic brightness and the colour hue was also affected, and the hue of the red region of nestlings varied with the hatching order. The colour of all three regions of nestlings varied between nests, and the colour of the red region of adult males positively correlated with breeding success (clutch size, brood size). In summary, the present data suggest that environmental conditions contribute to variability in both structural and the psittacofulvin-based colours of wild burrowing parrots.
3677472|To transmit aerodynamic forces to the body, tail feathers should be stiff to resist lift forces with minimum deformation. Because aerodynamic theory predicts that such feathers do not produce lift forces beyond the point of the maximum continuum width of the tail, species with deeply forked tails should not require stiff outer rectrices distal to that point. I tested this prediction by comparing the relative thickness of the outer rectrix rachis between species with deeply forked tails to those with triangular or shallowly forked tails. Eleven pairs of closely related species belonging to families Fregatidae, Phalacrocoracidae, Accipitridae, Sternidae, Caprimulgidae, Trochilidae, Coraciidae, Tyrannidae, Cotingidae, and Hirundinidae were compared. All but one of the phylogenetically independent comparisons showed that the species with triangular or shallowly forked tails have higher relative rachis thickness than their deeply forked relatives. In addition, nine out of eleven of the species with deeply forked tails showed a proportionately greater increase in relative rachis thickness from distal to proximal parts of the feather. In contrast, triangular and shallowly forked tails showed an approximately linear relation between relative rachis thickness and relative rachis length. These results considered together are consistent with the idea that the distal part of outer rectrix rachis in species with deeply forked tails has not been selected to resist lift forces and may be adaptively reduced to attenuate the costs of a hypertrophied ornament.
30244456|Blood sampling is often critical for answering a variety of questions about wild birds. However, it is important to assess the impacts, if any, of blood collection on wild birds. Here, we examined the effects of blood sampling on adults or nestlings in three species of free-living birds. First, we examined the effects of blood collection on annual survival and reproductive success in adult buff-breasted wrens Thryothorus leucotis in Panama. In adult wrens, blood collection from the brachial vein during the breeding season had no effect on annual survival or reproductive success. Second, we examined whether blood collection influenced mass gain in developing smooth-billed anis Crotophaga ani in Puerto Rico. In developing anis, blood collection from the femoral or jugular veins had no effect on mass gain of nestlings. Third, in developing European starlings Sturnus vulgaris in British Columbia, Canada, blood collection from the brachial vein had no effect of body condition. Blood collection from the jugular vein had a transient effect on body condition during the first week post-hatch, but this effect disappeared by the second week of age. Lastly, we present an extensive up-to-date review of the literature on the effects of blood collection on free-living avian species. Taken together, these data show that blood collection has no major negative effects on developing or adult birds in the wild.
10.2307/3677228|We made daily visits to 47 Eared Grebe Podiceps nigricollis nests in two colonies to determine the frequency of conspecific brood parasitism. Three criteria were used to detect parasitism: the appearance of two or more new eggs in a 24 hour period, new eggs after the host had ceased laying, and the disappearance of a marked egg with the simultaneous appearance of a new unmarked egg. We detected parasitism at 68% of nests in one colony, 14% of nests in the second colony, and 38% of nests in both colonies combined. The spatial dispersion of parasitic eggs among host nests within one colony did not differ from random expectation but, with respect to temporal dispersion, parasites were more likely to lay in host nests in the laying stage than expected by chance. Egg loss was more common at parasitized nests than unparasitized nests, but further studies are needed to confirm whether this is due to egg rejection by hosts. A comparison of clutch sizes in parasitized and unparasitized nests indicated that unparasitized nests never contained more that four eggs - supernormal clutches of five or more eggs thus indicate that parasitism has taken place and, if used as an assay for parasitism, would have identified two thirds of the cases of parasitism in our study. Applying this assay to clutch size information collected 40 years ago at a site close to our study area indicates that parasitism may be a regular feature of Eared Grebe reproduction.
10.2307/3677127|To test the evolutionary arms race hypothesis (Dawkins and Krebs 1979) on the Red-backed Shrike-Cuckoo host-parasite relationship, a field test was carried out by placing artificial Cuckoo Cuculus canorus eggs into 52 Red-backed Shrike Lanius collurio clutches in Hungary. Two types of plastic eggs were introduced into shrike nests: (1) mimetic spotted eggs, and (2) blue eggs. Both types of eggs were placed into the nests either during the egg-laying period or at the beginning of the incubation period. The hosts ejected the foreign egg (71.2%), deserted the nest (19.2%), or accepted the foreign egg (9.6%). The blue egg was ejected more frequently than the mimetic egg. Desertion of nests in which the spotted egg was introduced was most frequent during the laying period, but after incubation started, females usually responded to the foreign egg by ejecting it. When ejection and desertion were treated together as rejection of the parasitic egg, no significant differences were found between the egg types and nest stages. Our results support the idea that Red-backed Shrikes are able to recognize their own eggs and reject parasitic eggs. This species could have been a host of the Cuckoo in the past, but when it learned to identify the parasitic eggs, the Cuckoo switched host species rather than evolving perfectly mimetic eggs to counteract the host's recognition ability.
30245321|The little stint Calidris minuta is one of the smallest shorebird species breeding in the Arctic (weighing 4.3 g on hatching). Their chicks are small and have a high surface area-to-volume ratio. We determined prefledging growth, energy expenditure and time budgets for little stint chicks in northwestern Taimyr, Siberia. A modified power curve was introduced to model the relationship between daily energy expenditure and body mass. Total metabolisable energy, TME, over the 15-d prefledging period was 107% greater than the allometric prediction for a bird the size of a little stint. Their growth rate coefficient was 14% greater than the prediction for a bird their size. The growth of young chicks was reduced in cool weather, possibly due to a reduction in foraging time in order to be brooded and reduced food availability which impact foraging efficiency. We did not detect weather effects on energy expenditure of chicks, but lack of temperature variation during energy expenditure measurements may have prevented this. In sum, both growth rate coefficient and energy expenditure of little stint chicks were greater than predicted and this is similar to that observed in other arctic shorebird species.
10.2307/3677282|Fern feeding is rare amongst birds. I describe the fern frond feeding behaviour of the Azores Bullfinch Pyrrhula murina. This bird takes fern fronds when other foods, seeds and sporangia, are scarce and is highly selective within and between species. It is suggested that variations in chemistry within fern species, involving nutrients and secondary compounds, may cause this behaviour.
10.2307/3677264|This paper analyzes the change in feeding behaviour of frugivorous birds (from swallowing the whole fruit to pecking the pulp) in olive orchards. The frequency of olive consumption by pecking was indirectly assessed by comparing the appearance of seeds in diet samples of frugivorous birds captured in olive orchards and in a wild olive shrubland. Although cultivated and wild olives are varieties of the same species, the size of cultivated olives is twice that of wild olives. The proportion of olives of a size adequate for swallowing by Blackcap Sylvia atricapilla was very low in olive orchards (0-2.0%, four plots and two years) and much higher in a wild olive shrubland (58 and 88% in two different years). For a larger frugivorous bird, the Song Thrush Turdus philomelos, more olives fitted its gape width (2-74% in olive orchards, 100% in the shrubland). Seeds appeared in 58.1% of the diet samples of Blackcaps in wild olive shrubland, but in only 4.9% of diet samples in olive orchards; however, in both habitats olives were the most important component in the diet and appeared in most of the analyzed samples. This suggests that fruit swallowing is typical in the shrubland and that fruit pecking, which implies that the single large seed is not swallowed, is a common behaviour of this species in olive orchards. For Song Thrushes seeds appeared in 49.4% of the diet samples in olive orchards and in all of the samples in the shrubland, suggesting a lower frequency of pecking behaviour than in Blackcaps. Therefore, pecking behaviour was caused by the large size of the cultivated olives. In laboratory trials, olive pecking was much less profitable than swallowing the whole fruit. For Blackcaps the benefit/handling time ratio for pecking was approximately four times lower than for swallowing and for Song Thrushes it was 12 times lower. The high energy content of olives allowed the ingestion of sufficient energy by fruit pecking to make this feeding behaviour cost-effective, despite long handling time. Due to the scarcity of fruits that fit the gape of small frugivorous birds in olive orchards, pecking of olives seems necessary for the establishment of these birds in this habitat. In a broader context, this study shows that some frugivorous birds are able to overcome gape limitation by changing their feeding behaviour from swallowing to pecking the fruit. This is possible because, although pecking is more costly than swallowing in terms of handling time, it may still be cost-effective, in particular with large fruits.
30245197|The heritability of the hematocrit in adult, breeding pied flycatchers Ficedula hypoleuca is examined in a southern European population across seven years to see the consistency, or lack thereof, of patterns found with the trait at fledgling age where no significant heritability could be detected. While the across-years repeatability of the trait in adult, breeding birds was low but significant, heritabilities based on adult parent-adult offspring regressions controlling for assortative mating and full-sibling comparisons did not differ significantly from zero. Neither were heritability estimates affected by selection on fledgling hematocrit, as it was unrelated to local recruitment. There was no relationship between fledgling and adult hematocrit, suggesting that both behave as phenotypically plastic, different traits. This is the first study testing for the heritability of a physiological trait in birds with data from adult, free-ranging individuals.
30243883|Each spring, millions of songbirds migrate across the Gulf of Mexico on their way to breeding sites in North America. Data from radar and migration monitoring stations have revealed broad patterns in the spatial and temporal course of trans-Gulf migration. Unfortunately, we have limited information on where these birds have previously spent the winter and where they are migrating to breed. Here we measure stable-hydrogen isotopes in feathers $\deltaD_{f}$ to infer the breeding latitude of five species of songbirds-hooded warblers Wilsonia citrina, American redstarts Setophaga ruticilla, black-andwhite warblers Mniotilta varia, ovenbirds Seiurus aurocapilla, and northern waterthrushes S. noveboracensis-that were captured at a stopover site along the coast of southwestern Louisiana in spring 2004. Values of $\deltaD_{f}$ across all species ranged from-163 to-35 (n = 212), and within most species the range was consistent with the latitudinal extent of known breeding sites in central and eastern North America. Individuals that arrived first along the northern Gulf coast had $\deltaD_{f}$ values indicative of southerly breeding sites in hooded warblers, American redstarts, black-and-white warblers, and ovenbirds, but no relationship was found between passage timing and $\deltaD_{f}$ for northern waterthrushes. Our findings suggest that spring passage is often timed to coincide with the emergence of suitable conditions on breeding areas, with southern breeding birds migrating first.
10.2307/3677042|While many studies have reported extra-pair paternity in birds, few studies have actually been able to assign paternity to extra-pair young or to determine correlates of male extra-pair fertilization success. Such information is crucial when trying to evaluate the factors that influence male reproductive success and female mate choice. In this two year study we used DNA fingerprinting to assign paternity to all young in a small colony (9-11 nests) of socially monogamous and monomorphic House Martins Delichon urbica. Overall, extra-pair paternity accounted for 19% of young and occurred in 35% of broods. All extra-pair young were sired by just four males in the colony, in some cases these males lost paternity to each other. The variance in total fertilization success was larger than the variance in apparent success (i.e. brood size) indicating that extra-pair fertilizations increased the opportunity for sexual selection. Males with higher total fertilization success (within-pair and extra-pair) were heavier and survived better to the next breeding season than males with lower total fertilization success. These results indicate that male quality is correlated with fertilization success, although we do not know if this is due to female choice, male-male competition, or both.
10.2307/3677175|Despite evidence that wind conditions are an important factor in determining stopover decisions, models of time-minimizing bird migration have up to now emphasized the optimal response of the migrants to variations in fuel acquisition rates. We present a simple model of a time-minimizing migrant faced with two potential wind conditions on each day, which occur with a fixed probability. Wind assistance is modelled as a multiplicative factor in the flight range equation. We identify conditions under which birds leave the stopover site even with no tailwinds and conditions where the birds leave only with tailwinds in cases with global and local variation of the fuel deposition rate. The optimal policy depends on the probability and amount of wind assistance. In all cases there is an initial period at a stopover site when the bird should stay and build up its initially small fuel reserves irrespective of wind. After this initial time, there is a period when the optimal departure decision is to leave when tailwinds occur but stay and continue fuel deposition in other winds. If the probability of tailwinds is low the bird should at some later time change its policy to leave even in unfavourable winds. However, if a certain threshold value of the probability of favourable winds is reached the birds should never leave without wind assistance. These patterns lead to a complex relationship between departure load and fuel deposition rate. We compare our predictions with a null-model where the birds simply leave as soon as favourable winds occur. We further show that the inclusion of wind assistance cannot explain the discrepancy between observed and predicted values of departure loads under local variation in fuelling rates.
3677691|Many large marine vertebrates are today threatened by human activities and it is therefore crucial to obtain information on their distribution and behaviour at sea. In particular little is known about the time necessary for juveniles to acquire the foraging skills of adults. We tracked 13 juvenile wandering albatrosses Diomedea exulans by satellite telemetry during their first year at sea. They covered an average distance of 184 000 km during the first year and restricted their dispersal to the unproductive waters of the subtropical Indian Ocean and Tasman Sea. This region of low wind velocities does not overlap with the foraging areas used by adults. After an innate phase of rapid dispersal with a fixed flight direction, young birds progressively increased their daily flight distances and attained adult flight efficiency within their first six months at sea. The complete overlap of the juveniles' foraging ranges with major long-line fisheries in the subtropical waters constitutes a major threat that could jeopardize the long term recovery ability of populations of the endangered wandering albatross in the Indian Ocean.
30244819|Annual survival rate and other demographic parameters of whiskered auklets Aethia pygmaea, a small planktivorous seabird, were measured at Buldir Island Alaska during 1992-2003 to provide comparative information for auk life history studies and to test for links among climate, age, productivity and survival. Using two 9 m mistnets, we captured and recaptured 384 adult and 193 sub-adult (one year old, a known-age component of our sample) birds as they arrived at the colony after dark during May and June (1,730 capture events). The best fitting model indicated a lower initial survival rate over the first year following marking (0.708  0.036 SE), and subsequent survival (mean 0.835  0.029) covarying with the Aleutian Low Pressure climate Index, with higher auklet survival in years with weak low pressure over the Aleutian Islands. Annual survival rate varied from 0.726  0.127 in 1998-99 to 0.994  0.077 in 1994-95, rates similar to those previously reported for least A. pusilla and crested auklets A. cristatella. A model based only on recaptures of known-age birds indicated a lower local survival estimate over the first year following marking (age one to two years), with no other age-effects on survival. Breeding propensity by age inferred from recaptures of birds with fully-developed brood patches that were originally marked as sub-adults (one year olds) indicated 53% breeding at age two, 94% breeding at age 3, 97% breeding at age 4 and 100% breeding thereafter. The sex ratio of the sampled birds was significantly male biased (60/40), likely due to differences in behaviour between males and females during the incubation stage. Taken together, our data indicate that whiskered auklet survival and productivity covaried with continuous variation in large-scale climatic conditions, the mechanism being either negative effects of stormy North Pacific weather or indirect effects on food supplies.
3677663|We analysed clutch size versus nest size in 153 broods of the Northern Flicker Colaptes auratus, a woodpecker using natural cavities in British Columbia, Canada. Larger volume cavities were less susceptible to predation and cavity size was positively associated with the age and body size of males and with the body condition of female parents. Although clutches varied between 4 and 11 eggs, and the floor area of cavities varied about 5-fold, we found no relationship between clutch size and floor area or cavity volume. To see if there were fitness consequences to clutch size relative to nest size, we examined hatching success and nestling mortality in flicker broods. Hatching success was not related to cavity size, but crowding slightly reduced nestling survival even when clutch size was controlled statistically. However, there was no effect of cavity size on the total number of nestlings fledged. Newly excavated flicker cavities were smaller than reused cavities suggesting a cost to excavation. This cost, coupled with the minimal fitness consequences of overcrowding, may explain why flickers do not adjust clutch size to cavity size.
10.2307/3677313|Between 1970 and 1995, Great and Blue Tits in northern Germany started breeding progressively earlier. Also Pied Flycatchers showed a significant trend towards earlier breeding, and in this species clutch size and number of fledged young increased significantly from 1970 to 1995. In all three species the fluctuations in annual mean hatching dates were significantly correlated with the mean average spring temperatures. The recorded time trends in breeding correspond with increasing March and April temperatures from 1970 to 1995.
10.2307/3677097|Unlike most animals with internal fertilisation, few extant bird species have a male intromittent organ (IO). Although two previously published hypotheses have attempted to account for the rare presence of IOs in birds, phylogenetic evidence suggests that it is the absence of an IO in the majority of bird species that requires explanation. Previous hypotheses suggested that IOs help minimise water damage to sperm when copulation occurs on the water (Water Damage Prevention Hypothesis) or that IOs help the sexes stay in genital contact when males have difficulty balancing during copulation (Maintaining Genital Contact Hypothesis). We find some limited support for these two ideas but there are so many exceptions that neither is particularly compelling. Because IOs are found in several flightless birds, it has also been suggested that IOs were lost to decrease the costs of flight (Minimising Flight Costs Hypothesis), however the cost of transporting an IO is expected to be minimal. We suggest, instead, that IOs may have been lost to minimise the risk of contracting pathogens and parasites during intromission (Avoidance of Sexually Transmitted Disease Hypothesis). Unlike most other homeotherms, birds have a cloaca that is common to both the urogenital and gastrointestinal systems, which may make birds more susceptible to sexually transmitted diseases. Unfortunately, the lack of comparative information on sexually transmitted pathogens in birds prevents a convincing analysis of this idea. We also present two new hypotheses based on the costs and benefits of IOs as a result of sexual selection. On the one hand, IOs may be favoured when paternal investment is high - an IO can increase a male's confidence of paternity by ensuring that sperm are deposited well up into the female's reproductive tract (Sperm Competition Hypothesis). This idea is supported by an association between IOs and male parental care during incubation. Alternatively, we suggest that male IOs may have largely disappeared in birds because of female preference for males without IOs (Female Choice Hypothesis), thereby allowing females more control over fertilisation. We argue that such a mechanism is plausible when females can afford to abandon eggs fertilised by males with IOs. This hypothesis is supported by the fact that species without IOs generally have relatively smaller, and presumably less costly, eggs than species with an IO. Preliminary data from other tetrapod vertebrates are also largely consistent with the Female Choice Hypothesis. Although the small number of independent evolutionary losses of IOs in birds precludes rigorous statistical tests of these hypotheses, the recent discovery of secondary modifications in male genitalia that function as IOs may help us understand the conditions under which the avian IO has been retained or lost over evolutionary time.
25161529|A major assumption in most models of foraging is that feeding and vigilance are mutually exclusive. A recent experimental study challenged this hypothesis and demonstrated that birds are able to detect predators while pecking seeds on the ground (head-down vigilance). Experimental obstruction of head-down vigilance makes birds increase head-up vigilance (i.e. the classical overt vigilance posture). For many foragers in the wild, visibility varies between habitats and foraging methods. We compared the vigilance of Teal Anas crecca and Shoveler Anas clypeata when foraging with their eyes above the water surface (shallow feeding, only the bill submerged) and when foraging with their eyes underwater (deep feeding, head and neck underwater, or upending), at three wintering sites in western France. Birds of both species spent less time in head-up vigilance during shallow foraging than during deep foraging, with no significant difference between sites, which suggests that they are capable of some vigilance during shallow foraging. During deep foraging, the time spent vigilant increased because the frequency of scans was much higher, while scan length decreased. However, these differences could have resulted from variations in the availability of food at different depths. In an experiment where the food availability was constant, we observed the same pattern, with a higher frequency of scans during deep foraging. This study therefore provides strong support for the idea that vigilance and foraging are not always mutually exclusive and shows that switching between searching methods can cause vigilance time - and, as a consequence, loss of feeding time - to vary. This should be taken into account in future field and experimental studies of the trade-off animals make between vigilance and feeding.
3677713|The Neotropical ovenbirds (Furnariidae) form an extraordinary morphologically and ecologically diverse passerine radiation, which includes many examples of species that are superficially similar to other passerine birds as a resulting from their adaptations to similar lifestyles. The ovenbirds further exhibits a truly remarkable variation in nest types, arguably approaching that found in the entire passerine clade. Herein we present a genus-level phylogeny of ovenbirds based on both mitochondrial and nuclear DNA including a more complete taxon sampling than in previous molecular studies of the group. The phylogenetic results are in good agreement with earlier molecular studies of ovenbirds, and supports the suggestion that Geositta and Sclerurus form the sister clade to both core-ovenbirds and woodcreepers. Within the core-ovenbirds several relationships that are incongruent with traditional classifications are suggested. Among other things, the philydorine ovenbirds are found to be non-monophyletic. The mapping of principal nesting strategies onto the molecular phylogeny suggests cavity nesting to be plesiomorphic within the ovenbird-woodcreeper radiation. It is also suggested that the shift from cavity nesting to building vegetative nests is likely to have happened at least three times during the evolution of the group. We suggest that the shifts in nest architecture within the furnariine and synallaxine ovenbirds have served as an ecological release that has facilitated diversification into new habitats and new morphological specializations.
3677593|Offspring sex ratios were examined at the population and family level in the sexually monomorphic, socially monogamous fairy martin Petrochelidon ariel at five colony sites over a 4-year period (1993-1996). The sex of 465 nestlings from 169 broods was determined using sex-specific PCR at the CHD locus. In accordance with predicted sex allocation patterns, population sex ratios at hatching and fledging did not differ from parity in any year and the variance in brood sex ratios did not deviate from the binomial distribution. Further, brood sex ratio did not vary with hatching date during the season, brood number, brood size or colony size. The sex ratio of broods with extra-pair young did not differ from those without, while the sex ratio of broods fathered by males that gained extra-pair fertilizations did not differ from broods fathered by other males. Extra-pair chicks were as likely to be male as female. Neither the total number of feeding visits to the brood nor the relative feeding contribution by the sexes varied significantly with brood sex ratio. Brood sex ratios were also unrelated to paternal size, condition and breeding experience or maternal condition and breeding experience. However, contrary to our prediction, brood sex ratio was negatively correlated with maternal size. Generally, these results were consistent with our expectations that brood sex ratios would not vary with environmental factors or parental characteristics, and would not influence the level of parental provisioning. However, the finding that females with longer tarsi produced an excess of daughters is difficult to reconcile with our current understanding of fairy martin life history and breeding ecology.
30243893|Because they are ubiquitous and typically reduce the fitness of hosts, parasites may play important roles in hybrid zone dynamics. Despite much work on herbivores and hybrid plants, the effect of parasites on the fitness of animal hybrids is poorly known. In an attempt to partly fill this gap, we examined the prevalence of avian haemosporidians Haemoproteus in a hybrid zone between collared Ficedula albicollis and pied flycatchers F. hypoleuca. 40 species-informative genetic markers allowed us to identify F1 hybrids, thus avoiding problems inherent in many studies that group hybrid genotypes. Furthermore, naturally occurring extra-pair paternity allowed us to test the immune responses of pure and hybrid nestlings to a novel antigen (phytohaemagglutinin) in a shared environment. In contrast to previous suggestions that animal hybrids may more often display resistance against parasites than plant hybrids, F1 hybrids exhibited prevalence of parasitism and immune responses that were intermediate between the two parental species. We also detected differences between the two parental species in their prevalence of infection, with the competitively dominant species (collared flycatcher) being less often infected by Haemoproteus. Overall, our results contribute to other recent data supporting the idea that the resistance of animals to parasites is variously and unpredictably affected by hybridization, and that there is a concordance in the general patterns observed in plants and animals. Haemosporidians in avian hybrids provide a useful system for investigating the interactions between hosts and parasites that characterize host contact zones.
3677718|In the tropics female birds sing much more frequently than in the temperate north, and sometimes even join their mates to form duets. Why might this be? We discuss how this phenomenon may relate to differences in life history that have been proposed between these regions, highlight likely hypotheses and point to areas of ignorance where studies are needed. The two reasons that appear at present most likely to explain the greater prevalence of female song in the tropics are: (1) the need for mutual stimulation to achieve breeding synchrony in a relatively aseasonal environment and, (2) sex role convergence arising from more long-term relationships and greater fidelity than is usual among north temperate species.
10.2307/3677361|I studied costs of nest defense in Azure-winged Magpies Cyanopica cyana in Tokyo, Japan in 1994 and 1995. I compared time devoted to nest defense, frequency of nestling feeding, and number of fledglings of magpies breeding near nests of Japanese Lesser Sparrowhawk Accipiter gularis and magpies breeding far from such nests. Because the hawks attack potential predators, magpies near a hawk's nest did not defend their nest, whereas magpies breeding far from a hawk's nest defended their nest. Feeding frequencies and number of fledglings were greater near a hawk's nest than far from it. Because nest defense incurs a cost in the form of decreased feeding time, Azure-winged Magpies far from a hawk's nest probably provided less food to their chicks and therefore raised fewer fledglings than those breeding close to a hawk.
3677539|We examined variability in yolk hormone levels among songbird species and the role of yolk steroids as a mechanism for enhanced exploitation of hosts by the parasitic brown-headed cowbird Molothrus ater. Within-clutch variation in yolk steroids has been found in several avian species in single species studies, but few comparisons have been made among species. We found a large range of differences in yolk testosterone among the seven passerine species examined, with significant differences between those at the high end (song sparrow Melospiza melodia, red-winged blackbird Agelaius phoeniceus, and house sparrow, Passer domesticus) and those at the low end (eastern phoebe Sayornis phoebe, and house finch Carpodacus mexicanus). We also found that the testosterone level in cowbird eggs was intermediate in relation to host species levels and was significantly lower than that in three common cowbird hosts (song sparrow, redwinged blackbird, and house sparrow), but not significantly different from three others. Geographical comparisons of yolk testosterone levels in all cowbird subspecies and populations from several regions showed no significant differences, though a trend that deserves further exploration was the pattern of lowest level in the ancestral population of cowbirds in the central prairies and of highest level in the northwestern population where range invasion occurred approximately 40 years ago. The levels of 17 betaestradiol were similar in the seven songbird species examined, which is consistent with current hypotheses that this hormone plays a role in embryonic sexual differentiation. Further investigation is needed to determine whether the large differences observed among species in absolute level of yolk testosterone are the relevant focal point or whether target tissue sensitivity differences mediate the effects of this yolk steroid, particularly between parasitic and non-parasitic species.
10.2307/3677143|We investigated how territory quality, settlement date and morphometry affected several components of yearly breeding success of a Swiss population of Savi's Warblers Locustella luscinioides. Territories occupied by males differed from unoccupied sites of similar size and location by having higher and denser reeds, a more extensive straw litter, and a thicker cover of dead sedge leaves. Territories with these characteristics were the ones first chosen by males upon spring arrival. These males, however, did not differ in morphometry from those that arrived later. Availability of suitable nesting sites, rather than food availability, appears to be an important choice criterion for territories. Early arriving males had higher breeding success than late males because of a higher mating success and more successful clutches. The positive correlation between male breeding success and territory quality was thus mediated through their common dependence on occupancy date. Female breeding success decreased with the date of first-clutch laying, mainly because late-nesting females fledged fewer broods. Breeding success in either sex did not correlate with morphometry. Our results provide clear support for territory choice by males, but not for mate or territory choice by females, and show the crucial role played by individual settlement date on many aspects of the breeding cycle of both sexes. We propose a lottery model of mate choice: arriving females obtain the best available territories even without choosing mates or territories; since males occupy territories sequentially and in order of decreasing quality, the few unpaired males available at any moment also occupy the best available territories.
3677390|We examined microhabitat preferences and their adaptiveness for the kelp gull Larus dominicanus in one of its largest colonies in Patagonia. We quantified 13 habitat variables at 104 and 92 nest-sites and at 70 and 60 random points in 1998 and 1999, respectively. We recorded egg laying dates, hatching success, number of chicks fledged and breeding success at 92 of these nests in each of the study seasons. Compared to random points, nest sites had more vegetation cover and were closer to the nearest available bush, but they were located further from the nearest clearing for flight take-off, all variables included in the "vegetation" principal component. Nests were built on substrates with lower slopes and higher percentages of silt-clay, but with lower percentages of rock. In both years, hatching success, number of chicks fledged and breeding success were related positively to the vegetation principal component. Substrate slope and composition contributed to explain the variation in hatching and breeding success in 1998 and 1999, respectively. Our study shows that some kelp gull breeding parameters are affected by nest-site habitat characteristics. These associations were in most cases influenced by the timing of breeding, with earlier breeders being more successful. Vegetation effects and substrate characteristics were important variables in distinguishing random sites from nest sites, and in explaining variation in breeding performance, showing that their habitat preferences are adaptive and allowing us to detect both the pattern and process in kelp gull habitat selection.
3677552|We tested the fertility announcement hypothesis, whereby male song during a female's fertile period functions as both a paternity guard and an advertisement for extra-pair copulations, in an eastern population of song sparrows Melospiza melodia over two broods within a breeding season. Our results did not support one of its main predictions: male song rate was not significantly higher in the female's fertile period than in her post-fertile period. Song rate peaked prior to pairing, when males were establishing territories and trying to attract females. Once paired, song rate dropped by a factor of about ten, and was consistently low through all stages of the nesting cycle. Males who failed to pair continued singing at high rates throughout the breeding season. Our results do not support the fertility announcement hypothesis, therefore song rate is not used primarily as a paternity assurance strategy by song sparrows.
30245206|Based on phenology, passage and median dates gathered from large number of study sites, we measured autumn and spring migration speeds of eleven long distance migratory passerines in four different ecogeographic sectors: Europe, desert, north-eastern and eastern Africa. Results demonstrate that, during the southward autumn migration, latedeparting species, such as lesser whitethroat Sylvia curruca, garden warbler S. borin, spotted flycatcher Muscicapa striata, whitethroat S. borin, and willow warbler Phylloscopus trochilus cover their migration route with a slower average migration speed across Europe than do early migrating species. During spring migration, late-departing species (marsh warbler Acrocephalus palustris, garden warbler, spotted flycatcher, red-backed shrike Lanius collurio) across north-eastern Africa showed a higher speed than early migrating species. Our results show overall shorter migration duration estimates in spring than autumn. Sector-wise seasonal comparisons of duration indicate that migration journey in the African and desert sectors are covered in a relatively shorter time in spring than in autumn. Periods required to cover the distance between northern latitude breeding grounds and desert during both seasons were equivalent.
3677738|Anti-microbial activity is a commonly suggested but rarely tested property of avian uropygial oil. Birds may defend themselves against feather-degrading and other potentially harmful bacteria using this oil. We preliminarily identified 13 bacterial isolates taken from the plumage of wild house finches Carpodacus mexicanus, measured bacterial production of the enzyme keratinase as an index of feather-degrading activity, and used the disc-diffusion method to test bacterial response to uropygial oil of house finches. For comparison, we performed the same tests on a type strain of the known feather-degrading bacterium Bacillus licheniformis. Uropygial oil inhibited the growth of three strongly feather-degrading isolates (including Bacillus licheniformis), as well as one weakly feather-degrading isolate and one non-feather-degrading isolate. Uropygial oil appeared to enhance the growth of one weakly feather-degrading isolate. Growth of the remaining isolates was unaffected by uropygial oil. These results suggest that birds may defend themselves against some feather-degrading bacteria using uropygial oil.
10.2307/3677192|The extent of variation in the frequency of extra-pair matings among and within avian species could result from differences in breeding density, where breeding density is predicted to be positively correlated with extra-pair paternity. We combined paternity data and behavioural observations to evaluate this prediction using correlational data in relation to observed densities of Hooded Warblers Wilsonia citrina by comparing populations differing in (1) nearest neighbour distance which varied by more than an order of magnitude (range 50-600 m) and (2) the number of adjacent neighbours within 300 m (range 0-8). Spearman rank correlations demonstrated no relationship between extra-pair paternity and either inter-territory distance or the number of adjacent neighbours within 300 m. The rate of extra-territorial forays, female chip rates, the number of chipping bouts, time spent chipping, male song rates, the number of song bouts and time spent singing were similar among pairs breeding at different densities. Our results suggest that a simple linear relationship between density and extra-pair paternity may not exist in some avian species, possibly because the costs of inter-territory travel may be much lower than the benefits gained through extra-pair fertilizations, and also because of the conflicting mating tactics used by males and females.
30243818|The racket-tipped tail of the motmots is uniquely shaped and its formation has attracted much attention. Barbs that grow along the wire of the motmot's two central tail feathers are weakly attached and shed soon after development. The cause of the weak attachment of these barbs is unclear. I induced feather growth by plucking the central tail feathers from seven turquoise-browed motmots Eumomota superciliosa and then collected the regrown feathers before the barbs along the wire had fully shed. I compared the barb-rachis junction (petiole of the ramus) along the distal flag (the racket-tip of the tail) where barbs are not shed, to the barb-rachis junction along the wire where barbs would later be shed. In these two regions, I examined the size and structure of the attachment of the barb to the rachis with a scanning electron microscope (SEM). I also used a light microscope to score the grayness of the proximal rami of these two regions to estimate the amount of melanized keratin. SEM imaging showed that the barbs are attached to the rachis with a larger supporting flange along the distal flag compared to along the wire. Images from a light microscope showed that the rami along the distal flag were black, whereas rami along the wire were translucent or gray. The lower gray-scale color score of the rami along the wire is likely due to reduced melanized keratin. These data suggest that that the barbs along the wire are weakly attached due to a combination of a reduced structural attachment and a lack of structurally enhancing melanin.
10.2307/3677108|Lesser Sheathbills Chionis minor are sedentary and territorial birds which establish their territories and feed in seabird colonies on subantarctic islands. In the Kerguelen Archipelago only, they also live on territories away from seabirds. In this context of contrasting habitats, we examined the determinants and the consequences of territory changes between years. When changing site, Kerguelen sheathbills tended to settle on sites of higher quality; they also chose territories adjacent to their former ones. Moreover, individuals which changed from seabird-free territories moved closer to territories with seabirds, which were the ones of highest quality. Territory switching was not related to poor breeding success the year before changing, compared to individuals which retained their territory. Yet, the sheathbills which changed to an adjacent territory (i) retained their partner more often than those which moved to a more distant site, and (ii) tended to spend less time foraging than the latter during the breeding period following the change. Moreover, adults fledged at least as many chicks as before switching, being more successful if the new territory harboured a seabird colony. The adults which changed from seabird-free sites also enhanced their reproductive outputs on their new territory. Therefore, Lesser Sheathbills changed territory to obtain territories with seabirds, using adjacent territories as "stepping stones" to the latter, which were the most suitable for breeding. Knowledge of food resources on adjacent territories would enable the birds which shifted to these sites to have higher breeding success than those which moved to more distant ones. Moreover, changes towards an adjacent territory might represent a trade-off between improving current breeding status and minimizing the risk of finding oneself without a territory.
25161531|Molecular paternity tests show that extra-pair fertilizations are common in many socially monogamous bird species. However, the question of why females often seek extra-pair copulations is still controversial. Competing alternative explanations differ in their predictions on how extra-pair young should be distributed within and among broods. Analysing these distributions may therefore help to resolve this controversy. In several species broods without extra-pair young and those with total or nearly total extra-pair paternity have been claimed to be over-represented. Consequently, extra-pair nestlings would be distributed non-randomly among nests. To compute expected frequencies (i.e. the patterns of random distribution) the Poisson distribution has frequently been used. However, the Poisson distribution is not appropriate for two reasons. (1) Impossible configurations can receive positive probabilities. (2) The Poisson distribution approaches randomness only if extra-pair fertilizations are events of low probability, which often is not the case. We show how randomness can be computed appropriately by using the multivariate hypergeometric distribution. Re-analysing published data on distributions of extra-pair young, we show that the result that there are more broods containing either none or many extra-pair young than expected by chance is even more pronounced than previously thought.
30244484|Incubation was for a long time considered to be a period of decreased activity and low cost for parents. It was therefore ignored as a potential factor affecting life-history trade-offs in birds. Lately this view has started to change, and studies now show that there might be considerable costs connected to incubation. We experimentally reduced the nest temperature during incubation in blue tits Cyanistes caeruleus, thus increasing the energetic cost of incubation, to test the importance of incubation as a component of reproductive costs and for nestling quality. While most other studies use brood size manipulation to manipulate reproductive costs, we were able to separate treatment effects acting during the incubation period from those acting on later reproductive performance by applying a cross-foster design. We were also able to isolate the effects of decreased incubation temperature on the nestlings from treatment effects acting on incubating females. We found no experimental effect on the length of the incubation period or on hatching success. The lower temperature during incubation, however, caused lower growth rates in nestlings and reduced chick rearing capacity in adults. We conclude that incubation is a costly period, with the potential to affect both the trade-off between current and future reproduction and the one between parental effort and offspring quality within the current breeding attempt.
30244420|Birds such as great skuas Catharacta skua adapted for successful breeding at high latitudes may experience problems of heat dissipation in mild climates. Great skuas spend time bathing at freshwater sites close to breeding territories and here, we examine impacts of heat stress on bathing, foraging and nest attendance of adults during three breeding seasons with marked variation in the availability of prey (1-group sandeels Ammodytes marinus). Adults exhibited diurnal variation in bathing activity that matched heat-stress conditions. Moreover more birds bathed on days of higher average heat stress, suggesting that bathing plays a role in thermoregulation. Bathing numbers were lower in years of poor food availability, when adult attendance at territories was low, probably because lower attendance reduced the opportunity for parents to bathe without leaving chicks unattended. Chicks are normally guarded by female parents and fed by males but under conditions of low food availability territorial attendance of breeding pairs was particularly low on days of high heat stress, with chicks regularly left unattended at air temperatures exceeding 14C. Unattended chicks are at risk of being killed by neighbouring conspecifics and survival of chicks to fledging was low in the two years of low sandeel stocks. Our study indicates that for great skuas, indirect effects of climate change on prey stocks and direct effects on heat stress experienced by adults may be additive.
25662896|Carotenoid-based colors have signaling roles in a range of animal taxa, yet little is known about how carotenoids vary across species or whether overall patterns may vary across genera. The caciques (Cacicus, Clypicterus and Ocyalus; family Icteridae), a group of passerine birds from Central and South America, appear to visually divide into discrete yellow and red color groups. Reflectance spectrometry supported this observation, showing widely separated short and long-wavelength groups corresponding with yellow and red-feathered taxa. Ancestral state reconstructions inferred a yellow ancestral state with two independent changes to red, and no reversals back to yellow. This pattern contrasts with that of another closely related icterid clade, the New World orioles (Icterus), which exhibit a full range of carotenoid colors and have a pattern of evolution that is continuous and extremely labile. To our knowledge, this study is the first to highlight the possibility of different modes of color evolution even among closely related clades. This study also emphasizes the importance of the methods and assumptions of ancestral state reconstruction. In particular, although coloration and other characters can be measured along a continuous scale, they should be reconstructed using discrete methods when data from extant taxa and underlying mechanisms suggest discrete changes.
3677796|We investigated whether exposure to heavy metal pollution affected the immune function of individuals in a free living population of a small insectivorous passerine bird, the pied flycatcher Ficedula hypoleuca. We measured humoral immune responses in two study areas: a polluted area in the vicinity of a copper smelter and a control area far from the smelter. Plasma corticosterone level and blood heterophil/lymphocyte ratio (H/L) were used as more general physiological measures of stress. The immune response of F. hypoleuca was not suppressed by pollution stress. In contrast, we found that F. hypoleuca males showed stronger humoral immune responses to a novel antigen (tetanus toxoid) in the polluted environment than in the unpolluted one. After the immunization of males, numbers of lymphocytes rose significantly more in the polluted area, leading to a smaller H/L ratio than in males from the control area. Females showed no pollution related effects on their immune responses. Corticosterone levels of males and nestlings were not related to pollution levels. Nestlings showed somewhat higher H/L ratios and lower fledging success in the polluted area, both factors indicating increased stress levels in a polluted area. Our results suggest that humoral immune response of male F. hypoleuca may be enhanced under moderate levels of heavy metal pollution. Enhanced immune function may, however, also be costly for birds and the higher humoral immune responses in polluted areas may thus have negative effects on the birds' breeding performance and survival.
10.2307/3676950|We used counts of droppings left by Semipalmated Sandpipers during the day and at night to index their foraging on their major prey item, the small intertidal amphipod, Corophium volutator (Crustacea: Amphipoda). Densities of droppings were not significantly different between day and night after correcting for distance from shore. Densities of droppings also were unrelated to prey densities at sites. Counts of droppings may serve as a useful alternative to peck rate and bird counts when examining nocturnal foraging by sandpipers and other shorebirds. These results suggest that nocturnal foraging is important in meeting the energetic demands of migrating sandpipers.
30244450|Estimates of reproductive success are essential to understand life-history strategies, yet tropical species remain understudied relative to their temperate counterparts. Here, we report nest survival probabilities for two manakin species (Pipridae). We monitored 61 wire-tailed manakin Pipra filicauda and 45 blue-crowned manakin Lepidothrix coronata nests during three breeding seasons. Both species suffered high nest failure (84%). We modeled the effects of year, nest height, nest age (for P. filicauda only), as well as nest manipulation on daily survival rates (DSR) using program MARK. DSR decreased with nest age in P. filicauda whereas a constant survival model was best fitted for L. coronata. Average DSR was 89% for P. filicauda and 85% for L. coronata. This study reports some of the lowest nest survival rates among tropical passerines and poses important questions about population maintenance.
10.2307/3676963|The phylogenetic relationships of titmice and chickadees (Passeriformes: Paridae) were estimated by DNA-DNA hybridization. Fifteen species of parids (representing all six subgenera) and two outgroups, Penduline Tit Remiz pendulinus and White-breasted Nuthatch Sitta carolinensis, were radiolabeled and compared pairwise to produce a complete reciprocal set of distance measures. The resulting phylogeny supported the traditional allocation of species to subgenera, except that Parus wollweberi clustered with the North American crested tits (subgenus Baeolophus) rather than the Old World crested tits (Lophophanes). The interrelationships of most subgenera remained unresolved. Nevertheless, a major subdivision in the family was strongly indicated: i.e., the great tits (subgenus Parus) and the blue tits (subgenus Cyanistes) formed a clade that is the sister taxon of the rest of the family. This bifurcation has important ecological, physiological, and morphological ramifications, as it correlates exactly with seed-caching and flocking habits, hippocampal development, and leg-muscle character distributions. These DNA-hybridization results corroborate or complement the phylogenetic relationships among parids supported by other molecular data sets (viz., allozyme, restriction site, and preliminary DNA hybridization analyses).
3677471|We investigated whether variation in structural plumage coloration in satin bower-birds, Ptilonorhynchus violaceus, could reveal the intensity of infection from parasites, as predicted from models of parasite-mediated sexual selection (PMSS). To do this, we captured adult male, female, and juvenile male satin bowerbirds in Queensland, Australia, and objectively measured individual plumage reflectance from four body regions using a spectrometer. We quantified both ectoparasite load and the intensity of infection from blood parasites. In iridescent blue adult males, plumage reflectance is unimodal, with a single peak in the ultraviolet, while in greenish females and juveniles, plumage reflectance is bimodal, with peaks in both the ultraviolet and green portions of the spectrum. In adult males, the intensity of infection from blood parasites was best predicted by plumage brightness (total reflectance), with brighter males having fewer parasites. Similarly, juvenile males exhibiting greater UV chroma (proportion of reflectance in the UV) had fewer blood parasites. Our findings support a key prediction of PMSS models and provide the first evidence that a structural colour ornament can signal the intensity of infection from blood parasites.
3677474|Reproductive tactics of ringed plovers Charadrius hiaticula were studied at three localities in SW Sweden during five seasons. The usual clutch size is four, but removal experiments showed that females can produce five eggs in succession, with similar intervals between all eggs. High predation made mean breeding success per clutch low, 6.3% of eggs resulting in fledged young. Replacement clutches were common, and many pairs laid again after rearing their first brood to fledging. Egg laying spanned three months, much longer than for other waders in this region. Between years, reproductive success varied unpredictably with time of the season, but averaged over several years, the expected success was low and similar for the different parts of the breeding season. Chicks from late clutches had similar survival and recruitment as others. Because of the long breeding season and high rate of nest failure a female may produce up to five clutches of four eggs per season, containing in total about 3.7 times her own mass. Yearly local survival of adult females and males was estimated to 84.6 and 88.6%, respectively. Ability to produce many clutches with similar expected success throughout the season favours a long reproductive period, sometimes leading to double-brooding. Possible life-history trade-offs are discussed.
10.2307/3677163|The changes in global climate, vegetation zones and sea level must have resulted in changes in the routes taken by migratory species. I consider whether populations are likely to be able to adapt to the accelerating change resulting from modification of the global environment. I summarise 43 cases in which birds have changed their migration routes in historical times. I also summarise 14 cases in which routes seem sub optimal, for example, species have spread from one continent to another but have persisted in using the migration route normally associated with the previous continent. Whether a particular migratory species can respond to global environmental change is likely to depend upon the details of the genetic or cultural system and this may be difficult to predict.
3677543|I studied cavity-nesting birds in an undisturbed site in lowland Peru to determine the relative roles of competition and predation in favoring termitarium nesting over tree cavity nesting. Occupancy rates of both nest boxes and natural tree cavities near 2% suggest that competition for tree cavities is not favoring the use of termitaria. Artificial nests and bird nests in termitaria suffer significantly lower predation rates than similar nests in old tree cavities showing that predation is favoring the use of termitaria over old tree cavities. Bird nests in newly excavated tree cavities also show lower predation rates than older cavities suggesting that cavity age is more important than substrate (tree or termitaria) per se. This study suggests that nest predation has a greater influence than nest competition on life history evolution for many cavity-nesting birds.
3676928|We present data on digestive efficiencies and gut retention times of eight North Atlantic seabird species, fed on two fish species - lesser sandeel Ammodytes marinus and whiting Merlangius merlangus - which commonly occur in the diet of wild seabirds. In an interspecific comparison, there was a positive relationship between retention time and digestive efficiency, which we suggest represents a trade-off between conflicting benefits of efficient digestion and rapid digestion. Analysis of excretion curves revealed that retention time of digesta in the stomach was more important than passage time of digesta through the intestine in determining whole gut retention time. Differences in stomach retention time of lesser sandeel and whiting explained the longer overall retention time of the latter diet. Stomach retention time and whole gut retention time were greater in species with relatively large stomachs, while intestine passage time was correlated with relative intestine length. Species which typically eat a wide range of food types, including low quality items, tended to have slow and efficient digestion and heavy stomachs, whereas species which specialise on readily digestible and energy dense food types had the opposite digestion strategy.
30244422|Within-season variation in life-history parameters is characteristic of long-lived seabirds breeding in dynamic marine environments. Zooplanktivorous Cassin's auklets Ptychoramphus aleuticus breeding in central California feed primarily on euphausiid crustaceans, and switch from provisioning their offspring with Euphausia pacifica early in the nestling period to Thysanoessa spinifera later in the nestling period. I examined the effects of seasonal variation in nestling diet composition and meal mass, and timing of breeding and breeding attempt number (only/first or second breeding attempt) on the growth rate of individual nestlings on Southeast Farallon Island, California. For individual years, there were variable seasonal trends in growth, but no trends were apparent when all years were combined. Along with the predicted seasonal shift in prey use, there was a concurrent decrease in meal mass. In multivariate models, there were significant and positive effects of the mass proportions of E. pacifica and T. spinifera in the diet, meal mass and breeding attempt number on nestling growth, while the effect of hatching date on growth was negative. The relative influence of T. spinifera on growth was stronger than that of E. pacifica, the effects of hatching date on growth were likely dependent on the effects of breeding attempt, and breeding attempt exerted the strongest effect on nestling growth of all parameters examined. These suggest that the seasonal switch in prey use is advantageous (whether intentional or otherwise). Results illustrate the importance of adequate availability of both E. pacifica and T. spinifera to auklets in the Gulf of the Farallones. This study represents a unique approach in the investigation of linkages between individual nestling growth rate and diet and breeding phenology parameters by focusing on a fine temporal scale.
10.2307/3677340|We combined radiotelemetry techniques with an automatic nest balance system to obtain detailed, concurrent data on foraging activity, prey consumption and foraging performance in four pairs of Shags Phalacrocorax aristotelis during chick rearing on the Isle of May, Scotland. During the study period the location of the main feeding area changed abruptly from c. 10 km away from the colony (long-range trips, LRT) with return flight times from the feeding area to the colony of 7-14 min to c. 0.8 km away (short-range trips (SRT), return flight times <3 min). The two feeding areas differed in water depth (LRT dives shallower) and probably also in the size of prey taken. There were significant differences between trip types in almost every aspect of feeding activity recorded. LRT were characterised by high diving efficiency (the proportion of the dive cycle spent foraging) and low feeding rates (mass of prey caught per second foraging). In contrast, diving efficiency was lower and feeding rates were higher for SRT. The gross intake rate (the product of diving efficiency and feeding rate) was significantly higher in SRT than LRT. We suggest that the observed switch in preferred feeding area was caused by the sudden appearance of large numbers of small lesser sandeels Ammodytes marinus in the waters just off the Isle of May. The higher feeding rates attained by birds on SRT could have been due to higher concentrations of prey and/or reduced foraging costs associated with unsuitable habitat for sandeels in this area. Results from this study suggest that the distribution of available resources influences the choice of foraging areas in Shags.
30243915|Sexual selection theory predicts that sexually selected ornaments are costly to maintain and, as condition-dependent signals, are likely to vary in attractiveness with season and age. Mute swans Cygnus olor possess a black, fleshy knob at the base of the bill, which is present in both sexes. Using measures calculated from digital photographs taken over two years we monitored changes in the size of the bill knob in individual swans throughout the breeding season. Our longitudinal data show that bill knob size is highly dynamic. Relative bill knob size was larger in males than females and was consistently greater for breeding males than for non-breeders. For males, relative bill knob size peaked during cygnet hatching, when male protection of the brood is most important, and was smallest during moult. In females, breeders had larger bill knobs than non-breeders at all times apart from immediately after egg-laying and incubation, when the reverse was true, presumably reflecting the costs of reproduction. Body mass was a highly significant predictor of relative bill knob size in both sexes, as was age, with an initial increase and then later a decline in relative ornament size across the lifetime of male birds. The bill knob ornament in mute swans thus appears to be a condition-dependent, highly malleable trait. It accurately reflects the differing pressures experienced by individual birds as they progress through the breeding season, suggesting selection by both intra- and inter-sexual forces.
10.2307/3677067|A miniature foot-attached water temperature logger for deployment on large seabirds is described. This unit was tested on 5 breeding Wandering Albatrosses and indicated flight or resting on water behaviours with a resolution to within a few seconds. Device-fitted birds were also equipped with satellite transmitters for determination of position. Combination of data on water temperature from the logger together with position from the transmitter enabled us to examine sea surface temperatures in the albatross foraging areas.
25662903|Environmental factors may strongly affect avian-biting fly interactions in different ways because insects are heterothermic organisms that depend greatly on environmental variables to activate their metabolism and behaviour. We studied the effects of weather on both blackfly (Simuliidae) and biting midge Culicoides (Ceratopogonidae) abundance in nests of three passerine species: blue tits Cyanistes caeruleus, great tits Parus major and pied flycatchers Ficedula hypoleuca, breeding in the same area. We controlled for different host-related factors (hatching date, brood size and host species). Blackfly abundance was negatively related to minimum temperature. In addition, blackfly and biting midge abundances were negatively affected by wind speed measured at 07.00 h, but blackfly abundance was positively associated to wind speed at 18.00 h. We found higher blackfly and biting midge abundances in nests with larger broods breeding later in the season, and significantly higher biting midge abundance in pied flycatcher nests as compared to tit nests. These results represent, to our knowledge, the first report of both environmental and host-related effects on haematophagous fly abundance in the nests of wild hole-nesting birds.
30244421|Many animals use hoarding as a long-term strategy to ensure a food supply at times of shortage. We suggest that long-term scatter hoarders, whose caches are vulnerable to potentially high pilferage, should hoard in ways to reduce cache loss. This could be achieved by manipulating the density and dispersal patterns of caches to reduce the foraging efficiency of pilferers. This study explores the effect of distribution patterns on cache loss in the laboratory. We recorded the discovery of food items in different dispersal patterns by two bird species: coal tits Periparus ater (a hoarder) and great tits Parus major (a non-hoarder). Hyper-dispersed distributions reduced foraging efficiency because both species used systematic local search patterns. This study shows that hyper-dispersed distributions would be advantageous to hoarding animals to reduce cache loss.
10.2307/3677030|In a population of Pied Flycatchers breeding in nestboxes in a montane pine forest in central Spain, we performed a clutch manipulation experiment by adding or removing one egg in certain nests, while keeping the original number in other nests to serve as controls. No significant effect of clutch manipulations was detected with respect to female mass/condition at the beginning of incubation and mass/condition changes. DEE (daily energy expenditure) of incubating females, measured with doubly-labelled water, was lower for reduced than for control and enlarged clutches. DEE showed a nonlinear increasing relationship with clutch size. For nine females laying clutches of 5 there was a significant positive effect of increased clutch size on DEE, the number of incubated eggs explaining 77% of the variation in DEE. For females laying 6 eggs there was no apparent trend in DEE with clutch size, suggesting that females laying large clutches do not increase DEE further when incubating enlarged clutches.
10.2307/3677007|We investigated the effects of the plumage changes associated with moult on the anti-predator take-off performance of European Starlings Sturnus vulgaris. By altering the plumage to simulate moult, we have isolated the biomechanical consequences of changes in wingform from the underlying physiological and metabolic changes that may occur during natural moult. Previous analyses of avian take-off performance have relied on descriptive observations of wingtip kinematics or dual measures of take-off speed and angle. We have developed a novel method using the energy gain per wingbeat as a measure of overall take-off performance. The advantages of this measure compared with previous approaches are that it summarises the potential trade-off between height gain and speed gain, and can be related directly to lift on the wings. Analysis of high speed (100 Hz) video tapes indicated that birds in simulated moult suffer a reduction in total energy produced during the second wingbeat of take-off, resulting in a slower take-off speed. This reduction in take-off performance is also associated with a marked change to the pattern of movement of the wingtip during flight; moult-manipulated birds appear to reverse the wingtip at the top of the downstroke although there is no associated change in wingbeat amplitude or duration. Birds appeared to be able to regain, in part, their flight performance within 6 days of the manipulations, as take-off speeds returned to pre-manipulation levels. This partial return to pre-manipulation flight performance was associated with an alteration in pattern of movement of the wingtip during take-off. The relevance of this adaptation to birds in natural moult is discussed. Any reduction in take-off performance is likely to influence directly individual behaviour and survival; hence the ability to quantify take-off in different species under a common currency is of general ecological importance and will enable predictions to be generated and tested concerning the effects of natural moult in wild birds.
10.2307/3677190|In response to disturbance young of altricial open-nesting birds may leave the nest several days before the usual age for nest leaving. In Meadow Pipits Anthus pratensis, about 60% of broods attacked in the last quarter of the nestling period survived predation attempts. The probability that some nestlings would escape from nest predators increased with nestling age. The growth rate and number of nestlings did not predict whether or not the brood would be attacked by a predator. However, the probability that the attack would result in destruction of the entire brood decreased with increasing growth rate. Other sources of mortality (e.g. starvation, scramble competition) also affected slowly growing broods. It is concluded that the selection for accelerated nestling growth and earlier functional maturity acts via elimination of poorly nourished broods.
3677498| Swim speed and depth utilization were recorded at a sampling rate of 1 Hz in 14 free-ranging Adlie penguins in Adlie Land, Antarctica during the austral summers of 1996/1997 and 1998/1999. The average swim speeds during the descent, bottom and ascent phases of dives were independent of the maximum depth, while the variability in swim speed decreased with increasing maximum depth, reflecting the physiological constraints of diving. Descent speed, which varied less with maximum depth than speeds measured during other parts of dives, was significantly different among birds. In addition to the speed analysis, a new category of dive profiles with a flat bottom phase and an extremely reduced swim speed is reported. The probable benthic nature of such dives is discussed. 
30244804|We explore the relationship between general eggshell colour (background and spots) and proportion of surface covered by spots on the eggs of blue tits Cyanistes caeruleus and several variables reflecting female health and condition. Females laying more spotted eggs showed a poorer body condition, higher cellular concentration of the stress protein HSP70 and marginally lower total immunoglobulin levels in blood. In addition, these females were paired with males with higher levels of HSP70 and lower concentrations of immunoglobulins. We interpret these results based on the properties of the eggshell pigment protoporphyrin, which is known as an inductor of oxidative stress in females. Although observational, this study presents, for the first time, clear evidence of eggshell spottiness and general colour as indicators of general condition and stress in avian populations.
10.2307/3677250|Zahavi (1995) refutes the logic of kin selection and reciprocity, and proposes an alternative signalling explanation for the evolution of altruism. This paper expands upon Zahavi's promising "altruism as a handicap" argument, in which "altruists" improve their future fitness as a result of honestly signalling their phenotypic quality to prospective mates or allies. It is suggested that cooperative systems may be especially likely to evolve signals using altruism as a handicap, because signalling costs could be recouped within the collaboration (e.g. mate choice based on courtship feeding also increases female reproductive output). However, the claim that the altruism inherent in helping-at-the-nest has evolved to enhance the "social prestige" of helpers within the group seems unlikely on the basis of current evidence. The utility of the concept of social prestige is also questionable, particularly when compared to related and overlapping ideas already in use, concerning dominance, reciprocity and affiliative behaviour. In order to generate a need for the alternative hypothesis, misleading arguments have been presented concerning the similarities between kin selection and group selection, and the evolutionary stability of cooperation and reciprocation. This confusion seems rather unnecessary, because altruism as a signal is compatible with these other well-established theories. Further work is now required in the form of mathematical game theory models to explore the evolutionary stability of altruism as a signal.
30243899|Predation, foraging and mating costs are critical factors shaping life histories. Among colonial seabirds, colony overflights may enhance foraging or mating success, or diminish the risk of predation and kleptoparasitism. The latter possibility is difficult to test because low predation or kleptoparasitism rates could be due either to low danger or to effective counter-tactics by prey. Tufted puffins Fratercula cirrhata breeding at a large colony in British Columbia, Canada, deliver several loads of fish each day to their nestlings and are targets for kleptoparasitism by glaucous-winged gulls Larus glaucescens. In the present study, we documented the ecological conditions under which overflights occurred in order to assess when overflights were made and to statistically isolate the effect of overflights on kleptoparasitism risk at this site. Load-carrying puffins engaged in overflights under ecological conditions associated with relatively high rates of kleptoparasitism. Further, when ecological factors determining risk were statistically controlled, overflights were correlated with marginally lower chances of kleptoparasitism than when the risk factors were ignored. The results suggest that breeding puffins at this site use overflights for kleptoparasite avoidance. This tactic is used sparingly, suggesting it is costly. Costs of overflight behaviour might contribute to the impact of kleptoparasitism on the breeding success of tufted puffins.
10.2307/3677018|The breeding biology of Western and Semipalmated Sandpipers was studied for four years near Nome, Alaska. Despite a short breeding season and a putatively invariant clutch size, there were seasonal declines in the fecundity of both sandpiper species. Most females produced only one clutch (> 98%), but often laid fewer than four eggs (7.6-34.5% of first nests). Clutches of 2-3 eggs were initiated significantly later (6-8 d) and contained smaller eggs (2.9-3.5%) than 4-egg clutches. Small clutches were not renesting attempts, and were not caused by disturbance during laying or partial clutch loss. This is one of the first reports of seasonal declines in egg number among birds considered to have an invariant clutch size. We evaluated four explanations for the seasonal declines in fecundity. The data did not support a clutch size-egg size tradeoff or the nutrient-reallocation hypothesis, but it was not possible to evaluate the cost-of-delay hypothesis. Variation in parent quality was the most likely explanation for the seasonal declines in fecundity. Females that were familiar with the study area bred significantly earlier in Western Sandpipers (4.5 d) but not Semipalmated Sandpipers (3.5 d, p = 0.07). Timing of clutch initiation was not related to female age in Western Sandpipers or to familiarity with a mate in either species. The two sandpiper species adjusted different components of fecundity. Western Sandpipers typically laid four eggs, and in three of four years there were significant seasonal reductions in egg size among 4-egg clutches. In contrast, Semipalmated Sandpipers laid significantly fewer eggs than Western Sandpipers, but females laying 4-egg clutches did not produce smaller eggs if they laid late in the breeding season. Semipalmated Sandpipers may reduce clutch size because their smaller eggs are close to a minimum threshold size necessary to produce viable precocial young in the arctic.
3677500|As ultraviolet wavelengths are used in normal avian colour perception, the maintenance of captive birds under artificial lighting (which is normally UV-deficient) may have welfare implications. European starling Sturnus vulgaris juveniles kept in UV-deficient light environments had significantly higher basal plasma corticosterone concentrations than those kept under full spectrum lighting, in the second of two experimental blocks. UV-deficient conditions also led to significant changes in behaviour indicative of escape (less perching and more hanging on the cage and pecking at it). However, the birds from the first block, where the interval between transfer to the experimental set-up from the wild was short (2 days), showed significantly higher basal and maximum plasma corticosterone concentrations than those in the second block and no additional effect of light environment on either corticosterone or behaviour. We hypothesise that this difference between blocks was due to the overriding initial stress of being in captivity swamping any treatment effects. Capture stress had declined in the second set of birds, which entered the experiment after 7-14 days in captivity. Stress effects of UV-deficient lighting appear small relative to the overall impact of captivity, but may nevertheless become apparent after the initial effects of capture subside.
10.2307/3677295| Studies of birds killed while migrating can provide data on flight energetics that are not subject to the drawbacks of laboratory studies. In a mass downing in Utah in December 1991, extremes of flight costs in fat, migrating Black-necked Grebes Podiceps nigricollis were estimated at 115 and
30244738|To cope with changes in the environment, organisms not only show behavioural but also phenotypic adjustments. This is well established for the digestive tract. Here we present a first case of birds adjusting their flight machinery in response to predation risk. In an indoor experiment, ruddy turnstones Arenaria interpres were subjected to an unpredictable daily appearance of either a raptor or a small gull (as a control). Ruddy turnstones experiencing threat induced by a flying raptor model, longer than after similar passage by the gull model, refrained from feeding after this disturbance. Pectoral muscle mass, but not lean mass, responded in a course of a few days to changes in the perceived threat of predation. Pectoral muscle mass increased after raptor scares. Taking the small increases in body mass into account, pectoral muscle mass was 3.6% higher than aerodynamically predicted for constant flight performance. This demonstrates that perceived risk factors may directly affect organ size.
10.2307/3677128| Diving ducks face the strongly cooling properties of aquatic environments. In experiments with Tufted Ducks Aythya fuligula feeding on zebra mussels Dreissena polymorpha in outdoor cages, we measured changes in food consumption and diving behaviour in relation to water temperature (3-22C). Water efflux and daily energy expenditure (DEE) were measured using doubly-labelled water. Tufted Ducks swallow mussels whole and crush the shells in the gizzard. Due to the low flesh content of mussels, daily mussel consumption was extremely high in winter (up to 3 times the duck body mass of 600 g). Water efflux was 6.5 to 13 times higher than allometrically predicted, with a maximum of
30244778|We analyzed data from two surveys of fall migrating shorebirds in central and eastern North America to estimate annual trends in means per survey and to determine whether trends indicate a change in population size or might have been caused by other factors. The analysis showed a broad decline in means per survey in Atlantic Canada and the northeastern United States (North Atlantic region). For example, 9 of 9 significant trends in this region were <1 (P = 0.004), and the mean, annual rate of change among 30 species was 0.9783, a decline of - 2.17% per year (P <0.001). Trends in the midwestern United States (Midwest region) showed no clear pattern. The mean among 29 species was 1.0090 (P = 0.35). Only 4 of the trends were significant. Several hypotheses were evaluated to identify causes of the declining means per survey in the North Atlantic region. The most likely hypothesis appears to be a decline in the breeding populations that supply migrants to the North Atlantic region, but a change in movements, for example passing through the region more quickly in recent years, cannot be excluded as an explanation. Further surveys of arctic breeding areas coupled with analysis of long-term survey data from western North America would be helpful in determining whether the declines found in this analysis are also occurring in other areas.
30244764|The shape and movement of the vocal tract are known to influence bird song. Current theory predicts that large bill and body size are correlated with low frequency song and slow trill rate. It is also widely accepted that song characteristics are important for mate choice by females. We investigated the relationship between bill morphology, song characteristics, and pairing success in Darwin's small tree finch Camarhynchus parvulus, on the Galapagos Islands. Contrary to predictions from a previous crossspecies study on Darwin's finches, we found that individuals with larger bill size produced songs with slow trill rate, high dominant frequency, and broad frequency bandwidth, indicating that song is a reliable signal of bill morphology. Vocal performance as indicated by the deviation from an upper performance limit was higher in paired than unpaired males. Pairing was not skewed in favour of a particular bill size, and both small and large billed males that sang high performance song had high pairing success. The reliable signalling function of song has implications for female choice and territorial defence, given that both females and conspecific competitors can assess the relative size of males' bills through song, while females may use vocal performance as a signal of male quality.
10.2307/3677362|Voles scent mark their territories with urine and faeces that are visible in ultraviolet (UV) light. Rough-legged Buzzards Buteo lagopus feed mainly on voles. We performed a field experiment in northern Finland to test whether buzzards are attracted to UV-visible vole scent marks. The buzzards hunted more often on plots with vole scent marks than on control plots. Our results indicate that Rough-legged Buzzards may be able to use vole scent marks as a cue when searching for profitable hunting and breeding areas.
10.2307/3677074|Detailed studies of edibility of birds suggest a negative correlation between visibility and edibility; in other words, bright birds may be aposematic (Cott 1947, Cott and Benson 1970). Cott used only females to assess visibility (judged not only from plumage but also behaviour and habitat). Here I reanalyse Cott's data, taking into account also plumage conspicuousness of males and females, variation between persons scoring conspicuousness, and statistical problems. For 30 South European passerine birds, irrespective of sex, visibility and plumage conspicuousness were negatively correlated with edibility, but I could not control for phylogenetic association in this smaller sample. For 87 non-passerine birds from southern Africa, irrespective of sex, visibility and plumage conspicuousness were negatively correlated with edibility, both across species and in a matched pairwise comparison of closely related species. For females of 105 passerines from southern Africa, visibility and plumage conspicuousness were negatively correlated with edibility across species; in a pairwise comparison, the trend was significant only for conspicuousness. However, for breeding males of these 105 species, plumage conspicuousness was not correlated with edibility in any analysis. Thus, the male plumage of passerines from southern Africa does not appear to signal distastefulness; it may be sexually selected, or perhaps signal other aspects of prey unprofitability. Further work is needed to establish whether the most important predators in the wild assess avian prey on the scale of edibility used by Cott.
10.2307/3677096|Foraging behaviour of Parus guilds in Denmark was studied at two study sites on the mainland and on two islands on which Crested Parus cristatus and Marsh Tits P. palustris were absent. In the absence of Crested Tits, island Coal Tits P. ater foraged among twigs and branches, which, on the mainland, were the domain of the Crested Tit. Comparing observations with and without Crested and Great Tits P. major present, I found significant differences in choice of foraging substrate and foraging height of Coal Tits. Generally, Coal Tits foraged higher in the presence of Great and Crested Tits. Consistently, there were no differences between mainland sites, nor between islands with respect to the foraging niches of the Coal Tit. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that interspecific competition has shaped the foraging niches of the Parus guild.
3677432|Birds often show some form of social segregation during winter, both at large geographical scales (a consequence of differential migration) and at the regional or local level, when comparing different habitats or micro-habitats. However, our understanding of the mechanisms underlying such patterns is still poor. These issues have been rarely investigated in migratory Old-World passerines, particularly with respect to differences between the sexes. In this study, we show that female European robins Erithacus rubecula (sexed by molecular techniques) greatly outnumber males in southern Iberia, which confirms that this species is a differential migrant with a strong latitudinal segregation of the sexes. Furthermore, sex, age and body size influence the habitat distribution of robins in winter. Subordinate birds (females, juveniles and small individuals) were generally more common in habitats with a greater shrub development, and comparatively scarce in woodlands with relatively little undergrowth. Birds wintering in woodlands were in better condition (assessed by breast-muscle scoring) than birds wintering in shrubland. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that proposes that social dominance, mediated by differences in size and experience, is important in determining the habitat segregation of sex and age classes. The alternative hypothesis (habitat specialization), although not specifically supported by our findings, cannot be ruled out on the basis of the available evidence.
3677591|How predators locate avian nests is poorly understood and has been subjected to little experimental inquiry. We examined which sensory stimuli were important in the nest-finding behavior of fish crows Corvus ossifragus, a common nest predator in the southeastern United States. Using an array of potted trees in a large enclosure, we presented artificial nests to captive crows and quantified responses to visual, auditory, and olfactory nest cues, and nest position. Partial ranks of nest-treatment preferences were analyzed using log-linear models. Nest visibility significantly increased the likelihood of predation by fish crows and increasing nest height was a marginally significant influence on nest vulnerability; no responses were apparent to auditory or olfactory stimuli. Our findings demonstrate that fish crows are visually-oriented nest predators that may preferentially prey on, or more readily encounter, above-ground nests. Moreover, the experimental design provides a new method for evaluating predator-prey interactions between nests and their predators. This study also illustrates how sensory capabilities of predators can interact with nest types to determine nest predation patterns.
10.2307/3677208|The effects of sexual size dimorphism of parents, diversity of delivered prey items, and laying date on reproductive success were studied in a Great Tit Parus major population near Cracow, Poland: Although males were significantly larger than females, sexual dimorphism among pairs did not correlate with the diversity of prey delivered to young, nor with the number and average body mass of 14 days old young. However, the diversity of delivered food declined during the breeding season, while the average body mass of the young increased. Furthermore, the average body mass of young was higher if parents fed them with prey of lower diversity. Partial correlation analyses showed that this increase in body mass was not only a seasonal effect but was also related to the diversity of delivered prey items. The present findings do not confirm the intersexual niche differentiation hypothesis, even though the possibility for niche extension existed in the investigated population. Possible explanations for the negative relationship between fledgling weight and prey diversity are discussed.
10.2307/3677075|In common with other species of Procellariiformes, Cory's Shearwaters accumulate prodigious amounts of adipose tissue during the nestling period, and attain peak weights considerably in excess of adult weight. We conducted two experiments to determine whether this pattern of development could be related to an absence of regulation of food supply to chicks. In the first experiment, chicks were switched between nests at 29 days of age, approximately three weeks prior to peak mass attainment. Serial correlations were then calculated between each chick's weight before switching and both its own weight during subsequent age intervals and the weight of the foster chick during subsequent age intervals. The results supported a parental-determination model of feeding, indicating that the behaviour of the chick had little or no influence on food supply rate. The second experiment, in which chicks were given a supplementary meal of c. 60 g of fresh sardine daily, indicated that parents reduced neither their rate of provisioning nor meal size in response to a reduction in the nutritional requirements of their chicks. Supplements resulted in a doubling of mass growth rate of chicks for the first eight days of supplementary feeding; this was followed by a period of much slower mass growth, but chicks given supplementary food remained significantly heavier than unmanipulated controls. During the latter period, adults at manipulated and unmanipulated nests visited their chicks at similar rates and with similar amounts of food. Slow mass growth of chicks at manipulated nests probably resulted from their refusing to accept food from their parents, and suggested that the rate at which parents supply food under natural conditions may be close to the maximum assimilatory capacity of the chick's digestive tract. The absence of any regulation of food supply in accordance with the behaviour or nutritional requirements of the chick may reflect a low correlation between the nutritional status of a chick at one feeding and its needs at the end of the parent's succeeding foraging trip. Alternatively, an absence of regulation may result from adults supplying their chicks with food at the maximum attainable rate, regardless of the chick's nutritional status.
3677444|Many birds have been shown to reduce their reproductive investment in response to infestation of nest sites by ectoparasites. Nest-dwelling parasite populations increase throughout the breeding season, and can reduce the condition and future survival of both breeding adults and their offspring. Thus, avian hosts should be capable of assessing early cues that predict future ectoparasitism risk, and should be able to facultatively adjust their primary reproductive investment in response to anticipated future costs of parasites. We tested this hypothesis in the tree swallow Tachycineta bicolor, a cavity nesting passerine, by presenting a visual cue of avian fleas on the outer surface of nest boxes. This treatment manipulated perceived ectoparasitism risk without exposing birds to parasites, thereby allowing us to examine facultative responses in the absence of early physiological effects of parasites on female reproductive investment. During one of the study years, birds preferentially occupied control boxes, however, across both years, birds nesting in treatment boxes produced significantly smaller clutches, resulting in smaller broods at hatching, relative to those in control boxes. This difference in clutch size could not be explained by differences in phenotypic quality of breeding birds, indicating that for cavity nesting birds such as tree swallows, the perception of future ectoparasitism risk may be sufficient to induce a facultative reduction in reproductive investment early in the breeding season, before nest-dwelling parasite populations have grown very large.
10.2307/3677321|Seasonal and daily body mass variation of flock-living Willow Tits Parus montanus was studied in northern Finland during two winters to find out whether or not social dominance affects the size of birds' internal energy reserves. The daily minimum mass increased during autumn, peaked in midwinter and decreased in spring. These changes, however, were small and not rank-dependent. Daily mass fluctuation was much greater than seasonal variation. On average the birds gained 0.82 g (7.1%) in mass during the day. At dawn dominants and subordinates did not have significantly different amounts of reserves either in winter or in spring. In both seasons dominants gained more mass during the day than subordinates. At dusk, dominants were heavier than subordinates in winter but not in spring. When the competitive advantage of dominance was removed by food supplementation, subordinates gained more mass and tended to be heavier in the evening than when only natural food was available. Additional food affected neither daily acquisition nor evening masses of dominants. In intrasexual comparisons, rank-related differences were found neither in fatness nor in seasonal or daily mass acquisition. Nevertheless, relying on the results of the feeding experiment we conclude that dominant, mainly male. Willow Tits take advantage of their priority in resource access and acquire more internal energy reserves than subordinates which are mainly females. Consequently, fasting tolerance may be rank-dependent causing differences in winter survival between dominance categories.
10.2307/3677239|A detailed investigation of the effects of weather conditions on the feeding behaviour of a pursuit diving seabird, the Common Guillemot Uria aalge, was carried out during the chick-rearing period at a colony in southeast Scotland in 1997. There was no evidence that the rate at which adults brought back fish for their chicks was related to weather conditions but the type of prey delivered was affected with birds bringing in smaller sandeels Ammodytes marinus in stormy weather. This resulted in a significant decrease in the mean energy value of a prey load and in the overall rate of energy intake of chicks. The attendance behaviour of adults also varied in response to the prevailing weather conditions. The proportion of sites with chicks which had both adults present was significantly lower in stormy conditions indicating that, although the frequency at which Common Guillemots provisioned their chicks was not affected, birds were spending longer away foraging. Furthermore, information on diving behaviour collected using radio telemetry suggested that birds were working harder when conditions were bad with the number of dives in a bout, and hence the amount of time spent underwater, increasing significantly and the interval between consecutive diving bouts decreasing significantly. Analysis of long-term data on chick provisioning and adult attendance for the study colony indicated that the observed reductions in the mean energy value of loads and the proportion of chicks attended by both adults in stormy weather, which were evident in the 1997 data, were also apparent across years. If the current climate change prediction of an increase in the frequency and/or intensity of storms at mid to high latitudes proves correct, such trends could have marked energetic consequences for Common Guillemots in terms of increased foraging costs of adults and reduced energy intake of chicks.
3677395|Boreal owls Aegolius funereus (referred to as Tengmalm's owls in Europe) breed in boreal forests throughout the Holarctic region and in high-elevation subalpine forests further south. They are currently classified as seven subspecies; six found throughout Eurasia, and one in North America. The geographic distribution of boreal owls in North America and Eurasia is similar, as are their patterns of dispersal and irruption. Because a recent genetic study of boreal owls in North America found very little genetic differentiation among widely disparate locations, we expected that boreal owls in Eurasia similarly would have very little genetic differentiation. Using seven microsatellite markers, we analyzed genetic samples from 275 boreal owls in North America, 36 in Norway, and five in eastern Russia. We found no detectable genetic differentiation between Norwegian and Russian owls, but notable differentiation between North American and Eurasian owls. Low intra-continental genetic differentiation likely results from high rates of long-distance dispersal among subpopulations of boreal owls. In light of these results, we recommend further genetic sampling of boreal owls throughout Eurasia in order to determine whether six separate subspecies here are warranted.
10.2307/3677248|Females of socially monogamous bird species frequently accept or solicit copulations with males other than their social mate. It has been proposed that in so doing females either gain direct benefits such as increased likelihood of fertilization in the event of their social mate being unable to provide sufficient sperm, or indirect (genetic) benefits for their offspring, e.g. 'good genes' from extra-pair partners of higher genetic quality than their own mate. Male ornaments such as elongated feathers and patches of coloured feathers are thought to act as visual cues to male quality. In this study we have used single-locus DNA profiling of two House Sparrow Passer domesticus populations to test the 'good genes' hypothesis prediction that males of low quality will be cuckolded most frequently. Both intra- and extra-pair mate choice is influenced by the size of the male's black bib which may be indicative of male quality. Contrary to the 'good genes' prediction, small-bibbed males were not cuckolded more frequently in either population. Furthermore, none of the measured breeding parameters or female characteristics correlated with the occurrence of cuckoldry.
3677610|Although incubation temperatures have been documented extensively in birds, few studies have followed fluctuations in temperatures throughout the length of the incubation period in natural nests. We recorded incubation temperatures of Nazca boobies Sula granti by replacing real booby eggs with a model egg containing an internal floating data logger for three-day intervals in 47 nests ("experimental group"). We also added the same logger eggs to 14 booby nests at the time of egg-laying, where they remained as the second egg in the clutches for the entire incubation period ("logger egg control group"). Finally, we measured surface temperatures of real eggs with an infrared sensor ("real egg control group"). In both control groups, the average temperature increased after laying, then stabilized for the remainder of the incubation period. The experimental group differed from the controls, because the cool logger egg could have been introduced at any point in the incubation cycle, not just at the beginning. Egg temperature in the experimental group had a parabolic relationship with day of incubation, because parents receiving a logger egg during the third quarter of incubation showed an exaggerated heating response during the subsequent two days. We infer from this that the parents are especially sensitive to egg temperature during this period, and it may thus represent a critical period of unknown nature for the embryo.
3677607| In broods of great egrets Ardea alba and other birds with siblicidal nestlings, the first-hatched brood members generally secure far more food than do their juniors. This feeding advantage could be caused by parental favoritism, or by seniors attacking and thereby dominating their juniors. We investigated these possibilities by comparing how fathers and mothers allocated food among their offspring when chicks were free to fight versus when they were physically separated by a Plexiglas barrier. When free to fight, dominant nestlings received significantly more food than did their subordinates. When nestlings were separated, mothers, but not fathers, delivered significantly more food per meal to the  (second-ranked) chick than to other nestlings. This is the first experimental evidence of differential feeding by parents in a species with aggressive nestlings. 
10.2307/3677020|In contrast to other organisms with internal fertilization, males of the majority of birds do not possess a copulatory organ. Causes of this loss of phallus are not well understood. Copulations in birds are very short, indicating selection for fast transfer of sperm. I propose here that the loss of phallus is mainly a by-product of selection for rapid copulations, and present two hypotheses to explain this loss: (1) Predation Avoidance. During copulation birds temporarily lose ability to fly, which strongly reduces their ability to escape predator attacks. Insemination with the phallus cannot be accomplished in a few seconds. Therefore, the reduction of phallus would result in acceleration of sperm transfer and shortening of the period of exposure to an elevated predation risk. (2) Copulation Efficiency. In most birds, the copulating male stands on the female's back in a very unstable position. A faster sperm transfer because of the loss of a phallus would result in fewer interrupted copulations due to loss of balance as well as in reduced risk of the female being injured if the male loses balance.
3677690|Offspring survival probability usually decreases with hatching order, especially in species with brood reduction. Brood reduction in combination with a sex difference in embryonic period (the time between laying and hatching of an egg) can potentially have a profound effect on sex allocation, with higher investment in chicks of the early hatching sex because they are more likely to survive to fledge. Two recent studies reported sex differences in the embryonic period, but compared embryonic period between, rather than within, clutches, which does not control for possible environmental effects on both clutch sex ratio and embryonic period. We compared the embryonic period of sons and daughters within clutches in jackdaws Corvus monedula and black-headed gulls Larus ridibundus, two species with frequent brood reduction, and found no sexual difference in embryonic period. This suggests that sex allocation is not affected by sex differences in embryonic period in these species, but more studies are required to verify whether this is a general pattern.
10.2307/3677014|We use a dynamic optimization model to assess the consequences of habitat loss at migratory stopover sites. We emphasize costs birds face during stopover (e.g. costs of gaining energy), the timing of site use and the behavioural rules birds might use to implement migratory strategies. Behavioural rules may be flexible enough that birds can still produce optimal behaviour in the changed environment, or the rules may result in suboptimal behaviour. If birds behave optimally in the altered environment, habitat loss on the wintering ground has the highest impact, because this site, unlike the intermediate stopover sites, cannot be skipped if the quality drops below a threshold. If birds continue to use the old behavioural rules that now result in suboptimal behaviour, we can distinguish two cases. Birds can continue to use a constant foraging behaviour that was optimal in the unaltered environment under many circumstances. Then the effects of habitat loss are proportional to the length of stay before habitat loss and the departure fuel load from a site. However, the effects of habitat loss do not depend on the location of the site within the network. In some circumstances birds are expected to forage with intensities that are below maximum. If birds use the foraging behaviour that is appropriate for a given fuel load, time and site but inappropriate for the altered fuel gain, then changes at sites close to the breeding ground have a greater impact than more distant sites. Finally we discuss the importance of sites that are not used before habitat loss. If birds behave optimally these sites may be used in an altered environment and can buffer against habitat loss at other sites.
30245214|The emberizid genera Aimophila and Pipilo represent longstanding taxonomic conundrums. Each is comprised of sub-clades whose members appear to share diagnostic morphological and behavioral characters; however, relationships among sub-clades within each of these genera remain unclear, and numerous authors have suggested that either one or both of these genera may be polyphyletic. We addressed this taxonomic problem by sequencing and analyzing complete mitochondrial cytochrome-b and NADH dehydrogenase subunit 2 genes for all members of Aimophila and Pipilo along with 33 species representing 17 additional emberizid genera. Our maximum likelihood and Bayesian analyses indicate that both Aimophila and Pipilo are polyphyletic. Aimophila is divided into a minimum of three distinct groups. The forms notosticta, ruficeps, and rufescens are part of a well-supported clade that includes all members of Melozone and some members of Pipilo. Aimophila quinquestriata is placed within Amphispiza, and the remaining members of Aimophila are placed within a clade that includes all members of Arremonops and some members of Ammodramus. Within Pipilo, the "rufous-sided" and "brown" towhee groups do not form sister groups. Rather, the former are most closely related to the tropical genus Atlapetes whereas the latter are placed nearest Melozone and some Aimophila. Our analyses reject traditional taxonomic arrangements for both genera, and we present suggestions for a revised taxonomy for all members of Aimophila and Pipilo. These results provide further evidence of discordance among phylogenetic hypotheses based on morphological and molecular characters for groups of birds with generally conserved morphology.
10.2307/3677077|Egg addition and egg removal experiments in Common Eiders Somateria mollissima were carried out during three breeding seasons to examine their effect on final clutch size. When the third egg and all subsequent eggs were removed during the laying cycle, females did not respond by laying more eggs. This result is consistent with the hypothesis that egg-production is limited by body reserves; however the experiment may have been carried out too late in the laying cycle to make further egg-laying possible. When three eggs were added to nests containing two eggs females produced fewer eggs than a normal clutch. This suggests that females respond to egg parasitism by reducing their own clutch size. A reduced host clutch size suggests that availability of body reserves is not the only control of clutch size in Eiders, but that costs to incubate and/or to care for chicks may increase with increasing clutch size.
30244806|Using multiple logistic regression analysis, we investigated the influence of nest site characteristics, laying date and nest size in marsh warblers Acrocephalus palustris on the risk of parasitism by common cuckoos Cuculus canorus. Marsh warblers breed in more diverse and dense herbaceous vegetation than other cuckoo hosts investigated in comparable studies. The "perch proximity" hypothesis was supported as parasitized nests were situated closer to trees than non-parasitized ones. Furthermore, demonstrated for the first time in a cuckoo host, tree height was an important predictor of parasitism, with higher trees increasing the parasitism odds ratio. The "nest exposure" hypothesis was also supported since parasitized nests had a shorter stand of vegetation in the close vicinity than non-parasitized nests. However, visibility of the nest from the nearest potential cuckoo perch (cuckoo view) was not selected by the model, probably because most nests were well concealed. Laying date, height of nest above ground and the distance from the nest to the nearest edge of the vegetation were not important predictors of parasitism. Though smaller nests tended to be parasitized more frequently than larger ones, nest size only approached significance, making its importance unclear.
30245322|Considering the importance of dietary constraints for the widely held view of carotenoid pigmentation as an honest quality indicator, there is surprisingly little data on carotenoid availability in different natural diets or along environmental gradients. Here we investigate the carotenoid availability in the main diet of breeding great tits Parus major, living in urban and rural environments with known differences in carotenoid pigmentation. Carotenoid availability for nestling great tits was investigated in two respects: (1) quantity and quality of diet (i.e., caterpillar abundance and their carotenoid concentration), and (2) parental feeding frequency. First, caterpillars were generally more abundant in the urban environment and the four common Lepidoptera (i.e., caterpillars) genera studied were also heavier here. Second, as determined by HPLC analysis of the caterpillar genera, carotenoid concentration was significantly lower in the urban caterpillars. Furthermore, all except one of the caterpillar genera had higher lutein/zeaxanthin ratio in urban areas, which is in accordance with earlier studies of carotenoid composition in great tit yolk. Third, parental feeding frequency was about twice as high to urban broods compared to rural broods. This result may simply reflect the higher caterpillar abundance (shorter search time) in the urban environment. Poor food quality (low carotenoid concentration) seems therefore to be compensated by quantity in the urban environment. As a consequence the carotenoid availability seems to be similar for nestlings in the two environments.
3676930|To investigate whether song variability or activity could be used as a cue to male quality in the Whitethroat Sylvia communis and whether the song influenced female choice, songs from 18 males were recorded and analysed, and their perch song and flight song activity were registered. Song repertoire was measured as Rep1000 (the average number of different elements within sequences of 1000 elements), Max1000 (the maximum number of different elements in a 1000 element sequence) and number of elements per repertoire. Old males had larger Rep1000, Max1000 and number of different elements per song than 1-yr-old males. 1-yr-old males had higher perch song and flight song activity than old males. A principal component factor analysis on the song variables showed that (1) males with a large principal component factor score on the first component (PCFS1) typically were old males and (2) the PCFS1 was positively related to male wing length. Rep1000 and Max1000 and a low perch and flight song activity contributed to a positive factor score. Males that mated had larger PCFS1 than males that remained unmated, and there was a significant negative correlation between mating date and PCFS1. The study suggests that song variability potentially could act as a cue to male quality. Females may prefer males with elaborate songs. However, arrival date could account for the mating pattern and it cannot be excluded that other factors, such as territory quality, also could have influenced the observed mating pattern.
3677661|The majority of studies examining the role of hormones in the proximate mechanisms of plumage coloration in birds have focused on intersexual differences (plumage dichromatism) and on structural- or melanin-based plumage coloration. The relationship between hormones and carotenoid-based plumage color, and in particular intrasexual plumage color variation, has received little attention. We manipulated testosterone levels of both captive and wild male House Finches to determine whether testosterone influences the expression of male plumage color in this species. We found that in captive male House Finches elevated testosterone delayed molt and resulted in drabber, less red plumage, even when birds were supplemented with dietary carotenoids. Elevated testosterone also resulted in drab plumage color in wild males, and appeared to delay molt in wild birds as well. Wild males implanted with testosterone showed wide variation in expression of plumage coloration. Those implanted early in the year molted plumage similar in color to their pre-treatment plumage, but those implanted later molted substantially duller plumage, possibly because delayed molt resulting from elevated testosterone caused these males to molt when carotenoid pigments were not available in sufficient amounts. These observations have the potential to explain previously reported relationships between plumage color and behavior in male House Finches, and highlight the importance of considering the proximate mechanisms of plumage coloration in avian sexual selection.
3677683|The concept of parasite-mediated sexual selection assumes that females may improve offspring fitness by selecting mates on the basis of sexual ornaments that honestly reveal the health state of a partner. Expression of such signals may be particularly sensitive to oxidative damage caused by excess production of oxidative metabolites and free radicals. To control and neutralise free radicals, animals rely heavily on dietary fat-soluble antioxidants such as vitamin E and A, and carotenoids. However, the organism's need for free radical scavenging may interfere with the opposite need to generate oxidative stress for fighting parasitic infections. We investigated plasma concentrations of carotenoids and vitamin A and E in brood-rearing great tits Parus major in relation to carotenoid-based plumage coloration, sex, habitat, leukocyte hemoconcentrations and infection status with Haemoproteus blood parasites. Rural great tits differed from urban ones and males from females with respect to the hue of the yellow ventral feathers. However, plasma antioxidant concentrations were not related to sex, habitat or plumage coloration. Plasma carotenoid concentration correlated positively with indices of immune system activation as measured by blood counts of lymphocytes and eosinophils. Birds with gametocytes of Haemoproteus in their blood had higher plasma concentrations of carotenoids and vitamin E than unparasitized individuals. These results are consistent with the idea that maintenance of high blood antioxidant levels might conflict with individual needs to rely on oxidative stress for fighting infections.
30244464|Many species in the avian order Galliformes have bare (or "fleshy") regions on their head, ranging from simple featherless regions to specialized structures such as combs or wattles. Sexual selection for these traits has been demonstrated in several species within the largest galliform family, the Phasianidae, though it has also been suggested that such traits are important in heat loss. These fleshy traits exhibit substantial variation in shape, color, location and use in displays, raising the question of whether these traits are homologous. To examine the evolution of fleshy traits, we estimated the phylogeny of galliforms using sequences from four nuclear loci and two mitochondrial regions. The resulting phylogeny suggests multiple gains and/or losses of fleshy traits. However, it also indicated that the ability to erect rapidly the fleshy traits is restricted to a single, well-supported lineage that includes species such as the wild turkey Meleagris gallopavo and ring-necked pheasant Phasianus colchicus. The most parsimonious interpretation of this result is a single evolution of the physiological mechanisms that underlie trait erection despite the variation in color, location, and structure of fleshy traits that suggest other aspects of the traits may not be homologous.
30244771|Several studies have demonstrated that snowy owls Nyctea scandiaca defend an area around their nests against predators, hereby inadvertently creating safe havens for breeding dark-bellied brent geese Branta b. bernicla. However, studies investigating brent goose breeding ecology within the predator-exclusion zones of the snowy owls are absent. In 1999 and 2005, years of high lemming abundance Lemmus sibiricus and Dicrostonyx torquatus, brent geese were primarily breeding in association with snowy owls in the Medusa river catchment on western Taimyr, Russia. Goose nest failure, either as a result of nest abandonment by the adult birds or of nest depredation, increased with increasing distance from the owl nests. Within the brent goose colonies, clutch size as well as egg size increased with decreasing distance from the snowy owl nest, indicating an increasing adult quality closer to owl nests. However, as a result of the abandonment of eggs and goslings, the increasing clutch size did not result in a higher nest success during this study. Apparently brent geese compete for breeding sites close to owl nests, but details of this process remain unknown.
3677433|The timing of arrival of 81 migratory species in response to the North Atlantic Oscillation (NAO) was studied at two Finnish bird observatories (1970-99). Timing was determined for the first migrants and for the peak of migration, as well as for the early, median and late phases of migration, defined as the dates when the seasonal cumulative sum of birds reached 5%, 50% and 95%, respectively. For most species, the timing of arrival correlated negatively with the NAO in all phases of migration: the correlation was significant for 79% of species studied. Thus, most species arrived in Finland early when the NAO was positive and indicative of mild and rainy winters in northern Europe. Although all phases of migration correlated negatively with the NAO, the correlations were more negative for the early than for the late phases of migration. Since the NAO did not show a significant trend during the study period, the correlations indicate that the timing of birds followed stochastic fluctuations in the NAO. This finding suggests that most Finnish migratory birds are able to adjust the timing of spring arrival in response to climatic change without time delay.
30245320|The reproductive success of colonially breeding species depends in part upon a trade-off between the benefit of a dilution effect against nestling predation within larger colonies and colony conspicuousness. However, there may be no net survivorship benefit of dilution if smaller colonies are sufficiently inconspicuous. This raises the question about how the size distribution of breeding colonies on a landscape might change as the predation danger for nestlings changes. In southwest British Columbia, Canada, bald eagle Haliaeetus leucocephalus populations have increased exponentially at 5% per year in recent decades and prey upon nestlings of colonial breeding great blue herons Ardea herodias faninni. Motivated by field data on reproductive success in relation to colony size, modeling is used to ask under which circumstances trading off a dilution benefit against colony conspicuousness can improve population reproductive success. That is, which colonial nesting distribution, dispersed and cryptic versus clumped and conspicuous, best mitigates predation danger on nestlings? When predators are territorial, the modeling predicts a dispersed nesting strategy as attack rate increases, but not as predator numbers increase. When predators are non-territorial, the modeling predicts a dispersed nesting strategy as predator numbers and/or attack rates increase. When predators are both territorial and non-territorial, colonial nesting within a predator's territory improves reproductive success when attack rates are low. This suggests nesting in association with territorial predators may offer decreased levels of predation when compared with nesting amongst non-territorial predators. Thus a change in the colony size distribution of colonially breeding species might be anticipated on a landscape experiencing a change in predation danger.
10.2307/3677131|Most Holarctic waders lay determinant clutches of four eggs, but the adaptive significance of this clutch size remains unresolved. The incubation-limitation hypothesis posits that waders cannot successfully incubate larger clutches, but this hypothesis has not received widespread acceptance. In this review, I show that clutch enlargement invariably leads to greater rates of nest predation, egg damage, and hatching failure, and that these three costs of incubation are sufficient to limit clutch size among most species of waders.
10.2307/3677308|The frequency distributions of 15 species of avian lice among individuals within host populations are described and 12 previously described distributions are reviewed. All of these distributions were aggregated, but some of them do not conform to the negative binomial model (4 at P < 0.05 out of the 25 examined). Distribution measures (prevalence, mean and variance of louse subpopulations, the exponent k of the negative binomial distribution, and the index of discrepancy) of lice of colonial birds are compared to those of territorial ones. Minimum sample size requirement is calculated for each case study. Louse subpopulation size and variance do not correlate with host social system, however, residuals from the log mean-log variance regression do. Lice of territorial hosts tend to form more variable subpopulations than those predicted by the regression curve, while those of colonial birds tend to form less variable subpopulations. Prevalence and k are higher, while the index of discrepancy is lower, for the distributions of lice of colonial hosts, indicating less aggregated louse distributions compared to those of territorial host species.
30244837|Colonial breeding occurs in a wide range of taxa, however the advantages promoting its evolution and maintenance remain poorly understood. In many avian species, breeding colonies vary by several orders of magnitude and one approach to investigating the evolution of coloniality has been to examine how potential costs and benefits vary with colony size. Several hypotheses predict that foraging efficiency may improve with colony size, through benefits associated with social foraging and information exchange. However, it is argued that competition for limited food resources will also increase with colony size, potentially reducing foraging success. Here we use a number of measures (brood feeding rates, chick condition and survival, and adult condition) to estimate foraging efficiency in the fairy martin Petrochelidon ariel, across a range of colony sizes in a single season (17 colonies, size range 28-139 pairs). Brood provisioning rates were collected from multiple colonies simultaneously using an electronic monitoring system, controlling for temporal variation in environmental conditions. Provisioning rate was correlated with nestling condition, though we found no clear relationship between provisioning rate and colony size for either male or female parents. However, chicks were generally in worse condition and broods more likely to fail or experience partial loss in larger colonies. Moreover, the average condition of adults declined with colony size. Overall, these findings suggest that foraging efficiency declines with colony size in fairy martins, supporting the increased competition hypothesis. However, other factors, such as an increased ectoparasitise load in large colonies or change in the composition of phenotypes with colony size may have also contributed to these patterns.
10.2307/3677166|Conventional models of bird flight combine metabolic, mechanical, and aerodynamic components to calculate the rate of fuel consumption and power required for flight, from which we may derive the optimal speeds flying animals should use in different situations. These models contain the implicit assumption that the metabolic and mechanical components of power output are constant and show no systematic variation with speed. This assumption underlies the optimum flight speeds, optimum climb protocol, maximum endurance and maximum flight range predicted by these models. Here we consider alternatives to the assumption that power is independent of speed and show that if the aerodynamic power output from a constant rate of fuel consumption varies with flight speed, then the optima derived from current models of animal flight need to be revised. In some cases (e.g. optimum flight speeds) the current models give answers that are only quantitatively wrong, but in some cases (e.g. optimal cruising altitude) current models give answers that are qualitatively wrong.
10.2307/3677335|The technique used by birds of prey to kill their quarry has rarely been described in detail. Although it is common to watch a raptor hunting, distance and natural obstacles normally prevent the observer from observing what actually happens to the prey after being grasped by the bird. Therefore, we studied the predatory sequence and killing technique displayed by a sample of ten wild Eurasian Kestrels temporarily held in captivity because of various injuries. They were offered individually either a laboratory mouse or young laboratory rat. Direct observation was complemented by necropsy of the prey confirming that bill strikes frequently observed after grasping the prey are not used to kill it but merely to damage its central nervous system thereby minimising escape attempts. Furthermore, talons are not used as weapons at all, but only as tools that elongate the toes to hold the quarry more firmly. In contrast, several signs indicating death by suffocation were regularly found and these were confirmed by inspection of rodents sacrificed by CO
10.2307/3677276|We investigate the way in which the opposing forces of starvation and predation combine to influence daily foraging routines in populations of small, wintering birds. To avoid starvation in an unpredictable foraging environment, feeding should take place early in the day to accrue maximal energy reserves. However, a bird attempting to minimize its risk of predation should delay building up its energy reserves until late in the day. We develop dynamic programming models indicating that the compromise between these opposing forces depends upon the nature of environmental stochasticity in food supply. Foraging may peak early in the day and then decrease steadily if (i) interruptions in foraging are not possible, and (ii) the energetic gain from foraging is relatively poor. With a higher energetic gain, or the possibility of interruptions in foraging, a general "bimodal" foraging routine emerges, with peaks of activity around dawn and dusk. The basic bimodal routine reflects an overt compromise between the avoidance of both predation and starvation, with some feeding taking place during both the early and late portions of the day. Such bimodal routines are observed in many small, wintering birds, but explanations for them have typically focused not on starvation-predation trade-offs, but on daily temporal patterns in food availability or temperature. Our models show not only that bimodal routines emerge in static environments, but also that they are robust to time-dependent environmental variation, and may persist, for instance, even if food is maximally available during the middle of the day. There are currently not enough systematic empirical studies of foraging routines to provide a thorough test of our predictions, but available evidence suggests general agreement between theory and observation.
10.2307/3677304|Small clutches in tropical species of passerine birds may be a response to nest predation. The Skutch hypothesis predicts that nest predation increases with activity at nests, and activity at nests is assumed to increase with clutch size. This suggests that predation should be greatest when activity is greatest, all else being equal. If true, then nest predation should be greatest when adult birds are feeding nestlings rather than incubating eggs. This hypothesis was examined with a neotropical understory passerine bird, the Western Slaty Antshrike Thamnophilus atrinucha. Nest predation was the only important cause of nest failure. Mayfield daily survival rates were compared during the incubation and nestling stages. Activity at nests was observed and compared during those two stages. Anecdotally, we also report results of an attempt to identify predators and whether they fit the Skutch hypothesis. Activity, measured as adult arrival and departure frequency at nests, is greatest during the nestling stage. Nest predation rates, however, are equal during both stages of nesting. Activity is not associated with predation, and Skutch's hypothesis is not supported. Snakes, the predator considered by Skutch to be most important, may not be. Of 12 species of snakes found on or near the study area, one species ate eggs, and several ate young birds. Yet predation on nestlings is not greater than on eggs. On the other hand, small marsupial mammals are common and, as suggested by captures and discoveries in nests, may be the important predators. They are nocturnal so diurnal bird activity should not influence predation. Small arboreal marsupials and rodents are common throughout the neotropics. The research presented here, and the preliminary data describing potential nest predators, do not support Skutch's idea that predators are attracted to activity at nests.
3677431|The description of within-population variation of a signal is an important first step when studying its communicative function. In chaffinches Fringilla coelebs all song types consist of two structurally different parts: the trill (a series of two to five phrases of repeated syllables) followed by a more complex end phrase, the so-called flourish (a shorter sequence of mostly non-repeated syllables). The relative durations of the two song parts have been reported to affect male and female responses in playback studies. While this suggests a communicative function of relative trill and flourish duration, within-population variation of these parameters has not yet been quantified. We recorded 3084 songs of 108 different song types from 79 individuals and measured the song, trill and flourish duration. This revealed substantial variation in duration of the two main song parts. An analysis of the variance components showed that trill duration was more variable within song types and between birds than flourish duration, but less variable between song types. Moreover, the more different phrases there were in the trill, the longer was its duration. There was more variation in trill duration within song types with relatively short flourishes. Possible communicative functions of the observed variation are discussed in the light of previous evidence from playback experiments.
3677371|Brood parasitism represents a unique mode of avian reproduction that requires a number of adaptations. For example, to reduce chances of puncture ejection of their eggs by small hosts, brood parasites may have been selected for laying eggs of unusually great structural strength. However, great structural strength of eggshells should hinder hatching. The goals of our study were to establish if chicks of the Common Cuckoo Cuculus canorus have more difficulty with hatching out of their strong eggs than chicks of species with eggs of similar size, and whether they possess any mechanisms facilitating hatching. To achieve these goals, we compared hatching pattern and selected body characteristics of chicks of the Common Cuckoo with those of another altricial species with eggs of a similar size, the Great Reed Warbler Acrocephalus arundinaceus. Although the rate of pecking was similar in the two species, the Common Cuckoo chicks started pecking earlier in relation to their emergence and consequently required more time and a greater cumulative number of pecks for breaking open their eggs than did young Great Reed Warblers. The two species also differed with respect to the pattern of opening their shells; in contrast to the warbler chicks, which enlarged the original pip circularly, the cuckoo chicks opened the egg by systematically creating a long narrow slit until they emerged. Finally, our study of hatched young revealed several differences; the Cuckoo hatchlings were significantly heavier, had a longer forearm, and their egg tooth was located significantly farther from the tip of the beak. The edge used for cutting through the shell was also significantly longer than that of hatchling Great Reed Warblers. To conclude, our data suggest that hatching is more difficult for a Cuckoo than for a Great Reed Warbler and that Cuckoos possess several mechanisms to overcome the problems of hatching from a structurally strong egg.
10.2307/3677330|In a 8-year study of the facultatively polygynous European Starling Sturnus vulgaris, apparent female mate desertion during the incubation/nestling period occurred in nine (7%) out of 132 breeding attempts. Desertion rates by primary (17%) and secondary (13%) females of polygynous males were significantly higher than those by monogamous females (0%). True female mate desertion (in the sense that the male assumed parental care) occurred in three primary broods only. In all three cases, the primary females had received no male help during the first part of the nestling stage because their mate was attracting or courting an additional female at that time, and they deserted when the nestlings were about 16 days old (about five days before fledging). This is the first report of mate desertion at the end of the nestling cycle by primary females in any polygynous bird species. Mate desertion may be a strategy used by some primary females to force their mate to increase his overall investment in their brood. Female mate desertion in the Starling seems to be linked to the occurrence of polygyny and may be typical for populations where males trade mate attraction against feeding nestlings.
3677529|Intra-specific brood parasitism is widespread among birds. When genetic evidence is not available, criteria like super-normal clutch size, high within-clutch variance in egg morphology, and shorter than normal laying intervals have been used to identify parasitized broods. Here we report genetically determined parentage of a clutch of super-normal size in a species with fixed clutch size, the northern lapwing Vanellus vanellus. Results from multi-locus DNA fingerprinting revealed no loss of parentage in this brood. Furthermore, no loss of parentage was found in another clutch with a high variance in egg size and colouration. These findings add to previous evidence that reliable classification of brood parasitism requires molecular analysis.
3677462|As seabirds are central place foragers during breeding, their provisioning behaviour and their ability to face variable energy demand from the chicks is expected to vary with environmental conditions. The provisioning behaviour of female rockhopper penguins Eudyptes chrysocome filholi was recorded over the chick-rearing period at Kerguelen (KER) and Crozet (CRO) archipelagoes (two very distinct marine environments), using time-depth recorders, or VHF transmitters coupled with an automatic recording station. No influences of the method have been found on the average foraging trip durations. Some previously undescribed short and multiple trips within a day were recorded using the automatic recording system. These multiple trips (6.8 h) were mostly performed with <5 days old chicks, a period during which feeding rates were the highest (1.1 meals per day), at both sites. During the brooding period, both KER and CRO females mainly performed daily trips of increasing duration (2 h longer at CRO) and at decreasing frequency. During the crche compared to the brooding period, females from KER performed slightly fewer daily trips (0.6 per day) and more (<3 days) overnight trips, while females from CRO performed very few daily trips (0.1 per day) and more overnight trips, some of them being long trips lasting 5 to 29 days, mostly initiated during the transition between the brooding and the crche periods. The result fit the hypothesis that long trips permit females to restore and/or maintain their body condition at more distant foraging places. It seemed that chick development during the brooding period and environmental factors during the crche period conditioned trip duration of females. Due to more long trips at CRO, the female feeding frequency was twice as high at KER than at CRO during the crche period, while males participated in the feeding duties. Based on differences in female behaviour, we hypothesize that the male's contribution is likely to differ strongly from one site to another, and may buffer the possible decrease in female feeding frequency by feeding the chicks if food is less abundant.
3677680|Reproductive success declines over the course of the breeding season in many bird species. Two categories of hypothesis have been evoked to explain this decline. The "timing" hypothesis suggests that seasonal declines in breeding success are attributable to the date of laying. The "parental quality" hypothesis suggests that seasonal declines result from the fact that young, inexperienced, or low quality birds breed later in the season. To evaluate the relative importance of timing and parental quality, egg exchanges and removals were used to manipulate hatching dates of common terns Sterna hirundo. Indices of quality, attendance, provisioning rates, and reproductive success of birds in three experimental groups (delayed hatch pairs, advanced hatch pairs, and pairs induced to relay) were compared to those of date-matched controls. Pairs that hatched chicks early raised more chicks than pairs hatching chicks late in the season, regardless of initial laying date. This suggests that hatching chicks early is advantageous in itself. Our results, however, also support the parental quality hypothesis. There was a significant negative relationship between natural laying date and fledging success, independent of hatching date. Differences in chick growth and survival suggest that higher quality adults may be able to compensate for the disadvantages of late hatching dates and achieve similar reproductive success to that of pairs hatching chicks early. We found that pairs hatching chicks late in the season were subject to more incidents of kleptoparasitism than those hatching chicks early. This may be a proximate factor contributing to seasonal declines in reproductive success for common terns, although such a mechanism would not be likely in non-colonial species. Failure to control for egg quality may have biased the results of some prior egg exchange experiments. Additionally, altered cost of incubation may be an unavoidable confounding factor in studies designed to manipulate timing of breeding.
30243887|We present the application of a real-time quantitative PCR assay, previously developed to measure relative telomere length in humans and mice, to two bird species, the zebra finch Taeniopygia guttata and the Alpine swift Apus melba. This technique is based on the PCR amplification of telomeric (TTAGGG)n sequences using specific oligonucleotide primers. Relative telomere length is expressed as the ratio (T/S) of telomere repeat copy number (T) to control single gene copy number (S). This method is particularly useful for comparisons of individuals within species, or where the same individuals are followed longitudinally. We used glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH) as a single control gene. In both species, we validated our PCR measurements of relative telomere length against absolute measurements of telomere length determined by the conventional method of quantifying telomere terminal restriction fragment (TRF) lengths using both the traditional Southern blot analysis (Alpine swifts) and in gel hybridization (zebra finches). As found in humans and mice, telomere lengths in the same sample measured by TRF and PCR were well correlated in both the Alpine swift and the zebra finch.. Hence, this PCR assay for measurement of bird telomeres, which is fast and requires only small amounts of genomic DNA, should open new avenues in the study of environmental factors influencing variation in telomere length, and how this variation translates into variation in cellular and whole organism senescence.
30243873|Traditionally it was thought that the arms race between brood parasites and their hosts was confined to the egg stage of the breeding cycle because many host species are able to reject mimetic parasitic eggs but they are unable to reject strongly different parasitic chicks. However, recently, new cases of chick rejection, discrimination, or mimicry, have been published confirming the possibility that an equivalent arms race to that found at the egg stage could ever be played out at the chick stage. Here, I review the evidence for the existence of a co-evolutionary arms race at the nestling stage. Recent findings include new deceiving strategies used by brood parasitic chicks, defensive strategies used by foster parents and adaptive strategies of host nestlings. This review shows that both chick discrimination and relationships between brood parasites and their hosts at the nestling stage are much more complicated than previously believed. At least in some brood parasite-host systems, an arms race at the nestling stage is working.
3677797|The division of labour in parental care between the two sexes varies between and within species. In birds, parents have been shown to invest more into egg production and nestling care when paired with an attractive rather than an unattractive mate, as predicted by the differential allocation hypothesis. Here we investigate variation in the female's and male's share of incubation behaviour, a vital, and costly, period of parental care during which the embryo is vulnerable to perturbations in developmental conditions. We manipulated the attractiveness of male zebra finches Taeniopygia guttata, using red or green leg-rings. To simulate their natural social environment we allowed them to breed in outdoor aviaries. All males within an aviary were given the same coloured ring to avoid ring-colour related assortative mating. Males within a colony, however, were still expected to show some variation in attractiveness with the earliest laying females possibly pairing with the most attractive males. Indeed we found that both factors played a role in explaining female incubation effort. Among females mated to red ringed males, earlier laying females contributed significantly more to incubation than late laying females, but no such pattern was found in females mated to green ringed males. Overall, there were no differences in the level of incubation provided by both parents between treatment groups, suggesting some compensation within the pair. Hatching success was correlated with a pair's total incubation effort. These results suggest that variation in the division of parental care between the sexes is in agreement with both increased effort of females mated with attractive males, and females compensating for the reduced effort of attractive males seeking further mating opportunities. These two factors can act at the same time in natural populations and both should be considered when explaining variation in division of labour between the sexes.
3677556|Large nests may incur fitness cost in terms of conspicuousness to predators, but the effect of nest size on predation risk can be confounded by effects of nest site and parental characteristics. I examined relative effects of nest size and placement by experimentally exchanging subsets of inactive nests baited with artificial clutches, among three open-cup nesting passerine species characterized by different nest size, placement and predation rate. The prediction that increasing nest size (original nest replaced by nest of the larger species) would increase predation, while decreasing nest size (replacement by nest of the smaller species) would decrease predation, relative to control (replacement by conspecific nest) was not supported in any species. The prediction that predation should be higher for large nests compared to small ones, even after exchanging nests among species-specific sites, was not supported. Predation rate differed among species (combined site/nest effect) before manipulation, whereas only the effect of nest site was significant after manipulation. This means that predation differed between species-specific nest sites, irrespective of the nest placed at these sites, but not between large (thrush) and small (warbler) nests, irrespective of their placement. Results do not suggest that nest predation selects directionally for smaller nest size. This conclusion could be specific to the study system characterized by high nest densities and high predation rate.
3677560| Field metabolic rates (FMR) and activity patterns of black-browed albatrosses Thalassarche melanophrys were measured while at sea and on nest during the incubation stage at Kerguelen Island, southwestern Indian Ocean. Activity-specific metabolic rates of five albatrosses at sea
30245207|Variation in early nutrition is often a strong predictor of offspring condition and fitness. In the case of woodland passerine birds, nestling diet is determined by the spatiotemporal distribution of prey items such as caterpillars during the nestling period, and is usually quantified as differences in provisioning behaviour between habitats. However, the habitat level does not account for variation between individual territories, the level at which competition and selection are assumed to operate. Here we use nestbox cameras and Radio Frequency Identification technology (RFID) to simultaneously assess variation in both nestling diet (components) and provisioning rates (quantity) among a sample (n = 22) of different quality great tit Parus major territories selected from a larger breeding population (n = 310 fledged broods) in a single year. Caterpillars were by far the most numerous item provisioned to nestlings (mean =75% of prey items), as expected given the known importance of this food source for this species. Broods raised close to an oak tree, or far from the woodland edge, were provisioned the highest proportion of caterpillars. Provisioning rates declined seasonally and there was a weak association between low provisioning rates and caterpillar rich diets. During the first week of the nestling stage, nestling condition was unrelated to the proportion of caterpillars in the diet, provisioning rates and oak proximity. Condition at fledging was slightly improved in broods fed a higher proportion of caterpillars in the diet and in broods raised close to an oak tree. However, in our data early breeding was the only predictor of recruitment success, although power was low for this test. Analyses of long-term data (41 years) from the same population confirmed a relationship between oak proximity and fledgling mass, but not recruitment success. Our results suggest that territory level environmental variation can affect offspring condition, probably through observed changes in nestling diet, but that such variation does not necessarily produce discernable effects on offspring fitness.
30244427|In many species, females prefer older males as social and genetic mates, and male secondary sexual traits often act as age indictor mechanisms. It has been reported that almost all the extra-pair paternity in one population and recently in another population of house sparrows Passer domesticus, was achieved by males more than one year old. We aimed to determine whether there is a morphological trait that distinguishes yearlings from older males in house sparrows. Here, we report that such a trait-the extent of black around a male's eye, which we term the 'mask' or 'mask of seniority', is a reasonable indicator of male age, being adequate to assign yearlings and older males correctly 81% of the time. It is well known that a male's black throat patch, often called the 'badge' or 'badge of status', signals fighting ability. We speculate that badge size signals dominance, and is therefore often used in male-male competition, whereas mask size may play a key role as an age indicator mechanism, potentially used in female choice. It is surprising that this important trait evaded researchers' attention during 20 years of house sparrows being a model organism for sexual selection.
3677496|We investigated changes in incubation behaviour induced by body fuel depletion in incubating female common eiders, which, in contrast to pelagic seabirds, fast despite being close to marine food sources. In the Svalbard Archipelago, electronic scales were placed under eider nests and the incubation of six birds was prolonged by using wax-filled eggs. Based on changes in the rate of body mass loss in normally incubating females and in ten captive birds that did not incubate, body reserves neared depletion on average four days after hatching. During prolonged incubation, females took more frequent and longer recesses. Nest attentiveness consequently decreased, but was still high. In contrast to recesses during normal incubation, during which body mass of the birds decreased, mass remained constant during the recesses of prolonged incubation. The body stores of female eiders seemed to enable them to complete incubation with a limited safety margin. A further drop in body mass is avoided when a critical body mass is reached, because birds then start feeding enough to maintain mass while continuing incubation. Presumably, a similar mechanism will enable eiders to continue incubation when body reserves are prematurely depleted before hatching.
10.2307/3677259|White-breasted Nuthatches Sitta carolinensis and Downy Woodpeckers Picoides pubescens are permanent residents in areas with cold temperate climates and are ecologically similar, but belong to different taxonomic orders. We measured basal metabolic rate (BMR) and peak metabolic rate (PMR = peak rate of cold-induced thermogenesis) for wild, free-living summer and winter acclimatised White-breasted Nuthatches and Downy Woodpeckers to determine seasonal and interspecific variation in cold tolerance and thermogenic ability. Both species were more cold tolerant and had significantly higher BMR and PMR in winter than in summer. Furthermore, during midsummer (early July to mid-August), nuthatches exhibited a significant decrement in cold tolerance and PMR relative to other seasons. A winter increment of metabolism, coupled with only minor seasonal variation in body mass and fat scores in both species, indicates that both species rely more on metabolic adjustments than gross morphological adjustments for winter acclimatisation. Woodpeckers and nuthatches exhibited roughly similar BMR and PMR at both seasons. The only significant interspecific differences in metabolic rates involved per-bird PMR in winter and midsummer, per-bird BMR in winter and summer (woodpeckers > nuthatches in both cases), and mass-specific PMR in summer (early/ late summer nuthatches > summer woodpeckers). Interspecific differences in cold tolerance and metabolic rates are probably explained, at least in part, by differences in body mass, as woodpeckers were significantly larger than nuthatches at all seasons. These data indicate that White-breasted Nuthatches and Downy Woodpeckers exhibit similar thermogenic performance and major phylogenetic effects on thermoregulation are not apparent.
10.2307/3677013|In order to test whether Common Buzzards Buteo buteo that dispersed early were entrepreneurs or exiles, we determined standardised autumn ranges by radio-tracking 67 juveniles during 1990-94. Of these, 11 had dispersed more than 2 km from their natal nest, and had therefore left the natal territory. Buzzards that dispersed early had more fragmented ranges than those that delayed dispersal until the following spring; otherwise no range characteristic differed between the two groups. When only the dispersers were considered, increase in distance from the natal nest was associated with a decrease in range size (r = -0.74) and an increase in the proportion of arable land within the range (r = 0.77). Further investigation revealed that range size was affected by distance from the nest but not by arable habitat. The smaller range size of distant dispersers, combined with evidence of increased productivity among them, suggests that they were more likely to have been entrepreneurs than exiles.
30243823|Among-individual variation in mean migration directions is the basis of evolution of new migration routes and has important consequences for our understanding of the migratory orientation system. This variation in migration directions is also of interest for modelling of migratory flight paths. In test series with caged migrants, the variation among individuals is generally much smaller than the variation within individuals making the variation among individuals difficult to detect with small sample sizes. No methods exist for estimating amongindividual variance for directional data. We therefore used simulations to estimate the variation among individual mean migration directions. Among-individual variation was found to be present in at least half of the 34 series analysed. In the 21 series with first-time migrants, our estimates of the variation among individuals ranged from r = 0.20 (mean vector length) to > 0.99, with median 0.93 and 86% less than 1. We found slightly more variation among individuals in displaced birds and in experiments with manipulated cues. Test series with experienced migrants, presumably having varying goal areas, showed similar estimates (median 0.94 and 77% less than 1).
3677782|Despite their potential ecological and evolutionary importance, factors shaping the composition of bacterial communities in wild vertebrate populations remain poorly understood. The goal of this study was to examine the relative contributions of environmental factors and genetic factors (e.g. species and common origin) to the variation of cloacal bacterial assemblages in wild bird nestlings. We conducted a partial cross-fostering experiment with two passerine species, the great tit Parus major and the blue tit P. caeruleus, sharing similar habitats and breeding biology. Nestlings of the two species were exchanged four days after hatching and cloacal bacteria were sampled nine days later. The structure of cloacal bacterial communities was determined by Ribosomal Intergenic Spacer Analysis. Our results showed that each nestling displayed a unique bacterial community. Furthermore, nestlings raised in the same nest shared significantly similar bacterial communities. The similarity of bacterial community was higher among heterospecific siblings raised within the same nest than between biological siblings raised in separate nests. Effects of common origin between species could not be detected and, if present, were dominated by nest-based short-term environmental effects. Our results show that growth conditions within nests and individually based endogenous factors have significant effects on cloacal bacteria assemblages and could affect post-fledging condition.
3676923|One often cited but poorly studied cost of multiple mating by female birds is the risk of acquiring sexually transmitted pathogens. We examined the ejaculates of male Red-winged Blackbirds Agelaius phoeniceus to determine if exposure to bacteria from males was a potential consequence of copulation for females. Ejaculates were collected in the field using a model female fitted with a sterile artificial cloaca. We found that 11 of 18 sampled males left ejaculates containing bacteria (compared to 3 of 18 control swabs of a sterile cloaca similarly exposed to the environment). We could identify to species or genus 13 of 26 isolates of bacteria from ejaculates, and found that each male left a unique combination of types. Only three types were found in more than one male (one additional male in each case). We found no qualitative effects of bacterial contamination on male fertility or female reproductive success, but larger sample sizes would be needed for a quantitative analysis. Little information is available on how the strains we identified might affect birds, but several types have known debilitating effects in humans or domesticated mammals. Two bacterial types isolated from blackbird semen are reported to produce chitinase, an enzyme with possibly beneficial consequences if produced by bacteria entering the gut of an insect-eating bird. These results suggest that exposure to new bacterial types is a consequence of extra-pair copulations to females. This exposure could have beneficial and/or detrimental effects on female fitness.
30244800|We explored sex-biased mortality patterns in a species showing the most extreme sexual dimorphism among birds, the great bustard Otis tarda. Between 1991 and 2005 we studied juvenile and immature survival in a sample of 361 great bustards radio-tagged at two different populations in Spain, Villaffila and Madrid. Mortality decreased with age, from high rates during the first year (0.70), to 0.10 in the second year. Using the known-fate model in program MARK we found that monthly survival increased throughout the first year. Offspring showing higher body mass at marking, i.e. those hatched earlier in the season and those with better body condition, survived in higher proportion. This was probably related to the earlier breeding dates of more experienced mothers, as well as to the observed decrease in food availability as the season progresses. Monthly survival estimates were higher in females than in males, which suggests that juvenile males are more vulnerable to reduced food availability and other factors due to their much faster growth rates. The proportion of non-natural deaths increased with age, and was higher in the Madrid population, where illegal hunting and collision with powerlines showed a high incidence. The male-biased mortality found in young birds in this study explains the female-biased population sex ratios observed in great bustard populations. The different degrees of incidence of human-induced causes of mortality found between both populations studied suggest that such differences may contribute to the variation observed in the adult sex ratio among populations.
3677786|The "cost-benefit" hypothesis states that specific body organs show mass changes consistent with a trade-off between the importance of their function and cost of their maintenance. We tested four predictions from this hypothesis using data on non-breeding greylag geese Anser anser during the course of remigial moult: namely that (i) pectoral muscles and heart would atrophy followed by hypertrophy, (ii) leg muscles would hypertrophy followed by atrophy, (iii) that digestive organs and liver would atrophy followed by hypertrophy and (iv) fat depots be depleted. Dissection of geese captured on three different dates during wing moult on the Danish island of Saltholm provided data on locomotory muscles and digestive organ size that confirmed these predictions. Locomotory organs associated with flight showed initial atrophy (a maximum loss of 23% of the initial pectoral muscle mass and 37% heart tissue) followed by hypertrophy as birds regained the powers of flight. Locomotory organs associated with running (leg muscles, since geese habitually run to the safety of water from predator-type stimuli) showed initial hypertrophy (a maximum gain of 37% over initial mass) followed by atrophy. The intestines and liver showed initial atrophy (41% and 37% respectively), consistent with observed reductions in daily time spent feeding during moult, followed by hypertrophy. The majority of the 22% loss in overall body mass (mean 760 g) during the flightless period involved fat utilisation, apparently consumed to meet shortfalls between daily energetic needs and observed rates of exogenous intake. The results support the hypothesis that such phenotypic plasticity in size of fat stores, locomotor and digestive organs can be interpreted as an evolutionary adaptation to meet the conflicting needs of the wing moult.
3677376|For researchers working on the reproductive anatomy of birds, the standard tool has been the scalpel. We demonstrate that magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) allows us to study non-invasively the testes and ovaries of small birds. Thus, repeated measurements of the same individual can be obtained at different life-history stages or before and after experimental treatment with a minimum of harm done to the birds. We present cross-sectional images of male and female Garden Warblers Sylvia borin at different stages of their gonadal maturation cycle to illustrate the high resolution that can be achieved through MRI. Volumetric analyses enabled us to determine the total testicular volume with high accuracy.
30243918|There are many pairs of related western and eastern avian taxa in North America, and for many of these, little is known about their interactions in sympatry. One example is provided by MacGillivray's warblers Oporornis tolmiei and mourning warblers Oporornis philadelphia. There have been occasional reports of range contact and hybridization between these forms, but recent authors have doubted these reports. We show that these two species do in fact come into extensive range contact in the southern Peace Region of British Columbia, just east of the Rocky Mountains. We analyze whether patterns of variation in morphometric traits, eye-arcs, a mitochondrial DNA marker (COI), and a Z-chromosome marker (CHD1Z) are consistent with reproductive isolation or hybridization in this contact zone. Each trait shows strong differences between allopatric MacGillivray's warblers and allopatric mourning warblers, yet in the contact zone there are many birds with a combination of traits typical of both species. This is clearly seen in the molecular markers, for which 18 of 50 birds genotyped in the contact zone have both western and eastern alleles. These patterns strongly indicate the presence of an extensive hybrid zone between MacGillivray's and mourning warblers. Variation in each of the four traits is explained well by a single sigmoidal cline, with a width of roughly 150 km (or 130 km based only on the molecular markers). This is only the fourth hybrid zone known among North American wood-warblers (Parulidae).
10.2307/3677052|The effect of nesting density on predation rate was studied in relation to habitat using artificial Blackbird nests placed at high, medium and low densities in three habitat types: woodland, woodland edge and farm hedgerow. The results showed that predation was lower in woodland than in woodland edge, which in turn had a lower predation rate than farmland. There was evidence of increasing predation rate at higher nesting densities in both woodland edge and farmland. Therefore there appears to be a potential cost to nesting at high densities in farm hedgerows and to a lesser extent woodland edge which is likely to be facilitated by enhanced 'edge effects' in those habitats.
3677758|Classical polyandry in birds is rare and is most frequent in the shorebirds (Charadriiformes). Polyandrous shorebirds lay smaller eggs for their body masses than non-polyandrous shorebirds, indicating that polyandrous female shorebirds may trade egg size off against number of eggs in order to maximize reproductive success. However, this trade-off may be confounded by phylogeny because most polyandrous species belong to a single family, the Jacanidae. I re-analysed this adaptive hypothesis using phylogenetically-independent contrast analyses. These analyses showed that there was no statistically significant difference in egg size between polyandrous and monogamous shorebirds once the effects of phylogeny had been incorporated. This is one of the first studies to show that the results of independent contrasts analyses differ from those where phylogenetic effects have not been taken into account.
10.2307/3677104| The adrenocortical response to acute stress, as measured by increases in plasma levels of corticosterone following capture and handling, has been shown to vary between individuals within a population as well as with season in a variety of species. However, the ecological bases for such endocrine phenomena remain unclear. One hypothesis predicts that populations of birds breeding under extreme conditions such as in sub-arctic habitats where the nesting season is short, decrease the amplitude of the adrenocortical response to acute stress so as to allow non-interrupted breeding under potentially severe conditions such as bad weather conditions and/or food shortage. To test this hypothesis we measured increases in circulating levels of corticosterone following capture and handling in populations of Pied Flycatchers Ficedula hypoleuca breeding in southern (Gteborg) and northern (Ammarns) Sweden. We also sampled breeding females that did not have a male helping them to feed young (only in south Sweden). As predicted by the hypothesis we found male and female Flycatchers breeding in northern Sweden to be adapted to the short breeding season and harsh unpredictable sub-arctic climate by having a reduced adrenocortical response to stress, as indicated by the pattern of corticosterone levels in blood. Maximum corticosterone levels generated by the capture stress protocol were significantly higher in single females than all other groups. Unlike other passerines studied at high latitudes Pied Flycatchers showed no significant relationships between corticosterone levels and body mass or fat score. 
10.2307/3676961|The difference between nest stands of Sparrowhawks Accipiter nisus in southern Norway and randomly sampled control plots was best explained by tree density, being much higher in nest stand plots than in control plots. Other characteristics of Sparrowhawk nest stands, such as forest age, tree species composition, and altitude were less important and implicated only through their correlation between these habitat variables and tree density. The reuse of thinned nest stands was lower than for unthinned nest stands, and only spruce-dominated nest stands were reused after thinning. At unthinned nest stands, both forest age, number of trees and breeding success influenced the frequency of reuse. I suggest that nesting in forests with high tree density may be an adaption to avoid the Goshawk A. gentilis, which is the main predator on juvenile Sparrowhawks.
3676992|We assessed the nutritional importance of mate provisioning to females during egg production and its effects on clutch parameters (egg size, length of the laying period) in Common Terns Sterna hirundo: (1) we estimated the costs of egg production by modeling the daily protein, lipid, and energy requirements of laying females, and (2) compared these costs to both the amount, and the timing, of the male's contribution via mate provisioning. Net lipid, net protein, and gross energy requirements for a three-egg clutch were estimated to be 5.4 g, 8.6 g, and 569 kJ respectively. Peak protein and lipid requirements occurred one (day -1) and two (day -2) days before laying, respectively. Peak energy requirement occurred on day -1; a cost of 127% to 157% above maintenance. Variation in male provisioning effort (in terms of energy and nutrients delivered) paralleled variation in predicted female requirements for egg production at the level of individual pairs. Males delivered protein in excess of the female's requirements on all days investigated. Male lipid delivery accounted for 45% of female net requirement on the day when demand was greatest (day -2), but exceeded requirements on all other days. However, the proportion of the female's total energy budget (egg production, maintenance, and activity costs) that was supplied by her mate rose from an average of 29% on day -2 to 76% during the interval between second and third eggs. Paradoxically, females that were fed at higher rates during the interval between first and second eggs produced clutches with lower total volumes, smaller last-laid eggs, and clutches with a greater egg-size hierarchy than conspecifics receiving less food from their mates. Also, females fed at higher rates during the interval between second and third eggs took longer to produce their clutch. These negative relationships between mate provisioning and clutch parameters contrast with previous studies in this and other species.
3677675|The size of an animal is of utmost importance for its overall success and each species is thought to have its own optimal size. If this is true, size traits ought to be under stabilising selection unless the animal is living in a highly unstable environment. Wing length is a standard measurement of the size of birds, but up to date there have been few indications of stabilising selection on wing length. In this study we analyse recovery data for reed warblers Acrocephalus scirpaceus (n = 771) ringed as juveniles in Sweden from 1981 until 2001. The data showed a significant relationship between juvenile wing length and survival time, with median juvenile wing lengths (66-67 mm) being the most favourable. The estimated stabilising selection differential (C = -0.094) supports that wing length of the reed warblers in our study is under stabilising selection. The reed warbler is a long-distance migratory species and we suggest that opposing selection pressures may act on wing length during different life history stages, and that this might explain the rather broad peak of favourable wing lengths found.
10.2307/3677298|Biparental care of chicks predominated in 28 Lapwing Vanellus vanellus broods in southwestern Sweden. However, male or female uniparental care occurred in about 30% of the broods. Among 36 marked females, two or three laid double clutches. In these cases both mates shared incubation of the first clutch, but chicks were reared by the male alone. Only females tended eggs and chicks of the second clutch. These findings constitute the first records of double clutches in the Lapwing. The results are discussed in relation to possible evolutionary paths leading to double-clutching.
10.2307/3677352|Extensive literature shows that lepidopteran larvae constitute the most important component of the diet of nestling tits (Parus spp.). In Blue Tits Parus caeruleus, breeding is usually timed to match the nestling stage to the period when caterpillars are most abundant. This is true even in places where caterpillars are not very numerous and many alternative prey types have to be used. In a study of a Corsican Blue Tit P. c. ogliastrae population, characterised by the extensive use of non-cater-pillar prey, we compared some aspects of the behaviour of nestlings when fed caterpillars, grasshoppers and spiders. The expectation deduced from ecological and behavioural literature that nestlings should be best able to swallow caterpillars was confirmed. Chick prey handling time could be ranked from caterpillars (the shortest time), through spiders to grasshoppers (the longest time). Handling time increased exponentially with prey size within each prey category and was to some extent subject to variation between broods. Consequently, the behaviour of nestlings provides new support for the idea that Blue Tits are best adapted to eating caterpillars and that mechanical constraints prevent them from using very big prey items, especially non-caterpillar prey, and that this is likely to affect their choice of prey. Such constraints may be less strict in Great Tits Parus major because of their larger body size.
30243869|There is considerable evidence to suggest that an animal's ability to access the appropriate resources at one time of year may profoundly restrict its performance at another. For migrants, wintering and breeding periods are often connected by refuelling or staging periods, critical (particularly for females) in attaining the body reserves required to ensure successful breeding. However in many instances there are differences in the extent to which different individuals gain access to the highest quality resources. Here we demonstrate how body condition in brent geese Branta bernicla hrota during spring staging is related to differences in marine and terrestrial habitat utilisation (inferred from stable isotope analysis). Female birds with high fat scores feed to a greater extent on marine resources. Body mass and condition are also higher in individuals utilising more marine resources. Given that body mass at spring staging is correlated with reproductive success, the extent of marine habitat maybe critical to this population. Combining this with data from previous studies of dark-bellied brent geese Branta bernicla bernicla, we predict the potential impacts of spring staging resource utilisation on future breeding success. Although staging is of short duration compared to the other components of annual cycles of migratory species, our results suggest that the quality of staging grounds may be vitally important to population processes.
10.2307/3677110|In this paper we review the existing methods of quantifying avian wingtip shape, and compare their efficiency at detecting morphological adaptations to migration. We use multivariate methods to derive two novel measures of avian wingtip shape, pointedness C
10.2307/3677005| Timing of offspring desertion is expected to be the outcome of the trade-off between current and future reproductive benefits for deserters. I investigated this idea by analysing the timing of male desertion in the Magnificent Frigatebird Fregata magnificens. I recorded parental attendance, male desertion and chick survival from an average of 39 days old ( 2.7 S.E. days) to fledging (181.2  3.4 days old, n = 24) at 42 nests, and checked the presence and breeding state of marked males (red gular pouch) at the colony the following breeding season. All male parents deserted their nest when their only chick was between 19 and 160 days old (77.1  5.0 days). Male desertion was influenced by settling and deserting dates: settling date correlated negatively with the age of the chick at the time of male desertion. Late-settling males deserted later during the year than males settling early, the condition of their chick (at the time of male desertion) was lower and their chick fledged late during the year. In spite of the obligate and apparently date-constrained desertion, chicks deserted when very young died more frequently than those deserted when older, and successful males deserting late during the year (after the average desertion date) were marginally less likely to be seen in reproductive state the following breeding season than those deserting early. The inter-individual variation is consistent with the idea that male frigatebirds may face a trade-off between current and future reproductive expectations: early-settled individuals began breeding before 16 October, deserted before the average deserting date, stayed with the chick for 92 days, their chicks survived well (84%) and 75% of these males were seen in reproductive state the following breeding season. Late-settled individuals began to breed around 19 December, deserted when their chick was 55 days old, chicks survived well (64%) but still only 50% of males were seen in breeding state the following breeding season. Some early-settled individuals who remained longer attending the chick (120 days) and whose chick survived, deserted after the average desertion date (20 April), but only 50% of them were seen in breeding state the following season. 
3677628|Studies of avian nest defense generally explain only a small proportion of the total variation in defense behavior. We explored two potential methodological sources of variation in nest defense in three species of ducks. One common method of quantifying nest defense rests on the assumption that different components of nest defense (e.g. flushing distance, distraction displays) are highly positively correlated. Defense behaviors we observed in this study were weakly related or unrelated to each other. Thus, the assumption of strong positive covariance between components of nest defense was not supported. We also considered the effect of repeated visits to the same nests on nest defense. Females of all three species took less risk defending their nests with repeated visits, and the effect of visit number on nest defense was greater than the effect of increasing value of nests associated with advancing incubation. Ducks appear to be different from other birds in the consistency with which they alter their nest defense in response to repeated nest visits. We propose that this could be a consequence of having nest predators that return to the vicinity of a nest if they were previously unsuccessful finding the nest, thus making repeated nest visits more dangerous to the ducks. By testing this or other hypotheses it should be possible to go beyond understanding the methodological implications of the effect of repeated visits on nest defense, and use this phenomenon to gain insight into the predator-prey interactions that underlie nest defense.
3677540|Life-history theory predicts that parental effort in nestling provisioning is optimised in relation to the quality of individuals and/or their habitat. We studied the investment of breeding pairs of blue tits Parus caeruleus for their reproduction during three breeding seasons in deciduous (high quality) vs. mixed (low quality) habitats in order to quantify to what extent habitat quality affects parental effort. Parental effort (costs) was related to their feeding rates and flight distances during foraging. In the deciduous habitat flight distances between nest and foraging patch were shorter than in the mixed habitat (22 m and 40 m, respectively), but the feeding rates did not differ between the habitats. The total flight distance per breeding pair from the first day after hatching until the 17th day of the nestling period was about half of the distance observed in the mixed habitat (375 km and 674 km, respectively). As the quality of fledglings did not differ between habitats, the higher number of fledglings per brood reflects better rewards per foraging trip in the deciduous than in the mixed habitat. Considering the parental foraging effort (costs) and, the quality and number of offspring (benefits), the benefit-cost-ratio was 2-3 times higher in the deciduous than in the mixed woodland.
10.2307/3677281|Adaptive brood reduction, as originally proposed by David Lack and as revised by later workers, represents a simple mechanism to counter stochastic variation in ecological conditions: parents lay an optimistic clutch as a hedge against uncertain food, trimming brood size downward if food is short. Hatching asynchrony, which facilitates swift brood reduction, may also bear the unwanted cost of reduced survival of marginal offspring when food is abundant. Strong tests of the brood reduction hypothesis require explicit recognition of the conditional nature of these costs and benefits and must include three steps: (1) exact specification of where the threshold for brood reduction lies; (2) measurement of the costs and benefits of a brood reduction strategy under "good" and "bad" conditions; and (3) estimation of the frequency of "good" and "bad" conditions. Indirect measures of ecological conditions, such as the relative reproductive success of the study population in different years, are unsatisfactory for two reasons: (i) it is unclear when the brood reduction threshold has been crossed, and (ii) nestlings may starve for reasons other than extrinsic food limitation (e.g., sibling despotism). Heretofore, studies of avian brood reduction have routinely failed to provide an independent and explicit measure of food conditions rendering the results ambiguous. An appropriate experimental design that circumvents this problem is outlined here, and allows strong tests of Lack's hypothesis.
10.2307/3677088|During the incubation stage of breeding, male House Wrens periodically move very near nest cavities and sing, and females, who alone incubate in this species, often appear to wait to take a break from incubating until they hear their mate singing nearby. This study tested quantitatively for a non-random association between female nest attentiveness and male song output in two ways. First, 11 pairs of wrens were observed for 2 h during their incubation stages and the time of each male song and each female exit from, and entrance into, the nest cavity was noted. Of the 60 exits observed, 29 (48%) occurred within 30 s of when the male began a song bout near the nest. Overall, female exits followed significantly sooner after the start of male song bouts than expected if exits normally occurred at random with respect to song. Males were also removed temporarily from 12 territories during incubation stages and the nest attentiveness of their females was monitored for 2 h. These experimental females spent, on average, 18% more time in nests than did 11 undisturbed control females (47 vs 40 min/h). This occurred only because experimental females waited longer to exit nests during each attentive period. Experimental females did not take shorter recesses. Females may benefit from waiting to exit nests until their mates are singing nearby because: (1) the male's song indicates to the female that no predators are present, (2) males will be present to guard nests, especially against conspecifics, in the female's absence, and/or (3) males can act as sentinels while females are foraging.
3677715|An abdominal profile index (API) was developed for pink-footed geese Anser brachyrhynchus as a measure of body condition. On basis of carcass analysis of 56 adult geese with known API prior to collection, we found significant linear relationships between API against body mass, abdominal fat and total energy content. Hence, changes in API reflect net energy intake rates. As an example of the applicability of the calibration, we compared APIs of individually marked geese before and after long migration episodes and estimated the cost of flight at 8.9 kJ/km. In addition we estimated gain rates at three major staging sites along the spring flyway indicating an increase in fueling rates with latitude. Calibration of APIs and energy contents offers new opportunities for field studies of waterfowl energetics.
3677412|Recent studies have suggested that the size of avian clutches may be determined in part by the costs of egg production, which are thought to involve the depletion of endogenous nutrient reserves. I tested the hypothesis that producing extra eggs would deplete protein and lipid reserves in a passerine species, the European Starling Sturnus vulgaris. The first three eggs of clutches were removed on the days they were laid to induce females to lay extra eggs. Females responded to this manipulation by laying, on average, 1.3 eggs more than controls. However, based on the distribution of clutch sizes, it appears that some females responded to the removal of three eggs by producing more than one extra egg, whereas others responded by laying no extra eggs or by deserting. In unmanipulated females, the lean dry mass of the flight muscles and total body lipid were found to decline throughout breeding, an observation which is often interpreted as evidence that egg production depletes endogenous reserves. However, females experimentally induced to produce an extra egg did not have reduced stores of protein or lipid at clutch completion. No effect was observed in starlings even though this study had substantial (80%) power to detect a change in protein reserves of the same magnitude as that observed in a previous study of gulls. The decrease in flight muscle mass that has frequently been observed during breeding in passerines may not be due simply to mobilization of endogenous protein reserves.
30243297|In order to apply plasma metabolite profiling to assess the quality of stopover habitat for migrant birds it is crucial to know how quickly metabolite concentrations change in response to variation in energy intake rate. We fed live mealworms to Wilson's warblers Wilsonia pusilla at rates designed to mimic a low quality (0.58 wet g/h) and a high quality (0.75 wet g/h) habitat. Plasma concentrations of triglycerides and B-OH-butyrate were higher and lower, respectively, on the high feeding rate, but plasma glycerol levels did not differ between feeding rates. Birds were then fed at the low rate for five hours, switched to the high rate and blood sampled at various times after the switch. Plasma triglycerides and B-OH-butyrate reflected the increase in feeding rate within 10 and 20 min, respectively. Plasma glycerol did not change significantly following the change in feeding rate. We conclude that plasma metabolite concentrations can change very quickly in response to variation in feeding rate, and thus provide a sensitive index of fueling rates near a capture site.
3677497|Migration patterns in the red-billed quelea Quelea quelea have been the focus of intense research as the species is a major crop pest in Africa. The direction and timing of migration are believed to be controlled by the seasonal passage of rainfronts across Africa. In order to assess the validity of hypothesised migration directions in southern Africa, we tested the migration orientation behaviour of wild-caught red-billed queleas using Emlen orientation funnels. Queleas tested in Zimbabwe showed mean orientation directions to the west-north-west and east-south-east. Both directions are in agreement with current hypotheses explaining quelea migration.
3677385|Egg characteristics have been used to determine egg maternity for birds in situations where two or more females lay eggs in a single nest (as in communal breeders and intraspecific parasites). We assessed the applicability of egg morphometry and eggshell appearance in ascribing egg ownership in communal clutches of guira cuckoos Guira guira, a species where up to seven females may lay eggs in a joint nest. We used both combined variables (including egg mass, length, width, shape and two eggshell variables), and a shape index to test whether eggs laid by each female were similar but different from eggs laid by other females. Also, we conducted discriminant function analyses to verify if eggs could be correctly classified to their mothers based on their characteristics. The correct maternity was determined by yolk protein electrophoresis of freshly-laid eggs. Individual female chutches were separated through egg characteristics or shape alone in 29% and 41% of the groups tested, respectively. Differences were mostly due to a single female that differed from her nest-mates in a unique egg variable. On average, 55% of the eggs analyzed were not assigned to the correct mother using egg dimensions and eggshell speckling pattern. In conclusion, the egg characteristics used do not reliably indicate maternity in guira cuckoo communal clutches. We therefore recommend a protein-based verification of egg appearance characteristics for assigning maternity in other species in which multiple female laying occurs.
30243921|Measurement of phytohaemagglutinin (PHA)-induced skin swelling is the most popular assay of immune function in avian studies. The mechanisms causing swelling have been relatively well studied; however, very little is known about the potential long term physiological effects of PHA. Here we show that injection of PHA into patagium of captive greenfinches Carduelis chloris increases the concentration of heterophils (phagocytic cells of the innate immune response) in the peripheral blood for at least 30 days. Such long-term consequences should be taken into account when using PHA skin test in studies monitoring changes in individual physiological condition and/or immune status.
30243859|According to the environmental cues hypothesis, female birds use information available to them in the early-season environment to fine-tune egg production annually. However, support for the hypothesis derives largely from correlational studies. In each year from 2002 to 2006, which spanned a period of extreme variation in environmental conditions, we removed eggs from early-laying rhinoceros auklets Cerorhinca monocerata, burrow-nesting seabirds that lay a single-egg clutch. We then measured their relaying rates, relaying intervals, and breeding success. We also monitored the timing and success of breeding in control pairs, and control chick diets. If the experimental females base their relaying decision on early-season cues, then we predict that few will relay in years in which early-laying control birds breed unsuccessfully, and in which a preferred prey species, Pacific sandlance Ammodytes hexapterus, is in short supply in nestling diets. Results matched neither prediction. In each year, almost all (88-90%) of the experimental females relaid, despite that the control pairs' breeding success (32-87% fledged chicks), and their chicks' diets (twofold variation in proportion of sandlance), varied markedly. We conclude that female rhinoceros auklets did not modify their relaying decision in response to variation in environmental conditions, although relaying intervals and their own breeding success (0-78%) covaried negatively. Our results may have important implications related to using seabirds as monitors of the marine environment.
3677669|We describe the development of a method to predict percent body fat of killed birds from the percent fat in the most distal wing tissue, which is often left uneaten by aerial predators. When combined with a measure of body structural size, such as tarsus, culmen or keel length, percent wing fat can be used to predict fresh body mass at the time of death. These techniques may prove useful in field studies of mass-dependent predation risk.
10.2307/3677267|The mass-specific activity of citrate synthase (CS) is often used as an indicator of the aerobic capacity of the pectoralis muscle. We investigated whether there is variation in CS activity within the pectoralis muscle of the Barnacle Goose. In general, no significant variation was found except at the anterior site nearest the sternum where a significant difference was found between the peripheral and deep sites. We conclude that for comparisons of CS activity within large migratory species, samples should be taken from the uniform central area of the muscle, but for intraspecies studies on factors affecting aerobic capacity, samples should be taken from the anterior sternal site at differing depths, as this is the most variable area where adaptations to these factors may occur.
3677438|I used data from a 13-year study of eastern kingbirds Tyrannus tyrannus from central New York, USA, to evaluate the relative impact of female age and body size on reproduction. I also calculated repeatabilities of reproductive traits for both females and the sites where they bred in an attempt to evaluate the relative contribution of each to intrapopulation variation in reproduction. Female age had a strong influence on timing of breeding (breeding date advanced by one day for each year of life), but was not a significant source of variation for clutch size, egg mass, number of young to hatch or fledge, or total seasonal production. Repeatabilities of breeding date for females and sites were both significant (0.284 and 0.181, respectively), but the only other significant repeatabilities were for female clutch size (0.282) and female egg mass (0.746). Among-year repeatabilities of breeding date for females who bred at two or more sites over their lifetime were as high as those for females that were site faithful. Thus, breeding date was probably affected independently by the female and site. No measure of productivity exhibited a repeatable pattern in comparisons made among females or sites. All reproductive traits were entered as dependent variables in a series of stepwise multiple regression analyses in an attempt to identify female properties (size, lifespan and condition) that might be linked proximately to differences in breeding statistics. I found that (a) large birds tended to breed the earliest, (b) clutch size was independent of female size, condition and lifespan, (c) female body size and egg size were correlated positively, but (d) production of young was independent of all measured female properties. Reproduction appears to be linked more closely to the female than to the site. Body size accounts for a portion of the repeatable portion of breeding date and egg mass, but most of the intrapopulation variation in these and other traits remained unexplained.
30244476|We studied the relationship among re-mating, site fidelity and breeding performance in the tree swallow Tachycineta bicolor using 16 y of data on reproductive biology in a population breeding in nest boxes near Ithaca, New York. Of 217 pairs for which both members survived the non-breeding season, 76% mated with a new partner and 24% reunited with their previous mate. Pairs did not increase their breeding success by breeding together for more than one breeding season. Males produced fewer fledglings after breeding with a new partner, but females neither increased nor decreased their success when breeding with a new mate. Females who bred with a new partner were younger than females that reunited with their previous mates, and they were more likely to move to a different nest box. Males that bred with a new mate were of similar age to males that reunited, and they did not move more often. The probability of breeding with a new partner was better predicted by female age than by previous breeding success, suggesting that re-mating was not strongly affected by past breeding performance. Because younger females change breeding sites more frequently than do older females and females that mated with a new partner were younger than females that reunited with their previous mates, we suggest that the tendency of tree swallows to change partners between years is a by-product of lower site fidelity of younger females rather than a strategy for increasing breeding success.
3677714|Although there is general consensus about the existence of senescence in vertebrates, empirical evidence of senescence in demographic parameters in wild populations is limited. Data on breeding success and survival of breeding common guillemots Uria aalge were collected over 20 years on the Isle of May (Scotland) using a pool of individuals marked as adults. Because the years of hatching of individuals were not known, we used the time (years) elapsed since first capture (TFC) as a measure of age. The use of this proxy did not create any bias in estimating senescence in the case of a linear decline, nor did it greatly decrease the power of a test for senescence. Breeding success declined significantly from 0.81 (95% CI: 0.77-0.84) to 0.62 (0.54-0.68) over the study period. It also varied in relation to age, initially increasing (from 0.62 (0.54-0.68) at TFC of 0 year to 0.76 (0.73-0.79) at TFC of 9 years) up to a plateau (from TFC of 9 years with 0.76 (0.73-0.79) until TFC of 13 years with 0.77 (0.74-0.79) before declining in later life to 0.70 (0.61-0.78) at TFC of 19 years). Survival was generally high and varied significantly from year to year. It also declined with TFC: survival of birds marked in 1982 decreased from 0.92 (0.85-0.96) at a TFC of 0 year to 0.88 (0.82-0.92) at a TFC of 19 years. Resighting probabilities also declined with TFC suggesting that the oldest birds do not come back to the colony to breed as regularly as younger individuals. These findings indicate that individual common guillemots on the Isle of May showed both actuarial and reproductive senescence.
3677527|Birds might form eggs from stored nutrients, from current food intake or from both. We examined whether stored nutrients were a substantial resource for egg production in an aerial insectivore, which had a variable food supply, but for which there was likely to be a cost for carrying additional mass. The mass changes of female barn swallows Hirundo rustica during the egg formation period were most simply explained by changes in the mass of the eggs and oviduct. Fat score and body mass excluding the eggs and oviduct did not vary systematically during egg formation. Egg production stopped altogether during particularly bad weather. The normal range in environmental conditions before and during laying had little influence on clutch size. Our results suggest that swallows form eggs primarily from current food intake, although our data do not exclude use of micronutrients from reserves.
30244816|The frequency of azure-winged magpies Cyanopica cyana that nest in association with breeding Japanese lesser sparrowhawks Accipiter gularis was compared between the 1990s and 2000s. During 1990-1994 azure-winged magpies nested within 50 m of their nests in all of the hawk nest sites studied. During 2005-2006, however, the magpies nested in only two of nine hawk nest sites. During the 1990s Japanese lesser sparrowhawks chased jungle crows away when they intruded within 50 m of their nest. During the 2000s, on the other hand, the hawks attempted to expel few crows at a distance of more than 10 m from their nest. As a result of it, the predation rate of simulated magpie nests located in the hawk nest sites was significantly higher during the 2000s. This suggests that the magpies have the ability to assess the defending behavior of the hawks and judge whether they can rely on their defense. Most azure-winged magpies may stop nesting in association with breeding Japanese lesser sparrowhawks because of the reduced defending range of their nest sites.
30245208|Museum specimens continue to be an invaluable resource for taxonomic, systematic, and comparative studies, and are increasingly relied upon for novel research purposes. Evaluating variation in the colour of avian study skins forms the basis for a broad range of research questions, yet few studies have investigated whether the plumage colouration of museum specimens accurately reflects colouration in wild birds. In this study, we use reflectance spectrometry to compare the plumage reflectance of avian museum skins and wild birds. We use long-tailed manakins Chiroxiphia linearis, to investigate these potential differences in colour. Long-tailed manakins are ideal for this type of study as their colourful plumage patches result from three primary plumage colouration mechanisms found in birds: melanin pigmentation, carotenoid pigmentation, and structural colouration. These features of their plumage allowed us to independently assess variation in each plumage colouration mechanism. Reflectance spectra obtained from museum specimens were very similar to those obtained from wild birds, and the colouration of specimens was usually well within the range of variation observed in wild birds. As such, museum specimens can accurately represent the colouration of wild birds. Nevertheless, we found significant differences in colouration between museum skins and wild birds. We documented differences in brightness, hue, saturation, and chroma, although the direction and magnitude of these differences varied by mechanism of colouration. Multivariate analyses revealed that the age of museum specimens and the time of year at which they were collected contributed to some of these differences. We discuss potential proximate causes of these changes in colour, many of which apply to both museum specimens and wild birds, and identify the types of studies that are likely to be most sensitive to these changes.
10.2307/3677017|We studied the interactions between weather, social dominance and body condition (fat and protein reserves) in a colour-ringed population of the Great Tit in the Killarney National Park, Rep. of Ireland in two mild winters (1990 and 1992) differing markedly in rainfall. Rainfall, but not temperature, was a strong predictor of mean daily fat levels (birds were fatter on wetter days) but did not predict muscle score. The birds were also fatter in the wet winter than the dry one, and this was a greater difference than predicted by daily rainfall alone. The effects of rainfall are considered in the context of ultimate and proximate cues to fattening. In contrast, muscle scores were greater in the dry year than the wet. On average, birds known to have survived from the 1990 to the 1992 winter had higher muscle scores, irrespective of their age or sex, in 1990 than those not seen again. In the wet winter, muscle score (but not fat) was positively correlated with a measure of individual dominance; in the dry winter fat was negatively related to dominance, and no relation was found between muscle score and dominance. These results indicate that individual differences in condition reflect differences in individual status, and that experienced environmental conditions strongly influence the relationship between social status and body reserves. This is the first field study of Great Tits relating condition and dominance among individuals rather than among status classes. We suggest that, under some circumstances, muscle may be a better indicator of condition than fat.
30244783|Physical constraints on animal signals can have important consequences for communication. For bird songs that include a trill, performance is physically constrained by a trade-off between the rate at which notes are repeated in the trill and the sound frequency range covered, such that a trill cannot exceed a certain frequency range for a given note repetition rate. Producing trills that are closer to this performance limit is presumably more challenging for birds than producing trills that are farther from it. Male red-winged blackbirds Ageliaus phoeniceus have repertoires of two to eight song types containing trills that span a range of performance levels. We determined the approximate trill performance maximum for a population of red-winged blackbirds, then conducted playback experiments to measure the responses of territorial males to song types with either high or low performance levels relative to this limit. Males responded significantly more strongly to songs containing low performance trills. Our results show that male red-winged blackbirds can discriminate between different song performance levels, suggesting that vocal proficiency plays a role in male-male interactions.
3677760|The relationship between host ecology and feather mite prevalence was analysed in birds. Feather mites are small arthropods (fam. Pterolichoidea and Analgoidea) commonly found on birds, although the nature of their interactions with the host (commensalism, mutualism or parasitism), still remains unclear. Host body mass and migratory behaviour were unrelated to feather mite prevalence. Contrary to expectation, there was no differences in mite prevalence between colonial and solitary-breeding species. However, winter sociality was associated with increased prevalence, suggesting that winter and breeding sociality affected the distribution patterns of feather mites in different ways. Plumage dichromatism was negatively correlated with feather mite prevalence, a result that is opposite to that predicted by the Hamilton and Zuk hypothesis for the evolution of host secondary sexual characteristics in relation to parasitism.
25161506|Synchronously and asynchronously hatching clutches of House Wrens Troglodytes aedon usually do not differ in reproductive success. Thus late-hatching nestlings in asynchronously hatching clutches somehow overcome any age- and size-related disadvantages of hatching after their nest-mates. One possible way for them to do this is for female House Wrens to add maternal androgens to the yolk of late-hatching eggs. We tested this hypothesis in a wild population of House Wrens that produces both asynchronously and synchronously hatching clutches. Yolks of eggs from both types of clutches were biopsied and the eggs returned to their nests to hatch. Radioimmunoassays revealed that total androgen levels in the yolk varied within and among clutches. However, total androgen levels in yolks did not vary predictably with egg position in either synchronously or asynchronously hatching clutches. Thus, deposition of androgens in yolk did not follow the expected pattern based on the potential for sibling competition in House Wrens.
10.2307/3676969|Copulation behaviour in the Linnet was investigated by focal observations of breeding pairs near their nest sites. Of 287 observed male copulation attempts only 37% resulted in cloacal contact. These successful copulation attempts were always preceded by female solicitation, indicating that the outcome of copulations was under female control. Relative to the day of first egg (day 0), males attempted copulations from day -8 to +9 with a peak of 2.4 copulation attempts per hour at day -4. However, females solicited copulations only from day -6 to +3, with a peak of 1.7 solicitations per hour on day -3. During the laying period male Linnets showed a significant peak in copulation attempts in the second hour after egg laying. The importance of this peak in copulatory behaviour after laying is discussed in relation to the insemination window hypothesis.
10.2307/3677266|As part of a larger modeling effort to understand the evolution of parental care in birds, we develop a model to predict the masses of developing passerine chicks based on assumptions about the amount of food fed to the chicks and published estimates of their metabolic costs, efficiencies and requirements as functions of chick mass and/or age. The model predicts sigmoid trajectories similar to those observed in nature. The model fails to predict post-peak declines in mass in some species, and we suggest that one reason for this failure is that the model does not account for parent-offspring conflict over food deliveries late in the chick's development.
30243819|The survival of common goldeneye Bucephala clangula ducklings during their first week of life was studied in relation to hatching date, brood size, female condition, and weather (temperature and precipitation) during the first week post-hatch by using data from radio-marked females and their broods. Also, age-specific variation in the survival of the young was determined until fledging (over 50 d of age). Survival was lowest in the first week after hatching. Hatching date, brood size, and first week temperature and precipitation were poor predictors of duckling survival during the first week after nest exodus. Instead, the ducklings of females in a better body condition survived better in their first week of life. The results suggest that weather does not have a direct effect on downy ducklings' survival, but the condition of the female seems to be an important determinant of the survival of common goldeneye ducklings.
10.2307/3676974|Multilocus DNA fingerprinting was used to estimate the frequency of extra-pair fertilizations in a low density, island population of Great Tits Parus major. A total of 69 pairs and 516 offspring from 82 breeding attempts were examined. Only 18 offspring (3.5%) in seven different nests were not fathered by the attending male. The sample included one brood in which all nine chicks were fathered by an extra-pair male. One chick from a nest of eight was the result of intra-specific brood parasitism. Three chicks from a brood of nine could be matched with the male but not with the female. Observations at this nestbox suggested that mate switching had occurred during the laying period. The percentage of extra-pair fertilizations did not differ between first clutches and (experimentally induced) replacement clutches. Females mated to small males were more likely to have extra-pair young in the nest. Because both extra-pair paternity and intraspecific brood parasitism are rare in this population, a reliable measure of reproductive success can be obtained by counting the number of offspring.
10.2307/3677249|One of the potential benefits of extra-pair copulation is an enhanced likelihood of successful fertilization if the pair male is unable to produce sufficient viable sperm to ensure the fertility of an entire clutch. Low male fertility can be a transient phenomenon associated with higher rates of sperm usage than production, leading to a progressive depletion of sperm reserves. Evidence of a correlation between hatching success and the occurrence of extra-pair fertilizations has been reported in House Sparrows. In this study we have used single-locus minisatellite and microsatellite profiling to investigate the distribution of extra-pair fertilizations within House Sparrow broods to determine whether there are changes in the level of hatching failure or extra-pair paternity during the course of producing a clutch. Embryonic material was collected at mid-incubation to minimize loss of data through pre-sampling mortality and to ensure that laying order was known. A significant clustering of both infertile eggs and extra-pair young was noted in the earliest eggs in a clutch. Possible causes of this phenomenon are discussed.
3677697|Island populations harbour a comparatively species-poor pathogen community, often resulting in nave host species that experience compromised immunity when faced with novel diseases. Over 95% of the Galpagos avifauna have survived 400 years of human settlement, yet currently face threats due to introduced diseases such as avian poxvirus. On Hawaii, declining populations of birds and even some extinctions have been attributed to avian poxvirus, and hence, identifying the prevalence and fitness costs of avian poxvirus on the Galpagos is a conservation priority. Surveys of avian poxvirus in Darwin's finches on Santa Cruz Island between 2000 and 2004 found a 33% annual increase in the prevalence of pox lesions in ground finches. Comparisons of pox prevalence on three islands (Santa Cruz, Floreana, and Isabela) were made in 2004, which indicated significant variation in pox prevalence across islands (Isabela > Santa Cruz > Floreana). Darwin's finch species were found to be differentially affected by poxvirus, with a higher prevalence in ground finches than in tree finches. There was a significant effect of habitat, even within species, with higher prevalence in the lowlands than highlands. Pox prevalence was not correlated with sex or body condition. However, male small ground finches Geospiza fuliginosa with evidence of pox were less likely to have a mate (16.6% paired) compared with males without pox (77% paired), indicating fitness costs associated with poxvirus infection.
25662904|The Skutch hypothesis predicts that parental activity around the nest may attract the attention of predators and thus, in the tropics where predation pressure may be high, selection favors reduced parental activity. This hypothesis has been questioned by studies demonstrating that parents can decrease the risk of nest predation through nest defense. The link between parental activity and predation risk may be further confounded by nest site characteristics. We examined the effects of parental behavior and nest site on clutch survival in two sympatric tropical thrushes (Myadestes ralloides and Turdus leucops). We compared survival rates of clutches in three treatments: 1) natural nests at the incubation stage, 2) unattended nests (un-manipulated nests of the same species, with clutches unattended by parents), and 3) exposed clutches (eggs exposed in unconcealed positions, unprotected by the nest). Parental activity had a positive effect on clutch survival, which was revealed by significantly higher survival rate of clutches in attended nests compared to unattended nests. The effect of nest site was less clear: clutches in unattended natural nests survived better than clutches in exposed sites selected by humans, but results were insignificant. We propose that parent birds can exclude a group of opportunistic predators, that are able to destroy unattended clutches. Nest site characteristics may be less important in determining clutch survival in the tropics, where predator guilds are more diverse, making completely safe sites difficult to find. Our results challenge Skutch's hypothesis and point to the need for more data from tropical latitudes.
3677798|Factors determining clutch size of birds have long been the central issue in studies in life histories. It is assumed that the configuration of brood patches could limit the maximum clutch size. To test this hypothesis we manipulated clutch sizes and measured egg temperature as well as reproductive consequences in black-tailed gulls Larus crassirostris, which usually lay two egg clutches and have three brood patches. Mean egg temperature in 4-egg clutches (32.61.0C) was significantly lower than in 2-egg (34.60.4C) and 3-egg clutches (34.10.4C), because egg temperature of the coolest egg within a 4-egg clutch was often substantially lower than the other three eggs. The proportion of eggs hatching from 4-egg clutches (11.6%) was lower than those of 2-egg (49.1%) and 3-egg clutches (52.0%). Four-egg clutches had longer incubation periods (29.61.3 day) than 2-egg (28.11.7 day) and 3-egg clutches (28.01.3 day). The results indicate that incubation capacity, which may be determined by the configuration of brood patches, limits the maximum clutch size in black tailed gulls, but not the actual clutch size typically laid.
10.2307/3677187|The effect of group size on the productivity of communally-breeding bird species has for many years been linked with the various adaptive explanations for helping-at-the-nest. This study examines the effect of group size on group provisioning effort and group productivity in the Arabian Babbler Turdoides squamiceps, a species in which helping behaviour is reported to have limited impact on parental reproduction, and has instead been uniquely proposed to operate as a signal within the group to gain social prestige. Contrary to these earlier reports, the present study showed a strong positive and linear effect of group size upon the total number of provisioning visits to the nest and the number of fledglings produced. Larger groups produced larger numbers of young, although individual fledging mass did not decrease with this increase in brood size. Fewer faecal sacs were removed per visit in nests with larger broods, and this was the only variable for which an initial positive effect of group size could be explained by the potentially confounding effect of brood size. In addition, individual provisioning effort was reduced in larger groups, both in terms of number of nest visits and the size of prey items delivered per visit. Although these data were collected over only three breeding seasons, the group sizes and breeding conditions involved are broadly representative of this population during the previous 25 years of records. These results therefore suggest that, under the majority of circumstances, helping-at-the-nest in Arabian Babblers has a positive and linear effect on the reproductive success of parents, as well as substantially reducing the provisioning effort required of other group members. Groups were nearly always made up of closely related individuals, and so these data are consistent with kin selection. Helpers gain indirect fitness benefits from the increased reproductive success of nests, as well as potentially reducing the survival costs of chick feeding for adult relatives. The possibility of direct fitness benefits from helping, especially regarding pseudoreciprocity and adaptive group augmentation, is also discussed with reference to the evolution of helping behaviour and group-living in the Arabian Babbler.
10.2307/3677265|Leap-frog migration is attributable to variation among populations in the cost of spring migration in relation to the optimal time for the start of breeding. Populations which breed in regions where spring arrives relatively late, and thus leave the wintering quarters later than conspecifics, are frequently able to take advantage of a surge in food availability in the most distant wintering sites in order to fatten quickly and arrive on their breeding grounds at the optimal time. If populations breeding in regions where spring arrives early were to use these wintering sites, they would have to fatten before the surge in food availability occurs, or else delay migration and arrive late on the breeding grounds, to the detriment of breeding success. The high cost of migration to distant sites for these early breeders outweighs the lower survival probability associated with more proximate wintering sites, so migration is truncated. Similarly a late spring surge in food availability south of the breeding range of a species may lead migrant northern breeding populations to leap-frog resident southern populations. A model of the processes involved in leap-frog migration is derived and applied to the migration pattern of the Yellow Wagtail.
30244822|Severe summer weather in Greenland and Arctic Canada in 1972 and 1974 caused very poor breeding success and elevated adult mortality in red knots Calidris canutus islandica. We show that those individual knots that are known to have survived these summers were in better than average nutritional condition shortly before departure from their late spring staging area in west Iceland. The condition index of previously banded or subsequently recovered birds captured in Iceland was positively related to the number of summers they were known to have survived. Body stores carried from the last spring staging area to the breeding grounds appear to offer Arcticbreeding shorebirds significant selective advantages: they are used for physical transformation from migration to breeding condition, and in years when weather is difficult may enable survival after arrival on the breeding grounds.
10.2307/3677093|How females pair with respect to the plumage and provisioning characteristics of males, and its fitness consequences, was studied in the American Kestrel Falco sparverius in east central Pennsylvania, USA. Within a 100 km
30243875|Some studies suggest that offspring might coordinate their begging displays to send a more effective brood signal, which in turn, could increase parental feeding rates. In tree swallows Tachycineta bicolor, when nestlings call together, their calls are more similar in structure than when they call alone. Here, we tested the hypothesis that call convergence enhances the overall brood signal, thus increasing parental provisioning rates. We played back similar and dissimilar calls (as measured by cross-correlation) to parents during a one-h playback period, and filmed the response of parents and nestlings. Contrary to our hypothesis, parental feeding rates did not differ in relation to call similarity. Based on these results, call similarity does not appear to function as a coordinated brood signal in tree swallows.
3677606|We investigated the level of parasitism, egg mimicry and breeding success of cuckoos parasitising four sympatric species of Acrocephalus warblers in southern Moravia, Czech Republic. The parasitism rate was highest in the marsh warbler Acrocephalus palustris (44.8%) followed by great reed warbler. A. arundinaceus (33.8%), sedge warbler A. schoenobaenus (26.5%) and reed warbler A. scirpaceus (11.6%). Although the cuckoo eggs showed a high level of mimicry the eggs of the marsh warbler this host species rejected 72% of the cuckoo eggs, resulting in a cuckoo breeding success of only 4.3%. Cuckoo eggs laid in great reed warbler and reed warbler nests showed a similar hatching success, but the cuckoo chicks survived better in great reed warbler nests, resulting in a breeding success of 30.4%, as compared to 16.4% in nests of the reed warbler. The relationship between the level of parasitism, host rejection of cuckoo eggs, cuckoo chick survival and breeding success is discussed for the four host species.
30243829|Competition for food is widely cited as an important cost of coloniality among birds and much of the evidence in support of this hypothesis comes from studies of colonial piscivorous seabirds. However, for generalist seabirds able to switch between different prey types, the role of food availability in relation to colony size is unclear. Here we investigate patterns of the consumption of seabird prey in relation to colony size in a generalist seabird, the great skua Stercorarius skua, in Shetland, UK. At the population level skuas feed mainly on sandeels Ammodytes marinus and fishery discards, but respond to declines in fish availability to facultatively prey on other seabirds. By comparing the consumption of seabirds among seven different sized colonies, including one colony with artificially reduced numbers of skuas (Fair Isle), we investigate whether consumption of seabird prey is influenced by skua population size, while simultaneously measuring seabird prey availability. Data from five years also enables us to investigate the influence of annual variation in environmental conditions on seabird consumption. Using measures of body condition and reproductive performance we investigate the consequences of living in different sized colonies, which may provide insight into ultimate costs of nesting at high population density. Skua diets varied among colonies and the proportion of seabird prey in the diet was inversely related to skua colony size, despite similar per capita numbers of seabirds across colonies. At the colony where their numbers were artificially suppressed, skuas consumed a greater proportion of seabirds per capita. Highly significant year effects in seabird predation were observed but the pattern among colonies remained consistent over time. Two measures of adult body condition (pectoral muscle index and mean corpuscular volume) revealed that adult great skuas were in poorer condition at the largest colony (Foula), but reproductive performance did not alter significantly among colonies. This study provides evidence that intra-specific competition among skuas may limit opportunities for obtaining seabird prey, which may be particularly important during periods of poor availability of sandeels and fishery discards, and has implications for assessing the impact of skuas on seabird populations.
3677744| Intraspecific migration patterns in birds have both spatial and temporal components. Two commonly reported spatial patterns are leap-frog and chain migration. Temporal migration patterns refer to the timing of migration of populations from different breeding latitudes. We investigated the spatial and temporal migration patterns of hatching-year (HY) sharp-shinned hawks Accipiter striatus of interior North America using stable-hydrogen isotope and band encounter analyses. Feather samples were collected from hawks migrating through New Mexico, USA and measured for their stable-hydrogen isotope ratios (D) to distinguish individuals originating from relatively high and low natal latitudes. We then examined the relationship between feather D values and passage dates through New Mexico, USA. We also gathered band encounter data from the Bird Banding Lab of the United States Geological Survey to determine the wintering latitudes of HY sharp-shinned hawks relative to their passage date through migration banding sites in interior North America. Combining these data, we found that during fall migration HY sharp-shinned hawks used a chain migration pattern, that is, hawks originating from lower latitudes wintered further south than those from higher latitudes. In addition, birds originating from lower latitudes passed through interior North America earlier than those from higher latitudes. We also found that hawks from higher latitudes were significantly larger than those from lower latitudes, and that females from higher latitudes had significantly higher estimated fat levels than females from lower latitudes. 
3677692|Fault bars are common stress-induced feather abnormalities that could produce feather damage thus reducing flight performance. For that reason, it has been hypothesized that birds may have evolved adaptive strategies that reduce the costs of fault bars (the 'fault bar allocation hypothesis'). An untested prediction of this hypothesis is that fault bars in important feathers for flight (wing and tail) should be less abundant where they produce more feather damage. We tested such a prediction using moulted wing and tail feathers of the long-distance migrant Swainson's hawk Buteo swainsoni in its Argentinean wintering quarters. We recorded the occurrence of fault bars of different strengths (light, medium and strong) and the damage (lost of a portion of the vane) produced by them. The occurrence of fault bars was very variable, with strong ones being rare throughout and light and medium fault bars being more frequent in the tail than in the wing. Risk of feather damage was similarly high and low across feather groups for strong and light fault bars, respectively, and higher in the wing than in the tail for medium strength. The occurrence of fault bars of different strengths on different feather groups was negatively correlated with their propensity to produce feather damage. At low damage risk (<5%), the occurrence of fault bars was highly variable depending on the feather group, but above 5% of feather damage the occurrence of fault bars was highly reduced throughout. Our results supports the 'fault bar allocation hypothesis' of natural selection reducing fault bar occurrence where fault bars are more risky, but further suggest that selection pressure could be relaxed in other instances, leaving the way free for other mechanisms to shape fault bar occurrence.
3677608|It has recently been shown that sandpipers (Scolopacidae) abruptly switch the chemical composition of their preen gland secretions from mono- to diester waxes just before the period of courtship. The timing and context of the shift suggested that diesters could provide a visible quality signal during mate choice. We used captive red knots Calidris canutus to test whether mono- and diester preen waxes affect the light reflectance ("colour") of the plumage. We also determined light absorbance spectra of the two wax types. The reflectance of breast feathers of the breeding plumage was measured with spectrophotometry when birds secreted monoesters and six weeks later when they secreted diester preen waxes. Light reflectance was also measured after removing the mono- and diester waxes from the plumage with a solvent. The results show that: (1) diester preen waxes absorb more light, especially ultraviolet (UV), than monoester preen waxes, but that (2) the compositional shift in the preen waxes did not change plumage reflectance and, (3) the removal of preen waxes did not change the reflectance of the plumage within the light spectrum assumed visible to birds (320-700 nm). This is not consistent with the idea that compositional shifts in the preen waxes of red knots have a visual function.
3677654|To help clarify controversial phylogenetic relationships within the family Emberizidae, we sequenced 1238 bp of mitochondrial DNA from the cytochrome b gene and a flanking portion of ND5. Although the longspurs (Calcarius) and the snow buntings (Plectrophenax) have been grouped with the Old World buntings (Emberiza) in traditional classifications, our molecular phylogenies constructed with maximum likelihood and maximum parsimony place these genera basal to a clade in which the Old World buntings and North American sparrows are sister groups. Contrary to the hypothesis that the radiation within Emberiza is recent following a westward expansion of emberizid stock into Eurasia from North America, we found that the level of genetic divergence among Old World buntings approximates those among different genera in North American sparrows. Thus the radiation of the Emberizidae seems to have occurred at roughly the same time in the Palaearctic and Nearctic. Our results are consistent with earlier analyses of allozymes, but sequences from multiple genes and new morphological analyses are required to fully resolve phylogenetic relationships within the Emberizidae.
30244821|Here we investigate the change in feather quality during partial post-juvenile and complete post-breeding moult in great tit Parus major by measuring the change in the number of fault bars and feather holes on wing and tail feathers. Feathers grown during ontogeny usually are of lower quality than feathers grown following subsequent moults at independence. This is reflected by higher number of fault bars and feather holes on juveniles compared to adults. Fault bars are significantly more common on tail and proximal wing feathers than on the distal remiges, indicating a mechanism of adaptive allocation of stress induced abnormalities during ontogeny into the aerodynamically less important flight feathers. On the contrary, feather holes produced probably by chewing lice have a more uniform distribution on wing and tail feathers, which may reflect the inability of birds to control their distribution, or the weak natural selection imposed by them. The adaptive value of the differential allocation of fault bar between groups of feathers seems to be supported by the significantly higher recapture probability of those juvenile great tits which have fewer fault bars at fledging on the aerodynamically most important primaries, but not on other groups of flight feathers. The selection imposed by feather holes seems to be smaller, since except for the positive association between hatching date, brood size and the number of feather holes at fledging, great tits' survival was not affected by the number of feather holes. During post-juvenile moult, the intensity of fault bars drops significantly through the replacement of tail feathers and tertials, resulting in disproportional reduction of the total number of fault bars on flight feathers related to the number of feathers replaced. The reduction in the number of fault bars during post-juvenile moult associated with their adaptive allocation to proximal wing feathers and rectrices may explain the evolution of partial post-juvenile moult in the great tit, since the quality of flight feathers can be increased significantly at a relatively small cost. Our results may explain the widespread phenomenon of partial post-juvenile moult of flight feathers among Palearctic passerines. During the next complete post-breeding moult, the total number of fault bars on flight feathers has remained unchanged, indicating the effectiveness of partial post-juvenile moult in reducing the number of adaptively allocated fault bars. The number of feather holes has also decreased on groups of feathers replaced during partial post-juvenile moult, but the reduction is proportional with the number of feathers moulted. In line with this observation, the number of feather holes is further reduced during post-breeding moult on primaries and secondaries, resulting in an increase in feather quality of adult great tits.
3677526|American dipper Cinclus mexicanus populations are frequently composed of resident individuals that occupy permanent territories year round and migratory individuals that overwinter with residents but migrate to breeding territories on higher elevation creeks each spring. Between 1999 and 2004 we examined how migratory strategy (resident/migratory) and sex differences influence breeding territory fidelity of American dippers occupying the Chilliwack River watershed, British Columbia, Canada. Counter to expectation we found that the migratory strategy of American dippers did not influence whether birds breeding in one year were found on their former breeding territory in the next. Migratory strategy also did not affect the probability that known surviving dippers occupied the same breeding territory in the following year. Males and females were equally likely to be found on their former territory in the following year (females 43%, males 41%) and known survivors had similar levels of breeding territory fidelity (females 74%, males 68%). However, breeding territory fidelity of males and females varied in response to different factors. Surviving female dippers were more likely to be found on their former breeding territory in the subsequent year following a successful breeding attempt than an unsuccessful breeding attempt. Prior reproductive performance did not influence whether surviving male dippers were found on their former breeding territory. Male dippers were more likely to be found on their former territory and, if they survived, have higher breeding territory fidelity when their mate also returned to that same territory. Mate retention also influenced whether females were found on their former territory in the following year but had no effect on the breeding territory fidelity of known survivors. We argue that sex-specific dispersal decision rules in American dippers are driven by sex differences in the predictability of breeding performance between years and sex differences in how mate retention influences subsequent reproductive success.
3677407|In this study, we tested whether conspecific brood parasitism (CBP) has selected for egg rejection behavior in the colonial Great-tailed Grackle Quiscalus mexicanus. No evidence of CBP was recorded at 797 Great-tailed Grackle nests, and we did not induce CBP by experimentally removing nests while grackles were laying. We determined experimentally that Great-tailed Grackles are determinate layers, an attribute opposite to that sometimes associated with CBP. Despite the absence of CBP, Great-tailed Grackles rejected 8% of experimentally introduced conspecific eggs, rarely rejecting or damaging their own eggs. Conspecific eggs added to nests during incubation tended to be rejected more frequently than eggs switched between nests, and eggs that differed the most from the host's eggs tended to be rejected sooner. There was no relationship between rejection and the stage of the nest cycle when experimental parasitism occurred; however, eggs were rejected faster when added during the prelaying and incubation stages than during laying. Evidence suggests, therefore, that egg rejection behavior in Great-tailed Grackles has not evolved in response to CBP.
3677464|Migrant songbirds are vulnerable to changes in climatic conditions on both the breeding and wintering grounds. For North American Neotropical migrants, the El Nio/Southern Oscillation (ENSO), via its effects on global precipitation and temperature, modulates the productivity of their temperate and tropical terrestrial ecosystems used during the course of their annual cycle. We evaluated how a densely nesting population of yellow warblers Dendroica petechia in a riparian forest in southern Manitoba, Canada, responded to the El Nio/Southern Oscillation (ENSO) between 1992 and 2001. Standardized mist netting was used to estimate apparent annual survival of adults and production of young. Both adult survival and the production of young were positively correlated with the Southern Oscillation Index (SOI). More specifically, values of both these demographic parameters were lowest during El Nio years and highest during La Nia years. These findings demonstrate the influence of climate on populations of Neotropical migrants in North America. The more frequent El Nios predicted to result from future global climate change could negatively affect populations of yellow warblers and other Neotropical migrants breeding in this region.
10.2307/3677134|The frequency of extra-pair paternity was studied in a population of Coal Tits Parus ater using DNA fingerprinting technique. High values were obtained: 15 of the 20 broods investigated (75%) contained at least one nestling sired by an extra-pair male and overall 40 of 158 nestlings (25.3%) were extra-pair young. Inter- and intraspecific comparisons revealed that breeding density cannot explain this high frequency of extra-pair paternity in Coal Tits.
3677629|In addition to wavelengths visible to humans (400-700 nm), many birds are able to detect near ultraviolet light (320-400 nm). Most studies of ultraviolet (UV) vision in birds have concentrated on the importance of UV vision in intraspecific signalling, especially in passerine birds. However, birds may also use UV vision for other purposes, e.g. foraging. We performed a laboratory experiment to test whether a tetraonid species, black grouse Tetrao tetrix, could detect the difference between UV-reflecting and non-UV-reflecting food items (two colour morphs of bilberry Vaccinium myrtillus). Black grouse preferred UV-reflecting berries when UV light was used for illumination, but showed no preference in the absence of UV light. This observation establishes a potential UV sensitivity in this species; such a sensitivity should be considered in behavioural experiments with this species.
30244772|Several bird species, including cavity-nesters such as European starlings Sturnus vulgaris, add to their nests green sprigs of plants such as yarrow Achillea millefolium that are rich in volatile compounds. In this field study on another cavity-nester, tree swallows Tachycineta bicolor, we tested whether yarrow reduced ectoparasite loads (the nest protection hypothesis), stimulated nestling immune systems (the drug hypothesis), or had other consequences for nestling growth or parental reproductive success (predicted by both preceding hypotheses). Tree swallows do not naturally add greenery to their nests, and thus offer several advantages in testing for effects of greenery independent of other potentially confounding explanations for the behaviour. We placed fresh yarrow in 23 swallow nests on the day the first egg was laid, replenishing every two days until clutch completion (=three times), and at 44 control nests, nesting material was simply touched. At 12 days of age, we measured nestling body size and mass, and took blood smears to do differential white blood cell counts. We subsequently determined the number and proportion of young fledging from nests and the number of fleas remaining after fledging. Higher humidity was associated with higher flea numbers whereas number of feathers in the nest was not. Our most significant finding was that an average of 773 fleas Ceratophyllus idius was found in control nests, versus 419 in yarrow nests. Possibly, parents compensate for blood that nestlings lose to ectoparasites by increasing food delivery, because we detected no differences between treatments in nestling mass, nestling leukocyte profiles, or proportion of young fledging, or relative to flea numbers. Our results provide no support for the drug hypothesis and strong support for the nest protection hypothesis.
3677581|Although the causes and consequences of social dominance have been examined extensively, avian studies have rarely focused on between-population differences in social dominance. On the island of Corsica, two resident blue tit Parus caeruleus populations 25 km apart differ significantly in body size measures, timing and effort of reproduction, and song structure, and some of these population differences have a genetic basis. Because earlier avian studies have shown that social dominance is influenced by body size or mass, we predicted that individuals from these two blue tit populations would also differ in their ability to dominate other individuals. Consistent with this prediction, we found that male blue tits of these two populations differ in social dominance, and that heavier or larger individuals dominate lighter or smaller ones in aviary experiments. We propose that social dominance may serve to maintain phenotypic population differentiation at a micro-geographic scale by acting as a barrier to dispersal.
10.2307/3676964|The effect of different genera of blood parasites on female Great Tits Parus major was studied in central Sweden. Haemoproteus, Leucocytozoon, Hepatozoon, Plasmodium and Trypanosoma were found, but only the last mentioned had any measurable effect on the birds. Female Great Tits infected with Trypanosoma laid smaller eggs, hatched proportionally fewer eggs, and raised nestlings with shorter tarsi and generally worse body condition, compared to females without trypanosomes. However, females with low body mass and short tarsi laid smaller eggs, independent of parasite status. Low body mass was correlated with low levels of haemoglobin, suggesting that parasitic infection, or some other disease, initially had caused the lower body mass. Haematocrit, another variable reflecting health status, was positively correlated with clutch size. However, neither haemoglobin nor haematocrit was related to occurrence of blood parasites.
10.2307/3677012|Territorial or nest attendance by adult breeding seabirds is often essential to prevent egg or chick mortality. As a result, parent birds, when not engaged in foraging trips, should stay on their territories whenever there is a risk from leaving their eggs and chicks unattended. Differences in territorial attendance and time spent foraging by birds of different ages have been interpreted as resulting from differences in adult foraging ability or in motivation to invest in the current reproductive attempt. However, most studies have failed to take into account seasonal variations in food availability, which could affect these patterns, because timing of breeding is often dependent on adult age. We designed an experiment to investigate the levels of territorial attendance displayed by Great Skuas of known age facing the same environmental conditions and with similar food requirements. This was achieved by manipulating clutches so that all study pairs hatched their chicks at the same time. Pairs with one chick had a higher attendance (mean number of adults per territory) than pairs with two chicks. This suggests that the need to increase the time foraging in response to the nutritional demands of a larger brood overrides any effect due to differential motivations in the amount of parental effort to be invested in brood protection. Pairs with older males had a higher attendance than pairs with younger males. About 61% of the estimated foraging time of the pairs fell on the males. Attendance and adult age were not correlated with chick body condition. We conclude that pairs with two chicks that had high attendance achieved this by being more efficient foragers, and not by provisioning their chicks less well. Therefore, our results suggest that older males are better foragers than younger birds. Female age did not correlate with attendance levels. However, pairs with older females were less likely to leave their chicks unattended, which suggests that those pairs had a better co-ordination of their foraging and guarding activities. Breeding success in Great Skuas improves with adult age. Thus, our study identifies a mechanism by which older birds can achieve better performance than younger individuals. Old birds are less likely to leave their chicks exposed to predation by conspecifics, which is the main cause of pre-fledging mortality in this species.
3677572| Daily variation in circulating levels of the avian yolk precursor, vitellogenin (VTG), throughout the laying cycle was investigated in female zebra finches Taeniopygia guttata and compared with predicted ovarian follicle demand (based on a model of follicular development for this species). In general, the pattern of variation in plasma VTG matched the predicted demand from the developing ovarian follicle hierarchy. Plasma VTG was non-detectable in non-breeders, but increased rapidly with onset of yolk development, remaining high (1.43-1.82 g/ml, zinc) through to the 3-egg stage. Plasma levels then declined at the 5-egg stage (to 0.78  0.32 g/ml) and were undetectable at clutch completion. This result is consistent with the hypothesis that yolk precursor production is costly and that selection has matched supply and demand. While inter-individual variation in plasma VTG was marked (e.g. 0.47-4.26 g/ml at the 1-egg stage), it also exhibited high intra-individual repeatability (r = 0.87-0.93). Finally, we examined the relationship between plasma VTG and primary reproductive effort. While individual variation in plasma VTG was independent of clutch size, laying interval and laying rate, there was a complex, diet-dependent relationship between VTG and egg size, with low plasma VTG levels being associated with both very small (<0.90 g) and very large (>1.15 g) egg sizes. 
3677626|During the breeding season, many female passerine birds increase in body mass before egg laying, maintain a relatively high body mass during incubation, and then drop back to the original level during the chick-rearing period. The post-hatching reduction in body mass, which can be as large as 10-20%, has been suggested to represent an adaptive mass loss to reduce wing loading, thereby increasing parental flight efficiency when chicks have hatched and have to be fed. Here we present the first study of changes in flight ability from incubation to chick rearing in birds. Wild female pied flycatchers Ficedula hypoleuca flew more slowly during incubation than during chick rearing; a 7% reduction in body mass after the chicks had hatched was associated with a 10% increase in vertical take-off speed. Furthermore, the flight muscle size of the females tracked the reduction in wing load, suggesting that muscle size was adaptively reduced when no longer needed. Since incubation-feeding by males reduces the time females have to spend outside the nest foraging, our results suggest that in addition to increasing female nutritional status and reducing incubation time, incubation-feeding will also reduce predation risk during the period when females face impaired flight ability.
3677414|We studied the reproductive biology of a box-nesting population of Tree Swallows Tachycineta bicolor in southeastern Wisconsin, USA. We were interested particularly in the relationship between laying order and hatching order and the extent to which each was a predictor of nestling body mass. We found that laying order was a significant predictor of hatching order. Laying and hatching order were related to nestling mass at 4 days of age and to a lesser extent at 12 days of age. In addition, we investigated the effects of natural variation in hatching asynchrony. Hatching asynchrony was positively related to the range of nestling body masses within a brood at days 4 and 12. The probability that brood reduction occurred was also positively related to the degree of hatching asynchrony, though this effect was significant only at day 4. Our results suggest that laying order and hatching order have their greatest effects on nestling Tree Swallows early in the nestling period.
10.2307/3677183|By computer simulations of different flight routes for spring migrating Knots Calidris canutus, potential orientational 'danger zones' were revealed in the equator area and north of the Arctic circle. An evaluation of the availability of directional information during migratory flights demonstrated the potential hazards of crossing these danger zones. Investigations of the directional consequences of sun compass orientation based upon an internal clock in phase with local time at the departure site showed that such a mechanism would entail serious losses in distance and time. A simple compensating rule based on the rate of change in sun altitude was found to work well both at polar latitudes and in the equator area. The magnetic compass will become inoperative close to the magnetic equator and the poles, thus restricting the availability of directional information. Orientation by stellar cues will become impossible during spring and summer at arctic latitudes. Simulations of potential migratory routes also enabled examination of the required precision of compass systems and it was indicated that necessary orientation accuracy requires more than one directional selection per long-distance flight to ensure survival. It is concluded that computer simulations of flight tracks, based on ringing recoveries, visual observations, radar studies and satellite telemetry may be a powerful tool helping to identify problems which require future experimental attention.
30244809|Harnesses are indispensable for a long-term attachment of instruments to animals, particularly birds. The exact fit is crucial for both the reliability of the tags and the animals' health and natural behaviour. Using data from 19 bird species ranging from 8-400 g, I present an allometric function to calculate the dimension of leg-loop harnesses for birds on the basis of body mass data. The model greatly facilitates determining the correct loop span for new species without time-consuming experiments. More importantly, the equation permits calculation of the excess span that is required for tagging juvenile, still growing birds.
30245217|In many oscines, song repertoire size correlates with male quality and female mate choice, and can vary with age. In a cross-sectional field study in common nightingales Luscinia megarhynchos, one y old birds had substantially smaller repertoires than did older ones. In laboratory experiments males can acquire new song types during this period. This longitudinal field study therefore investigates whether individual nightingales increase their repertoires from the first to the second breeding season. We report a striking repertoire turnover, with an average overall increase of 24% of the first season's repertoire, resulting from added and dropped song types (54% and 30%, respectively). The number of added song types correlated positively with the size of the first season's repertoire. These results are consistent with the notion that repertoire size in nightingales correlates with male quality, although the overlap between repertoire sizes of first and second season birds makes it impossible to discriminate age based solely on repertoire size. Comparing the number of song types an individual sang in both seasons ('permanent song types') revealed a lower overlap than reported for subsequent seasons. The frequencies with which these were sung in the first season were less predictive of how often they were sung in the second season than was the case between later years. This drastic repertoire turnover from the first to the second season may be a selective process in response to the local song types, constrained by genetic makeup and shaped by early experience.
3677599|For most species, it is currently not known whether individual characteristics and population parameters affecting dispersal distances within the local population are also affecting dispersal of individuals emigrating longer distances. We evaluated this in the great reed warbler Acrocephalus arundinaceus by analysing data of natal dispersal distances within (1) the local hatching area in southern Central Sweden and (2) the species' whole breeding range in Sweden. The different scales gave conflicting results. Site of birth was the main predictor of natal dispersal distance in the local census area, whereas in the larger census area the dispersal distance differed significantly between hatching years. Previous studies have shown that the recruitment rate of great reed warblers within the local study area differs between hatching years and also that it declines during the course of the breeding season. It was not known, however, whether these relationships reflected variation in survival or dispersal. The results from the present study suggest that the differences in local recruitment rate between hatching years is partly caused by annual variation in emigration rate, whereas the decline in local recruitment rate with season mainly reflects mortality of late-hatched nestlings. Our study shows a twofold advantage of a large census area when studying dispersal. First, predictors of longer-distance dispersal will be revealed and, second, the variation in local recruitment rate can be separated into two components, survival and dispersal.
10.2307/3677334|In ducks and geese intraclutch egg-size variation shows a consistent pattern. The first egg is generally smaller than the second egg and from then on egg size declines over the laying sequence. Such an intraclutch egg-size pattern has previously been described in the Common Eider Somateria mollissima. In our study area the differences between the largest and the smallest egg in a clutch increased on average from 7.5% among 3-egg clutches to 14.2% among 6-egg clutches. The maximum difference was as much as 25% among 6-egg clutches. In the present study we examine the relationship between egg size, laying position and the growth of ducklings. We have done this by collecting complete clutches of which we knew the exact laying order and the size of all eggs, and transferred them to a standard incubator to hatch. We then fed ducklings ad lib and measured their growth rate in relation to egg size and laying order. There was a close relationship
10.2307/3677357| Cory's Shearwaters, in common with other species of Procellariiformes, accumulat large quantities of body fat after hatching. This pattern of development has been related both to temporal variation in feeding conditions around the colony and to stochastic variation in foraging success and food provisioning by individual parents. Chicks need not necessarily always accept food provided by their parents, yet few studies have examined parental attendance independently of the masses of food fed to chicks overnight. This paper examines variability in provisioning and growth of nestling Cory's Shearwaters over three years between 1991 and 1994, and uses observations of individually marked adults coupled with radio-tracking to examine the nest attendance patterns of individual parents. Chicks were fed on 77% of nights on average, with little temporal variation in food delivery at the level of the colony. Individual chicks were nonetheless fed highly variably, and this to some extent supports the notion that nestling obesity results from chronic overfeeding by the parents to reduce the impact of variable food provisioning at an individual level. Chicks were attended by 1.5 parents overnight on average, and chicks were attended but not fed on 16% of occasions. Parents may have returned on these occasions without any food for the chick, or the chick may have refused to accept food from the parents. A minority of nests accounted for most of the occasions when a chick was attended but not fed, and there was evidence to suggest that these chicks were consistently heavy for their size. A refusal by these chicks to accept food on some occasions is consistent with the notion that lipid stores of chicks should be optimized rather than maximized, and this requires further investigation. 
10.2307/3676976|This study examines the ecological factors expected to determine the abundance of lice on birds. The associations between avian body mass and avian sociality as selected environmental variables and the arithmetic mean of louse abundance per bird individual are evaluated across bird species. Rough data were obtained from the literature. Using host species as statistically independent observations, louse abundance correlates positively with avian body mass. This correlation is not a phylogenetic artefact, being also found after controlling for effects of host phylogeny. Three non-exclusive hypotheses might explain this correlation: (1) larger birds may provide larger 'habitat islands' enabling more lice to coexist; (2) larger birds may provide more topographic refugia for lice to evade host preening and grooming; and (3) larger birds may provide more longevity of 'habitat islands' thus reducing the decimating effects of transmission. Contrary to expectations based on early anecdotal information, avian sociality had no significant effect on louse abundance either with, or without controlling for host-phylogenetic effects.
30245205|African jungle babblers or illadopsises, genus Illadopsis Heine, 1859, are small shy babblers which occupy the undergrowth of African humid forest habitats. The taxonomy of Illadopsis as well as its biogeography are currently poorly known because the morphological differentiation is rather subtle and no phylogenetic analysis has been undertaken. To investigate these issues, we sequenced four loci (mitochondrial ND2 and ND3, and nuclear myoglobin intron 2 and -fibrinogen intron 5) for the seven species of Illadopsis. Our analyses retrieve the monophyly of Illadopsis and suggest that I. albipectus and I. cleaveri, I. puveli and I. rufescens, some individuals of I. rufipennis and I. pyrrhoptera are sister taxa respectively. I. fulvescens appears to be an isolated taxon and our data reveal several cases of "incipient speciation" among its populations. Our dating analyses, using a Bayesian relaxed-clock method, reveal that most splits in Illadopsis occurred synchronously around the Plio-Pleistocene transition, suggesting that some diversification events in African forest taxa took place before the onset of the large-amplitude climatic cycles of the Pleistocene epoch. Thus, the diversification of African taxa in time and space to be more complex than the Pleistocene time frame traditionally associated with the diversification of African forest taxa. Instead we observe a process of differentiation which roughly corresponds to the broadly hypothesised lowland refugia of upper Guinea, eastern and western Guinea-Congolia, although the time frame of this divergence well predates the Pleistocene epoch. Our results also suggest that deep genetic divergences do exist among species complexes of African birds which differ only slightly in morphological characters. As such, molecular analyses are powerful and essential tools if we are to construct the evolutionary history of such lineages in a meaningful manner.
30243905|The amount of fat of a bird is a fundamental metric commonly used by avian biologists in studies of migration, winter energy management and condition. The methods used for estimating fat content range from simply measuring body mass and subtracting the estimated lean mass, visual scoring of subcutaneous fat deposits, to destructive extraction using a Soxhlet apparatus. We used magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) for non-invasive estimation of fat content in willow warblers Phylloscopus trochilus. According to an indirect comparison, made using a standardized fat scoring system as a common measure, the MRI method gave very similar fat amount as Soxhlet extraction and we discuss advantages of using MRI over alternative methods. It was also shown that the commonly used fat scoring system yielded a nonlinear relationship between fat mass and fat score.
10.2307/3677078|A major factor influencing the quality of raptor habitats is food availability, which is determined not only by prey density, but also by various habitat features influencing the accessibility of prey. Many raptors hunt ground-living prey by using the energy-saving pause-travel search tactic. If perches to hunt from are lacking, a habitat may be difficult to exploit even if prey is abundant; hence perches are an important component of prey availability. The boreal forest landscape is drastically changed by very intensive forest management. Clearcuts, where mature forest has been harvested, are rich in prey (rodents) but lack perches. An experiment was performed to test if abundance of perches is a factor limiting the utilization of these habitats by foraging raptors. Eleven clearcuts were provided with man-made perches, and 11 clearcuts served as control. Foraging raptors used clearcuts with perches significantly more than clearcuts lacking perches, and raptor utilization changed accordingly when the control and experimental areas were switched.
10.2307/3677195|Avoiding predation is an important factor in avian life-history strategies and there are many examples of adaptations that appear to decrease predation risk. However, we are not aware of any studies of structural morphological adaptations to reduce predation risk in any avian species. Here, we have compared published indices of relative predation risk for passerine species with two size-constrained measures of wingtip shape and relative hind limb morphology. Our analyses indicate that species with rounded wingtips and those with relatively short femora compared with tarsi are at a lower relative predation risk than those with more pointed wingtips and relatively longer femora. These relations are discussed in terms of the functional morphology of wingtip shape and hind limb morphology and suggestions for further experimental investigations are made.
10.2307/3677051| There is considerable debate over the benefits that female birds obtain from engaging in extra-pair copulations (Westneat et al. 1990, Birkhead and Mller 1992). Two main classes of benefit have been identified: direct benefits, which includes fertility insurance (e.g. Sheldon 1994), and indirect or genetic benefits (see Birkhead and Mller 1992, Mller 1994). In the House Sparrow Passer domesticus, Wetton and Parkin (1991) found that the occurrence of unhatched eggs was associated with extra-pair paternity in the same clutch and suggested that this might occur because females guard against low fertility of their mate by engaging in a relatively small number of extra-pair copulations. Both Birkhead and Mller (1992: 15) and Lifjeld (1994) offered alternative explanations for Wetton and Parkin's (1991) result. Lifjeld (1994) suggested that unhatched eggs may have been the consequence of social interactions. That is, female House Sparrows paired to poor quality males would be more likely to seek extra-pair copulations, and because extra-pair copulations in this species are often forced and occur during 'communal displays' (Mller 1987), these females would be subject to an unusual amount of harassment. As a consequence, not only would these females lay a greater proportion of infertile eggs, they would also produce some eggs fathered by extra-pair males. 
3677614|Habitat quality is an important but insufficiently understood concept in ecology and conservation biology, due to geographic and temporal variation as well as interaction with individual quality. In 1994-2002, we studied the Estonian population of the lesser spotted eagle Aquila pomarina in order to (1) explore the relative contributions of habitat and female size in reproductive success; (2) check for a switch to alternative prey in vole-poor years and the relevant variation in annual habitat quality as confirmed in the common buzzard Buteo buteo in the same area. We measured five landscape variables, the number of neighbouring conspecifics and the relative size of the female according to large moulted feathers in 77 nesting territories, and related this to the eagles' productivity in vole-rich and vole-poor years. Nesting lesser spotted eagles benefited from heterogeneous landscapes and suffered from the neighbourhood of conspecifics. There was no evidence that different-sized females used different habitats. In general, female size was positively related to productivity in vole-poor but not vole-rich years, but in the presence of competitors, large size appeared to be disadvantageous. The mean annual productivity of the eagle was well correlated with that of the buzzard, both having peaks after every three years. In contrast to the buzzard, the share of voles in the eagle's diet and its habitat quality did not differ significantly between good and poor years. We concluded that despite a superficial ecological similarity to the buzzard, the lesser spotted eagle did not behave as predicted by the alternative prey hypothesis, but the study confirmed that annual variation in prey utilization and relative habitat quality are parts of the same functional response. Non-switching to alternative prey may be related to a historical foraging strategy, used by the eagles before they spread to agricultural landscapes, since the current effects of body size strongly suggested food shortage in vole-poor years.
10.2307/3677231|In keeping with a recent and growing body of literature providing evidence for the functional significance of molt patterns in relation to other events in the annual cycle, I present and discuss an hypothesis for the adaptive significance of one aspect of seasonal color change in Sterna terns. After breeding, many adults molt a limited number of head feathers which results in a mottled aspect. I suggest that the post-breeding change in head color is a signal directed by nonbreeding species toward breeding congeners that may be encountered either during migration to winter range, or in the winter range. This advertisement of nonbreeding status should help members of migratory/wintering species to avoid costly courtship chases and aggression from breeding species.
3677551| Birds that nest in cavities may regulate nest microclimate by orienting their nest entrance relative to the sun or prevailing winds. Alternatively, birds may orient their nest entrance relative to conspecific individuals around them, especially if the acoustic properties of cavities permit nesting birds to better hear individuals in front of their nest. We measured the cavity entrance orientation of 132 nests and 234 excavations in a colour-banded population of black-capped chickadees Poecile atricapillus for which the reproductive behaviour of nesting females was known. Most chickadees excavated cavities in rotten birch Betula papyrifera, aspen Populus tremuloides and maple Acer saccharum. Nest cavities showed random compass orientation around 360 demonstrating that chickadees do not orient their cavities relative to the sun or prevailing winds. We also presented chickadees with nest boxes arranged in groups of four, oriented at 90 intervals around the same tree. Nests constructed in these nest box quartets also showed random compass orientation. To test the acoustic properties of nest cavities, we conducted a sound transmission experiment using a microphone mounted inside a chickadee nest. Re-recorded songs demonstrate that chickadee nest cavities have directional acoustic properties; songs recorded with the cavity entrance oriented towards the loudspeaker were louder than songs recorded with the cavity entrance oriented away from the loudspeaker. Thus, female chickadees, who roost inside their nest cavity in the early morning during their fertile period, should be better able to hear males singing the dawn chorus in front of their nest cavity. Using GIS analyses we tested for angular-angular correlation between actual nest cavity orientation and the azimuth from the nest tree to the territories and nest cavities of nearby males. In general, nest cavity entrances showed no angular-angular correlation with neighbourhood territory features. However, among birds who followed a mixed reproductive strategy and nested in the soft wood of birch and aspen trees, nest cavity entrances were oriented towards their extra-pair partners. We conclude that nest cavity orientation in birds may be influenced by both ecological and social factors. 
10.2307/3677207|The aim of the present study was to investigate the question of whether blue Cuckoo Cuculus canorus eggs have evolved as an adaptation for successful parasitism of host species which themselves lay blue eggs. For this purpose we inspected 11 870 Cuckoo eggs, 361 of which (3.04%) were blue, in host species' clutches held in European egg collections. Blue Cuckoo eggs occurred at significantly higher frequencies in the clutches of Redstarts Phoenicurus phoenicurus, Whinchats Saxicola rubetra, Wheatears Oenanthe oenanthe and Pied Flycatchers Ficedula hypoleuca than in host species which do not lay blue eggs, thus supporting our main prediction. Discrimination against non-mimetic Cuckoo eggs by Redstarts has probably been the strongest selective force behind the evolution of blue Cuckoo eggs. The Whinchat may also have played an important role. Cuckoo eggs in nests of both these species show a, statistically significant, better mimicry with host eggs than in the nests of either Pied Flycatcher or Wheatear. Pied Flycatchers and Wheatears usually nest in cavities with entrances too narrow to permit a young Cuckoo to leave. These two hosts show no discriminatory behaviour towards non-mimetic (i.e. other colours than blue) Cuckoo eggs and have therefore probably played a minor role in the evolution of blue Cuckoo eggs. Presumably they have been accidentally parasitized by "Redstart" (or "Whinchat") Cuckoos.
3677489|Failure to recognise own eggs (recognition errors) may be an important selective force behind acceptance of parasitic eggs, leading to a balance between rejecters and acceptors in a host population (the equilibrium hypothesis). We predicted that recognition errors should occur frequently among host species with intermediate rejection rates, whose rejection behaviour shows many conditional responses. The reed warbler Acrocephalus scirpaceus and great reed warbler A. arundinaceus fulfil these requirements. These two species were therefore used in an experiment where host birds were exposed to a common cuckoo Cuculus canorus dummy, either <2 m or 5-10 m from the nest, at fishponds in southern Moravia (Czech Republic). The hosts responded to the cuckoo dummy, great reed warblers being much more aggressive than reed warblers, and both species being more aggressive towards the dummy when it was close to the nest than when it was farther away. We furthermore predicted that there should be more eggs rejected (ejected or nest abandoned) due to recognition errors among hosts exposed to a dummy close to the nest than among both those exposed to a dummy farther away from the nest and towards controls not exposed to cuckoo dummies. When comparing egg loss between groups of birds that were exposed to a cuckoo dummy with those that were not, we found no significant difference. However, partial egg loss was frequent among hosts in the studied population, most probably due to cuckoo depredation. We discuss why there were no detectable recognition errors in the studied population, when other researchers have claimed to have found such errors in host populations elsewhere.
3676932|Although periodic weighing of chicks is used widely as a means to assess meal mass and feeding frequency in seabirds, there have been few critical assessments of its effectiveness. Using established methods, we were able to predict whether feeding had occurred with an accuracy of over 96% at nests where adult attendance was being monitored independently. This was despite the occasional provision of small meals which did not result in positive mass increments of chicks between weighings. However, information from repeat weighing could not be used to distinguish food delivery by both rather than a single parent within the weighing interval according to the relative sizes of mass increments. This may be because chicks are unable to cope with large meals from both adults because of gut capacity constraints. In addition, adults occasionally return from foraging trips with no food for the chick. These results have important implications for studies in which adult foraging trip durations are estimated solely using periodic weighing data, particularly in species with relatively short feeding intervals.
30243862|Videotaping is currently recognized as the most reliable method of predator identification at active bird nests but it is relatively expensive and labour intensive. While the number of published studies has increased over the past 10 years, the mean sample size is not increasing. Thirty-one case studies (n > 5 events) reported 6-70 (median = 22) predation events by 2-14 (6) species of predators. The number of predator species increased with a 0.50  0.09 (SE) power of sample size across studies (0.54  0.06 with the present study included). This relationship was consistent across single- and multispecies studies and corresponded well with that found within the present 5-year study (176 events, 20 species) where neither the annual nor the pooled-sample species accumulation curve reached an obvious asymptote. The species accumulation curve was smooth and fell within the confidence limits of the rarefaction curve over the entire range of sample sizes, suggesting homogeneous sampling. In 31 case studies the dominant predator accounted for 21-96% (38%) of total predation and this proportion did not correlate with the sample size across studies. In this study the observed proportion fluctuated widely until the cumulative sample size reached about 50 records and stabilized thereafter at the final value of 37%. Because the regional pool of potential nest predators is usually high, a complete enumeration of the local predator community is difficult with an acceptable nest monitoring effort. Correct identification of the dominant predators is likely even with small samples, but quantification of their share is uncertain when based on < 50 records. Researchers are encouraged to increase their sampling effort above the current level and to consider contingency of results upon sample size.
10.2307/3677346| Tracking radar studies were carried out during the summer 1996 in the central polar basin (85-90N) to investigate if birds accomplish transpolar migration. We here report the absence of bird migration from this region, in glaring contrast to the situation in more peripheral parts of the Arctic Ocean. Two possible explanations for the absence of regular intercontinental bird migration across the region around the North Pole are considered: (i) transpolar migration is of little evolutionary advantage, and (ii) orientation difficulties prevent migration at the pole. 
30243841|Survival during the first year is one of the most important factors determining fitness in birds. Birds have poor thermoregulatory abilities during the nestling period when the plumage is not fully developed, thus temperature during the nestling period is a serious candidate to affect post-fledging survival, although it has been usually ignored in previous studies. We analysed the relationship between temperatures and post-fledging survival in a great tit Parus major population in Sagunto (Spain) using capture-recapture data from 12 years. Hatching dates, mass at fledging and temperatures during the nestling period (maximum, minimum and mean ambient temperatures as an estimation of the mean and extreme weather conditions that chicks encountered at the nest) were used as individual covariates. Mean post-fledging survival was 0.13  0.01. Adult survival probability was 0.64  0.02. Multi-model inference suggested that post-fledging survival increased with fledging mass, and decreased as temperatures increased. Furthermore, the effect of mass on survival was less important as temperature was higher. We consider that high temperatures affect nestlings' health due to low thermoregulatory abilities of nestlings. Model selection did not support a relationship between hatching dates and survival once mass and temperatures were taken into account. The results suggest the possibility that the effect of date on post-fledging survival found in previous studies was, at least in part, a consequence of the seasonal pattern of temperature variation.
30244805|We studied the eviction behaviour of common cuckoo Cuculus canorus chicks by video recording at nests of great reed warblers Acrocephalus arundinaceus and reed warblers Acrocephalus scirpaceus. There were no significant differences in hatching mass and age at first eviction between cuckoos reared by either host. However, mass at eviction had a significant effect on the timing of first eviction event. No significant difference in time required to evict was found between serial intranest eviction events for cuckoos raised by either host. However, "great reed warbler" cuckoos evicted significantly quicker than "reed warbler" cuckoos during particular eviction events. A majority (70%) of "reed warbler" cuckoos evicted during the day, while most "great reed warbler" cuckoos evicted nocturnally (63%). We did not find any effect of the temperature inside or outside the nest on eviction behaviour. Both "great reed warbler" and "reed warbler" cuckoos evicted regardless the fact whether a parent was absent or present at the nest. Interestingly, individual cuckoos were consistent in their eviction behaviour relative to host presence or absence; particular cuckoo chick evicted only when the parents were present or absent from the nest.
3677459|Alexander Skutch predicted that nest predation will increase with activity at nests, and that predation should be greatest during the nestling stage when parents are feeding young. We tested this hypothesis using three ecologically similar grassland bird species nesting on the high altitude grasslands of Wakkerstroom, South Africa. Parental activity, measured as adult arrival and departure frequency from the nest, was greater during the nestling than incubation stage. Nest predation, however, did not increase with parental activity between these stages in all three study species. However, nest site effects could have confounded this result. We therefore conducted an experiment that controlled for parental activity (by reusing natural nests of the study species with artificial clutches) in order to test for nest site effects. Nests that had a high rate of predation when used by active parents had a correspondingly high rate of depredation when the same nests were reused with artificial clutches (i.e. after controlling for parental activity). This result supports the notion that variation in nest site quality is the primary factor affecting nest predation rate. We also tested whether high predation during incubation is related to nest site effects. Nest predation rates of experimental clutches placed in reused nests that had been originally (when active parents were present) depredated during incubation stage were significantly higher than those that were originally depredated during the nestling stage. Finally, once nest site effects were accounted for, nest predation showed a positive increase with parental activity during the nestling stage across species.
3677398|In many birds, females prefer males with the biggest or brightest sexual ornaments, which might reflect a higher phenotypic quality, such as fewer parasites. Unlike humans, most birds detect near-ultraviolet (UV) light, and UV signals can play an important role in sexual signalling and mate choice. Using a spectrophotometer, we analysed the colour of red grouse Lagopus lagopus scoticus sexual ornaments (their combs). We first show that combs reflect both in the red (600-700 nm) and UV (300-400 nm) part of the spectrum. Second, we investigated whether comb size and colour, and UV reflectance in particular, reflected an aspect of individual quality: the intensity of infection by a main nematode parasite, the caecal threadworm Trichostrongylus tenuis. We first analysed comb size and colour variation, and parasite intensity variation, in relation to sex and age. Males had bigger and redder combs than females, but UV brightness was greater for female than for male combs. Comb colour also differed between age groups, with young birds of both sexes showing brighter UV than old birds. Young grouse also had fewer T. tenuis worms than old grouse. We further tested whether intensity of infection could be predicted from comb characteristics (size and colour) in male and female red grouse. We found that parasite intensity was not significantly related to comb size or red brightness, but fewer worms were predicted from brighter UV in combs, in both males and females. The results indicate that UV reflectance of combs have a quality revealing function and might play an important role in grouse mate choice: UV brightness of combs could enable both male and female red grouse to assess the parasite loads of a potential mate.
10.2307/3677139|Variation in length and asymmetry of wing primary feathers can arise from a breakdown of developmental homeostasis, feather abrasion and incomplete growth during moult. Indirect predictions have been made concerning the impact of primary length and asymmetry on the flight ability of birds, but they have not been explicitly tested. Here we provide evidence from both natural variation in primary feather condition and experimental manipulations of primary feather length and asymmetry to indicate that these factors influence aspects of flight performance in the Common Starling Sturnus vulgaris. Damaged and incompletely grown primary feathers reduce escape flight performance. Experimentally reduced primary lengths reduce take-off speed; increased primary asymmetry decreases aerial manoeuvrability. A comparison of the experimental and natural plumage data indicates that birds may be able to adapt to a change in wing morphology, perhaps reducing the effects of feather loss or damage on flight. The results from this study indicate that primary feathers are under strong stabilising selection to maximise developmental homeostasis and reduce feather asymmetry. These findings are also of ecological importance to the damage-avoidance and moult strategies of these birds. This is the first experimental evidence to indicate a quantitative reduction in flight performance with feather lengths and asymmetries typical of those observed during flight feather moult and feather damage in any species.
30244433|Allocation of carotenoid pigments, either through nutritional provisioning or from endogenous reserves, makes up a form of non-genetic parental investment to progeny that may contribute to fitness. To date, carotenoids derived from endogenous reserves have been acknowledged as important vectors in translating only avian female phenotype and environmental conditions experienced prior to laying. Here, we show that in columbidae, crop milk delivered by both parents may provide chicks with a large amount of endogenous carotenoids at the postzygotic stage. Major carotenoids were xanthophylls and beta-carotene, but their concentrations showed large variation among individuals. Interestingly, a large amount of this variation was explained by brood identity, suggesting either environmental influences and/or phenotypic influences on a parent's ability to transfer these biomolecules. Our study therefore illuminates a potential new route for endogenous carotenoid-mediated parental effects.
3676933| We analysed the foraging behaviour of free-ranging Blue Tits Parus caeruleus in open holm oak Quercus ilex woodlands of western Spain during winter. Such woodlands are patchy for foraging tits because of the scattered distribution of trees and the patterns of abundance of canopy arthropods within and among trees. Results were compared with those obtained in spring of the same year, when we found that the foraging behaviour and spatial distribution of Blue Tits were largely unaffected by food availability (Pulido and Daz 1997). Patch (tree) residence time was highly variable both within and among individual birds, and it was uncorrelated with either previous travel time or patch quality. Contrary to a priori expectations, the behaviour of tits did not conform to short-term energy maximizing rules in winter, in spite of a 2.5-fold decrease in food supply from spring to winter and a likely 2-fold increase in bird requirements. Instead, birds tended to fly towards patches that were further away than locally available. Overall, we conclude that energy intake rate was not the fitness-related currency that birds were trying to maximize while foraging. 
25161521|We estimated nesting success of a breeding bird assemblage in the central Monte Desert in four breeding seasons (1995-1999). We analyzed the effect of year, period within the breeding season, nest type, and nest location on daily survival rates (DSR). Averaged nesting success of passeriforms in natural habitats was very low (<20% on average, n = 12 species). DSR tended to be lower during the egg-laying stage in Furnariidae, Rhinocryptidae, Mimidae, and Emberizidae. Tyrannidae had the highest DSR for all nesting stages and Emberizidae the lowest. Predation was the main cause of nest failure (>90% on average, n = 12 species). DSR differed among years, being higher in the driest year (1995) and lower in the most humid year (1997). Nests initiated in the first half of the breeding season had higher DSR than those initiated in the second half. Closed nests had similar survival rates to open nests. DSR differed according to species of plant that supported the nest. Nest predation in the central Monte Desert may be an important selective pressure in birds' life history, which is in accordance with other results for South American temperate birds.
10.2307/3677188|We use a new method to analyze time allocations influencing average egg temperatures during intermittent incubation. It measures relative investment in parental self-maintenance versus embryo development rate, or the extent to which performance for either is compromised from integration of both functions. Unlike attentiveness (min/hour on the nest), we compare time when eggs cool and heat with the subsequent time when egg temperatures are kept relatively constant
3677488| Reproductive success and the intensity of five separate seasonal sexual characters, expressed similarly in both sexes and likely to be dependent on age and/or individual condition, were documented at a colony of great cormorants at Lake Naivasha, Kenya (0046 S, 3622 E) in 1996. The characters assessed were head filoplumes, thigh patch feathers, colour of cheek, neck and upper breast plumage, colour of gular skin, and colour of suborbital skin. More intensely developed sexual characters at the time of pair formation were associated with significantly earlier breeding. Pairs that bred earlier fledged significantly more chicks than those breeding later. However, correlations between the number of chicks fledged and the intensity of the parents' sexual characters at pair formation were generally weak and not significant. An exception was the colour of the cheek, foreneck and upper breast plumage: males (but not females) with the darkest plumage in these areas fledged significantly more chicks than others. Correlations between paired male and female sexual character intensity were weak, and significant only in the case of suborbital skin colour. Other factors may have been more important than these characters in influencing mate selection. 
30243289|We conducted stable isotope analyses of nitrogen and carbon on feathers obtained from willow warblers in Africa to find an explanation for a previously observed pattern of different $\delta^{15}N$ and $\delta^{13}C$ values across a migratory divide in central Scandinavia. A new data set confirms that north Scandinavian birds of the subspecies P t. acredula have higher $\delta^{15}N$ values than south Scandinavian birds of the subspecies P t. trochilus. In Africa, we found significant differences for both $\delta^{15}N$ and $\delta^{13}C$ values among feathers collected from major geographical regions as well as between countries within regions. Isotope signatures of $\delta^{15}N$ and $\delta^{13}C$ in Scandinavian acredula matched well with those of willow warblers sampled in southern parts of Africa, but differed from samples obtained in East and West Africa. Isotope signatures in Scandinavian trochilus did not agree with the pattern in any of the three African regions (West, East or South). However, a more detailed analysis of the isotopic data in feathers from countries within West Africa, which is the wintering region of Swedish trochilus based on ringing recoveries, revealed a correspondence with samples from Liberia, the Ivory Coast and Nigeria.
10.2307/3677323| Chronically thyroidectomized male American Tree Sparrows were injected with 100 g L-thyroxine ( T
30245203|For migrants, we often lack complete information of their spatial distribution year round. Here, we used stable carbon, nitrogen and hydrogen isotope ratios extracted from feathers grown at the wintering sites of the long-distance migratory collared flycatcher Ficedula albicollis, to study how individuals from different breeding populations are distributed at the wintering sites. A sub-sample of birds was also sampled in two consecutive years to test for the repeatability of isotope ratios. Birds from the same breeding populations had more similar isotope ratios compared to birds from other nearby populations (10-100 km apart). Furthermore, isotope repeatability within individuals was high, implying that the observed pattern of isotope variation is consistent between years. We put forward two hypotheses for these patterns; 1) strong wintering site philopatry and migratory connectivity, suggesting that migratory connectivity may potentially be found on a much smaller spatial scale than previously considered, and 2) consistent interpopulation differentiation of feeding ecology at their wintering site.
30243835|Compared to most other birds, the taxonomy of crossbills (Loxia) is still highly unsettled. However, much progress seems to be achievable when data on vocalisations is included. In a recent paper, Summers et al. (2007) argued that strong assortative mating indicated that parrot crossbill Loxia pytyopsittacus, Scottish crossbill Loxia scotica and common crossbill Loxia curvirostra behave as good species when breeding in sympatry. Here I argue that their data, when placed in the context of other studies, also indicate that three vocally differentiated European populations within the common crossbill are species (following the biological species concept of Mayr (1963): species are groups of interbreeding natural populations that are reproductively isolated from other such groups). If this tentative conclusion remains to be upheld, it might have large repercussions for our understanding of the speciation process as well as for a number of more applied issues such as the discovery and description of biodiversity and the conversation of mobile, cryptic species.
3677753|The responses of male and female Long-eared Owls to a human approaching the nest were examined. Each nest was only tested once. Nest defence increased significantly throughout the breeding season because older chicks were defended more strongly than younger chicks and eggs. No correlations were however found between defence intensity and laying date, clutch- or brood-size. These results generally do not support either the renesting-potential hypothesis or the positive reinforcement hypothesis but are in accordance with both the age-investment hypothesis and the vulnerability hypothesis. Females defended nestlings more often and more vigorously than did males. Given division of labour between sexes and the related reversed sexual dimorphism in size, female Long-eared Owls may be more willing to engage in nest defence simply because they are always nearer eggs and chicks during all breeding stages and are larger/heavier than males; consequently they may allocate more time and energy to this activity. Finally, owls experiencing higher levels of human persecution took smaller risks when defending nests than owls breeding in an undisturbed area.
3677544|Non-invasive sampling is a useful tool for genetic analyses of endangered and/or elusive species, but it is often inapplicable due to the low quality and quantity of the DNA obtained. In this study we show that the blood clot located in the superior umbilicus of the feather shaft is a better source of DNA than the previously used tip samples from moulted feathers. We found that feather clots from museum specimens provided results nearly as good as footpad and better than those from the more commonly used museum skin snips. Feather clots proved to be a good source of DNA for genetic analysis that will significantly facilitate genetic monitoring of wild bird populations.
10.2307/3677124|Icterine Warbler Hippolais icterina and Melodious Warbler H. polyglotta are closely related species with parapatric breeding ranges. Their breeding ranges overlap only in a narrow zone in western Europe, where the Icterine Warbler population is presently declining and the Melodious Warbler population expanding. In eastern Burgundy (France), both species have bred in sympatry for at least forty years, but the Icterine Warbler started to decline in the mid-seventies. The two species differ in wing length and wing formula. Morphological variations of the wing were compared for the Icterine Warbler population in eastern Burgundy between 1965/76 and 1985/96. In the second period, wing length and wing characteristics of the Icterine Warbler approached those of the Melodious Warbler. The number of recorded heterospecific pairs also differed between the two periods. No similar morphological change was observed for the Melodious Warbler between the two periods. We discuss the evidence for unidirectional genetic introgression from the Melodious into the Icterine Warbler population as a likely explanation for this observed situation.
10.2307/3677297|The reasons why female birds engage in extra-pair copulations are largely unknown. A British study on House Sparrows claimed empirical support for a particular benefit to females. That conclusion is challenged in this note and an alternative interpretation of the results is suggested.
30244766|During eight years of study of a population of pied flycatchers Ficedula hypoleuca breeding in central Spain, we observed throughout incubation 22 cases of intact eggs being placed on the nest rim and clearly outside of the nest bowl and remaining there, with consequent embryo mortality. We assume that the removal of eggs had been performed by the incubating female. There is no evidence that pied flycatcher parents can detect embryo mortality and eject unhatchable eggs. Maternal egg ejection constitutes a direct mechanism of clutch size adjustment during incubation and before hatching of any young of the brood. This adjustment of clutch size happened when the mean and minimum temperature of the day before ejection were especially low. Also, clutch-reducing females were significantly more prone to show moult-breeding overlap than other females, suggesting a lower disposition to invest in reproduction. Clutch-reducing females were also frequently older than four years and had indications of a lower immunocompetence than females not ejecting eggs. Our results support the hypothesis that adverse conditions can elicit parental family size adjustment at every stage of reproduction without the need to depend on mechanisms of sibling competition.
30245324|Different populations of a species tend to vary in survival and reproduction, but the extent and scale of such spatial variation are poorly known. We estimated survival and clutch size of kelp gulls Larus dominicanus vetula across their entire African range. At this large geographic scale, we found no evidence for spatial variation in survival, and there was no variation in clutch size. However, there was considerable variation in clutch size among colonies within regions. Over the whole study, mean annual survival of juvenile and adult birds was 0.44 and 0.84, and mean clutch size was 2.2 eggs. A matrix population model showed that population growth was least sensitive to variation in clutch size, and the observed variation in clutch size could not fully account for the observed variation in population growth among colonies and regions. Our results thus suggest that dispersal and/or variation in survival (including egg/nestling survival) at a small spatial scale are also important for the spatial pattern of kelp gull population dynamics. These results are consistent with a metapopulation approach to spatial population dynamics.
30244434|To empirically determine the effects of sample size on commonly used measures of average genetic diversity, we genotyped 200 song sparrows Melospiza melodia from two populations, one genetically depauperate (n = 100) and the other genetically diverse (n = 100), using eight microsatellite loci. These genotypes were used to randomly create 10,000 datasets of differing sizes (5 to 50) for each population to determine what the effects of sample size might be on several estimates of genetic diversity (number of alleles per locus, average observed heterozygosity, and unbiased average expected heterozygosity) in natural populations of conservation concern. We found that at small sample sizes of 5 to 10 individuals, estimates of unbiased heterozygosity outperformed those based on observed heterozygosity or allelic diversity for both low-and high-diversity populations. We also found that when comparing across populations in which different numbers of individuals were sampled, rarefaction provided a useful way to compare estimates of allelic diversity. We recommend that standard errors should be reported for all diversity estimators, especially when sample sizes are small. We also recommend that at least 20 to 30 individuals be sampled in microsatellite studies that assess genetic diversity when working in a population that has an unknown level of diversity. However, research on critically endangered populations (where large sample sizes are impossible or extremely difficult to obtain) should include measures of genetic diversity even if sample sizes are less than ideal. These estimates can be useful in assessing the genetic diversity of the population.
3677776|Hooded warbler Wilsonia citrina males vary greatly in the frequency and duration of their off-territory forays in search of extra-pair copulations. We used radiotracking and microsatellite parentage analysis in high and low density populations to determine if (1) high foray rate or time off-territory reduces within-pair fertilization success, and (2) if a high foray rate onto the territory of a fertile female increases the likelihood of obtaining EPFs with that female. Males who left their territory often, or for longer periods, did not have lower within-pair fertilization success. Some males repeatedly visited a neighboring fertile female, but in only 3 of 19 cases where radiotagged males visited a fertile female did the male actually sire offspring with that female. Male foray rate onto a fertile female's territory was not a good predictor of whether or not he sired extra-pair offspring with that female. We suggest that mate choice and extra-pair behavior by females may explain why male foray behavior does not correspond closely with actual fertilization success.
10.2307/3677043|Starlings leave their winter roosts each morning in a series of exoduses so that the process of departure is prolonged, taking up to 50 min. Assuming that Starlings attempt to maximise the time available for feeding on short winter days, we predicted that: (1) birds that feed far from the roost would leave earlier than birds that feed nearby, and (2) birds that are less efficient at foraging or are competitively inferior should either leave before, or follow, "better" birds, and should feed closer to the roost. We tested these predictions by radio-tracking birds as they left roosts and while feeding at farms to determine when these individuals left and where they fed. We also determined the ages and sexes of Starlings from different exoduses, and assessed the social structure of feeding flocks at farms close to and far from the roost. Starlings that fed further from a roost did not leave earlier than birds that fed nearby, and first-year females left later than adult males but did not follow them. Farms differed significantly in the age structure of their feeding Starlings; some had proportionately more adults whilst others had proportionately more first-year birds. These data failed to support our predictions. In order to reconcile the observed departure pattern with the heterogeneous population structure at feeding sites we propose that dominant, usually adult birds, depart the roost first and attain the best feeding sites, and that when the subordinate younger birds overfly these sites later they can gauge the potential level of competition and decide whether to stop or fly on.
3677719|The Iberian azure-winged magpie Cyanopica cyanus shows a remarkable ability to discriminate against great spotted cuckoo Clamator glandarius eggs. Here, I studied whether egg recognition in this species could be a derived feature resulting from intra-specific brood parasitism. Azure-winged magpies showed a very high level of discrimination and rejection of great spotted cuckoo models (73.7%), and of conspecific eggs (42.8%), even when no evidence of great spotted cuckoo or conspecific brood parasitism has been found in the population. Azure-winged magpie discriminated more readily than magpies, the current favourite host of the great spotted cuckoo. The high rejection rate of conspecific eggs by the azure-winged magpie suggests that it is quite possible that egg discrimination in this species evolved in response to conspecific brood parasitism rather than to cuckoo parasitism.
3677600|Male quality may influence both the outcome of sperm competition and female faithfulness. In male house sparrows Passer domesticus, the size of the black throat patch (badge) signals dominance and perhaps attractiveness. So far, however, no study has reported any significant relationships between badge size, paternity and paternity assurance behaviours in this species. We found that the time mates spent together at the nest was positively correlated with badge size. Furthermore, although paternity losses were influenced by both the time spent at the nest and within-pair copulation frequency, we found no relationship between copulation rate and badge size. It seems therefore that copulation frequency served as a paternity assurance behaviour, whereas the time mates stayed together at the nest may have reflected male attractiveness. Alternatively, females may have decided to stay with large-badged males because they were better able to protect them from harassment by strange males. We also found that paternity losses were related to male badge size; average-badged males were cuckolded more often than males with smaller or larger badges. We suggest that average-badged males suffered higher paternity losses because they had different time allocation strategies than other males.
3677573|In many populations of size dimorphic birds, brood sex ratios change with advancing laying date. The slopes of these trends, however, vary in time and space, both between and within species. We studied brood sex ratios (proportion of males) of northern goshawks Accipiter gentilis in Finland in relation to laying date using ringing data from 1989 to 1998. At the nationwide scale, i.e. the whole of Finland, between-year variation in offspring sex ratio was moderate, and the sex ratio did not change with later laying date. At a regional scale, the sex ratio was seasonally constant in one region but decreased in another, although the laying-date/brood-size relationship was identical. Hence, the size and sex composition of goshawk broods are locally two uncoupled facets of reproduction. Both the national and regional patterns differ drastically from the pattern of a Dutch population, where sex ratio increased seasonally. We suggest that spatial variation in inter-annual seasonal sex-ratio trends might be indicative of the scale at which sex-ratio feedback functions. The sex ratio of breeders is a factor that could add to the understanding of the observed geographical differences in seasonal sex-ratio patterns.
3677413| Population structure and gene flow were inferred from isozyme variation at 26 loci among five populations of Limnothlypis swainsonii (Swainson's Warbler; Parulidae), a Nearctic-Neotropic migrant songbird breeding in the unglaciated southeastern U.S.A. These populations exhibit relatively high levels of heterozygosity
10.2307/3677327|Results from studies of parent-offspring interactions over brood size have been interpreted both as being the result of cooperation and conflict. The key question is if brood reduction is adaptive or non-adaptive from the parents' point of view. This can be linked to hypotheses suggested as explanations of hatching asynchrony. One set of hypotheses states that, by starting to incubate before clutch completion and so creating a size hierarchy in the brood, parents can later trim the brood to the optimal size. Thus, brood reduction is adaptive and parents and surviving offspring cooperative over the size of the brood. Other hypotheses view brood reduction as an unselected side-effect and cost of an early start of incubation within the laying sequence. The cost will be in the form of non-adaptive loss of small nestlings through sibling competition even though freeding conditions may be adequate for raising the whole brood. Thus, parents and offspring disagree over brood size. To test this, the published experimental manipulations of hatching asynchrony were used. Higher fledging success in asynchronous control broods than in experimentally synchronized broods would indicate parent-offspring cooperation, whereas the opposite result would indicate parent-offspring conflict over brood size. The result of the analysis showed that 83% of all species with adequate data had higher fledging success when the broods were made synchronous compared to asynchronous control broods. Even when differences in mass between nestlings in synchronous and asynchronous broods were considered, the majority of studies indicated the existence of a parent-offspring conflict over brood size. The reduction of asynchronous broods is a consequence of the offspring being in a position to exert their will, which is possible due to the presence of one or more easily outcompeted runts in such broods.
3677524|Age-related reproductive performance of great cormorants Phalacrocorax carbo sinensis was studied in a tree nesting colony in Denmark in relation to age-related improvements of competence and progressive disappearance of phenotypes. Within-individual changes in fledgling production were measured, and cross-sectional analyses were applied. The within-individual analyses showed that competence improved with age and/or that individuals showed restraint to optimize their reproductive effort. The within-individual improvements were three to six times higher among individuals that survived and returned to breed beyond the fourth breeding attempt than among individuals disappearing from the breeding population before the fourth breeding attempt. Taking this into account the within-individual improvements explained 70-90% of the age-effect observed in the population over the youngest ages. Effects of breeding experience were significant for females, but only within the group of individuals that were present in the breeding population beyond the age of five years. In males, improvements arose because of unknown factors related to age. Individual great cormorants that bred beyond the age of five years had higher reproductive success, on average, than birds disappearing from the breeding population earlier in life. This supports the differential survival hypothesis. However, the effect on the population mean was partly counterbalanced by late recruitment of other inferior breeders. It is concluded that the enhancement in fledgling production with increasing age was primarily an effect of age-related improvements of competence and secondly an effect of progressive disappearance of phenotypes.
30245330|To test whether competitive and predatory interactions limit larder size we erected pygmy owl Glaucidium passerinum nest-boxes for hoarding with 45 mm entrance diameter near and far (> 2 km) from Tengmalm's owl Aegolius funereus nest-boxes with > 80 mm entrance diameter during early autumn. We found larders of pygmy owls in similar frequency in both near and far plots (41 vs. 42% of plots), but in near plots the number and biomass of cached prey by pygmy owls were lower. These results suggest that there is competition for food between these two owl species and/or that food caching behaviour of pygmy owls is disturbed by larger Tengmalm's owls.
10.2307/3677196|The Spoonbill populations in Europe are fragmented and threatened. The dynamics of the species is poorly known but ringing and observation programmes are under way. Here we estimated the local survival of two colour-ringed populations of Spoonbills in the Netherlands. Adult survival and sighting rates, estimated with the Cormack-Jolly-Seber model, were high and constant over a 10-year period (1986-1996) and no differences could be detected between the two populations. Juvenile survival, estimated from the observed return rate, did not vary over a 5-year period (cohorts 1986-1990). However, at least in one of the two populations, the proportion of birds returning by two years of age increased over a 9-year period (cohorts 1986-1994). Thus there is only weak support for the idea that the recent increase in population size was driven by an increase in local survival. Our work on survival provide a first step towards a larger appreciation of the population dynamics and life-history of the Spoonbill.
30244472|The golden-mangrove whistler complex Pachycephala pectoralis/melanura is, with 66 named populations, described as the most complex avian example of geographic variation in the World. It represents a well-known example of niche differentiation where one species P. pectoralis is found on faunistically rich larger islands (and mainland) and the other P. melanura is confined to adjacent, faunistically poor islets. Except for a comparison of some Solomon Island populations, the relationships among these taxa have not been tested using molecular data. Here we combine a dense taxon sampling (22 populations of 12 named taxa distributed east of New Guinea and in Australia), with molecular data (two nuclear and two mitochondrial markers) to unravel more of the evolutionary history behind the golden whistler complex. In particular we examine relationships between Pachycephala melanura, and the very similar-looking P. citreogaster (Bismarcks Islands) and P. pectoralis (Australia). We demonstrate that a well-supported group of golden whistlers inhabit the Bismarck Islands and that several small islets in the immediate vicinity are inhabited by another monophyletic group consisting of P. melanura, mangrove golden whistler.
30244444|Many avian species are negatively impacted by urbanization, but other species survive and prosper in urbanized areas. One factor potentially contributing to the success of some species in urban areas is the reduced presence of predators or parasite vectors in urban compared to rural areas. In addition, urban areas may provide increased food and water resources, which can enhance immune capacity to resist infection and the ability to eliminate parasites. We determined patterns of blood parasitism, body condition, and immune cell profiles in urban and rural populations of five adult male songbird species that vary in their relative abundance within urban areas. Urban birds generally exhibited less blood parasitism than rural birds. This difference was particularly evident for the urban-adaptable Abert's towhee Pipilo aberti. In contrast, no difference in haemoparasitism was seen between urban and rural populations of the curve-billed thrasher Toxostoma curvirostre, a less-urban adaptable species. In two closely related species, the curve-billed thrasher and the northern mockingbird Mimuspolyglottos, urban birds had a higher leukocyte count and a higher heterophil to lymphocyte ratio, which is often associated with chronic stress or current infection, than rural birds. Urban northern mockingbirds were in better condition than rural counterparts, but no habitat-related differences in condition were detected for other species. Parasitic infection was correlated with body condition in only one species, the canyon towhee Pipilo fuscus. Parasitic infection in most species was correlated with changes in leukocyte abundance and profile. The findings suggest that interspecific differences in parasitic infection cannot be attributed entirely to differences in vector abundance or body condition. Interactions between immune function, parasite infection risk, and resource availability may contribute to determining the relative ability of certain species to adapt to cities.
10.2307/3677162|We describe and compare the migration routes, length of migration, and duration of migration of Peregrine Falcons Falco peregrinus tundrius and Swainson's Hawks Buteo swainsoni in the Western Hemisphere. We radio tracked migrants using the Argos satellite system. Our initial samples were 34 Swainson's Hawks from representative areas of their breeding range, and 61 Peregrine Falcons captured at nest sites across the North American boreal forest and low Arctic or on the migration routes along the mid-Atlantic and Gulf of Mexico coasts. The average distance of migration for Peregrines was 8,624 km southward, and 8,247 km northward. Peregrines travelled at an average rate of 172 km/d southward and 198 km/d going north. Peregrine Falcons used at least three broad, general routes south from the breeding areas, and individuals stopped migrating as far north as the U.S.A. mid-Atlantic coast and as far south as central Argentina. The radiomarked Peregrine Falcons used coastal routes, mid-continental routes, and water-crossing routes: the Davis Strait and Caribbean Sea. During northward migration, Peregrines migrating through at Padre Island, Texas diverged for destinations from central Alaska across the continent to central West Greenland. Swainson's Hawks migrated an average of about 13,504 km southward and 11,952 km northward, and travelled 188 km/d southward and 150 km/d northward. Swainson's Hawks converged in eastern Mexico on the Gulf of Mexico coast. Southward, these hawks followed a narrow, well-defined path through Central America, across the Andes Mountains in Columbia, and east of the Andes to central Argentina where they all spent the austral summer. Swainson's Hawks northward migration largely retraced their southward route.
3677756|Bird song structure may honestly reveal the health and vigour of individual males to potential mates and competitors. If this is the case then song may reflect the level of parasitic infections in males. We initially examined the relationship between blood parasite infections and the time taken to respond by 22 male Tawny Owls to a broadcast hoot. We then examined the call structure (total length and frequency) in relation to parasite infection, an index of owl condition and an index of food abundance. Owls with higher parasite loads responded more slowly to an intruder, although this relationship was not significant once condition and vole abundance were controlled for. We found no relationship between call length and any of the measured variables. However, the high frequency and the range of frequencies used in calls decreased with increasing parasite load. Thus, there was the potential for individuals to assess male parasite load from the speed of response and the structure of the call. Experimental tests of these relationships are now required.
3677528|In the context of sexual selection carotenoid based signals are candidates for indicator traits: they have to be taken up in the diet by animals, they can indicate the ability of the bearer to accumulate a limited resource, and they help in maintaining the health status. We investigated the yellow-orange colouration of the tarsi of the kestrel Falco tinnunculus in relation to sex, diet and to different aspects of male reproductive behaviour. The colouration of the tarsi (estimated as hue) was more intense in males than in females. Among males, the tarsi hue was associated with the intake of invertebrates; this was true also if the population diet was based mainly on voles. Carotenoid based colouration was positively associated with the number of vertebrate preys delivered to the nest per time unit and with territory quality (calculated on the basis of home-range size, habitat extension and prey availability). These results are consistent with predictions derived from good-parent models of sexual selection, suggesting that in the common kestrel carotenoid based colouration is important as an indicator of male quality.
10.2307/3677325|We studied the dawn chorus in the Willow Tit Parus montanus, a monogamous and territorial passerine. We expected that if the song is part of sperm competition, a male should invest most in singing during the period when his female is fertile. A total of 57 pairs of Willow Tits was observed during the spring of 1992. To express singing effort, two variables characterising the dawn chorus were measured for each morning: proportion of time devoted to singing and the onset of singing. Time singing peaked about ten days before commencement of laying, and decreased afterwards. The earliest singers were observed during the laying-period. Time singing differed between male age classes; old males sang more than yearlings. Our results indicate that the dawn chorus in Willow Tits functions as inter- and/or intrasexual communication used in sperm competition. Since adult (high quality) males tended to invest more in singing than yearlings, it is also possible that the dawn chorus is honest advertisement of male quality.
25662898|In migrating birds body mass change during stopover is often used to evaluate the quality of a stopover site. Because such body mass changes are difficult to survey in migrating birds various methods were developed to allow the analysis of larger sample sizes. In this article we present patterns of repeated body mass measurements of individual birds and the commonly used method of plotting body mass over time of day of birds being trapped only once. We repeatedly measured body mass of 89 northern wheatears Oenanthe oenanthe, when stopping over at a small island in the North Sea. A balance beneath bowls offering mealworms ad libitum was used to weigh their body mass several times per day. From these repeated body mass measurements we have generated a general model of daily mass gain patterns and nocturnal mass loss. Daily body mass changes followed in general an asymptotic curve progression with highest gain rates in the morning hours. During night birds lost about 5% of the evening body mass irrespectively of local wind force, temperature, night length or precipitation. By plotting first traps by time of day no such pattern in body mass increase was evident. Even in a simulated situation with repeatedly measured birds increasing their body mass, no such body mass increase could be shown when plotting one randomly chosen measurement of each bird per day. This "first-traps-by-time-of-day-method" depends highly on sample size, overall mass increase and the mass variation between individuals and will produce a traceable body mass increase only under certain circumstances.
10.2307/3677329|After failing to find any density-effects in a colony of California Gulls Larus californicus, Jehl (1994) cautioned recently that inferred nest-density effects in studies of large gulls may be only apparent. Judging from other sets of data, I argue that in the Herring Gull L. argentatus, nest density affects productivity, but, as pointed out by Jehl, data on mechanisms are scarce. It seems that more detailed studies would be needed to ascertain the role of different types of intruders in shaping the spatial patterns used by Herring Gulls while nesting. I suggest that the "density-dependent paradigm" should not be considered bankrupt unless proven to be so.
30244477|The African Odyssey project focuses on studying the migration of the black stork Ciconia nigra breeding at a migratory divide. In 1995-2001, a total of 18 black storks breeding in the Czech Republic were equipped with satellite (PTT) and VHF transmitters. Of them, 11 birds were tracked during at least one migration season and three birds were tracked repeatedly. The birds migrated either across western or eastern Europe to spend the winter in tropical west or east Africa, respectively. One of the juveniles made an intermediate route through Italy where it was shot during the first autumn migration. The mean distance of autumn migration was 6,227 km. The eastern route was significantly longer than the western one (7,000 km and 5,667 km respectively). Important stopover sites were discovered in Africa and Israel. Wintering areas were found from Mauritania and Sierra Leone in the west to Ethiopia and Central African Republic in the east and south. One of the storks migrating by the eastern migration route surprisingly reached western Africa. Birds that arrived early in the wintering areas stayed longer than those arriving later. On the average, birds migrating via the western route spent 37 d on migration compared to 80 d for birds migrating via the eastern route. The mean migration speed in the autumn was 126 km/d and the fastest stork flew 488 km/d when crossing the Sahara. The repeatedly tracked storks showed high winter site fidelity.
30244826|A comparative analysis using both independent contrasts (CAIC) and a species level analysis was used to investigate the allometric scaling of avian wing-bone lengths. Total arm (ta = humerus + ulna + manus) scaled with positive allometry as body mass <tex-math>$(AM)^{0.37-039}$</tex-math>. Similarly, and in accordance with previous studies, wing-span (b) was positively allometric, but CAIC suggested a lower allometric exponent (<tex-math>$M^{0.35}$</tex-math>) than found using species as independent data points (<tex-math>$M^{0.39}$</tex-math>). Contrary to previous studies, individual wing-bones appear to scale with similar exponents against M and scale isometrically with ta. In addition to a general trend for larger birds to have longer wings, wing-bones and ta, their ta was a larger proportion of their b. A detailed study of primary feather length and elbow joint angle across a wide range of bird species and bird size, however, is required before a conclusive explanation for this increase in ta relative to b in larger birds can be established. Scaling equations are presented that can be used to predict M, ta and b from individual wing-bone lengths, which may be of use to palaeontologists wishing to reconstruct whole animals from single bones.
10.2307/3677102|We investigated the impact of Cuckoo Cuculus canorus parasitism on Reed Warbler Acrocephalus scirpaceus breeding success in the southeastern part of the Czech Republic. Of 1108 nests, 178 (16.1%) were parasitized. We compared several breeding parameters of parasitized and unparasitized Reed Warblers as well as the effects on breeding success of three responses adopted by parasitized individuals; acceptance, ejection and desertion. Unparasitized nests fledged 0.48 young per egg laid, whereas parasitized nests fledged a mean of only 0.05 young per egg laid. Among the parasitized individuals, ejectors had a breeding success of 0.29, while the corresponding value for the acceptors was 0.03. Parasitized individuals may renest after deserting the nest, but only 30% of parasitized individuals deserted. We discuss the absence of nest desertion as a defence against Cuckoo parasitism based on the evolutionary lag and the equilibrium hypotheses. The frequency of Cuckoo parasitism was fairly constant throughout the breeding season, while the Reed Warbler's clutch size declined significantly during the same time, probably reflecting the costs of re-nesting for deserting individuals.
25161503|Recent studies on the function of female plumage characteristics have yielded ambiguous results. Some studies have found an association between different physiological, ecological or behavioural traits and female plumage, while others have found no association and interpret female plumage as neutral in function. We observed a high variance among females in both wing plumage and breeding success in female Common Goldeneyes Bucephala clangula, a sexually plumage-dimorphic diving duck. We studied the association between female wing plumage and hatching date. Principal component analysis of four wing patch area measurements derived a single factor describing wing plumage. Wing plumage was strongly associated with hatching date, which is the most important determinant of goldeneye recruit production; irrespective of age, females with more white in the wing bred earlier than individuals with more black in the wing. We propose that the wing pattern in Common Goldeneye females reflects individual quality.
10.2307/3677159|We developed a dynamic state variable model of individual migrating shorebirds for use in testing hypotheses about spring migration strategies of the Pectoral Sandpiper Calidris melanotos. We conducted model sensitivity analyses to determine how predicted migration schedules might vary with respect to the landscape and the physical environment. In landscapes with closely spaced, high-quality stopovers, female Pectoral Sandpipers can vary widely in their migration schedules and still arrive on the breeding grounds early enough and with sufficient energy reserves to achieve maximum reproductive success. Such a population might appear quite variable, and show no stopover patterns, even if all individuals were making optimal decisions. Latitudinal gradients in temperature and photoperiod differentially affect a bird's energy budget as it moves northward in the spring. Stopovers at more northerly locations are associated with higher metabolic rates, lower food abundance in early spring, and longer days for feeding. The optimal migration schedule in these conditions can be quite different from that in a homogeneous environment, and patterns observed in the field can be misinterpreted if the environmental gradients are not considered. The landscape and the physical environment shape migration schedules and influence one's ability to interpret patterns observed at stopovers. Modeling these factors may lead to new insights about migration adaptations in heterogeneous environments.
3677402|Hatching failure is a pervasive phenomenon in birds, but factors affecting hatchability remain poorly understood. We studied proximate causes and fitness consequences of hatching failure in a long-monitored population of the colonial lesser kestrel Falco naumanni. We investigated whether hatchability was related to clutch characteristics, parental traits, and social or environmental features. Hatching failure represents a cost for the parents in terms of immediate fitness, since it reduced both their number of young fledged and recruits in the breeding population, even when controlling for clutch size. Hatching failure showed a non-linear relationship with clutch size, clutches of four eggs showing higher levels of hatching success than larger or smaller clutches. Hatchability could therefore play a role in the evolution of optimal clutch size in this species, at least constraining the maximum number of eggs the parents can afford to incubate. Contrary to most studies, the mean volume of the clutch and the individual egg volume were negatively related to hatching failure, indicating that large eggs have thermoregulatory and/or nutritional advantages. Mean daily maximum temperature during incubation affected hatching success negatively, but only for females in poor condition. This result seems to indicate that females are reluctant to jeopardize their own condition, but instead sacrifice incubation effort by paying the costs of a lower hatching success in circumstances of high temperatures. There was no evidence that hatching failure was related to the intrinsic properties of individuals or genetic similarity between the parents as indicated by low repeatabilities of: (1) males that bred with different females, (2) females that bred with different males, and (3) pairs breeding together in different years. Neither colony size nor subpopulation size affected hatchability. All these findings show how hatching failure is simultaneously influenced by several factors acting in a complex way, which could in part explain the apparently conflicting conclusions of empirical or even experimental studies carried out to date.
25662893|Several studies have suggested a greater role for olfactory cues in avian social interactions than previously recognized, but few have explicitly investigated the effect of odor on parental behavior. We present results from a preliminary study in which we applied hetero- and conspecific preen gland secretions, which are known to contain volatile compounds, to the nests and eggs of incubating female dark-eyed juncos Junco hyemalis. The responses to these two conditions were compared to the responses of females whose nests were treated with their own preen oil as a control condition, and to females whose nests were treated with the vehicle only. We found that females significantly reduced incubation bout length, a form of parental care, in response to alien secretions, more so if they came from a heterospecific than a conspecific. Females did not reduce incubation bout length in response to their own preen oil or to a vehicle-only control. These results suggest that odors in the nest may influence avian parental care. However, the behavioral change was only temporary and had no effect on later hatching success. In our study population, brood parasitism by brown-headed cowbirds is common, but resulting nest abandonment is rare; juncos are frequently able to successfully breed even with cowbird nestlings in their nests. Thus, we suggest that more extreme behavioral responses to alien odor, such as nest abandonment or egg ejection, may not be adaptive and should not be expected.
3677596|Most studies that have tested the egg-recognition and egg-rejection ability of European cuckoo Cuculus canorus hosts have used artificial model eggs that are much harder than real Cuckoo eggs. Here we evaluate whether the use of such models overestimates the costs of egg rejection by hosts. We tested 17 potential cuckoo host species in south-eastern Spain with both artificial hard cuckoo-egg models and real eggs taken from a population of house sparrows Passer domesticus breeding in captivity. The puncture resistance of sparrow eggs, measured in the laboratory, was more similar to that of real cuckoo eggs than was the resistance of artificial models, although sparrow eggs were less resistant than real cuckoo eggs. Potential host species with a grasp index greater than 200 mm
30243878|Ornithologists interested in the drivers of nest success and brood parasitism benefit from the development of new analytical approaches. One example is the development of so-called "log exposure" models for analyzing nest success. However, analyses of brood parasitism data have not kept pace with developments in nest success analyses. The standard approach uses logistic regression which does not account for multiple parasitism events, nor does it prevent bias from using observed proportions of parasitized nests. Likewise, logistic regression analyses do not capture fine scale temporal variation in parasitism. At first glance, it might be tempting to apply log exposure models to parasitism data, but the process of parasitism is inherently different from the process of nest predation. We modeled daily parasitism rate as a Poisson process, which allowed us to correct potential biases in parasitism rate. We were also able to use our estimated parasitism rate to model parasitism risk as the probability of one or more parasitism events. We applied this model to redwinged blackbird Agelaius phoeniceus nesting colonies subject to parasitism by brown-headed cowbirds Molothrus ater. Our approach allowed us to model parasitism using a wider rage of covariates, especially functions of time. We found strong support for models combining temporal fluctuations in parasitism rate and nest-site characteristics. Similarly, we found that our annual predicted parasitism risk was lower on average than the risk estimated from observed parasitism levels. Our approach improves upon traditional logistic regression analyses and opens the door for more mechanistic modeling of the process of parasitism.
10.2307/3677107|Interspecific comparisons have previously shown both a dullness in male plumage and a reduction in wing length of both resident and island species compared with migratory and continental species, respectively. Intraspecific comparisons between subspecies were used to investigate whether these differences also occur within races of the same species and whether the effects of migration and island endemism are separate and additional, or identical, island endemics being resident. Continental migrant subspecies had both more colourful male plumage and longer wings than continental resident subspecies. Continental resident subspecies were longer winged and tended to be more colourful than island resident subspecies. No difference in either coloration or wing length was found between continental migrant and island migrant subspecies. In a three-way comparison, the order continental migrant > continental resident > island resident was supported for both wing length and plumage coloration. Intraspecific variation therefore parallels interspecific variation in male plumage coloration and wing length, and the trait reduction in island subspecies is additional to the reduction associated with residency, but conditional on lack of migration. Possible differences in natural and sexual selection pressures on coloration ensuing from insular and migratory life styles are discussed.
10.2307/3676979|When King Penguin Aptenodytes patagonicus males arrive on the breeding grounds to start courtship, their energy reserves must sustain them during a fast lasting about five weeks, including the first incubation shift. If the female is delayed in relieving the incubating male, he must make a state-dependent decision of how long to wait until abandoning the egg (i.e. breeding failure). This is ultimately a life-history trade-off between current reproduction and future survival, and includes consideration of the size of his remaining energy reserves and his ability to replenish exhausted body reserves (foraging skills). Experienced males that abandoned the egg weighed significantly less (9.49 kg) at departure than relieved males (10.43 kg), but inexperienced males abandoned the egg at a nearly significantly higher body mass (10.27 kg) than experienced males. I conclude that experienced birds can compensate for lower body reserves by being more proficient foragers.
30243840|The "cost-benefit" hypothesis states that avian body organs show mass changes consistent with the trade-off between their functional importance and maintenance cost, which may vary throughout the annual cycle. Flightless moulting common scoter Melanitta nigra in Danish marine waters select rich undisturbed offshore feeding areas lacking predators, suggesting active feeding during moult. We tested four predictions relating to organ size during flightlessness in moulting male common scoter under this hypothesis. Namely that (i) pectoral muscles would show atrophy followed by hypertrophy, but that there would be no change in (ii) leg muscles and heart (the locomotory architecture required to sustain diving for food), (iii) digestive organs and liver (required to process food), or (iv) fat deposits (because birds could fulfil daily energy requirements from locally abundant food resources). Dissection of scoters collected at different stages during wing moult south of the Danish island of Ls provided data on organ size that were consistent with these predictions. Pectoral muscle mass showed a c.23% atrophy during the middle of the flightless period relative to that at the end of moult. There was no significant loss in leg muscle, heart, digestive organs (except gizzard mass), liver, fat reserves or body mass with remigial growth. These findings are consistent with the hypothesis that common scoter moult in a rich feeding area, and rely on their diet to meet the nutritional requirements of remigial moult. These results differ in detail from those of a similar study of terrestrial feeding moulting greylag geese Anser anser, but because of the widely differing ecology of the species concerned, both sets of findings provide strong support for the hypothesis that variations in phenotypic plasticity in size of fat stores, locomotor and digestive organs can be interpreted as evolutionary adaptations to meet the conflicting needs (feather growth, nutritional challenges and predator avoidance) of the flightless moult period in different Anatidae species.
3677795|During the last 40 years, few species of African birds have undergone more taxonomic revision than the olive thrush Turdus olivaceus. This is due to disagreement on how to partition the striking phenotypic variation among allopatric populations. The current consensus is to recognise one species T. olivaceus, split into three assemblages: (1) the olivaceus group restricted to southern Africa, (2) the swynnertoni group of the Zimbabwean and southern Malawi highlands, and (3) the abyssinicus group of the montane highlands of eastern and central Africa. Mitochondrial DNA sequences from 63 individuals were analysed to investigate the phylogenetic relationships among 16 taxa (species and subspecies) in the olivaceus species complex (plus seven outgroup species), with, particular emphasis on the relationships and taxonomic status of the endangered Taita thrush (helleri). Phylogenetic hypotheses generated using parsimony, maximum likelihood, and Bayesian inference identified a number of discrete clades corresponding to recognised subspecies. Northern (abyssinicus clade) and southern populations (olivaceus+swynnertoni clade) of olive thrush differ by 9-10% in sequence divergence. Furthermore, all analytical methods suggested that helleri (Taita Hills) and roehli (Usambara and Pare Mountains) are reciprocally monophyletic with respect to mtDNA, and 2.5 to 10.5% divergent from all other forms of olive thrush. Both helleri and roehli are surrounded in adjacent highlands by populations of olive thrush that represent a more recent radiation, suggesting that helleri and roehli may be relict taxa which have been able to maintain their genetic integrity. The results of this study support previous arguments for recognizing the arid/woodland T. smithi as a species distinct from other southern African forest populations of T. olivaceus (including the swynnertoni group). Results further suggest that T. abyssinicus, T. helleri, and T. roehli be accorded species rank.
10.2307/3677091|It is unclear whether natural odours, including those associated with faeces or feathers, affect clutch survival in waterfowl and other ground-nesting birds because results of previous studies are potentially confounded by effects of nest density and habitat features. Thus, we conducted 6 experiments (40-125 clutches/test) over 3 years with natural and novel odours, evaluating effects on survival of simulated clutches (3-4 chicken eggs) while controlling nest density, habitat, clutch concealment, frequency of visits and local patterns of predation. Clutches treated with commercial duck scent, pond water, or a novel odour survived as well as controls. In a dose-response experiment, clutch survival did not vary with the amount of commercial duck scent. However, clutch survival declined with the addition of Mallard Anas platyrhynchos faeces mixed with pond water and, to a lesser extent, with down feathers removed from hatched nests. Higher survival of simulated nests relative to natural ones may be associated with differences in odours. Furthermore, nest predation may rise in the vicinity of nests when human visits cause birds to defecate on or near their nests.
3677625|We sequenced parts of three mitochondrial genes in 67 great spotted woodpeckers Dendrocopos major taken from 17 sites across Eurasia and Japan. Two groups, differing by ca. 3% sequence divergence, were determined to have had independent evolutionary histories: samples from the southeast (Sakhalin, Primor'e, Hokkaido), and the rest of Eurasia. The southeastern group corresponds to the subspecies D. m. japonicus, which will likely merit species status upon study of all subspecies; at present it should be considered an evolutionarily significant unit. From the United Kingdom to the Russian North Pacific, no phylogeographic divisions were found, which is likely a result of recent range expansion following retreat of permafrost after the last ice age.
3677421|In many colonial bird species there is considerable intraspecific variation in colony size and inter-nest distance (colony density). Possible causes of this variation and its effects on hatching success (survival of eggs) and breeding success (probability of a pair raising chicks) were studied in 48 Avocet Recurvirostra avosetta colonies in Schleswig-Holstein (Germany) between 1991 and 1996. Colony density was influenced by time of year and habitat (categories: island or mainland, close to or far from feeding grounds). Colonies on islands had the highest densities. When all available space at a colony site was used, colonies became very dense (mean nearest-neighbour nest distance less than 1 m). Colony size (number of clutches) was influenced by time of year, but not by habitat. Hatching success was low in high density colonies and in very low density 'colonies' (single nests) and high over a broad range of intermediate nest densities. The low success rate of single nests was caused by a very high predation rate, whereas the low success rate in very dense colonies was caused by a high rate of nest abandonment. Nest abandonment in very dense colonies was associated with a high level of aggressiveness among Avocets during the egg-laying period. Due to territorial behaviour, Avocets seemed to be expelled from the densest breeding sites. In very dense colonies, high frequencies of clutches of unusual size occurred due to conspecific nest parasitism. The number of Avocets taking part in attacks on potential egg predators was small and (in colonies of more than one clutch) depended neither on colony size nor on colony density. Despite a low hatching success in very dense colonies, individuals breeding in the densest colonies had significantly better chances of raising chicks than Avocets breeding in less dense colonies. Coloniality seemed to be obligatory for Avocets in order to ensure hatching success. The size and density of colonies seemed to be associated with the availability of suitable nesting habitats (islands).
30245210|It has been hypothesized that it is adaptive for birds to build new nests annually in order to avoid the accumulation of ectoparasites. Previous studies on costs of ectoparasitism have focused on cavity nesters in nestboxes while largely ignoring reproductive consequences in natural tree cavity nests, the context where nest selection strategies presumably evolved. To see whether ectoparasitism could be a driving selective force in the evolution of nest excavation in a woodpecker, I experimentally fumigated a subset of freshly excavated cavities and a subset of reused cavities of the northern flicker Colaptes auratus and compared reproductive performance with a set of control nests. The main ectoparasite of nestlings, a blood-sucking fly Carnus hemapterus, may have appeared one or two days earlier in reused nests but there was no difference between fresh and reused nests in intensities of flies one week post-hatching. Prevalence of parasitism reached 100% in both reused and freshly-excavated control nests in the second week. Nestlings from control nests had lower body mass residuals than those from fumigated nests after 15 d and fledged at a lower weight, suggesting that ectoparasitism by C hemapterus was costly. However, fresh nest construction was no benefit, likely because the high dispersal ability of the ectoparasite meant all nests were colonized rapidly. Parents did not adjust provisioning effort according to parasitism as delivery rates did not differ between control and fumigated nests but delivery rates increased with brood size.
3677521|When a predator is not an immediate threat, a prey may produce relatively loud alarm calls because the risk is low. Since such calls could nevertheless attract acoustically oriented predators, the cost of predator attraction must be outweighed by factors beneficial to the caller. In this field study we elicited low-risk alarm calls by temporarily catching wintering adult male great tits Parus major at feeders both within and outside their territories. We tested whether the alarm calls of dominant males can be explained in terms of mate warning, reciprocal altruism or notifying the predator of detection. If alarms are intended to warn mates, males accompanied by their mates should give alarm calls both within and outside home range, even if other permanent flock members are absent. If alarms are to be explained by reciprocal altruism, male great tits should give low-risk alarm calls when accompanied by permanent flock members other than mate within and not outside of the home-range. If alarm calling is a message to a predator, males should call when foraging alone. We found that male great tits gave low-risk alarm calls when accompanied by their mates, independent of feeder location. They also gave low-risk alarm calls within home ranges in the presence of other permanent flock members when mates were absent. In contrast, only a few males gave calls when foraging alone within their home ranges, or when in the company of unfamiliar great tits outside their usual home-range. The results suggest that the utterance of alarm calls may be explained as mate protection and reciprocal altruism among familiar individuals.
10.2307/3677232|There are three models of parasite-mediated sexual selection by female choice. Females may get (1) indirect, genetic gains; (2) direct, parental care gains and (3) direct contagion avoidance gains. Little is known about frequency and mechanisms of parasite transfer during mating. In an experiment, 20 male pheasants had lice removed. One week later sticky tape was placed on their legs and they were then allowed to mate with Mallophaga-infested females. A significant number of males were infested with lice within two seconds. These results support the contagion avoidance hypothesis, while not discounting other models.
10.2307/3677237|We used a PCR-SSCP assay to sex 288 nestling Corn Buntings Miliaria calandra from 113 clutches studied between 1988 and 1990 in the Western Isles, Scotland. In each year the sex ratio was not statistically different from 1:1. Brood sex ratios did not deviate significantly from the binomial distribution when tested by robust randomisation tests. Although the effect was not strong, the proportion of males in broods declined as the breeding season progressed in 1989, although the opposite trend was observed in 1988 and 1990. Overall, we found no effect of year, timing of breeding, levels of polygyny, brood size or female size on brood sex ratios although several terms had significant interactions with year due to the effects of the data collected in 1989. Independently of brood size, the feeding rates of males, females or both combined did not vary in relation to brood sex ratios. However, the proportion of feeds provided by fathers was highest at male-biased broods when brood size was small (1-3 young) but a female-biased broods when brood size was large (4-5 young).
3677613|Haematology and plasma biochemistry values are useful tools for ecological research. They have been used to investigate the physiological state and the adaptation of individuals to their habitat, changes in nutritional state of birds, body condition, the level of parasite infestation, male quality, the physical condition of nestlings, etc. In the present study we tested the role of haematological and plasma biochemistry values in burrowing parrots Cyanoliseus patagonus (Aves, Psittaciformes) for determining individual quality and condition. We measured triglyceride levels, plasma protein levels, plasma hue and erythrocyte sedimentation rate of nestlings and breeding adults in a colony in the north of Patagonia, Argentina. We found that plasma triglyceride levels strongly relate to changes in individual condition. Plasma levels of triglycerides were found to be strongly related to mass change, hatching order and brood size in nestlings. Levels of triglycerides were found to reflect reproductive effort in adults: males fledging larger broods had decreased levels of triglycerides. Adults with lower body condition had increased erythrocyte sedimentation rates. Plasma hue showed a strong relationship with an ornamental trait, the red abdominal patch of male adults, and with parameters of structural body size. Thus, we have shown that haematological and plasma biochemistry values, especially plasma levels of triglycerides, are good indicators of individual quality and condition in nestlings and breeding birds.
3677689|Mobbing is a widespread anti-predator strategy in birds, and predators are generally expected to avoid mobbing. For example, observational studies suggest that the cryptic roosting behaviour of nocturnal predators, such as many owls, may be a strategy to limit mobbing. In this paper, we present the results of the first experimental study investigating to what degree roost exposure influences the risk of being mobbed, and the intensity of a mobbing incidence once initiated. To determine these factors, we used an experimental setup with taxidermic mounts of tawny owls Strix aluco in Grib Skov forest, Denmark. The risk of an owl being mobbed during a 50 min morning survey period increased with the exposure of its roosting position, from 24% when hidden to 85% when openly exposed. The corresponding increase in the afternoon was from 6% to 36%. This suggests that an owl may minimize the mobbing rate by reducing the encounter rate with potential mobbers through its choice of roost. Once initiated, the duration of the mobbing (a proxy for the presumed cost of being mobbed) was independent of the roosting position of the mounted owl, but was positively correlated with the number of birds in the mob.
30243911|We report for the first time the existence of a structural mechanism of feathers different from iridescence that makes plumage conspicuous. By using electron and light microscopy, we show that the mechanism consists of special lengthened and twisted distal barbules that are very susceptible to damage. The dorsal side of these barbules is translucent, which creates a distinctive sheen colouration to feathers that otherwise would be dark. When distal sheen barbules are broken, the black proximal barbules are exposed, thus generating a conspicuous difference between abraded and non-abraded areas. Total and ultraviolet reflectance of sheen (non-abraded) areas are strikingly higher than in abraded areas. We propose that this mechanism represents a case of convergent evolution in species that are limited in developing colourful plumage patches. Future studies should explore the potential of this colour mechanism to act as a signal of individual quality or identity.
10.2307/3677316|Wing size and shape variation in thirteen species of Old World leaf warblers, genus Phylloscopus, were examined using wing formulae and principal components analysis. Data were taken from male individuals in breeding populations in Northern India and Japan. Species with longer wings migrate further and hover less than species with shorter wings. Species with more pointed wings migrate further and are more arboreal than species with rounder wings. Findings agree with those from previous studies on the genus Phylloscopus. Both foraging behaviour and migration distance have affected wing size and shape evolution in the genus.
30244425|During nine years of study, we detected a mechanism corresponding to site dependence operating in a population of the sedge warbler Acrocephalus schoenobaenus inhabiting a natural wetland of high within-habitat heterogeneity. Sites with a larger share of cover by tall wetland vegetation were preempted during spring settlement; they were occupied in more breeding seasons and by more experienced males. The fitness of males occupying these sites was higher in terms of local recruit production. The total area occupied by the population expanded or contracted depending on population size. This mechanism increased or decreased the mean site quality, influencing local recruitment of young, although mainly by changing the share of unproductive sites in the total pool of occupied sites. The results indicate that population demographic rates may depend on the spatial heterogeneity of resources at the level of individuals.
10.2307/3677193|To investigate aspects of neighbor recognition in a migratory bird with large and complex song repertoires we conducted playback experiments in the field with male territorial Thrush Nightingales Luscinia luscinia as subjects. Males sing with immediate variety and neighbors can share a considerable part of their repertoire of song components and song types. Subjects responded significantly more to their neighbors' song broadcast from the unshared (opposite) territorial boundary than to playback of the same song broadcast from the shared territorial boundary. Thus, this study did not detect constraints on neighbor recognition imposed for instance by large and complex song repertoires, high singing versatility, or sharing of song patterns. Because Thrush Nightingales sing shared patterns in different ways, either by constructing different song types out of the shared pool of elements or by singing shared song types in different sequential order, they could attend to song components and their syntactical arrangement, full songs, or their sequential delivery for neighbor recognition. Which mechanism they use might depend on the similarity of the song and singing style of a singer compared to other familiar conspecifics.
10.2307/3677160|We illustrate how a general technique for finding optimal cyclic routines can be applied to annual routines of migration. We present a schematic model in which there are two locations that differ in terms of food availability. We demonstrate how the model can be used to investigate the factors that determine the timing of migration. Reproductive values emerge from the model rather than being assumed. The form of the relationships between reproductive value and a bird's energy reserves and condition on the completion of the autumn migration is very different from that on the completion of the spring migration. The difference suggests that the timing of migration is more critical in spring than in autumn.
30244758|Ducklings reared by a hen swim with dry plumage a day or two after hatching, while incubator-hatched ducklings of the same age may sink and even drown when placed in water. The common interpretation is that wild-reared chicks receive preen oil from the parent, and this oil makes them more waterproof. Using mallard ducklings Anas platyrhynchos we tested the effect of preen and other oils, as well as hydrophilic or surfactant contaminants, on the water resistance of down. We found that the true cause for the difference between incubator and hen-reared ducklings is the presence of hydrophilic hatching fluid residues in the down of incubator-hatched ducklings. Once well rinsed and dried, incubator-hatched ducklings can swim for over an hour with essentially dry down. Other tests showed that clean down is quite water resistant, and that water resistance was not improved by preen or other oils. Small amounts of preen or other oils had no effect on water repellency or wetting during surface swimming. However, oil decreased the hydraulic pressure needed to penetrate down. Down lacks the stabilizing interlocking structure of adult contour feathers, and small amounts of oil apparently cause barbules to stick together and reduce the effective number of down fibers. Detergent decreases water repellency and increases water retention, and has a more severe effect on oiled down or when applied in combination with oil. The penetration pressure of a clean down coat, 866  154 Pa, could allow static immersion to ca. 8cm before water would saturate the down and increase thermal conductance. Thus, clean ducklings have a 2 x -3 x safety margin for surface swimming. Saturation increases the thermal conductance of the down coat from 14.3  1.38 W/m-C to 193  25 W/m-C. Thus, water pollution or down contamination causing wetting can significantly increase energy use and the frequency of hypothermia.
3677465|The successful use of stable isotopes to track migratory animals between different seasons of the annual cycle depends, in part, on the turnover rate of isotopes in sample tissue. We examined whether stable-carbon isotopes in the blood of a long-distance migratory bird, the American redstart Setophaga ruticilla, sampled upon arrival to the temperate breeding grounds could be used to track the quality of habitat used the previous season on the tropical wintering grounds. Stable-carbon isotopes in red-blood cells sampled upon arrival <tex-math>$(\delta {}^{13}{\rm C}{}_{{\rm RBC}})$</tex-math> were significantly less negative relative to: 1) plasma sampled upon arrival from the same individuals, 2) red-blood cells of redstarts recaptured more than a month later on the breeding grounds, and 3) nestling feathers grown at the same breeding location. <tex-math>$\delta {}^{13}{\rm C}{}_{{\rm RBC}}$</tex-math> was also significantly different between sexes, consistent with findings from the wintering grounds where sex-biased habitat use is known to occur. Although individuals likely integrate some isotopic signatures during migration, we provide evidence that cellular blood can be used to track the relative habitat use of migratory birds during the wintering period. Non-destructive methods of sampling stable-isotopes, such as this, are particularly useful because it provides a technique for tracking the patterns of habitat use and/or geographic location of migratory animals. Such approaches allow researchers to understand how events throughout the annual cycle interact to influence population dynamics.
30245188|Several studies demonstrated that bird song functions as a first line of territorial defence. The efficiency of deterring rivals depends strongly on the strategy of singing used (e.g. alternating/overlapping singing, singing with low/high rate, matching song type of a rival or singing different type). Causes of between males variation during countersinging are still not fully understood, especially when different signals have similar production costs and their meaning is assigned by arbitrary convention (conventional signalling). We tested whether an oscine bird with small repertoire size, the ortolan bunting Emberiza hortulana, differentiate strategy of responding to song of an intruder in relation to its age and threat value of signals. We performed playback experiments to measure response of second year (SY) and after second year (ASY) males to a song of low (eventual variety singing) and high (immediate variety singing) threat value. We found substantial differences in response to playback, which were related both to the type of stimuli used and age of responding males. Both SY and ASY males gave more calls than songs in response to immediate variety playback, which suggest stronger vocal response to the signal of higher threat value. Approaching loudspeaker was similar for both age classes when lower threat value signal was played back, while simultaneously SY males clearly avoided approaching loudspeaker when stronger threat values signal was played back. We conclude that ortolan bunting differentiate response to signal of different threat value and that the strength of response depends on the age of a male. This study provides experimental evidence that age of receiver affects its response to a territorial intruder. It also demonstrates that observed in many studies variation in response to playback may be an effect of age differences between males, which rarely is controlled.
3676996|Ring recoveries were used to explore the effect of early experience on the subsequent survival and dispersal of young Sparrowhawks in two areas in south Scotland. Young raised on high grade territories were recovered in greater proportion than young on low grade territories, implying that they had survived better after leaving the nest. Recovery rate tended to decline with increasing elevation of the nesting territory, implying that young from the high-ground territories survived less well than those from low-ground territories. Recovery rate showed no relationship with broodsize or sex composition, or with maternal age (yearling or older). After the post-fledging period, dispersal distances were greater in females than in males and showed significant increases with increasing elevation of nesting territory (one area only) and with lateness of laying (or fledging) date. Regardless of laying date, young males from yearling mothers also dispersed further than young from older mothers, and young males from high elevation territories further than those from lower territories. No significant relationships emerged between dispersal distances and grade of natal territory, brood size or sex composition.
3677761|Fluctuating asymmetry may impair locomotion but may also reflect intrinsic phenotypic quality. I tested whether fluctuating asymmetry of adult Barn Swallows Hirundo rustica negatively influenced offspring quality, by estimating the relationship between parental asymmetry and offspring size, condition and immunocompetence during three breeding seasons. Controlling for timing of breeding, brood size and the size of a secondary sexual character (tail length), wing and outermost tail feather asymmetry of male and female parents was not significantly correlated with offspring size, condition and immunocompetence. This was the case in spite of clear differences in nestling quality among years. In addition, parents with extreme asymmetries due to tail feather damage (not representing fluctuating asymmetry) did not have nestlings of lower quality than parents with undamaged tail feathers. These results indicate that there is only a weak relation between parental asymmetry and offspring quality.
3677681| We documented natal and breeding dispersal at several spatial scales by Galpagos Nazca boobies Sula granti, a wide-ranging pelagic seabird. We found exceptionally low degrees of both types of dispersal despite these birds' vagility. Median natal dispersal distances were 26 m and 105 m for males and females, respectively. Median breeding dispersal distances for both sexes were 0 m. No natal or breeding dispersals occurred from our study site at Punta Cevallos, Isla Espaola to six other colonies in the Galpagos, but we did document four long-distance natal dispersals from Punta Cevallos to islands near the South American coast. Recaptures and dead recoveries of ringed birds showed long distance non-breeding movements to the Central American coast and elsewhere in the eastern Pacific, contrasting with the very limited dispersal to breeding sites. 
3677778|Extra-pair paternity is typically rather infrequent in seabirds, as in most other long-lived and socially monogamous birds. Here we report the first paternity study of the little auk Alle alle, a high arctic seabird which raises only a single chick per year. Parentage was determined using three highly polymorphic microsatellite markers. We found that all 26 chicks in our sample were true genetic offspring of their social parents, with an upper 95% confidence limit of 10.88% for the frequency of extra-pair paternity. This level of extra-pair paternity is not significantly different from frequencies reported from the closely related common Uria aalge and Brnnich's guillemots U. lomvia.
30243894|In many sexually size-dimorphic species of birds and mammals, the larger sex, often the males, show increased environmental sensitivity during ontogeny. This is generally assumed to be due to higher energy requirements, reflected in higher absolute growth rates of the larger sex. Poor early conditions often increase the sex differences in vulnerability. However, it is not clear whether these patterns are equally pervasive in species where females are larger, as males face an additional early disadvantage due to high levels of testosterone. We investigated sex-specific growth patterns of mass, tarsus and wing of the great skua Stercorarius skua, a seabird with reversed size dimorphism. We were particularly interested in sex-specific effects of early conditions on growth. Beside data from unmanipulated nests, we present results from an egg removal experiment, which caused chicks to hatch from smaller eggs and in poorer body condition. Half of the experimental chicks were raised by pairs in which mothers were in poor body condition. At the end of the nesting period, great skua chicks exhibited a comparable degree of size dimorphism as is found in adults, although neither sex had reached final adult size. Despite females reaching larger asymptotic values of mass and tarsus, timing of growth was not different between the sexes. Absolute growth was higher for females around the time of maximum growth, which suggests that daughters face higher energetic demands. We found sex-specific effects of poor early conditions on growth patterns, although not to the extent which we had predicted. Hatching in poor body condition was related to slowed growth in females but not males. However, our experimental manipulations had no additional negative effect on growth. Our results indicate that daughters in the great skua face higher demands during growth than sons, and that early conditions are more important for the development of the larger sex in this reversed dimorphic species.
10.2307/3677053|In a two year study of a small breeding group of Grey Phalaropes Phalaropus fulicarius in Iceland the sex ratio was male-biased and polyandry was recorded in three of six female-years. Most observations suggested that males competed for females, in contrast to most other phalarope studies. Return rates of breeding males were also exceptionally high. No young were successfully fledged in either year, the causes of reproductive failure being a marked prevalence of inviable eggs and mortality of all chicks prior to fledging.
30244452|Identifying the natal origins of brood parasites is a major challenge that usually requires labor-intensive searching for nests of host species. Stable isotope analysis of feathers and other body tissues of parasitic young could be a possible tool for determining natal origins if tissues reflect the isotopic composition of the diet fed to nestlings. We measured the carbon ( $^{13}C$ ) and nitrogen ( $^{15}N$ ) isotope compositions of feathers for two age-classes of brown-headed cowbirds Molothrus ater at the Konza Prairie Biological Station near Manhattan, Kansas: nestlings raised by five species of songbird hosts in two different habitats, and juveniles captured after independence. Isotope values from cowbird nestlings did not differ among host species and we were unable to assign juvenile cowbirds to their natal hosts. However, nestlings raised in grassland habitat had feathers that contained significantly higher $\delta^{13}C$ values and lower $\delta^{15}N$ values than nestlings raised in shrub habitats. In addition, independent juveniles had isotopic signatures that were similar to cowbird nestlings raised on shrub habitats. Although dickcissel Spiza americana comprised the majority of samples from shrub habitats, our conclusions reflect the natural pattern of parasitism at the site and should be representative of cowbirds raised at Konza. We conclude that stable isotope analysis of feathers is effective for determining the natal origins of parasitic young if isotope values from nestlings are isotopically distinct among habitats.
10.2307/3677194| The Snow Petrel Pagodroma nivea is an Antarctic seabird that shows considerable geographic variation and sexual dimorphism in size, males being on average 10% larger than females. The origin and significance of body size variation in this species remain controversial. Two types "P. n. major" and "P. n. minor" are said to hybridize at a few localities (Jouventin and Viot 1985). Here, we examine body size variation, mating system, and possible hybridization between the two types of Snow Petrel using 470 individuals from two different breeding sites (Casey and Adlieland) where they are suspected to hybridize. We then use measurements of individuals from 12 different populations to test the hypothesis that sexual selection is the factor that has led to sexual dimorphism in that species. At Casey two different populations breed sympatrically, whereas only one population showing great variation in body size was found at Adlieland. Mating was assortative by type but hybridization between "P. n. major" and "P. n. minor" occurred at both sites. Hybridization appears to be more recent at Casey than at Adlieland, and results from Casey indicate that hybrids mostly result from pairs consisting of male "major" and female "minor". The considerable body size variation observed at Casey and Adlieland probably reflects hybridization of the two types. The amount of sexual dimorphism in size correlates with body size in the 12 Snow Petrel populations studied; sexual dimorphism was greater among populations of the larger type than among populations of the smaller type. These results support the sexual selection hypothesis and suggest that a variety of processes may contribute to the observed patterns of geographic variation in body size in the Snow Petrel. Other hypotheses that seek to explain the evolution of sexual dimorphism are considered and discussed for the Snow Petrel. 
3677441|The woodcreepers is a highly specialized lineage within the New World suboscine radiation. Most systematic studies of higher level relationships of this group rely on morphological characters, and few studies utilizing molecular data exist. In this paper, we present a molecular phylogeny of the major lineages of woodcreepers (Aves: Dendrocolaptinae), based on nucleotide sequence data from a nuclear non-coding gene region (myoglobin intron II) and a protein-coding mitochondrial gene (cytochrome b). A good topological agreement between the individual gene trees suggests that the resulting phylogeny reflects the true evolutionary history of woodcreepers well. However, the DNA-based phylogeny conflicts with the results of a parsimony analysis of morphological characters. The topological differences mainly concern the basal branches of the trees. The morphological data places the genus Drymornis in a basal position (mainly supported by characters in the hindlimb), while our data suggests it to be derived among woodcreepers. Unlike most other woodcreepers, Drymornis is ground-adapted, as are the ovenbirds. The observed morphological similarities between Drymornis and the ovenbird outgroup may thus be explained with convergence or with reversal to an ancestral state. This observation raises the question of the use of characters associated with locomotion and feeding in phylogenetic reconstruction based on parsimony.
3677746|I investigated whether plumage features are sufficient for species recognition in two sibling sympatric raptor species: the Montagu's harrier Circus pygargus and the hen harrier C. cyaneus. These species are similar in body size and differ slightly in plumage. During prelaying and laying periods, I placed artificial models close to nests of both species, simulating a conspecific male harrier (male of the same species), a heterospecific male harrier (male of the other species) or a wood pigeon Columba palumbus (acting as a control of the same size and colour). All of them represented birds perched in a neutral posture, so that they could only be recognised by their plumage differences. The use of plumage traits during this period would be particularly relevant in discriminating between their own and other species, offering the opportunity to avoid unnecessary fights, and therefore maximising the benefits of defence. I measured male responsiveness by recording aggressive behaviour towards each model (aggressive rate and time spent close to the female). Male presence time was significantly longer during conspecific decoy presentation than during heterospecific decoy presentation. Furthermore, males of both species were more aggressive towards the conspecific decoy than towards the heterospecific one, and no attacks towards the control were recorded. These results provide evidence that these birds are able to recognise plumage features of their own and the sibling species.
10.2307/3677198|Established pairs of Arctic Skuas Stercorarius parasiticus showed high repeatability in clutch volume (both within and between years), moderate repeatability in laying dates, but low repeatability in chick growth. Males that changed partner showed no repeatability in clutch volume or chick growth but did show repeatability in laying date, whereas females that changed partner did not show repeatability in laying date or chick growth but did show repeatability in clutch volume (indicating that laying date is determined predominantly by male quality, and clutch volume by female quality). In addition, pairs with males in better body condition laid earlier in the season, and females in better body condition laid clutches of greater volume. We suggest that variation in timing of breeding of Arctic Skuas arises from differences between males in their ability to provide sufficient prey to get the partner into reproductive condition, but clutch volume may be constrained by the female's ability to store the resources for egg production.
3676927| To reduce nest predation certain duck species nest in association with more aggressive species. For instance, Pochard Aythya ferina and Tufted Duck Aythya fuligula often nest in association with small larids, such as the Black-headed Gull Larus ridibundus. I studied nest predation, nesting association and nest site requirements of Pochard and Tufted Duck in central Finland (63N, 27E) observing natural and artifical nests. Predation of Pochard and Tufted Duck nests was of similar extent and stronger outside than within gull colonies. An experiment with artficial nests also showed that a higher proportion of nests was preyed upon outside than within gull colonies (0.98 and 0.13, respectively). The results are consistent with the hypothesis that nest predation is lower within than outside gull colonies. Tufted Ducks nest more often with gulls than do Pochards; 61.5% of Tufted Duck nests and 29.3% of Pochard nests were found within gull colonies. 
10.2307/3677338|The classical theory of cross-country soaring flight postulates climbs in discrete thermals, separated by glides through stationary air, and prescribes an "optimum" speed for the inter-thermal glides, based on the performance of the glider or bird, and the rate of climb in thermals. However, it is known that glider pilots usually fly slower than the theoretical optimum speed between thermals, and often achieve faster cross-country speeds than the maximum predicted by the theory. The reasons for this are analysed in relation to a survey of real thermals over the Serengeti National Park, Tanzania. About 1500 km was flown in straight lines, in a Schleicher ASK-14 motor glider, measuring the airmass lift (vertical velocity of the air) at 15-s intervals. It is shown how the bird or pilot can increase the mean rate of climb in the sample of thermals that are actually used, and so increase the cross-country speed, by selecting an inter-thermal speed below the supposed optimum. If the air between thermals is not stationary, the time lost in circling can be further reduced by variations of speed during the inter-thermal glides. Eventually, if thermals are organised into lines or "streets", circling can be eliminated altogether, and linear soaring becomes possible. Linear soaring is also sometimes possible along ridges and escarpments. Soaring in discrete thermals may be seen as one end of a spectrum of soaring techniques, with linear soaring at the other end, giving much higher cross-country speeds. In straight flight, soaring and flapping are end members of another spectrum, connected by various intermediate techniques. A bird migrating by flapping flight in a straight line can reduce its power requirements by flying through thermals or other forms of rising air.
30243843|Vocal duetting, where two birds produce temporally coordinated vocalizations, has been reported in a taxonomically and geographically diverse set of avian species. Researchers have suggested a number of potential correlates of duetting, including long term monogamy, year-round territory defense and sexual plumage monomorphism. Because the majority of duetting species are tropical, they have been the focus of the most comprehensive studies to date. There is, therefore, a real need for data regarding avian duets in temperate species. I used the recently completed Birds of North America species reports to examine the frequency, evolutionary origins and potential life history correlates of duetting behavior in North American passerines. "Duetting" behavior was reported in 7% of species from 12 avian families, likely representing 17 separate evolutionary origins. Duetting species showed apparent long term monogamy and year-round territoriality at frequencies more than double those of non-duetting passerines: 65% of duetting species were long term monogamous, compared to 27% of non-duetting species, and 50% of duetting species defended the same territory throughout the year, compared with only 11% of non-duetting species. Duetting and non-duetting species showed statistically indistinguishable frequencies of sexual plumage monomorphism. Comparative analyses of duetting species and their sister taxa revealed that the shift to duetting is accompanied by a gain of long term monogamy and year-round territoriality more often than it is associated with a loss of those traits. This study provides intriguing summary evidence that selective factors promoting duetting may be associated with a sedentary, monogamous lifestyle, and may operate similarly across taxonomic groups. Furthermore, vocal duetting may be considerably more common among temperatezone species than previously recognized.
3677453|Compilation and analysis of information from the literature regarding cross-species microsatellite amplification and polymorphism success, and relating this to source-target species genetic distance as estimated by pairwise cytochrome b (cytb) divergence, enabled an in-depth investigation of factors affecting avian cross-species microsatellite amplification. Source-target species cytb distances provided accurate estimates of cross-species microsatellite amplification/polymorphism success rates not only in birds, but also in taxa where microsatellites cross-amplify across contrasting levels of taxonomic classification (frogs and cetaceans). As cytb is one of the most commonly sequenced DNA regions, pairwise cytb genetic distances should therefore be useful for predicting cross-species microsatellite success across a range of taxonomic groups. While the most important factor affecting cross-species microsatellite amplification/polymorphism success was a negative association with source-target species genetic distance, associations with additional features affecting cross-species amplification/polymorphism success included: decreasing PCR annealing temperature significantly increasing the chance of successful cross-species amplification, and a significant positive association between source species polymorphism and the proportion of target species in which a locus revealed polymorphism. No association between cross-species amplification and repeat motif (di-, tri-, or tetranucelotide) or repeat structure (perfect, imperfect, or compound) was observed. A set of nine loci which cross-amplified across an unusually broad range of passerine bird species were also identified, and could serve as a good starting point for cross-species amplification testing in passerine species for which insufficient loci are available.
30244443|Although both repertoire sharing and individual variation have been studied widely in male solo song, few studies have investigated these aspects of song in a species that performs complex duets. This study examined song repertoires of both males and females of the plain wren (canebrake subspecies, Thryothorus modestus zeledom), which performs antiphonal duets, and tested for patterns of repertoire sharing at the level of the individual and of the pair. We suggest that both males and females of the plain wren develop their phrase repertoires by direct imitation from other individuals of their sex, but that males, who may exist for a period as 'floaters' after dispersal, learn their songs from a wider pool of tutors than do females. In contrast to considerable individual repertoire sharing, whole duet types were very rarely shared between pairs, despite the potential for this to occur. This suggests that duet types are developed within the pair without reference to other pairs and the implications of this for duet functions are discussed.
3677759|We examined physiological and morphological responses of reproductively active male White-plumed Honeyeaters Lichenostomus penicillatus to exogenous testosterone (T). Birds used in the experiment were held in captivity for two weeks and then were given subcutaneous implants which were either empty (controls) or T-filled silastic capsules (T-treated). Basal metabolic rates (BMR) measured just prior to implantation and again four weeks later were not affected by treatment and were indistinguishable from BMR measured in free-living White-plumed Honeyeaters, averaging 3.2 ml
30243827|Extrapair mating strategies are common among socially monogamous birds, but vary widely across ecological and social contexts in which breeding occurs. This variation is thought to reflect a compromise between the direct costs of mates' extrapair behavior and indirect benefits of extrapair fertilizations (EPF) to offspring fitness. However, in most free-living populations, the complete spatial and temporal distribution of mating attempts, genetic characteristics of available mates, and their relative contribution to EPF strategies are difficult to assess. Here we examined prevalence of EPF in relation to breeding density, synchrony, and genetic variability of available mates in a wild population of house finches Carpodacus mexicanus where all breeding attempts are known and all offspring are genotyped. We found that 15% of 59 nests contained extra-pair offspring and 9% of 212 offspring were sired by extra-pair males. We show experimentally that paired males and females avoided EPF displays in the presence of their social partners, revealing direct selection against EPF behavior. However, at the population level, the occurrence of EPF did not vary with nests dispersion, initiation date, synchrony, or with distance between the nests of extrapair partners. Instead, the occurrence of EPF closely covaried with genetic relatedness of a pool of available mates and offspring of genetically dissimilar mating tended to be resistant to a novel pathogen. These results corroborate findings that, in this population, strong fitness benefits of EPF are specific to each individual, thus highlighting the ecological, social, and genetic contingency of costs and benefits of an individual's extrapair behaviors.
3677404|Work against buoyancy during submergence is a large component of the energy costs for shallow diving ducks. For penguins, buoyancy is less of a problem, however they still seem to trade-off levels of oxygen stores against the costs and benefits of buoyant force during descent and ascent. This trade-off is presumably achieved by increasing air sac volume and hence pre-dive buoyancy <tex-math>$({\rm B}_{\text{pre}})$</tex-math> when diving deeper. Tufted ducks, Aythya fuligula, almost always dive with nearly full oxygen stores so these cannot be increased. However, the high natural buoyancy of tufted ducks guarantees a passive ascent, so they might be expected to decrease <tex-math>${\rm B}_{\text{pre}}$</tex-math> before particularly deep, long dives to reduce the energy costs of diving. Body heat lost to the water can also be a cause of substantial energy expenditure during a dive, both through dissipation to the ambient environment and through the heating of ingested food and water. Thus dive depth <tex-math>$({\rm d}_{{\rm d}})$</tex-math>, duration and food type can influence how much heat energy is lost during a dive. The present study investigated the relationship between certain physiological and behavioural adjustments by tufted ducks to <tex-math>${\rm d}_{{\rm d}}$</tex-math> and food type. Changes in <tex-math>${\rm B}_{\text{pre}}$</tex-math>, deep body temperature ( T<sub> b</sub>) and dive time budgeting of four ducks were measured when diving to two different depths (1.5 and 5.7 m), and for two types of food (mussels and mealworms). The hypothesis was that in tufted ducks, <tex-math>${\rm B}_{\text{pre}}$</tex-math> decreases as <tex-math>${\rm d}_{{\rm d}}$</tex-math> increases. The ducks did not change <tex-math>${\rm B}_{\text{pre}}$</tex-math> in response to different diving depths, and thus the hypothesis was rejected. T<sub> b</sub> was largely unaffected by dives to either depth. However, diving behaviour changed at the greater <tex-math>${\rm d}_{{\rm d}}$</tex-math>, including an increase in dive duration and vertical descent speed. Behaviour also changed depending on the food type, including an increase in foraging duration and vertical descent speed when mussels were present. Behavioural changes seem to represent the major adjustment made by tufted ducks in response to changes in their diving environment.
30243849|Recent studies of the vocal mechanisms of songbirds have shown that there are physical effects on sound production. Interspecific and phylogenetic comparisons have shown that body mass and bill morphology are two major factors affecting vocalizations such as songs. We analyzed the distance calls of female Bengalese finches Lonchura striata var. domestica, the non-vocal learning sex, to assess the potential physical effects on the acoustic structure of vocalizations. By experimentally controlling rearing condition using cross-fostering we could examine the effects of the developmental environment and genetic background. None of the tested factors affected the peak frequency of the distance calls, but we found that larger-billed birds tended to produce shorter bout calls with higher trill rates. These results suggest that the divergence of bill morphology can affect acoustic features at the within-population level. We also found that the birds reared in the same foster brood and siblings from the same genetic parents tended to produce calls with similar trill rates. This implies that the trill rate is under the influence of developmental and genetic factors.
3677383|We used maximum likelihood analysis of complete mitochondrial ND2 sequences (1041 bp) to clarify the taxonomy and relationships of various species and genera of grass and bush warblers. The tree revealed two clades of grass and bush warblers. One clade was comprised of all four western Palearctic Locustella and two species of Asian Bradypterus. The other clade included five eastern Palearctic Locustella (including the distinctive Sakhalin warbler Locustella amnicola) and the marsh grassbird Megalurus pryeri. African Bradypterus and Australian little grassbird Megalurus gramineus were distantly related to their Asian congeners. Therefore, current taxonomy of these genera does not reflect their evolutionary history and needs revision. It is proposed that a phylogenetic analysis of morphology and ecological preferences would show that the current taxonomy of grass and bush warblers reflects species' habitat preferences and morphology related to locomotion and foraging in their habitats, rather than their shared ancestry. Distinct clades were found in grasshopper warbler Locustella naevia and Pallas's grasshopper warbler L. certhiola. Detailed phylogeographic studies are needed to elucidate the species status of the clades within these two species.
3677429|The study of avian molecular systematics currently lags behind that of mammals in several ways. Little phylogenetic resolution is observed among orders and phylogenetic studies below the ordinal level largely remain based on fast evolving mitochondrial sequences. New papers by Paton et al., Ericson et al., and Thomas et al. provide avian molecular systematics with a badly needed boost. These studies indicate that sampling more taxa and slower evolving nuclear genes yields strong phylogenetic resolution among the major shorebird (order Charadriiformes) families. The new data show surprising overall consensus and converge on certain novel clades. If correct, this newly obtained phylogenetic framework has tremendous implications for our understanding of the evolution of shorebird morphology, ecology and behaviour.
10.2307/3677302|Females' perspectives like males' perspectives are used to generate hypotheses or draw conclusions about the evolution of social behavior. These gendered perspectives probably originate from the empathetic responses of researchers to the ecological problems faced by the individuals they study. Females' perspectives thus start with the main ecological problems that females of "typical species" (read as: "species like us") have to solve just as males' perspectives start with empathetic responses to the problems that males of "typical species" have to solve. Because men have predominated in the field of avian behavioral ecology, females' perspectives are yet to be as clearly articulated or frequently investigated as males' perspectives. Happily, this asymmetry in our ranks is changing, so that more attention to our questions from females' perspectives is accruing. Here I discuss 10 principles of females' perspectives that are particularly obvious to me. These were too-long-overlooked or previously ignored facts that contrast with predominating myths about females. These mythic notions seem to result from thinking about females from males' perspectives only rather than from more inclusive ones. I am not claiming that my list is a comprehensive one, nor that my view of females' perspectives is the only view. I am not claiming that females' perspectives can only be articulated and investigated by women, only that it is more likely that women will. Full incorporation of females' perspectives into avian behavioral ecology will be a result of inclusive theories. And, of course, inclusive theories can and should be cast and investigated by men as well as women. I contributed to this forum in the hopes of generating discussions that will facilitate inclusion of questions about females in studies of the evolution of social behavior. From this I expect increased understanding of the details of sexual dialectics. I look forward to the time when we can predict the traits the pendulum swing will bring: what are females' solutions to the ecological (selectively significant) problems created for them by males and what are males' solutions to the ecological problems created for them by females. Despite my obvious focus on the selective forces created by the interactions between the sexes, I suspect that the full nature of social behavior that we seek to discover will only come when we have theories that account for variation among individuals - beyond sex, beyond gender.
10.2307/3677261|Growth rates of three bilateral characters of nestling Tree Swallows Tachycineta bicolor were monitored to (a) determine the suitability of these characters in assessing fluctuating asymmetry (FA) and (b) test the hypothesis that fluctuating asymmetry of any or all of these characters is correlated with other growth parameters that may be indicative of genetic and/or environmental stress. Examination of the distribution of differences between right and left sides for tarsus, bill, and primary feather measurements reveals either directional asymmetry and/or a significant departure from a normal distribution suggesting that such characters may not be suitable for assessing fluctuating asymmetry. Further, there was little evidence that FA was correlated with any of the three growth parameters calculated from a Richards growth curve or with an overall index of growth performance for individual nestlings. Age-related trends were evident for both tarsus and primary feather asymmetry, with maximum values of asymmetry occurring during the mid or latter part of the nestling period, respectively, and declining before nestlings fledged. Such a pattern may be a normal component of growth not previously reported and related to peak growing periods for those characters.
10.2307/3676940|Effects of environmental conditions experienced during early life, as indicated by nestling body condition and hatching date, on migratory body condition and fat reserves were studied using data on nestling Blue Tits Parus caeruleus recaptured during their first autumn migration. Body condition index and fat score recorded during the migration were strongly inter-correlated, indicating that much of the variation in body condition index is due to differences in amount of stored fat. Nestling body condition was found to be a good predictor of amount of subcutaneous fat during migration (four months later) for males, but less so for females. However, the amount of fat during migration was negatively correlated with hatching date and positively correlated with recapture date in females, while male fat reserves were independent of both hatching and recapture dates. These results suggest that differences in body condition established during early life may be maintained over considerable periods of time, and that the time window for selective events leading to positive covariance between nestling body condition and fitness can be much wider than previously appreciated. In particular, through its effects on the amount of migratory fat, nestling condition or some trait closely correlated with it, may affect the young bird's probability of survival during the energetically demanding migration. Based on the findings of this and related studies, we outline some general mechanistic models which may account for the association between early life condition and adult performance.
10.2307/3676960|Corn Buntings in North Cornwall, England show a clear local dialect pattern of microgeographic song variation. This conclusion is based both on qualitative assessments of spectrogram similarity by human observers and on a non-subjective, quantitative method using cross-correlation. Compared with the local dialects found there 14 years ago there is no similarity with present dialects in either location of dialect boundaries or in detailed structure of songs. The extent of changes in song structure found implies a different mechanism from the accumulation of small year to year changes previously reported for this species. We suggest that changes in land use and associated changes in the suitability of the habitat for Corn Buntings are responsible. This idea is consistent with the finding that the area with most recent agricultural change has no clear pattern of local dialects.
3677768|During the Audouin's Gull's breeding season at the Ebro Delta in 1993, 24 fresh eggs from eight three-egg clutches (modal clutch-size) were collected at the peak of the laying period. Eggs were processed to obtain formalin-fixed yolks, which were halved and stained using the potassium dichromate method. Digitized images of the yolks were examined to assess the daily rates of yolk deposition. We used these data in combination with egg compositional analysis to build a model of energy demands during the formation of an average clutch in Audouin's Gull. To show how the different parameters of clutch formation affect the daily energy investment peak, we performed a simulation analysis in which the rapid yolk development (RYD) period, the follicle triggering interval (FTI), the laying interval (LI) and the albumen synthesis period (ASP) were allowed to vary simultaneously. In our sample, the mean RYD period was seven days with a range from six to eight days. There were no significant differences in yolk volume among eggs in a clutch, but albumen volume was significantly smaller in third eggs. According to our model the albumen synthesis of the a-egg coincides with the energy demand peak for clutch formation. This peak represents an increase by ca. 42% in female energy requirements. Values obtained from the simulation analysis showed that only the ASP of the a-egg and the RYD durations of the second and third follicles produced noticeable reductions in peak energy investment. We predict that in gulls, whose laying intervals seem to be kept constant, significant increases of the durations of the RYD periods of second and third eggs, or even significant reductions of yolk size of these eggs, may operate simultaneously to match the energy demands during clutch formation to the prevailing food conditions.
30244776|While the factors influencing reproduction and survival in colonial populations are relatively well studied, factors involved in dispersal and settlement decisions are not well understood. The present study investigated exchanges of great cormorants Phalacrocorax carbo sinensis among six breeding colonies over a 13-year period when the breeding population in Denmark increased from 2800 to 36 400 nests. We used a multistate capturerecapture model that combined multisite resightings and recoveries to examine simultaneously recruitment, natal dispersal, breeding dispersal and annual survival of first-year, immature and breeding great cormorants. Mean survival of first-year birds (0.50  0.09, range = 0.42-0.66 among colonies) was lower than survival of breeders (0.90  0.06, range = 0.81-0.97). Mean survival of immature birds over the study period was 0.87  0.08. Dispersal from a colony increased with decreasing mean brood size in the colony in both first-time and experienced breeders. The choice of the settlement colony in first-time breeders was affected by conditions in the natal colony and in the colonies prospected during the pre-breeding years. In particular, first-time breeders recruited to colonies where they could expect better breeding success. Experienced breeders relied mainly on cues present early in the season and on their own breeding experience to choose a new breeding colony. Newly established colonies resulted mainly from the immigration of first-time breeders originating from denser colonies. Dispersal was distance-dependent and first-time breeders dispersed longer distances than breeders. We suggest that the prospecting behaviour allows first-time breeders to recruit in nearby as well as more distant potential breeding colonies. Dispersing breeders preferred to settle in neighbouring colonies likely to benefit from their experience with foraging areas. We discuss the importance of these movements for growth and expansion of the breeding population.
3677725|Life-history theory assumes a trade-off between current reproductive effort and future reproductive success. There are a large number of studies demonstrating reproductive trade-offs in different animal taxa, particularly in birds. Most bird studies have focused on the costs of chick rearing in altricial species. These costs have been assumed to be low in precocial species, but this aspect has been little studied. We used long-term individual reproductive data from the common goldeneye Bucephala clangula, an iteroparous precocial duck with uniparental female care, to examine whether brood rearing carries costs that affect future reproductive performance. All females were experienced breeders, and possible differences in female quality were ruled out. We compared within-individual (between-year) changes in clutch size, hatching date and body mass between females that had reared a brood in the previous year and females that had not. It turned out that brood rearing involved a cost in terms of clutch size and hatching date the next year, but not in terms of body mass: females that had reared a brood in the previous year laid relatively smaller clutches and laid relatively later than females that had not reared a brood. Our results show that normal brood rearing in a precocial species involves costs that affect future reproduction.
30244794|The ability of mothers to modify offspring phenotype to match prevailing environmental conditions is an important component of reproductive success, especially in variable environments. Pre-breeding conditions, such as food abundance, may have significant consequences for both the number and quality of offspring a female produces as well as her ability to rear the offspring. In an experiment where pre-breeding diet was manipulated, we investigated if allocation of yolk androgens (testosterone and 5-dihydrotestosterone) was related to the quality of diet experienced prior to breeding. Female zebra finches Taeniopygia guttata produced larger clutches on high quality diet than on low quality diet but with no differences in egg mass. Yolk androgen levels were repeatable within subsequent clutches of the same female and females did not change mean androgen content in eggs in relation to diet quality. However, within-in clutch pattern of yolk testosterone and DHT changed with diet treatment. Testosterone and DHT decreased with laying order on the low quality diet but remained constant on the high quality diet. Differential yolk androgen allocation within the clutch may alter the competitive differences between chicks and provide females the possibility to adjust reproductive investment and offspring phenotype already at the egg stage.
10.2307/3677351|Seasonal changes in the mass and histology of the spleen of juvenile and adult Willow Tits Parus montanus throughout the year were examined. The results showed that the avian spleen is a highly dynamic structure able to undergo dramatic changes in size, mainly due to changes in the volumes of the lymphoid components. Twelve-day-old nestlings had small undifferentiated spleens with no germinal centres (GCs), but consisted of a homogeneous lymphocyte-containing tissue. One-month-old Willow Tits (July) had significantly heavier spleens than any other age group. Their spleens had a well developed red pulp and large numbers of small GCs and intensely basophilic cells (IBCs), probably reflecting an increased antibody production initiated by exposure to new antigens. The question why not all young tits develop large active spleens at this time is discussed, and it is suggested that the lymphoid activity of the spleen might be a factor of importance for successful establishment in an autumn/winter flock. Adult birds had small spleens in July. Although there was a very large inter-individual variation, most adult and juvenile tits had very big spleens in August and September, a period when tits are moulting and finishing flock establishment. This inter-individual variation most likely reflects differences in degree of infections. It is hypothesised that a large spleen, with a high lymphoid activity, in a moulting bird is the result of growing feather follicles being broken, and that the resulting wounds have become infected. Once moult and flock establishment are finished (October), spleens in both age groups remain small until next spring, containing few or no GCs and only weakly developed IBCs and red pulp. Small spleens during late autumn and winter may reflect low parasite infections or a high sensitivity to stress.
3677579|Diurnal raptors have been shown to use ultraviolet vision and UV-reflecting vole scent marks to find suitable hunting areas. We studied if a passerine species, the great grey shrike Lanius excubitor that uses voles as its primary food, may also detect prey-patches in the same way. We conducted a laboratory experiment with ten shrikes. Each individual shrike had four options to choose from: (1) scent marks with UV light, (2) scent marks without UV light, (3) clean arena with UV light, and (4) clean arena without UV light. The birds preferred the scent-marked arena with UV light as measured by the number of scans and the time spent above it. Therefore, we suggest that great grey shrike probably uses UV cues to gain information on vole locations and abundance.
3677779|Plumage coloration has been suggested to serve as an honest signal of benefits that males provide to females. One benefit proposed for females that choose to mate with elaborately colored males is that such males might provide more food resources to the females. To test this hypothesis, we investigated the relationship between the rates at which males provisioned incubating females and the structural ultraviolet (UV)/blue coloration and melanin-based chestnut coloration of male eastern bluebirds Sialia sialis, a sexually dichromatic songbird in which coloration has been shown to be sexually selected in males. We found that males with brighter UV/blue coloration provisioned incubating females more often than did drabber males. Melanin coloration, however, was not correlated with provisioning rates. Moreover, provisioning rates were correlated with the length of time that females spent off the nest, indicating an important benefit of increased male provisioning. These data support the hypothesis that female bluebirds receive direct resource benefits by pairing with males with bright structural coloration.
10.2307/3677083|Sixteen female Meadow Pipits were observed during the incubation period to test the hypothesis that incubation feeding by the male constitutes an important source of energy to the female. Female nest attentiveness was expected to increase with increasing frequency of incubation feeding, whereas a negative correlation between ambient temperature and the frequency of incubation feeding was anticipated. A statistically significant positive correlation between incubation feeding and nest attendance was found, but the negative correlation with ambient temperature was not significant. It is concluded that provisioning by the male has nutritional value for the incubating female. A negative relationship between reproductive success and rate of incubation feeding suggests that this behaviour functions as an insurance - its intensity increases when the clutch is threatened by unfavourable conditions (in the present study probably nest moisture) and the female has higher energetic demands.
3677473|Geographic variation in sexually selected traits is commonly attributed to geographic variation in the net benefit accrued from bearing such traits. Although natural and sexual selection are potentially important in shaping geographic variation, genetic constraints may also play a role. Although a genetic correlation between two traits may itself be the outcome of natural or sexual selection, it may indirectly reinforce the establishment and maintenance of cline variation with respect to one particular trait when across the cline different values of other traits are selected. Using the barn owl Tyto alba, a species in which the plumage of females is more reddish-brown and more marked with black spots than that of males, I report results that are consistent with the hypothesis that both direct selection and genetic constraints may help establish and maintain cline variation in sexual dichromatism. In this species, inter-individual variation in plumage coloration and spottiness has a genetic basis, and these traits are not sensitive to the environment. Data, based on the measurement of skin specimens, is consistent with the hypothesis that the stronger European cline variation in male spottiness than in female spottiness depends on the combined effects of (1) the similar cline variation in male and female plumage coloration and (2) the more intense phenotypic correlation between plumage coloration and spottiness in males (darker birds are more heavily spotted in the two sexes, but especially males) which is a general feature among the globally distributed barn owls. In northern Europe, male and female T. a. guttata are reddish-brown and heavily spotted, and in southern Europe male and female T. a. alba are white, but only females display many spots. Here, I discuss the relative importance of direct selection, genetic correlation and the post-ice age invasion of Europe by T. alba, in generating sex-specific cline variation in plumage spottiness and non-sex-specific cline variation in plumage coloration.
10.2307/3677029|The flight feather moult of the Red-necked Nightjar was studied in museum skins and in a free-living Spanish population during two summers. First winter birds start a complete moult of the remiges in their winter quarters following the typical moult sequence of other nightjars; however, as a rule it is interrupted before completion. Tail feathers are moulted partially. The following summer, birds reactivate the remex moult from the point it was stopped during the previous winter, but it is not finished until they reach the winter quarters; there, adults moult completely replacing descendantly first the outermost unmoulted primaries, and then the inner ones before moult is suspended again until the next post-nuptial moult, when the moult cycle is repeated. Thus, the moult of the Red-necked Nightjar is a cyclic process of periodically suspended moult stages, that is actively initiated already during the first winter moult and maintained during adulthood. I conclude that this moult strategy is related to the short time available for moult between breeding and autumn migration and the steep decline in food resources during the W African dry season.
3677583|I evaluate causes and patterns of nestling mortality in a sexually dimorphic species, the Montagu's harrier Circus pygargus, and their relationship with sex and condition. Starvation was apparently the main reason for nestling death. Condition of birds that died was lower than those that survived. Both probability of nestling death and the proportion of nestlings that died within a brood increased with the number of hatched nestlings in a brood, and with increasing hatching date. For the nestlings that died after being sexed, when controlling for brood effects, probability of death was significantly related to nestling sex, with smaller males having a higher probability of dying. The probability of nestling death if hatched late in the season was relatively greater for males than for females. There was also a significant interaction between sex and hatching date on nestling condition: the decline in condition if hatched late in the season was steeper for males than for females. Males did not have a higher probability of death when having more sisters: neither the probability of brood reduction nor the proportion of nestlings that died were significantly related to within-brood sex ratio. Results suggest that mortality may partly result from sibling competition: females, being the larger sex, might be better able to compete for food within a brood than their male siblings. Additionally, smaller males may be less able to recover from periods of declining body weight.
10.2307/3677130|The evolution of skuas is puzzling in several respects. Based on cladistic analysis of behaviour and review of other evidence, a likely phylogeny is suggested which is used to trace the evolution of plumage coloration and other traits in skuas. Behavioural, parasitological and four kinds of genetic evidence now show that the Pomarine Skua Stercorarius pomarinus is more closely related to great skuas, usually placed in the genus Catharacta, than to the two smaller Stercorarius species. All skuas should therefore be placed in the same genus, Stercorarius. Alternatively, the generic name of pomarinus should be changed to Catharacta. High similarity in mtDNA and feather lice (Phtiraptera) between Pomarine and North Atlantic Great Skua Catharacta skua is suggested to be explained by hybridization between them. Plumage coloration among skuas is puzzling, as the adult plumage of great skuas differs much from that of other skuas. This is related to a less pronounced change from juvenile to adult breeding plumage in great skuas, which are here suggested to be neotenic in several respects. Possible reasons for these differences between great and other skuas are suggested.
10.2307/3677279|Current treatments of collective detection hold that all members of the flock are alerted to predatory attack as long as at least one flock member detects it. This presumes that the individual(s) detecting attack somehow signal unambiguously that an attack is in progress. Alarm calls may provide such unambiguous signals, but for the many bird species lacking such calls, departures from the flock may be the main source of information on predator detection. These departures might themselves be considered alarm signals, but as such they are ambiguous, since departures may not be predator-driven. Thus non-detectors must decide whether to initiate escape behavior based upon the anti-predator information available in the departures. A mathematical exploration of this "departure information" reveals that multiple departures over a short time interval may be effectively required to sound the alarm in a flock. In fact, single detections (or departures) may usually go unheeded by other flock members. The information available to non-detectors in multiple departures varies considerably with the rate of non-predator-driven departures, attack rates, and flock size. In general, however, a good predator detection rule-of-thumb is likely to be: flee to safety with the simultaneous departures of two or more individuals, otherwise assess the reason for single departures before taking such action.
30244442|Many birds acquire carotenoid pigments from foods and deposit these pigments into feathers and bare-parts to become sexually attractive, but little work has been done on the interindividual and temporal variability in the types and amounts of carotenoids that free-ranging individuals have available for use in coloration or other functions (e.g., in immunomodulation). To address this issue, we studied intra-annual variation in plasma carotenoid profiles of juvenile and adult white-winged crossbills Loxia leucoptera of both sexes. Adult male crossbills exhibit bright red carotenoid-based plumage pigmentation, whereas females uniformly display drab yellow feather coloration and juvenile males only occasionally display some orange or pink color. Yellow xanthophylls (e.g., lutein, zeaxanthin) were predominant in plasma of birds from both sexes and age classes throughout the year. Plasma xanthophylls levels tended to be highest in the summer, when crossbills increase seed consumption for breeding as well as supplement their diet with insects. Blood accumulation of three other, less common plasma carotenoids--cryptoxanthin, rubixanthin, and gazaniaxanthin-varied in a highly season-, sex-, and age-dependent fashion. These carotenoids were virtually absent in juvenile or adult female plasma at all times of year and were only present in male plasma, at higher concentrations in adults than juveniles, during the period of feather growth (Sept.-Nov.). These pigments have been reported as valuable precursors of the metabolically derived red pigments (e.g., 3-hydroxy-echinenone, 4-oxo-rubixanthin, and 4-oxo-gazaniaxanthin, respectively) that appear in the plumage of male crossbills. These findings suggest that male crossbills either adopt a season-specific foraging strategy to acquire foods rich in these pigments at the time they are needed to develop red coloration, or have a unique physiological ability to metabolically produce these pigments or absorb them from food during molt, in order to maximize color production.
3677403|Offspring body mass and hatching date have been proposed as useful correlates of post-fledging survival and recruitment probability in studies of avian populations. However, these links may be mediated by underlying physiological variables which are frequently not reported. One of these is nestling immune function, which can be measured with several field-friendly protocols like the phytohemagglutinin (PHA) inoculation assay used to estimate cell-mediated immune response (CMI). Here we show in a population of pied flycatchers Ficedula hypoleuca subjected to a long-term study in central Spain that nestling CMI as measured with PHA is dependent on dose injected, body mass, hatching date and maternal moult state. Nestlings recruited during the first two or three years after hatching had a higher CMI but did not differ in mass or hatching date with respect to non-recruited nestlings. Nestling immunocompetence as measured with the PHA assay is a better predictor of local recruitment probability than mass or hatching date in our study population, and should be considered in future studies of determinants of offspring survival chances and fitness in avian populations.
3677000|Current ideas about the evolution of bird migration equate its origin with the first appearance of fully migratory populations, and attribute its evolution to a selective advantage generated by increased breeding success, gained through temporary emigration from resident populations to breed in under-exploited seasonal areas. I propose an alternative hypothesis in which migration first appears as a temporary directional shift away from the breeding site outside the reproductive period, in response to seasonal variation in the direction and/or severity of environmental gradients. Fully migratory populations then appear through either extinction of sedentary phenotypes, or colonisation of vacant seasonal areas by migrants. Where colonisation occurs, resident ancestral populations can be driven to extinction by competition from migrants which invade their range outside the breeding season, resulting in fully migratory species. An analogous process drives the evolution of migration between high latitudes and the tropics, since extension of breeding range into higher latitudes may drive low latitude populations to extinction, resulting in an overall shift of breeding range. This process can explain reverse latitudinal gradients in avian diversity in the temperate zone, since the breeding ranges of migratory species concentrate in latitudes where they enjoy the highest breeding success. Near absence of forest-dwelling species among Palaearctic-African migrants is attributable to the lack of forest in northern Africa for much of the Tertiary, which has precluded selection both for southward extension of migration by west Palaearctic forest species, and northward breeding colonisation by African forest species.
10.2307/3677087|We studied annual changes in the reproductive output of cyclic populations of Capercaillie Tetrao urogallus, Black Grouse Tetrao tetrix and Hazel Grouse Bonasa bonasia in Finland. The data consisted of route censuses made in early autumn in 11 provinces during 1964-1984. Records separated adults and young of the year. First, young bird numbers were regressed against adult densities. On a natural logarithmic scale this relationship was linear. No differences in slope of the regression were detected among the 11 provinces within any of the species. The regression slopes for the three species were: Capercaillie 1.24, Black Grouse 0.91 and Hazel Grouse 0.87. The reproductive output was defined as the residuals of the species-specific regression models in each province. It correlated with the population cycle, so that high reproductive output preceded high total numbers the next year. Using a simple stage-structured transition matrix model with delayed, second-order density dependence in breeding success, and differential fecundity and survival between first-time breeders and older birds, we were able to create cyclic population fluctuations closely matching those documented for Finnish grouse.
10.2307/3677158| Taking as my starting point the paper by Alerstam and Lindstrm (1990), I review models of optimal foraging and fuel loads during avian migration. As well as summarising previous results, I highlight topics where further work is required. I argue that we now have a good understanding of simple deterministic models based on time and energy. Discrepancies between such models and data have proved instructive. We also have some results about the influence of predation risk. Some work has been done on state-dependent models. This approach needs to be extended to models that can take account of changes in various aspects of internal state, and that put migration into the context of a bird's annual routine. I suggest that a combination of simple analytic models of some aspects of state, together with dynamic programming models of annual migration routines may be a fruitful research plan. We also need to explore the consequences of birds making decisions on the basis of climatic conditions. 
30243885|The laying of smaller replacement eggs has been described as a time-saving adaptation because chicks generally grow faster once hatched than inside the egg. However, chicks hatched from smaller eggs have, potentially, lower survival. Consequently, the smaller replacement egg represents a benefit to the female in terms of preserving its own condition at a cost to their offspring. We test these ideas by measuring adult mass changes and plasma lipid concentration changes in male and female Brtinnich's guillemots Uria lomvia breeding on Coats Island, Nunavut. Though males lost more mass than females, these differences were not significant. Between laying the first and replacement egg, plasma fatty acid concentrations declined in females and increased in males, suggesting that females mobilise less lipid to preserve their condition after laying the replacement egg. In females, plasma lipid concentrations of the dominant fatty acids found in the eggs (16:0 and 18:1) declined between the laying of first and replacement eggs while plasma concentrations of 20:1 increased in both males and females. We compared the fatty acid signatures of first and replacement egg to look for evidence of differences between the lipid sources for their production. Principal component and discriminant function analyses showed that the fatty acid signatures of replacement eggs were closer to the signatures of the local prey than those of first eggs. We suggest that females rely on local sources of energy to a greater degree for the production of the replacement egg than the first egg, but that endogenous reserves of certain nutrients are important for the production of both eggs.
3677566|Two male plumage morphs, 'white' and 'rufous', coexist in the Madagascar paradise flycatcher Terpsiphone mutata. There has been enduring debate about whether this dimorphism in male plumage represents seasonal dichromatism, delayed plumage maturation, or genetic differences. We present data from a nine-year study monitoring plumage changes in 119 individually colour-banded males (430 male-years). Our data show that paradise flycatchers are not seasonally dichromatic, and that although males show delayed plumage maturation, the rufous morph is not simply a precursor to white plumage, as previously thought. Individual males followed irreversible developmental pathways to 'rufous' or 'white', and could be reliably assigned to these distinct phenotypes by their second year. 'White' males adopted definitive plumage by the age of three years, whereas 'rufous' males did so between the ages of three and six years. The fixed nature of these morphs suggests that a genetic basis for the dichromatism is likely. However, variation in the timing of definitive plumage acquisition in rufous males could involve condition dependence and be environmentally influenced.
30244774|In the socially monogamous barn swallow, previous studies of individuals in the European subspecies Hirundo r. rustica have shown that a male's tail streamer length is under strong sexual selection and is positively associated with several measures of reproductive success, including a low probability of being cuckolded by other males. The prominence of these results has led to subsequent experimental and correlational investigations of individuals in the phenotypically divergent subspecies H. r. erythrogaster in North America, where it has been shown that male tail streamer length is not as strongly associated with reproductive success as in European populations. We examined relationships between male tail streamer length and patterns of: (1) social mate selection and reproductive success, and (2) extra-pair paternity in 265 progeny of 53 social fathers within a New York barn swallow population. Although tail streamers in this population were sexually dimorphic, male tail streamer length did not predict patterns of mate selection, seasonal reproductive success, or extra-pair paternity. Moreover, in contrast to the strong positive relationships between paternity and male streamer length in European populations, summarized in this paper, we found no positive relationship between a male's paternity of young in the nest he is attending and his tail streamer length in our study population in New York. Our results further corroborate recent suggestions that the function of sexual signals varies geographically in this species, although we await additional experimental analyses on streamer lengths to understand the maintenance of sexual dimorphism in this trait.
10.2307/3677358|Many birds hatch their eggs asynchronously while other species are more synchronous. Different hatching patterns may produce different sex-ratios through sex-biased chick mortality, but the relationship between sex-ratios and hatching pattern has received little attention. An extreme food shortage in a Lesser Black-backed Gull colony allowed us to examine the timing of mortality of nestlings relative to sex and to hatching order. This was carried out in experimentally-created synchronous and asynchronous broods, where the latter mimicked the normal hatching spread. Unambiguous sexing was facilitated by use of molecular methods. In asynchronous broods, last-hatched female chicks survived significantly longer than last-hatched male chicks, whilst the males significantly out-lived the females among the earlier-hatched chicks. There was no difference in survival time of the sexes in synchronous broods. This suggests that chick sex-ratio is, at least partly, a function of asynchrony. Production of skewed sex-ratios via sex-biased mortality should be considered when evaluating the merits of asynchrony and synchrony.
10.2307/3676971|The evolution of sociality in many communally breeding birds has been ascribed to a lack of optimum habitat, that is, insufficient high quality resources to allow dispersal and independent breeding of young. In these species, offspring do not disperse immediately, but instead remain as helpers in their natal territory until a breeding opportunity occurs. We examined the habitat saturation model for a communally breeding South American species, the Guira Cuckoo. This species breeds in large groups composed of both related and unrelated individuals. Nestlings also exhibit varying degrees of relatedness, or they may be completely unrelated. Thirteen ecological variables were measured in 14 sites occupied by groups and compared with data from nine vacant sites that appeared similar. Data concerning breeding traits were collected for each reproductive event. Guira Cuckoos exhibit tactics that reduce the reproductive success of others within the group, mainly egg-tossing behavior and, occasionally, infanticide. Potential nesting sites within territories, in the form of araucaria trees, varied greatly in number, but there was no relation between their availability and the size of the group controlling the area. Group size was significantly positively correlated with grass cover within territories, but unrelated to the other 12 vegetation variables measured. Empty sites had a significantly greater abundance of prey items than did areas occupied by Guira Cuckoos, which may indicate depletion of insects due to the cuckoos' foraging activities. No other significant differences were found between occupied and empty sites. These results suggest that habitat saturation may not be an important factor in the maintenance of group-living in Guira Cuckoos. However, this does not exclude the possibility that habitat quality may have an important effect on reproduction. The basis for group-living in this species is most likely related to intrinsic characteristics of sociality that increase survival and lifetime reproductive fitness.
30244460|Habitat selection is a hierarchical process where the distribution of individuals is constrained by environmental factors acting from the landscape scale to specific microhabitats such as breeding sites. However, interactions between conspecifics might greatly influence bird distribution and habitat use, especially in lekking birds. In the lekking Houbara bustard Chlamydotis undulata undulata, we investigated the respective role of environmental and social constraints on the distribution of nests and display sites. We measured environmental variables around 69 nests and 70 display sites at different spatial scales: the landscape, the breeding range, and the display and nest site scale. The variables were compared to those measured at 50 random plots to determine whether environmental features are actively selected. Social variables were included by studying spatial relationships between displaying male density, nests and female movements throughout the year. At the landscape scale, human presence acted as a limiting factor for the establishment of nest and display sites. At the breeding range scale, habitat requirements differed between sexes. Breeding females used a heterogeneous complex of habitats provided by the network of wadis (water courses) crossing the reg (gravel plain) covered by tall perennial plants. In contrast, display males looked for conspicuousness and courtship ability by selecting the reg with short perennials, and used temporarily flooded areas for feeding. Males aggregated on traditional display site where they experienced the greatest female density. This result supported the hotspot model in the evolution of leks in the Houbara bustard. It underlies an overriding effect of female attraction on male settlement in the individual habitat selection process.
10.2307/3677345|The redness of carotenoid pigmentation has been shown to be an indicator of individual condition. I tested whether the asymmetry of carotenoid pigmentation of male House Finches Carpodacus mexicanus, an indicator of developmental stability, decreases with plumage redness. Consistent with predictions, I found a significant relationship between the symmetry of carotenoid-based crown pigmentation and the redness of body plumage - redder plumage was more symmetrical. There was no significant relationship between the symmetry of the outer rectrices and either crown symmetry or plumage redness. The energetic cost of having asymmetrical carotenoid pigmentation is no greater for males with elaborate ornamentation (red plumage) than for males with less elaborate ornamentation (orange or yellow plumage). These observations are consistent with the idea that the magnitude of fluctuating asymmetry of an ornamental trait reflects the phenotypic or genotypic condition of the individual.
10.2307/3676948|The relation between fat accumulation and weather conditions was studied at a Barn Swallow roost in northern Italy during a 5-year period. Data were collected from the end of the breeding season, in early July, to the beginning of October, when the roost is abandoned. The post-breeding period (4 July-20 August) was characterised by a stationary or decreasing mean body mass. The pre-migratory period (1 September-3 October) was characterised by a rapid mass increase. During the post-breeding period, fat reserves were higher during worse than average weather conditions (wind and low temperatures), an indication that in this period fat stores function as a reserve to be used in case of food scarcity. By contrast, during the pre-migratory phase, fat reserves were lower during worse than average weather conditions (low air humidity and low temperature). This is expected if swallows build up the energy stores for migration as rapidly as they can, and fattening rate is sub-optimal in unfavourable weather conditions. Juveniles, inexperienced foragers compared to adults, should run a higher risk of starving during adverse weather and consequently were expected to carry more fat during the post-breeding phase. Conversely, their maximum fattening rate should be lower than that of adults. Thus, they were expected to be less fat during the pre-migratory period. Variation in fat reserves in the two groups was in agreement with these predictions, juveniles being significantly fatter than adults in the first part of the season, and leaner before migration.
3676999|In recent years there has been a resurgence of interest in models to explain the partitioning of direct reproduction ('reproductive skew') among members of one sex within social groups. We review models of skew, identify problems of testing models, and consider how to make progress. One series of models assumes that dominants have complete control of subordinate reproduction, but may allow subordinates some reproduction as a way of enticing them to help or getting them to share the cost of reproduction. Another series of models assume that dominants have limited control of subordinate reproduction. Reproductive skew may also be affected by incest avoidance or control by the opposite sex. Models are largely untested because no study of birds has quantified all relevant parameters, and we see no prospect of this happening soon. A common simplifying approach is to test qualitative predictions about the effect on skew of relatedness among group members. However, these data alone cannot distinguish among models because models do not make unique predictions, partly because skew is also affected by other factors. A major problem in cooperatively-breeding birds is that any effect of relatedness will often be confounded by covariation with relatedness asymmetry and subordinate competitiveness. Progress can be made with the development of theory, controlling confounding variables through the choice of study species or types of social group, and, most importantly, testing assumptions underlying hypotheses.
30244775|During the breeding season, adult male capercaillies Tetrao urogallus display on leks in the early morning. During the day, they occupy more or less exclusive home ranges within 1 km of the lekking ground, but little is known about their movements and range use patterns during this period. In three spring seasons we monitored the daily movement of 15 radio-tagged adult males, associated with six different leks, in a coniferous forest of southeast Norway. The objective was to relate dynamics of male movement and spatial distribution to changes in food resource availability and mating-related activities. In late winter, males exhibited a pattern of short daily relocations (distance between bird locations in successive days) within small ranges. Relocation distances and home ranges then increased markedly during two weeks preceeding the main mating period. During the mating and post-mating periods, movements again decreased, followed by another short peak at the time when females with depredated nests return to the lek for remating. These temporal changes in range use were not related to changes in food resources and probably not to shifts in anti-predator behaviour, and they differed between age groups: The increase in relocation distance during the pre-mating period was most pronounced among young resident males (3 and 4 year-olds), and range area of older males were smaller and did not increase as much during this period. The observed age-related changes in space use may reflect an alternative mating strategy by young and subdominant males; they seek out females outside the lekking ground where competition from more dominant males is less intense.
10.2307/3676966|Cooperatively breeding White-winged Choughs have an extremely long period of post fledgling care, they will provision young for up to eight months. During winter, however, provisioning ceases despite evidence that young continue to have difficulty finding food themselves. A provisioning experiment was designed to determine whether food availability played a role in the termination of care. Groups of White-winged Choughs were observed before, during, and after food was supplied in both small and large amounts. The supply of large amounts of food switched on provisioning behaviour in both breeders and helpers, and begging behaviour in juveniles. Helping behaviour is therefore influenced by the costs of supplying food.
30243916|Variation in maternal investments to offspring presumably reflects an optimization of resource allocation such that a female's fitness is maximized. In birds, both egg size and yolk constituents are examples of resources that can vary among offspring within a clutch. Egg size and maternally-derived steroid hormone concentrations present in yolk have been characterized for many species that lay small clutches or have altricial young, but little information is available for species that lay moderate to large clutches of precocial young. In this study, we recorded laying position, measured fresh egg mass and determined maternally-derived testosterone and estradiol concentrations present in yolks for whole clutches of free-living Canada geese Branta canadensis maxima to assess variation in maternal resources within clutches. We found that egg size varied non-linearly across the laying sequence such that first laid eggs were small, the largest eggs in the clutch occurred in the second and third positions, and size declined in eggs laid in subsequent positions. Concentration of testosterone in the yolk followed a pattern in which the first and second laid eggs have the highest concentrations within a clutch and declining concentrations in subsequently laid eggs. In contrast, maternally-derived yolk estradiol concentrations (measured in a subset of clutches) did not change across the laying sequence.
30244489|The practice of mummification by the ancient Egyptians is well known. However, it is less widely known that the ancient Egyptians also mummified animals, including birds, for religious and ceremonial reasons. Few radiographic descriptions of avian mummies are published in the scientific literature. This paper describes the radiographic findings from a falcon mummy from the ancient Egyptian Late Period (664-332 BC). The mummy is believed to be a kestrel Falco tinnunculus, based on anatomical comparisons made with type skeleton specimens held at the Smithsonian National Museum of Natural History located in Washington D.C. Photographs of the mummy and radiographs of the mummy's contents are presented.
30244749|Corticosterone is thought to play an important role in food caching and foraging behaviour. However, the direct influence of increased plasma corticosterone on feeding behaviour is still unclear. In this study the effect of increased corticosterone on feeding behaviour in migratory active red-eyed vireos Vireo olivaceus was investigated. We hypothesized that if increased corticosterone levels facilitate foraging behaviour, an increased number of visits to the food bowl by corticosterone treated birds would be seen. In addition to ad lib food during the experiment, the vireos were fed every full hour between 09.00-13.00 h with one meal worm injected either with 4 g corticosterone dissolved in 20 l DMSO, or with DMSO only as a control treatment. The presence or absence of a bird in the food bowl was recorded by a motion detector between 09.00-15.00 h. The non-invasive corticosterone treatment increased plasma corticosterone levels and caused vireos to visit the food bowl more frequently compared to control treated individuals between 11.00-12.00 h and 13.00-15.00 h. Our data indicate that corticosterone has an effect on feeding behaviour in birds.
3677640|In tree swallows Tachycineta bicolor, last-laid eggs typically hatch one to two days after the other eggs in the clutch hatch, putting last-hatched offspring at a disadvantage when competing for food delivered by parents. We studied the biology of last-laid, last-hatched tree swallow offspring over two years in a Wyoming, USA, population. Our first objective was to compare the growth of last-hatched offspring to that of their earlier-hatched nestmates. One previous study had suggested that last-hatched, competitively disadvantaged offspring grow feathers faster than senior nestmates, even at the expense of other aspects of growth. This may allow last-hatched offspring to fledge with senior nestmates and avoid abandonment by parents. A second objective was to determine the sex of nestlings from last-laid eggs. If last-laid eggs typically produce undersized, weak adults that are poor competitors for resources, and if the fitness costs of being undersized/weak are more severe for males than for females, then selection may favour having offspring from last-laid eggs to be female. In this study, last-laid eggs hatched in 63 of 66 (94%) nests and hatched last in 93% of cases. At hatching, offspring from last-laid eggs weighed, on average, 63% as much as their three heaviest nestmates (range: 26-107%). Offspring from last-laid eggs fledged from 71% of the nests that produced at least one fledgling and apparently starved to death in remaining nests. Last-hatched offspring who were presumably at a substantial competitive disadvantage (those whose mass at hatching was no more than about 75% of the mean mass of their three heaviest nestmates), gained mass more slowly than their senior nestmates but they eventually attained the same peak mass before fledging. Last-hatched offspring grew primary feathers more slowly than their senior nestmates although the difference in growth rate was slight (0.2 mm/d) and only marginally significant. As a group, offspring from last-laid eggs did not differ from offspring from all other eggs in either maximum mass attained before fledging or tarsus length at fledging. This is atypical for species with asynchronous hatching and is possibly the result of another unusual trait: the tendency of parent tree swallows to distribute food equally among young within broods. The sex ratio of offspring from last-laid eggs did not deviate from 1:1 (22 males, 21 females). Given that last-hatched eggs do not routinely produce undersized/weak individuals in our study population, there should be little selection on parent females to bias the sex ratio of last-laid offspring towards females.
30244750|This paper describes the daily foraging pattern of the white-browed babbler Pomatostomus superciliosus, a small passerine endemic to Australia. The percentage of time spent foraging as the day progressed increased by an average of only 9%. This contrasts markedly with studies of other passerines that have mostly shown a bimodal pattern, with a peak of foraging early in the day followed by a period of reduced activity and a second peak later in the day. The most likely explanation for the observed pattern of foraging time is that babblers experienced considerable diurnal certainty in their food supply mainly as a result of stable and predictable weather conditions. The lack of a marked increase in foraging towards the end of the day might also have resulted from an increase in predation risk at this time and a reduced need to build up food reserves at the end of the day because of the energetic advantages of communal roosting in an enclosed nest.
3677435|We removed first eggs from early-laying females to measure rates and consequences of relaying in Cassin's auklets Ptychoramphus aleuticus and rhinoceros auklets Cerorhinca monocerata at Triangle Island, British Columbia, Canada. Based on egg size and composition, the investment that Cassin's auklets made in first eggs was very close to that predicted from adult body mass, whereas rhinoceros auklets invested more. In both species, a high percentage of females relaid (90% of Cassin's and 87% of rhinoceros auklets). Breeding success declined weakly with later laying among control Cassin's auklet pairs, but pairs that we induced to relay bred more successfully than naturally late pairs, and similar to values predicted from laying dates of their first eggs. Their chicks also fledged heavier and younger than late control chicks, and similar to values in early control chicks, but followed the population-wide seasonal decline in wing length at fledging. Nestling diets were dominated by Neocalanus copepods until late in the season, a sign that feeding conditions remained favourable until late. In contrast, rhinoceros auklet pairs induced to relay followed the population-wide seasonal decline in breeding success, which was driven by a decline in hatching success. Pacific sandlance Ammodytes hexapterus, thought to be a preferred prey species, virtually disappeared from nestling diets in mid-to-late season, yet there was no seasonal decline in fledging mass. However, chicks from replacement eggs followed the declines among control chicks in both age and wing length at fledging. Despite the female having produced a replacement egg, and despite delayed breeding, there appeared to be little immediate consequence associated with relaying for Cassin's auklets, except for a tendency for their chicks to fledge with short wings. Consequences were more marked in rhinoceros auklets (greatly reduced hatching success, and having their chicks fledge with short wings), and this may have been due to the large investment made in eggs, and/or to delayed breeding. Results of this study show that attributes of Cassin's and rhinoceros auklets that lay at different times in the season can be important in driving seasonal declines in breeding performance, as found in studies on other Alcidae. They also show how decisions taken during the egg stage can have variable yet potentially important implications for fitness, even in relatively long-lived species that lay single-egg clutches.
10.2307/3677117|Deferred northward migration by young waders has been ascribed to the "risks of long-distance migration", but the nature of these risks has not been explored. We suggest that the low foraging proficiency of young waders is an important factor in the evolution of deferred migration by some small to medium-sized waders. Because of the disparity between adult and juvenile energy intake rates, juveniles would be prevented from migrating synchronously with adults if their migration involved one or more refuelling stops. The slower migration of juveniles would result in their late arrival at the breeding grounds, with a concomitantly high risk of breeding failure. The longer the migration and the higher the breeding latitude, the greater this risk, conforming with the conclusion of Summers et al. (1995) that young waders overwintering close to the breeding grounds are more likely to migrate north than are young waders which overwinter further south. We further suggest that the probability of successful breeding by late arriving long-distance migrants is so low that the risk of first-year birds dying on northward migration does not have to be high for the behaviour to be selected against and thus be lost from the population.
30244825|Diving birds have to overcome buoyancy, especially when diving in shallow water. Darters and anhingas (Anhingidae) are specialist shallow-water divers, with adaptations for reducing their buoyancy. Compared to closely-related cormorants (Phalacrocoracidae), darters have fully wettable plumage, smaller air sacs and denser bones. A previous study of darter diving behaviour reported no relationship between dive duration and water depth, contrary to optimal dive models. In this study I provide more extensive observations of African darters Anhinga melanogaster rufa diving in water <5 m deep at two sites. Dive duration increases with water depth at both sites, but the relationship is weak. Dives were longer than dives by cormorants in water of similar depth (max 108 s in water 2.5 m deep), with dives of up to 68 s observed in water <0.5 m deep. Initial dives in a bout were shorter than expected, possibly because their plumage was not fully saturated. Dive efficiency (dive:rest ratio) was 5-6, greater than cormorants (2.7  0.4 for 18 species) and other families of diving birds (average 0.2-4.3). Post-dive recovery periods increased with dive duration, but only slowly, resulting in a strong increase in efficiency with dive duration. All dives are likely to fall within the theoretical anaerobic dive limit. Foraging bouts were short (17.8  4.3 min) compared to cormorants, with birds spending 80  5% of time underwater. Darters take advantage of their low buoyancy to forage efficiently in shallow water, and their slow, stealthy dives are qualitatively different from those of other diving birds. However, they are forced to limit the duration of foraging bouts by increased thermoregulatory costs associated with wettable plumage.
10.2307/3677058|Seasonal changes in body mass of Arctic-nesting Brent Geese are characterized by a depression in early April, followed by a sharp increase during pre-migratory fattening. Both male and female Brent Geese increased their body mass by 25-35% in the Wadden Sea in April/May. Paired females reach on average higher body masses than single females. Female Brent Geese that returned with offspring to the wintering quarters in western Europe had on average been heavier at spring departure from the staging grounds in the Wadden Sea, than those failing to raise offspring. This difference remained significant after correcting for body size (i.e. wing length). In males, corrected spring body mass had no effect on subsequent breeding success. Measurements of changes in body mass of incubating female Brent Geese, coupled to estimated flying costs (based on data on body mass, wing span and total wing area) showed that body reserves stored in the Wadden Sea were insufficient to accomplish both migration and successful breeding. Presumably the geese refuelled in the White Sea, in order to complete their spring migration and arrive on the breeding grounds in Taymyr in the condition necessary for successful breeding.
30244762|Background noise should in theory hinder detection of auditory cues associated with approaching danger. We tested whether foraging chaffinches Fringilla coelebs responded to background noise by increasing vigilance, and examined whether this was explained by predation risk compensation or by a novel stimulus hypothesis. The former predicts that only inter-scan interval should be modified in the presence of background noise, not vigilance levels generally. This is because noise hampers auditory cue detection and increases perceived predation risk primarily when in the head-down position, and also because previous tests have shown that only interscan interval is correlated with predator detection ability in this system. Chaffinches only modified interscan interval supporting this hypothesis. At the same time they made significantly fewer pecks when feeding during the background noise treatment and so the increased vigilance led to a reduction in intake rate, suggesting that compensating for the increased predation risk could indirectly lead to a fitness cost. Finally, the novel stimulus hypothesis predicts that chaffinches should habituate to the noise, which did not occur within a trial or over 5 subsequent trials. We conclude that auditory cues may be an important component of the trade-off between vigilance and feeding, and discuss possible implications for anti-predation theory and ecological processes.
3677517|We examined mitochondrial cytochrome b sequence variation in masked Sula dactylatra, red-footed S. sula, and brown S. leucogaster boobies sampled from islands in the central and eastern Pacific Ocean and in the Caribbean Sea. Each species showed a different phylogeographic pattern. Whereas haplotypes in masked and red-footed boobies were shared across the central and eastern Pacific (i.e., across the Eastern Pacific Basin), brown booby haplotypes were not shared across the Eastern Pacific Basin. Although most masked booby haplotypes from the Pacific were distinct from those in the Caribbean, one haplotype was shared across the Isthmus of Panama. Red-footed and brown boobies, however, did not share haplotypes across the Isthmus of Panama. We estimate that divergence of these regional populations occurred within the last 560,000 years. Thus, the Isthmus of Panama and the Eastern Pacific Basin (albeit to a lesser degree) appear to have played a role in the diversification of these species.
30244483|Extra-pair paternity is common in many socially monogamous bird species. Increasing evidence suggests that extra-pair copulations are female-driven, but benefits for females mating outside social pair-bonds are still poorly understood. The most influential explanation, "good genes" hypothesis, states that females mated socially with low quality males, engage in extra-pair copulations to obtain genetic benefits for their progeny. According to this model, enhanced performance of extra-pair offspring is expected. Here, based on 4-year study of collared flycatcher Ficedula albicollis, we compared the condition of extra-pair and within-pair young. We found no difference in immune response and body size between maternal half-siblings raised in the same nests. Additionally sex ratio was not biased among extra-pair nestlings, and paternity was not associated with hatching rank. Our results failed to reveal "good genes" effects in the studied population. These effects might be hard to detect, but other hypotheses should also be studied more thoroughly in the future.
3677408|We develop a new approach to quantifying habitat use within the foraging ranges of satellite-tracked seabirds. We applied kernel estimation techniques to 167 days (3738 locations) of data from Black-browed and Grey-headed albatrosses Diomedea melanophris and D. chrysostoma during the chick-rearing period of the breeding cycle at South Georgia. At this time the activity range of these two species covers an estimated 440 000 and
3677678|Microsatellite DNA markers were used to investigate parentage relationships in a population of common cuckoo Cuculus canorus. Thirty adults and 55 nestlings were genotyped at six loci from blood samples collected over a four-year period. To test whether each cuckoo female specialises in parasitising one single host species (Host Preference Hypothesis), the maternal relationships were used to record each female's host choice. The results supported the Host Preference Hypothesis since no female (N = 3) was recorded to have parasitised more than one of four congeneric host species breeding in the area. In contrast, the males (N = 4) did not show such specialisation since two of them sired offspring reared by different host species.
3677598|We investigated courtship feeding and copulatory behaviour of common terns Sterna hirundo in relation to age. We found a significant positive correlation between the number of courtship feedings delivered to females and the number of mountings. Moreover, both courtship feeding and mounting rates were positively correlated with female and male age. Also, the number of cloacal contacts per mounting increased significantly with male or female age, which may indicate an increase in copulatory ability with age. The number of mountings for older birds was up to three times that for younger birds. Presuming that transfer of sperm is proportional to the number of cloacal contacts, older birds may have transferred up to six times more sperm than younger birds during the pre-laying and laying period. These results may account for the preference of young females for older mates as well as for older extra-pair mates.
10.2307/3677126|The ability of Antarctic Prions Pachyptila desolata to regulate their provisioning effort was studied at Kerguelen Islands by comparing two seasons when food availability differed, and by experimental manipulation of foraging costs. Antarctic Prions provision their chick by a two-fold foraging strategy: on average, they alternate a long foraging trip 7-9 days long when they build up body reserves and then feed the chick, with 2 or 3 successive short trips lasting 1 or 2 days when they use previously stored body reserves to forage for provisioning the chick. Although hatching success and fledging success were similar for the two seasons examined, chicks produced in 1996 grew faster and were heavier at the end of the study than in 1995. The difference was due to a higher provisioning rate in 1996 resulting from long trips being 2 days shorter than in 1995, because the Antarctic waters where adults are believed to feed on Antarctic krill during these long trips were 330 km further away in 1995 than in 1996. While returning from long trips, and during short trips, prions mainly feed close to the colonies on the amphipod Themisto gaudichaudii. This prey was less available in 1995, but prions were able to switch to other prey. Cost of foraging was increased experimentally by adding mass to adults. Loaded parents differed from control parents only by increasing the duration of long foraging trips. The results of both the experiment and the study of the natural variation indicate that the ability of Antarctic Prions to increase provisioning is limited. Birds kept their body mass stable, provided food loads of similar mass and had short foraging trips of similar duration. During long trips they spent longer time foraging either to reach more distant feeding grounds or to cover higher foraging costs. The main constraint on chick provisioning is probably the necessity for birds to maintain a threshold body mass to limit the risk of increased mortality due to breeding effort; the higher yields during long foraging trips permit them to do so.
30245329|Laying eggs in nests of unrelated conspecific pairs to parasitize their parental care is a common phenomenon in birds. In blue tits Cyanistes caeruleus such conspecific brood parasitism (CBP) has never been reported in the literature. However, in a situation where breeding density was extremely high, we found six nests to be parasitized with eggs of conspecific females. Natural selection may favour elevated competitiveness of parasite young, since the negative consequences of increased sibling competition are incurred on the unrelated host parents and siblings, and therefore do not act as inclusive fitness costs for the parasites. Parasitizing females could achieve such a competitive advantage for their offspring by laying larger eggs or eggs with higher concentrations of testosterone in the yolk. We analyzed these parameters of the six parasitized nests, but did not find that parasite eggs differ systematically in these aspects from host eggs, nor that parasite eggs showed resemblance to host eggs. We suggest that a shortage of available nest sites caused some females to use CBP as a best-of-a bad job strategy, but that either the occurrence of CBP is too rare to lead to strong selection for egg adjustments or that parasitizing females are unable to do so.
30243858|We here report the finding of ten new specimens of the poorly known large-billed reed warbler Acrocephalus orinus. Preliminary identifications were made on the basis of bill, tarsus and claw measurements, and their specific identity was then confirmed by comparison of partial sequences of the cytochrome b gene with a large data set containing nearly all other species in the genus Acrocephalus, including the type specimen of A. orinus. Five of the new specimens were collected in summer in Afghanistan and Kazakhstan, indicating that the species probably breeds in Central Asia, and the data and moult of the others suggest that the species migrates along the Himalayas to winter in N India and SE Asia. The population structure suggests a stable or shrinking population.
30244423|Predation may reduce prey numbers in such extent that prey may be depleted, which has negative effects on predator populations. Prey depletion would be more likely when the number of predators increase and/or concentrate their activity in a certain area, as is the case of colonial birds. As a matter of fact, food depletion due to intraspecific competition is considered a major cost of coloniality, and several studies have shown indirect evidence of this. However, no direct measures of food depletion have been provided along with its consequences for the fitness of the colony inhabitants. We carried out a field study with the lesser kestrel Falco naumanni, a raptor that breeds in colonies ranging from two to dozens of pairs. During the nestling period we sampled the main prey of the kestrels around different sized colonies at increasing distances. At the same time, we recorded hunting distances and prey delivery rates to the nest. In addition, we monitored the reproductive success in colonies of different sizes. Lesser kestrels feed their nestlings mainly with grasshoppers and these prey became depleted through the season in the surroundings of the large colonies. Prey depletion made kestrels fly longer distances to forage and prey delivery rates to the nest decreased. Lower feeding rates were not compensated by bringing larger prey, hence, the net amount of energy provided to the chicks decreased with the date in large colonies. By contrast, none of this occurred around small colonies, where both prey abundance and hunting distance remained constant throughout the season. As a consequence, the seasonal decline in the reproductive success (number of fledglings and fledgling body condition) was greater the larger the colony. Thus, these results evidence that food depletion and its fitness costs are related to colony size, as they are suffered by the kestrels breeding in large colonies but not by those settled at small ones. Finally, the consequences of prey depletion on the demographic dynamics and the regulation of colony size are discussed.
3677375|We analysed the effects of the design of feeding-preference experiments in a study of seed selection by Rufous-collared Sparrows Zonotrichia capensis. We presented eight seed options in multiple- and simple-offer experiments. Statistical results indicated that in multiple-offer tests there were three preferred, and two avoided seed species. The other three species could not be assigned to any of those groups. In contrast, results of simple-offer tests showed that all seed species were preferred, except the two avoided ones. Using a graphical combination of the results of both approaches, we obtained an easily interpretable assessment of the seed preferences of Rufous-collared Sparrows. In the graph space, seed species make up three groups: preferred, avoided, and less-preferred (i.e., heavily consumed in simple-offer trials, but avoided or consumed to a lesser extent in multiple-offer trials). With the combination of both protocols we avoided the biases caused by using one experimental design alone and could detect secondary-preferred food items. This seems crucial when the bird under study is plastic in its feeding preferences.
30244831|The phylogeographic structure of the widely distributed arid and semi-arid Australian splendid fairy-wren Malurus splendens was investigated by using variation in plumage characters and mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA). We examined sequences of the mtDNA ND2 gene and used spectrophotometry to quantify chromatic variation in plumage in order to test the current morphology-based intraspecific taxonomy of M. splendens and to discriminate between hypotheses invoking allopatric and parapatric processes in the origin of diversity in the complex. Genetic diversity of M. splendens fell into three divergent geographically structured clades. One represents populations ascribed to the western subspecies M. s. splendens, the other populations of central M. s. musgravi and the third all eastern populations currently ascribed to M. s. emmottorum and M. s. melanotus. Plumage patterns clearly differentiate M. s. splendens and M. s. musgravi, and spectrophotometry identified a step-wise transition in spectra between M. s. melanotus and M. s. emmottorum. Congruence of patterns of phenotypic and genetic variation among western, central and eastern populations of M. splendens strongly suggests that these populations have diverged in allopatry on either side of historical biogeographic barriers in this region. Decoupled patterns of phenotypic and genetic diversity suggest that the divergence of M. s. melanotus and M. s. emmottorum may have occurred without periods of isolation perhaps in response to differences in local environmental conditions, or alternatively, mtDNA and plumage may have different rates of evolution. Critically, we encountered issues with the placement of the root of the M. splendens complex. The root was placed within the subspecies M. s. splendens separating its northern and southern populations and rendering the subspecies paraphyletic.
10.2307/3677138| The time of departure of nocturnal passerine migrants was studied by radiotelemetry and tracking radar in South Sweden in spring and autumn. Our objective was to analyse the time of flight initiation in relation to celestial orientation cues during the twilight period at dusk. The telemetry and radar results were compared with data on nocturnal flight departures reported in the literature. There was a considerable variation in time of flight initiation throughout the twilight period. A large fraction of the birds (mostly thrushes) departed mainly during the civil and nautical twilight periods, with a sun elevation between 0 and -12, while several migrants did not leave until much later in the night. This variation in time of departures speaks against the hypothesis that departure time is connected with a critical skylight situation with respect to the visual accessibility of celestial orientation cues. Characteristic times of departure, as reflected by the associated elevations of the sun below the horizon, seem to differ between different passerine species, latitudes and times of migratory season. 
3677494|We examined the sex ratios of adults and nestlings in the cooperatively breeding bell miner Manorina melanophrys. Males were over-represented among helpers (mean of 6.8 male helpers per nest compared to 0.3 female helpers). 58% of nestlings sampled were identified as male using a molecular genetic marker. This was a significant departure from parity, yet the magnitude of the bias varied between years. The beneficial and male-biased nature of helping behaviour in this species and the similar size of male and female nestlings suggest the net cost of raising males is lower than the cost of raising females. Consequently, the male-biased sex ratio of nestlings we observed is consistent with the predictions of the repayment hypothesis that females may bias the production of their young towards the more helpful sex. Difficulties of generating quantitative predictions from repayment models that can be tested in the field are discussed.
3677523|We document seasonal changes in body mass and plasma hormone levels (testosterone and triiodothyronine) between winter and spring quarters in dark-bellied brent geese Branta bernicla bernicla. Body mass increased between winter and spring, whereas body size was the same for the birds sampled in winter and those in spring. Adults and males were larger and heavier than juveniles and females. Plasma testosterone levels did not differ significantly between winter and spring, and did not vary with sex, age and morphometry. Plasma triiodothyronine ( T3) levels were significantly higher in spring than in winter, and were higher for males than for females. However, T3 levels did not vary significantly with age and body measurements. To explain the findings, we discuss potential impacts of social dominance.
3677447|While accelerated growth can be advantageous to nestling birds, there may be a tradeoff between rapid growth and resistance to food shortages. Common murres Uria aalge are colonial seabirds that benefit from reproductive synchrony. Individuals that lay eggs late should benefit if they produce chicks capable of growing quickly and fledging synchronously with their neighbors. In this study, we controlled food provisioning of captive-hatched common murre chicks from a single subcolony and examined differences in growth between early-hatched individuals and their later-hatched neighbors. We assessed potential costs of rapid growth by comparing growth of chicks fed ad libitum with their growth under food restricted conditions. Chicks that hatched later were heavier, ate more and gained body mass more quickly than chicks that hatched earlier. Late-hatched chicks grew quickly enough to reach the same mass as their early-hatched neighbors in five days. However, chicks that grew more quickly under ad libitum food conditions grew more slowly when food was restricted. We conclude that murres that lay eggs late may synchronize their reproduction with early-laying neighbors by producing rapidly growing chicks. However, the ability to compensate for late hatching by growing quickly can be costly when food becomes limited.
3677639|High densities of penguins in their colonies and the continuous use of these sites over consecutive reproductive periods increase the risk of development of tick populations. We have studied the effects of tick parasitism by Ixodes uriae in a colony of king penguins Aptenodytes patagonicus at Possession Island during three breeding seasons. We investigated the prevalence and periods of tick infestation during the one-year breeding cycle of penguins. The effects of tick parasitism on penguin breeding performance were assessed from photographs of the colony and with an automatic penguin identification system. We compared two groups of penguins carrying individual subcutaneous electronic tags, one group breeding in an infested area and the other in a non-infested area. Tick feeding activity was coincident with the periods when adult penguins stayed ashore for six days or more, i.e. during the incubating period. This duration corresponds to the duration of a tick meal on the host. The level of infestation varied between years. Penguins showed a lower incubating success in infested areas during a year of high infestation. In an infested area, individuals seen with ticks had a lower breeding success in rearing a one-year old chick than those seen without ticks.
30243292|Bird song is an important signal for long-distance intraspecific communication. Thus, song characteristics are expected to have undergone adaptive modification to maximise propagation through the environment. Acoustic properties of song should be correlated with the habitat in which they are broadcast, and neighbouring individuals should sing similar songs because they share the same local acoustic environment. We tested these predictions by investigating associations between habitat characteristics and song attributes in the Madagascar paradise flycatcher Terpsiphone mutata. We also examined whether song dialects were distributed non-randomly through the study site and which features of habitat density best explained these associations. We found that individuals on territories in denser habitat sang longer songs at lower frequencies. Features of song structure were related to both understorey and canopy cover density. The distribution of dialects within the study site was also strongly associated with variation in understorey cover. These findings suggest that habitat variation contributes to maintaining microgeographic variation in song structure in this species.
3677508|Long-eared owls Asio otus do not build their own nests. They occupy old corvid nests in either coniferous or deciduous trees. In my study area owls favoured coniferous over deciduous trees for nesting and occupied nest sites in that order. Comparing overall breeding output, I found no difference between the two kinds of nest sites, but among early nests there was a higher proportion of unsuccessful nests in deciduous trees. This difference was due to differences in predation rate, indicating that the owls' pattern of nest site occupation followed predictions from the ideal despotic distribution model. I also show that, due to a seasonal change in habitat quality, predator driven despotism, although present, can be well masked and hence difficult to detect.
10.2307/3677034| We studied the relationship between female age and egg size of the Lesser Snow Goose Anser caerulescens caerulescens at La Prouse Bay, Manitoba, Canada, over a period of 15 years (1976-90). Two and three years old birds laid significantly lighter eggs than the rest of the population in a given year, laying sequence and clutch size. Analysis of repeated measures of individual birds showed equivalent results. Younger birds also laid eggs which were significantly longer and thinner than eggs laid by older birds. The pattern of intraclutch egg size variation was the same in both young and old birds, with younger birds laying slightly smaller eggs in each position within the laying sequence. Some physiological maturation process was probably responsible for the smaller eggs younger birds laid because the pattern held within individuals. However, changes in egg size and shape may be due to breeding experience rather than age itself. We detected no evidence for age-specific differences in egg size of older birds. Thus, neither senescent declines in egg size nor an increased allocation of reserves to reproduction appear to be occurring in this species. 
3677506| The foraging patterns of ten male rockhopper penguins Eudyptes chrysocome from the Falkland Islands were recorded during the incubation period by using satellite telemetry. Irrespective of study site and year, two different foraging areas could be identified. Three foraging trips were directed towards the slope of the Patagonian Shelf c. 140 km to the northeast of the breeding colony and these trips had a duration of 11-15 days. The seven other rockhopper penguins travelled c. 400 km towards the edge of the Falkland Islands' waters; all these foraging trips followed an anti-clock-wise direction and lasted 16-27 days. The calculated mean daily travelling speed, based on the time spent underwater and the distance covered between two positions, was significantly higher in birds travelling to the edge of the Falkland Islands' waters compared with those foraging at the shelf slope (4.4  1.6 km/h vs. 3.4  2.0 km/h, respectively). The consistent foraging patterns exhibited during the long trips may be linked to the Falklands current, allowing the penguins to reach remote areas while reducing their energy expenditure. Potential interactions between commercial fisheries and hydrocarbon exploration are discussed. 
30244468|Accurate measurements of what birds are looking at are valuable to most studies of vision and visually guided behaviour in avian species. Compared to human visual research, studies of gaze behaviour in birds are limited. A new laser-based method that can be used to quantify several aspects of a given sequence of gaze shifts and fixations is presented. Using near infrared light to estimate gaze direction is a relatively simple and cheap method to study visually guided behaviour. It has the potential to contribute significantly to the ornithological research by allowing the quantification of several behavioural traits of birds. Other methods are discussed and compared to the use of infrared light, and possible fields of application are suggested.
30244788|It is well established that extra-pair young are present to varying degrees in nests of most avian species. However, the timing of extra-pair copulations during a female's fertile cycle is not well known, nor is how these copulations translate into the distribution of extra-pair young within the laying sequence. We determined the rates of successful within-pair copulations where at least one cloacal contact was achieved, and the number of extra-pair copulations/attempts in 17 pairs of tree swallows Tachycineta bicolor during the mornings encompassing the female's fertile period. We also examined nestling paternity with respect to laying order in eighteen mixed-paternity tree swallow broods. The rate of successful within-pair copulations peaked three days prior to a female laying her first egg, and decreased steadily throughout the laying period. We therefore predicted that extra-pair young would be more likely to hatch out of later-laid than earlier-laid eggs within a female's brood. We found no evidence of an increased frequency of extra-pair young with laying order. Instead, extra-pair young appear to be randomly distributed within the laying sequence of tree swallows.
3677722| We tested if juvenile survival and recruitment (returning to breed) of wood thrushes Hylocichla mustelina into their natal population was dependent on several measures of nestling condition, growth, and site fidelity. Overall, nestling mass, wing chord, condition, and rank within the brood did not affect the probability of survival to the post-fledging stage, independence, or recruitment. We did not identify any morphometric differences among nestlings that remained in the study area after fledging and those that did not (or those that did not survive). Time of season and the number of days nestlings were present in the study area after hatching, or site fidelity, were the only variables measured that positively influenced juvenile survival and recruitment. Based on a restricted sample, fledglings that eventually recruited did not differ in size during post-fledging or post-independence from fledglings that did not return to breed. Independent, immigrant hatching-year (HY) birds are briefly described. Overall, immigrant HY birds had a higher probability of recruitment than all local fledglings. There was no difference in the probability of recruitment between immigrant HY birds and independent local fledglings (those present 35 days after hatching), however. Similar to local young, the number of days present in the study area increased the likelihood of recruitment for immigrant HY birds, although these effects could not be distinguished from those of emigration or survival. 
10.2307/3677046|In altricial birds, mass loss among brooding females may reflect nutritional stress due to reduced time available for foraging or the cost of warming young. Alternatively, it may be an adaptive adjustment to future energetic demands. To distinguish between these hypotheses we conducted a brood replacement experiment with Pied Flycatchers. Female Pied Flycatchers brood their young during the first 7 days after hatching. Nine broods with chicks 4 days old were replaced by broods that hatched on the day of manipulation. Females of the first group thus brooded for a longer period ("double brooding"), while the second group of females experienced a shortened brooding period ("non-brooding"). Other broods were not manipulated. Chicks were returned to their original nest after one week. Females adjusted their brooding and feeding response to the age of the brood being cared for. "Double brooding" females lost significantly less mass than control females during the first 8 days after hatching of their brood, although there was no difference between control and "non-brooding" females. There was no difference between treatments in nestling growth and survival. Total mass loss during the nestling period in the three treatments was equal. Female mass loss during the brooding period is not due to brooding effort, and presumably not a symptom of reproductive stress.
30243822|Although many animals use carotenoids to produce bright yellow, orange, and red colors, an increasing number of studies have found that other pigments, such as melanins, may also be used to produce bright colors. Yet, almost nothing is known about the evolutionary history of this colorful melanin use. We used reflectance spectrometry to determine whether colors in New World orioles were predominantly due to carotenoids, colorful melanins, or a mixture of both. We then used ancestral state reconstruction to infer the directionality of any pigment changes and to test for phylogenetic signal. We found that three oriole taxa likely switched from carotenoid- to melanin-based colors. Several other oriole taxa apparently gained localized melanin coloration, or had coloration that seemed to be produced by a mixture of carotenoids and melanins. We also found little phylogenetic signal on the use of carotenoids or melanins to produce color. However, all pigment changes occurred within one of three major clades of the oriole genus, suggesting there may be signal at deeper phylogenetic levels. These repeated independent switches between carotenoid and melanin colors are surprising in light of the important signaling role that color pigments (especially carotenoids) are thought to play across a wide range of taxa.
30244784|Chemodetection of common nest predators may be advantageous for nesting birds; however, few studies have examined the ability of songbirds to detect chemical odors from predators. Thus, in 2002, we presented eastern bluebirds Sialia sialis with pairs of nest boxes; one box in the pair was regularly scented with chemical cues from a common nest predator, the black rat snake Elaphe obsoleta, and the other with a neutral cue. In 2004, we again presented bluebirds with pairs of boxes, one scented with chemical cues from a different nest predator, the deer mouse Peromyscus maniculatus, and the other with a neutral scent. Although human females were able to correctly distinguish paper laced with predator cues from paper with neutral cues, bluebirds were as likely to lay eggs in boxes with predator cues as in boxes with neutral cues. While it remains possible that bluebirds may detect scent from potential nest predators, it appears that the presence of these chemical cues does not ultimately influence selection of nest sites.
30244419|Morphologies of bird species often vary along elevation gradients, yet causes of the variation have not been examined experimentally. We investigated variation in morphological traits of the dark-eyed junco Junco hyemalis, breeding at 1,000 m a.s.l. (low-elevation; i.e. low) and 2,000 m asl (high-elevation; i.e. high) in the Rocky Mountains, Canada. Eight morphological traits were measured in free-living birds. We found two consistent differences in populations between elevations: at high-elevation sites, females had longer wings and males had longer tails than birds from low- elevation sites. Other age- and gender- specific results were observed in free-living birds between elevations: tarsi were shorter in high-elevation second year (SY) females and after second year (ASY) males, beak lengths were slightly longer in low-elevation SY females, and high-elevation ASY females tended to have lower fat than low-elevation ASY females. Morphological differences may result from genetic differences between elevations, or phenotypic flexibility resulting from exposure to the different environmental conditions. To identify which mechanism caused the difference in morphometrics, hand-reared birds from low- and high-elevation habitats were raised in identical conditions with unlimited access to high quality food until they had replaced all feathers. The traits measured in the lab (wing and rectrix length, weight and fat score) tended to increase in magnitude compared to field values. Juncos from high- and low-elevations had similar responses to the aviary environment, with one exception: males from high-elevation sites had greater weight gain relative to free-living juncos than males from low-elevation sites. Thus, morphological traits in dark-eyed juncos were phenotypically flexible, capable of growing larger in the laboratory environment. However, there were also persistent genetic or perinatal/maternal differences underlying population responses that prevented traits from converging under aviary conditions. As a result, trait size differences between high- and low-elevation populations were maintained or exacerbated in the common aviary environment.
3677399|We studied long-term trends and the yearly variation in mean spring passage time in 36 passerine bird species trapped at Ottenby Bird Observatory in south-eastern Sweden. Between the years 1952-2002, data were available for 22-45 years depending on species. Most long-distance migrant species passed progressively earlier over the study period (range: 2.5 days earlier to 0.7 days later per 10 years, with an average of 0.9 days earlier per 10 years). The annual variation in timing of migration in most species, regardless of migration distance, correlated negatively with the winter index of the North Atlantic Oscillation (NAO), a large-scale climate phenomenon influencing the climate in the North Atlantic region. Birds passed earlier after mild and humid winters, corresponding to the high phase of the NAO. This corroborates the pattern found at a nearby migration site with a comparable dataset (Helgoland, 600 km WSW of Ottenby). However, short/medium-distance migrant species at Ottenby, in contrast to the situation at Helgoland, have shown no general trend of earlier passage in recent years. This was probably a consequence of the shorter study period at Ottenby, which included only the last 22-32 years (41 years at Helgoland), when the NAO showed no significant trend. At the species-specific level, the long-term trends in passage time were similar at the two sites, and there was some congruence to the extent that a given species was affected by NAO. Long-distance migrants wintering south and south-east of the breeding grounds showed some of the strongest changes in long-term trends (passing progressively earlier) at Ottenby, and for some of these species passage time varied negatively with NAO. Obviously, and contrary to previous suggestions, variations in NAO also influence birds migrating through eastern Europe, although the direct or indirect mechanisms through which this is achieved are unknown.
10.2307/3677167| The paper contains three parts. (A) A short description is given on the development of the bird flight wind-tunnel technology in my Mnchen and Saarbrcken labs; three tunnels especially adapted for the study of pigeon flight and of starling flight are described. (B) Results from aerodynamic two-component measurements of smooth starling models are given, built exactly after the coordinates gained by high resolution stereo photography of starlings gliding freely in a tiltable tunnel. Measurements of the model trunk, with and without tail feathers, are compared as well as measurements on the original starling and its model. The feather covering decreases drag and enhances lift. (C) Energetic measurements (by J. Speakman and his group who used our wind-tunnels) using the respiration mask technology, the doubly-labelled water technology and the heat dissipation technology are compared. Metabolic power rises slightly with flight speed. The three types of measurement coincide well. 
30244756|I review previous models of the speed at which parent birds should fly when delivering food to their young. Norberg gives a graphical method of finding a parent's best flight speed. This speed maximizes the overall rate at which energy is delivered to the young. An alternative assumption is that a parent maximizes the net rate of delivery of energy. I suggest that in general we cannot distinguish between net rate and overall rate on the basis of whether the parent feeds itself. The best way to distinguish between these currencies may be to use qualitative predictions. I present new results on the effect of a constraint on energy expenditure on the parent's optimal speed. I show that the optimal speed when foraging should be less than the optimal speed when traveling. I also analyse the advantage to a parent of flying faster than the maximum range speed and evaluate previous empirical studies of the speed at which parent birds fly. Only one study claims that parent birds fly at the speed identified by Norberg, but I raise doubts about this claim.
10.2307/3677305|I investigated the seasonal variation in growth rates among the semi-precocial chicks of European Coots Fulica atra. Mean body size and nutritional condition at four weeks of age showed a distinct seasonal decline among first broods, whereas variation in growth was independent of hatching date among later broods. Body dimensions differed between years, but there was no significant between-year variation in the seasonal patterns in chick growth. The seasonal pattern in mean body size was not explained by differences in mean egg mass, brood size or parental age between early and late breeding pairs. Independently of hatching date, chick body size was positively related to egg mass and negatively to brood size one week after hatching. To ascertain whether the seasonal decline in chick growth among first broods was due to a difference in the quality of early and late pairs (parental quality hypothesis), the brood care period of individual pairs was experimentally advanced or delayed by exchanging clutches that differed in laying date. In the first half of the season, the mean body size and nutritional condition of broods of experimental pairs were associated with the original hatching date, and not with the assigned actual (advanced or delayed) hatching date. Hence, the higher growth rate in the earliest broods was consistent with the parental quality hypothesis. In the second half of the season the mean body size and nutritional condition of broods fostered by experimentally advanced or delayed pairs were associated with the actual hatching date, and not with the original one. Thus, the mean body size and condition of chicks were causally related to hatching date in the second half of the season, either through a hatching date-linked deterioration of the environmental conditions for chick growth (date hypothesis) or through a decline in the quality of chicks with progressive hatching date (chick quality hypothesis). Analysis of individual variation in body size among chicks which were sexed upon recapture as adults, revealed a seasonal decline only among males. Body dimensions of female chicks were independent of hatching date. Finally, chicks of either sex that grew poorly were significantly smaller as adults. Therefore, variation in juvenile growth may represent a major factor in determining the reproductive value of coot chicks, as breeding success may depend on phenotypic differences in adult size.
3677370| We investigated the patterns of nocturnal bird migration in autumn 1998 at a coastal site on the Falsterbo peninsula in south-western Sweden, by means of a passive infrared device. In total 17411 flight paths, including track direction and altitude, of migrating birds were recorded for 68 nights from August to October. Mean migratory traffic rate per night varied between 6 and 6618 birds
30244802|Individuals can compensate for poor early nutrition by accelerating their growth rates once diet improves, but if malnutrition occurs at a key stage of development only certain body structures may compensate fully. This degree of compensation is predicted to differ between the sexes and also between species with different life history strategies. In this paper we determine how males and females in a short-lived bird species, with only slight size dimorphism, differ in their abilities to compensate for a poor start in life. Here, zebra finch Taeniopygia guttata chicks from 93 broods were reared on either a standard quality (SQ), or low quality (LQ) diet for the first 15 d of life, followed by a standard diet for the rest of their lives. Thus, the period of nutritional manipulation was relatively short compared with previous studies. Nestlings on a LQ diet showed slower body mass and tarsus growth rates than those on SQ diet but this was reversed after the diet of the LQ birds was improved. LQ birds of both sexes were able to fully compensate in terms of body mass and beak colour, but not tarsus length. Body size and beak colour are sexually selected traits in male zebra finches. By adulthood LQ females had significantly shorter wings than other birds, apparently directing resources into sex-specific structures instead of feather and skeletal growth. Thus, our experiment showed that the sexes differed in how they phenotypically compensated for a poor start in life. Males in particular invested sparse resources into structures associated with mate acquisition, as proposed by life history theory for a species that 'lives fast and dies young.' We predict that this relatively short period of malnutrition during early development will have long term, sex-specific, fitness consequences for these birds.
30244744|We examined the relationship between the Corsican nuthatch Sitta whiteheadi, a passerine endemic to the island of Corsica and Corsican pine Pinus nigra laricio forest, its virtually exclusive habitat, currently restricted to inland mountains. The Corsican nuthatch prefers older Corsican pine stands with tall, large trees, and avoids younger stands, both in the breeding and wintering seasons. This preference is explained by the greater availability of pine seeds from older trees. Territorial adults are almost completely sedentary, a trait that is influenced by seed hoarding behaviour. From late autumn to early spring (i.e., when cones are mature), and during sunny weather (i.e., when cones are open), nuthatches remove pine seeds from cones and cache them on branches and under the bark of trunks. The birds retrieve the cached seeds in cold and wet weather. The presence of old Corsican pine stands appears to be a key-factor in the survival of the Corsican nuthatch, whose habitat is currently threatened by logging and fires.
3676995|Aerodynamic theories of bird flight predict that horizontal flight speed will increase with increasing load whereas vertical flight speed will decrease. Horizontal flight speed for birds minimizing overall time on migration is predicted to be higher than flight speed for birds minimizing energy expenditure. In this study we compare flight speeds of Brent Geese Branta b. bernicla recorded by tracking radar and optical range finder during spring and autumn migration in southernmost Sweden, testing the above-mentioned predictions. Geese passing Sweden in spring are substantially heavier than in autumn and there might also be a stronger element of time-selection in spring than in autumn. Recorded airspeeds were significantly higher in spring (mean
30243821|Carotenoids produce the brilliant red, orange, and yellow colors of many animals. However, melanin pigments can also confer some of these same hues. Because carotenoid and melanin colors are produced in different ways and may serve different signaling functions, either within or between species, it is important to establish whether one or both types of pigment are responsible for coloration. We have discovered what appears to be an evolutionary switch from carotenoid- to melanin-based color in two sexually dichromatic New World orioles. Using a combination of reflectance spectrometry and chromatographic analyses of plumage pigments, we found that the chestnut plumage of adult male orchard orioles Icterus spurius is produced predominantly by phaeomelanins. Orchard oriole feathers also contain carotenoids, which appear to be masked by the high concentration of phaeomelanins. In contrast, both carotenoids and phaeomelanins appear to contribute to color in adult male Fuertes's orioles I. fuertesi. Moreover, yellow yearling male and female plumage in both species is produced by carotenoids alone. The masking of carotenoids with phaeomelanins in orchard orioles is interesting in light of the signaling roles that carotenoids are thought to play. In addition, these plumage differences produce a unique case of age and sexual pigment dimorphism in orchard and Fuertes's orioles.
10.2307/3677191|Parentage of 201 young (from 44 broods) in a population of Sedge Warblers Acrocephalus schoenobaenus in South Central Sweden, 1990-1992, was determined by using multilocus DNA fingerprinting. The frequency of extra-pair young (EPY) was 7.5% and they occurred in 23% of the broods. For 11 out of 15 extra-pair young we could identify the true father; in all of the cases he was a close neighbour. Among ten broods with extra-pair young, nine contained only one extra-pair sire and the remaining brood two extra-pair sires. The frequency of EPF varied among years (1.8-11.8%). The seasonal timing of broods with and without extra-pair young did not differ, and the occurrence of extra-pair fertilizations (EPF) was not related to the length of the pair male's mate-guarding period. EPF were not related to breeding synchrony (estimated as the mean number of fertile females per day during a female's fertile period). Pairs whose nests contained extra-pair young had more territories within 100 m of their nest than pairs without extra-pair young. Females that engaged in EPF had fewer attractive (i.e. singing) males to choose among the day before and at the day they formed their pair bond. Moreover, in all but one case the extra-pair male was not singing (i.e. not available as pair mate) the day the EPF-female settled. Males that fertilized extra-pair young tended to arrive earlier and to have higher pairing success than both males that were cuckolded and other males. Hence, female Sedge Warblers engaged in extra-pair fertilizations with attractive male neighbours. These results are consistent with the hypotheses that females participating in EPF are seeking genetic benefits to their offspring, but we cannot exclude the alternative explanation that attractive males are more efficient in forcing females to accept EPF.
30244797|The use of metal and colour-rings or bands as a means of measuring survival, movements and behaviour in birds is universal and fundamental to testing ecological and evolutionary theories. The practice rests on the largely untested assumption that the rings do not affect survival. However this assumption may not hold for several reasons, for example because the 'oddity effect' predicts predators select prey that appear different to their neighbours in order to avoid the 'confusion effect'. We compared the foraging behaviour and the death rates of redshanks Tringa totanus conspicuously marked with six colour rings and one metal ring each to unmarked birds in a study system, where routinely up to 50% of the total population are killed by avian predators during a winter. If avian predators selectively target and/or have a higher capture success of ringed birds then we would predict the proportion of colour-ringed birds in the population to decline through a winter. The proportion of colour-ringed birds in the population did not change over the course of three separate winters, and in one winter the ratio of marked:unmarked birds found killed by sparrowhawks Accipiter nisus was the same as the ratio of marked birds alive in the population. In the year with largest sample size, power was sufficient to detect a greater than 2.2% difference in predation rate between ringed and unringed groups. The average kill rate difference between ringed and unringed birds across the three winters was less than 1% (0.73  2.2%) suggesting that even if there were differences in predation rate that were not detected because of low statistical power they were extremely small. There were no differences in any foraging measures comparing ringed and unringed birds, suggesting that the rings did not affect the ability of birds to meet their daily energy budgets. The results showed that colour-ringed birds were not preferentially targeted or killed by avian predators, and suggest that the presence of a metal and even several large colour-rings is unlikely to affect behaviour and predation mortality even under extreme selection.
10.2307/3677201|During the last decades the White-backed Woodpecker has shown a precipitous decline in many regions of the western Palearctic. In this study I ask whether detoriation of the forest breeding habitat might have contributed to this population decline and contraction of the species' range. By using the technique of ptilochronology it is shown that the bird's condition reflects the quality of the breeding territory as estimated by the density of dead and deciduous stems. Feather growth bars were wider on old museum specimens, suggesting that birds living 55-150 years ago experienced a forest landscape of better quality than birds do today.
10.2307/3676965|Until recently, the Moustached Warbler was considered strictly monogamous. However, in our study we observed males other than the pair male incubating, feeding and defending nestlings. This additional care was far less extensive than that provided by the breeding male. Parental care by extra males seems to facilitate their later forming of a pair with the female for a subsequent brood. This is suggested by the following results: intrusions at foreign nests were strongly male-biased; high rates of non-aggressive encounters between intruders and pair females; helping behaviour occurred mostly in the presence of females; in subsequent second broods, two documented cases of mate switching at nests with extra male care in contrast to two cases of mate fidelity at nests where extra males did not help.
10.2307/3677211|Timing and speed of migration within Europe and North Africa are analysed in five Sylvia warblers using North European and British ringing recoveries. Intraspecific comparisons between populations breeding in Great Britain and in Northern Europe show no difference in the timing of autumn migration but about three weeks earlier spring arrival in Great Britain, indicating that northern populations spend a shorter time on the breeding grounds. Autumn migration speed estimates based on distance and elapsed time between consecutive captures vary between 43 and
25662902|Nest boxes provide sheltered nesting sites for both passerines and paper wasps. Although neither wasps nor birds appear to evict the other once one is fully established, it is unclear which is the dominant competitor at the onset of the breeding season. Using wire mesh, we excluded birds but not golden paper wasps Polistes fuscatus from alternating boxes along a transect through edge habitat in North Carolina from 2006  2008. If wasps dominate Carolina chickadees Poecile carolinensis and eastern bluebirds Sialia sialis during the early spring (all have similar nest initiation dates), we would expect wasps to settle in both box types at equal frequencies. However, if birds dominate wasps, we would expect wasp nests to be concentrated in "bird-proof" boxes. We found wasps in bird-proof boxes significantly more often than in bird-accessible boxes, indicating that secondary-cavity nesting birds are able to exclude wasps from available nest sites. Additionally, we found that during the period of nest initiation, birds usurp wasps more often than vice versa.
30244417|We examined androgens in clutches of two booby species that differ in their sibling conflict. Blue-footed booby Sula nebouxii chicks show an aggression-submission relationship, aggression is normally moderate and siblicide is facultative. Brown booby Sula leucogaster chicks show an aggression-aggression relationship, aggression of both chicks can be relentless and siblicide is obligate. The parental favoritism hypothesis predicts that egg mass, yolk mass and yolk androgens should decline with laying order less in the blue-footed booby than in the brown booby, to promote the survival of the former's junior chick. The eggs of the blue-footed booby had higher yolk concentrations of 5-dihydrotestosterone (DHT) and lower concentrations of testosterone (T); both species had similarly high yolk concentrations of androstenedione (A). Intra-clutch variation in yolk DHT, T and A failed to support our predictions. In both species, first and second eggs showed similar concentrations of all three hormones and were of similar size, although in the blue-footed booby (only) yolk masses declined with laying order. Brown booby mothers make junior chicks vulnerable to siblicide by hatching them 5 d after their broodmates, but not by differential allocation of egg androgens or nutrients. Blue-footed booby mothers appear to prepare junior chicks for thriving in a subordinate non-provocative role by hatching them 4 d after their broodmates and providing them with 10% less yolk. To orchestrate agonism within the brood, these boobies may rely more on hatch intervals and yolk provision than on androgens.
10.2307/3677303|A marked population of Checker-throated Antwrens Myrmotherula fulviventris was studied on Barro Colorado Island, Panama over a 14-year period. Once established on territories, Checker-throated Antwrens were found to be relatively long-lived - both males and females, which survive at least one year, live an average of four years; annual survival of territorial adults was 75%. After the first year, survivorship declined as birds aged; younger birds had a survivorship of 85-90% and older birds survived at an average of 50-76%. Territory boundaries were generally stable throughout the period despite substantial turn-over of individuals. Although territories are a stable and indivisible feature of the habitat, 37% of the marked adults shifted to neighboring territories at least once in their life. The frequency of switching appeared to be independent of sex or age. A large portion (59%) of the fledglings dispersed to within two territories of where they were hatched. Opportunity to improve territory quality appears to be largely limited to short-distance dispersal in both sexes of this species. Limited options for improving territory quality may explain the intense and often lengthy territorial boundary displays which occur on a daily basis. The need to provide defense against the intense competition for limited reproductive slots in the population may also explain the declining survivorship in territorial adults.
10.2307/3677242|Philopatry, nest-site tenacity, and mate fidelity were examined in a population of Semipalmated Plovers Charadrius semipalmatus breeding near Churchill, Manitoba, Canada from 1992 to 1997. Natal philopatry was low (7 of 445 (1.57%) hatchlings returned to the study area to breed) and no difference in sex of recruits was detected. Adult males returned at a significantly higher rate (58.9%) than adult females (41.2%). For both sexes, but more strongly for females, success in the previous year resulted in higher return rates in the subsequent year. Of pairs that returned, 41.6% divorced. Females that divorced or changed mates through death or disappearance of a partner between breeding seasons were significantly less site tenacious than females that reunited and also less so than males of any pairing status. Females that experienced breeding failure and changed mates in the subsequent breeding season moved farther than successful females that changed mates. In only one of four years did reunited pairs nest earlier and have greater hatching success than novel pairs. After divorce new mates of females did not differ significantly in morphological or plumage characteristics from old mates, nor did they possess territories with greater visibility, or territories nearer to water. After divorce new mates of males were significantly smaller than old mates. Our return rates underestimate survivorship in females because both the probability of return and site tenacity of females are strongly influenced by their previous success.
30243288|Some birds are known to use the UV reflectance in their feeding strategy. Knowing that the common kestrel Falco tinnunculus is able to recognise vole trails by perceiving the UV reflectance of their scent marks, this study was designed to investigate whether the use of scent marks in the UV range has an innate component, or if it is only acquired with experience. We tested the preference of 44 experienced adult and 49 nave juvenile common kestrels in four types of arenas: (1) scent-marked and covered with a UV transmitting filter (UV + SC), (2) scent-marked and covered with a UV blocking filter (UV-SC), (3) sprinkled with water and covered with a UV transmitting filter (UV + W), and (4) sprinkled with water and covered with a UV blocking filter (UV-W). We assessed the birds' preference by counting the number of visual scans and visits to each arena. The distribution of scans differed from random in both adults and juveniles. The birds scanned the UV + SC arena more often than the others. Since nave individuals showed the same preference as experienced ones, we hypothesised that the association between vole scent UV reflectance and vole presence has an innate component in the common kestrel. Nevertheless, adults differed from juveniles because they perceived the scented arenas from the water sprinkled ones, in fact, adults scanned the UV-SC arena more frequently than both UV + W and UV-W arenas. This result suggests that the ability of detecting UV cues has a learned component.
30244763|Birds frequently display a colourful plumage which is important both in inter and intraespecific communication, and either in sexual and social contexts. In last years some methodologies have been developed to analyse plumage coloration, but the use of the spectrometers has been particularly important for UV range. Measurement of plumage coloration with the spectrometer may be taken directly on the bird or, alternatively by collecting some feathers and measuring them later in the laboratory. However, few is known about the reliability of measures obtained from feathers and whether these are really representative of plumage coloration. We tested this assumption analysing measurements of carotenoids-based coloration components (lightness, chroma and hue) and lutein peak of the yellow breast of the great tit Parus major We used two spectrometers (Ocean optics and Minolta) which calculate differently the colour components. Our results showed that direct measurement of bird was highly repeatable to determine lightness, chroma and hue for both spectrometers. Similar results we found for collected feathers procedure for both devices. Collected feathers provided high representative measurements of colour values with Minolta spectrometer. Lightness was highly repeatable when we used Ocean optic spectrometer, but chroma and hue were moderate. Lutein peak was also highly repeatable in all cases. The number of feathers used to measure plumage coloration in collected feathers procedure strongly influenced values of colour plumage variables. In general, values of lightness, chroma and hue stabilised when more than 10-15 feathers were used although we found slight differences between spectrometers. However, only four feathers were needed for lutein peak. Thus, our results stress the need to use a minimum number of feathers in measuring plumage coloration from collected feathers.
30244832|Male structural plumage coloration and UV signals in particular can provide information on individual quality and influence female choice, while melanin-pigmented plumage is largely considered to be important in intrasexual competition. Many avian species demonstrate both types of plumage ornamentation that may convey different information about the signaller's quality or condition in addition to age. We examine rufous and blue plumage ornamentation across multiple body regions in relation to age, condition and reproductive performance in male western bluebirds Sialia mexicana. We demonstrate a strong positive relationship between head plumage brightness and both male age and the mass of the offspring. Older males are in better condition and display a reduced plumage patch on the back while the size of the rufous breast patch increases with increasing condition but not with age. Spectral characters from the wings and rump were not associated with any of the reproductive parameters measured. In conjunction with published evidence showing that females preferentially accept extrapair copulations from older males, these data suggest a need for experimental manipulation of plumage colour in known-aged birds to understand mate choice in this species.
30243868|An earlier onset of spring has been recorded for many parts of Eurasia in recent decades. This has consequences for migratory species, both in changing the conditions encountered by individuals on reaching migratory sites and in affecting cues regulating the timing of migration where decisions to migrate are influenced by local environmental variables. Here we examine the timing of spring migration for two arctic goose populations, the pink-footed goose Anser brachyrhynchus (during 1990-2003) and barnacle goose Branta leucopsis (during 1982-2003), which both breed on Svalbard. The satellite-derived Normalised Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI) was used to express the onset of spring at their wintering and spring staging sites. Pink-footed geese use several sites during spring migration, ranging from the southernmost wintering areas in Belgium to two spring staging areas in Norway, and distances between sites used along the flyway are relatively short. There was a positive correlation in the onset of spring between neighbouring sites, and the geese migrated earlier in early springs. Barnacle geese, on the other hand, have a long overseas crossing from their wintering grounds in Britain to spring staging areas in Norway. Although spring advanced in both regions, there was no corresponding correlation in the timing of onset of spring between their wintering and spring staging sites, and little evidence for barnacle geese migrating earlier over the whole study period. Hence, where geese can use spring conditions at one site as an indicator of the conditions they might encounter at the next, they have responded quickly to the advancement of spring, whereas in a situation where they cannot predict, they have not yet responded, despite the advancement of spring in the spring staging area.
3677765|Megapode hatchlings are "superprecocial" compared to hatchlings of other Galliformes. In this paper, we examine patterns of growth and inquire about evolutionary processes that led to different degrees of precocity at hatching in Galliformes. The postnatal development of body mass and that of seven morphometric parameters of wing and leg of Brush Turkey Alectura lathami, Peacock Pavo cristatus, Pheasant Phasianus colchicus and Japanese Quail Coturnix japonica was characterized by the ratio of exponential growth rate (EGR) to relative size (ln(W/A); W = size at a given age; A = asymptote) at a given age. From that relationship, we derived developmental trajectories as the slopes of a least squares regression of EGR on relative size. The slopes of the developmental trajectories are indicative of the degree of precocity of development. We found that Brush Turkey, Peacock, and Pheasant follow the same developmental trajectory. However, the Brush Turkey hatches heterochronically delayed on that trajectory and consequently, its hatchlings are superprecocial. The Quail follows a significantly steeper developmental trajectory and hatches with a high degree of embryonic function (EGR). From a comparative phylogenetic analysis we reconstruct the ancestral galliform developmental trajectory and infer that hypermorphosis of Brush Turkey embryos led to the superprecocial hatchlings. The steeper developmental trajectory of Quail is evolutionary derived from ancestral patterns of growth by somatic paedomorphosis. Using a multivariate approach we show that development of different parts of the body is coherent, i.e., that patterns of development of wing and leg do not vary independently of each other. Consequently, selection for changed development of any part of the wing or the leg will cause the other parts to change too.
3677707|Birds with uniparental incubation may face a time allocation problem between incubation and feeding. Eggs need regular warming to hatch successfully, but the parent must leave the nest to feed and safeguard its own survival. Time allocation during incubation is likely to depend on factors influencing egg cooling rates, parental energy requirements and feeding intake rate. How this allocation problem is resolved was subject of this study on arctic-breeding shorebirds. We compared incubation rhythms between four uniparental shorebird species differing in size and expected to find both species differences and weather effects on the organisation of incubation. Attentive behaviour and responses to variation in weather showed a remarkable consistency across species. All species alternated feeding bouts (recesses) with brooding bouts throughout the day. Recesses were concentrated in the warmer parts of the day, while recess duration showed little diurnal variation. Despite continuous daylight, a pronounced day-night rhythmicity was apparent. The four species in this study spent a similar proportion (13-19%) of the time off their nest. After correction for weather effects, the number of recesses was largest in the smallest species, while recess duration was longest in the largest species. Total recess time per day increased on cold days through an increase of mean recess length, while the number of recesses decreased. Comparing our observations to predictions derived from criteria that birds might use to organise their attentive behaviour, showed that the limits are set by parental requirements, while the energy stores of adults provide some leeway for short-term adjustments to environmental variability. If breeding birds trade off feeding time against incubation time, energy stores are expected to be influenced by weather. We expected uniparental species to be more likely to show weather effects on condition than biparentals, as in the latter 'off duty' time is much larger and independent of weather. This prediction was tested by comparing energy stores in two uniparental species and a biparental congener. While body mass of uniparental incubators decreased after a period with low temperatures, body mass of the biparental species did not.
3677701|Body mass of Brnnich's guillemots Uria lomvia breeding at Coats Island, Canada, was measured during incubation and chick-rearing in 1988-2001. In most years, mass increased during incubation and fell after hatching, leveling off by the time chicks were 18 d old, close to the age at which chicks departed. Mass during incubation increased with age up to about 12 yr, but the mass of birds brooding chicks was not related to age. The trend towards increasing mass during incubation was mainly a consequence of mass increases of young breeders as older birds maintained a constant mass. The variation in adult mass with age during incubation seems likely to reflect age-related variation in foraging ability, but the loss of mass after hatching, being greater for older birds, appears best explained as a response to the demands of provisioning chicks, with older birds transferring their accumulated reserves to their chicks via higher provisioning rates.
30244486|Arctic warbler Phylloscopus borealis is one of several high-latitude Passerines which are widely distributed across one northern continent but restricted to the Beringian part of the other. Most species with such asymmetric intercontinental ranges are monomorphic across Beringia, suggesting either recent colonization of the second continent or considerable gene flow across the Bering Strait. Arctic warbler is the only migratory species in this group that has three different subspecies in Beringia: Ph. b. borealis (Scandinavia to western Beringia, south to Mongolia), Ph. b. xanthodryas (Japan, Sakhalin, Kamchatka, western Beringia), and Ph. b. kennicotti (Alaska). This polymorphism may indicate that Arctic warbler has a unique and complex phylogeographic history that differs significantly from other species with similar ranges. Our analyses of complete mtDNA ND2 sequences of 88 Arctic warblers collected across the species range showed that the clade comprised of birds breeding on Sakhalin Island and Kamchatka Peninsula diverged from the Palearctic/Beringian clade by 3.8% in ND2 sequence. Beringian birds formed a recently derived clade embedded within the Palearctic clade. Nucleotide diversity declined sharply eastward from Palearctic to western Beringia and then to eastern Beringia. Our data provided no support for currently recognized subspecies. They suggested that the barrier at the western edge of Beringia was crossed by Arctic warbler earlier than the Bering Strait resulting in a stepping-stone colonization of Beringia by this species. Gene flow appears to be restricted across the western border of Beringia but not the Bering Strait.
3677391|Long-distance migrant passerines are well known to often display high levels of philopatry to breeding and wintering grounds. One could expect that similar selective pressures and similar navigation skills would result in their being faithful to stopover sites, a pattern that has been described for several populations of migratory waders and waterfowl. In this paper, we develop the argument that passerines should suffer from higher costs and receive lower benefits from stopover site faithfulness than waterfowl and waders. Based on Alerstam's (1979) "optimal drift strategy" theory and other considerations, we predict that passerines should have lower stopover site fidelity than geese and waders, and that site faithfulness should decrease with increasing distance from either end of the migratory journey. We present results from a long-term study on the stopover ecology of migrant passerines in southern Portugal that support these predictions and show that, for species and populations that neither nest nor winter in this country, few individuals are faithful to the stopover site. On the other hand, populations that included individuals at (or near to) the start or the end of the migratory journey, had much higher return rates. We could not find any evidence that species linked to scarce habitats, such as wetlands, were more site faithful. Our results are in agreement with several other reports, but in apparent contrast to previous conclusions resulting from some studies involving Old World warblers. These differences are discussed and it is argued that there is no solid evidence to suggest that site fidelity should be important for passerines at stopovers far away from breeding or wintering grounds, meaning that there is a large within-individual variability in the precise migratory routes and stopover sequence used each year.
10.2307/3677155|The full magnitude and complexity of bird migration have not been possible to grasp until after the revolutionary discoveries made with the aid of, e.g., ringing, systematic field observations and radar. These have opened up opportunities for a more formalized theoretical construction work during the recent decades. The introduction of theoretical concepts and tools from flight mechanics into the field of bird flight and migration took place during the 1960s and 1970s and paved the way for the use of optimization analysis to evaluate adaptive aspects of flight behaviour, fuel deposition and responses to wind drift by migrating birds. The approach has been expanded, i.e. through the use of stochastic dynamic programming, to analyse the expected disposition of the migratory journey (with respect to flight and stopover arrangement) under different ecological conditions and the adaptive temporal structure of the annual cycle of a migratory bird. Theoretical considerations also play an important role in analysing the orientation of migratory birds, their population ecology, and patterns of differential migration. Theoretical developments in these areas are reviewed. In the long run evolutionary and mechanistic theories must meet and join to provide a full understanding. While optimization models standing up to critical tests may help to identify primary forces of balancing selection and constraints, mechanistic theories are needed to tell us how the inherent biological algorithms operate within the sensory, neural and physiological systems to control behaviour and design in an adaptive way.
30244820|We studied reproductive success and post-breeding movements of 32 adult female emperor geese Chen canagica that were marked with satellite radio transmitters on their nesting area on the Yukon-Kuskokwim Delta (YKD), Alaska 2000-2004. All 16 females that failed to successfully reproduce departed the YKD and moulted remiges either on the north coast of the Chukotka Peninsula, Russia (n = 15), or on St. Lawrence Island, Alaska (n= 1). Of 16 females that successfully nested, one migrated to Russia following hatch whereas the remainder stayed on the YKD. While moulting on the Chukotka Peninsula, emperor geese with satellite transmitters primarily used coastal lagoons west of Kolyuchin Bay. We observed 21,150 adult-plumaged emperor geese during aerial surveys in Chukotka in 2002. Most (95%) were in the same region used by geese that had been marked with satellite transmitters in Alaska. The number of emperor geese observed in Russia was comparable to our estimate of  20,000 adults that either do not nest or nest unsuccessfully each year on the YKD, suggesting that most nonproductive adults, or  28% of the adult population departs the YKD to moult elsewhere. The number of moult migrants may be substantially higher in years of poor reproductive success or if adult-plumaged birds that are not of breeding age also leave the YKD. Moult migration of emperor geese between Alaska and Russia is likely substantially greater than previously believed. Russian moulting habitats are important to the North American population of emperor geese and events that affect survival of geese in Russia could impact population trends on the YKD. Protection of coastal lagoons on the north coast of Chukotka is warranted.
10.2307/3677344|The abundances of potential avian prey species may be lower in the vicinity of the nests of predatory birds than farther away. We predicted that, if this density depression is due to predation, the observed density pattern should develop gradually during the breeding season as raptors deplete the prey populations. In contrast, if the low abundance is a result of predator avoidance during breeding habitat selection, the observed pattern should be evident from the beginning of the breeding season. We tested these predictions by counting breeding birds along transect lines (length 700 m, width 100 m) radiating away from Kestrel Falco tinnunculus nests, and along control transect lines situated > 1000 m from Kestrel nests, five times in the course of the 1994 breeding season in western Finland. Breeding bird density was ca. 25% lower within 700 m of the Kestrel nests than on control sites. The positive relationship between bird densities and the distance from Kestrel nests was most evident in the early breeding season, which supports the predator avoidance hypothesis. The effect of predator presence on the distribution of breeding pairs seemed to be weak at species level but stronger at community level. At the beginning of the breeding season, distance from predator nests explained a larger proportion of the observed variation in the number of birds or species than any of the habitat variables used.
3677742|The effects of natural moult on avian flight performance have received relatively little attention, yet moult is an important part of the annual cycle. Quantification of flight costs will help to explain the diversity of moult patterns observed in avian taxa. Take-off from the ground requires a high power output from the flight muscles compared to other modes of flight, and is an important feature of foraging and predation escape. The present study was designed to quantify the effect of natural moult and new plumage on the take-off strategy, kinematics, and flight performance of European starlings Sturnus vulgaris. A high-speed (185 Hz) cine camera was used to film seven European starlings on three occasions: session 1, two weeks prior to the onset of moult; session 2, during mid-moult; and session 3, two weeks after full plumage had re-grown. From subsequent film analysis, we assessed take-off speed and angle, the energy gained per wingbeat, and wingtip kinematics. Take-off strategy (measured by angle and speed) altered through the course of the three experimental sessions, i.e. ascent angle decreased and take-off speed increased. Energy gained per wingbeat did not vary, suggesting there was no significant decrease in flight performance due to moult, but there was a significant improvement in take-off performance due to renewal of flight plumage. Wingbeat amplitude increased in association with moult and after flight plumage had been completely renewed. The European starlings incurred relatively minor flight costs due to moult, when comparing before-moult with during-moult take-off performance. The apparent absence of additional flight costs associated with moult may reflect a decreased mechanical performance of year-old feathers (which are replaced during the moult) and may also help to explain the relatively long duration of the moult in this species. This study also provides evidence of the benefits of plumage renewal, as take-off performance is improved after moult has been completed.
3677660|The breeding of Black-legged Kittiwakes Rissa tridactyla in their last breeding season has been compared with that of pairs which survived to the next breeding season. The time of laying was not affected but the clutch size, breeding success and productivity were significantly lower and a higher proportion of pairs totally failed to rear any young in pairs where one of the partners died before the next breeding season. When both partners died before the next breeding season, the breeding performance was reduced to a greater extent, suggesting an additive influence. The depressive effect on the last breeding attempt was confirmed by comparing the breeding success of individual females in their ultimate and penultimate breeding attempts. The effect was present in breeding birds of all ages, from first time breeders to the oldest individuals, and so could not be interpreted as an effect of senescence. Most of the adults which died apparently did so several months after breeding, during the winter half of the year when the kittiwake is oceanic. It is suggested that this depressive effect on breeding is the result of terminal illness which caused the birds to lose condition progressively over several weeks or months. It is possible that stress in the form of disease or parasite infections is primarily responsible for the death of many of the individuals. Attention is drawn to the possible confusion between the effect reported here and claims that senescence leads to lower reproductive output in old birds. It is suggested that more critical examinations are needed of claims that senescence directly affects the breeding success of birds.
3677621|Anti-predator vigilance describes how animals scan their environments for predators. For mathematical simplicity, theories of anti-predator vigilance have generally assumed that animals initiate scans with a constant probability for each unit of time spent feeding. Initiating scans in such a fashion would produce a wide distribution of intervals between scans. Because so much variation was assumed by theory, observations of variation have received little consideration. We show that the original theories of vigilance contain a conceptual discrepancy between the assumed predator and anti-predator tactics. Modified versions of the theory allow variation only under restrictive circumstances that seem unlikely to apply in nature. Plausible reasons for the observed variation in interscan interval are that theories of vigilance assume the wrong predator tactics or the wrong details of predator detection. These possibilities lead to testable predictions about how distributions of interscan intervals should change under different threat and detection conditions.
30244789|Relative numbers of males and females in breeding groups may vary from expected values owing to a variety of factors. To determine how sex ratio might influence individual phenotypes in a captive population of dark-eyed juncos Junco hyemalis during the breeding season, we established three treatment groups: a male-biased (2:1), equal (1:1), and female-biased group (1:2). Within-group density (birds/m) was constant across groups. We assessed the frequency of flight chases (a proxy for social instability), measured changes in body mass and pectoral muscle condition, assayed plasma levels of testosterone (T) and compared cell-mediated immunity of individuals. We found significantly more chases in the male-biased group than in the female-biased group. Birds in the male-biased group lost more mass and displayed poorer pectoral-muscle condition than birds in the equal group. Cell-mediated immune responses were reduced in individuals in the male-biased group in comparison to the female-biased group. Plasma T levels in both sexes did not vary with sex ratio. Collectively, these results suggest that during the breeding season, social instability is greater in male-biased populations, and instability may lead to decreased general health and vigour.
30243845|The distances that individuals disperse, from their natal site to the site of first breeding and between breeding sites, have important consequences for the dynamics and genetic structure of a population. Nearly all previous studies on dispersal have the problem that, because the study area encompassed only a part of the population, emigration may have been confounded with mortality. As a result long-distance dispersers may have been overlooked and dispersal data biased towards short distances. By studying a virtually closed population of Seychelles warblers Acrocephalus sechellensis we obtained almost unbiased results on several aspects of dispersal. As in the majority of other avian species, natal dispersal distance was female biased in the Seychelles warbler. Female offspring also forayed further from the natal territory in search of breeding vacancies than male offspring. The sex bias in natal dispersal distance did, however, depend on local breeding density. In males, dispersal distance decreased as the number of territories bordering the natal territory increased, while in females, dispersal distance did not vary with local density. Dispersal by breeders was rare and, unlike in most species, distances did not differ between the sexes. We argue that our results favour the idea that the sex bias in natal dispersal distance in the Seychelles warbler is due to inbreeding avoidance and not resource competition or intrasexual competition for mates.
30245319|We show that in a long-distance migrant shorebird species with outspoken seasonal changes in body mass and composition, the red knot Calidris canutus, the ratio between the masses of the small flight muscle (musculus supracoracoideus, powering twists and active upstrokes of the wings) and the larger flight muscle (musculus pectoralis, for the downstrokes) is far from constant. During an annual cycle the supracoracoideus/pectoralis ratio varied more than twofold between values of 0.058 (0.005 SE) in early winter period and of 0.124 (0.01 SE) on the High Arctic tundra breeding grounds. The ratios thus spanned a range from those typical of soaring raptors and seabirds to those of fast and agile fliers and birds with rapid take-offs. The overall average ratio was 0.102 (0.001 SE, for non-starved knots, and 0.1030.001 SE including starved knots) and did not differ between males and females. As predicted from the known functions of supracoracoideus and pectoralis, the ratio was a negative function of body mass. However, after arrival on the breeding grounds (0.124) and during winter starvation (0.135) particularly high ratios were reached: these may be times when wing-manoeuvrability (in flight display and during the evasive 'rodent run' away from predators at the nest) and an ability for rapid take-off and active up-strokes (from -near- the nest, and in times of depletion of flight muscle mass during winter starvation) may be at premium. The particularly low ratio of 0.06 in early winter is puzzling. Many aspects of avian phenotypes have recently been shown to be intraindividually variable. To a twofold seasonal variation in flight muscle mass (Dietz et al. 2007), we can now add the twofold variation in the ratio between the muscles for the upstroke and the downstroke.
10.2307/3677047|In a three year field study on a population of 350 Greater Rheas Rhea americana we followed the fates of 138 nests. In four of these nests we observed that, instead of one, there were two males sitting. These males were less than one metre apart and during the incubation period, they stole eggs from each other. There were no signs of aggression between them. The total number of eggs in these adjacent or double nests was similar to that in single nests. Each double nest began as a single nest but during incubation, a second male sat beside the first male and started stealing eggs. We discuss possible functional and mechanistic explanations of this apparently misdirected behaviour.
25662894|The primary and accepted method used to estimate seabird densities at sea from ships is the strip transect method, designed to correct for the effect of random directional bird movement relative to that of the ship. However, this method relies on the critical assumption that all of the birds within the survey strip are detected. We used the distance sampling method from line-transects to estimate detection probability of a number of species of flying seabirds, and to test whether distance from the ship and bird body size affected detectability. Detection probability decreased from 0.987 (SE = 0.029) to 0.269 (SE = 0.035) with increasing strip half-width from 100 to 1400 m. Detection probability also varied between size-groups of species with strip half-width. For all size-groups, this probability was close to 1 for strip half-width of 100 m, but was 0.869 (SE = 0.115), 0.725 (SE = 0.096) and 0.693 (SE = 0.091) for strip half-width of 300 m, a typical strip width used in seabird surveys, for respectively large, medium and small size flying seabirds. For larger strip half-width, detection probability was higher for large sized species, intermediate for medium sized species and lower for smaller sized species. For strip half-width larger than 100 m we suggest that more attention should be paid to testing the assumption of perfect detectability, because abundance estimates may be underestimated when this assumption is violated. Finally, the effect of the speed of travel of flying seabird on the detection probability was estimated in a simulation study, which suggests that detection probability was underestimated with increasing flying speed.
3676924|We studied the sex ratio of Bluethroat Luscinia svecica broods using AFLPs. Our aim was to test whether there is a bias towards males that could be explained by sexual selection theories, or conversely, a bias towards females that could help explain the female-biased sex ratio among juveniles observed at a wintering site. The AFLP technique was reliable in sexing the nestlings from even small initial DNA quantities. Given the large number of polymorphic markers that can be obtained for each primer combination, the probability of detecting a W-chromosome-linked fragment is reasonably high. As a consequence, this method could be used in other species for sex-ratio studies and for other genetic purposes. Among 246 nestlings, we found an overall proportion of males of 50.8% at hatching and the sex-ratio variation using broods as independent units was not significantly different from expectation under a binomial distribution. None of the parental and environmental variables tested changed significantly the deviance to the model. Thus, sex determination in the Bluethroat seems to match the classical Mendelian model of a 1:1 sex ratio and cannot explain the biased sex ratio towards juvenile females found at the wintering site.
3677594|In male birds, the gonadal hormone testosterone (T) is known to influence territorial and mating behaviour. Plasma levels of T show seasonal fluctuations which vary in relation to mating system and social instability. First, we determined the natural T profile of male blue tits Parus caeruleus during the breeding season. We found that plasma levels of T increased at the onset of nest building. Thus, the increase in circulating T was not associated with territory establishment, nor with the fertile period of the males' mates. In most individuals, T levels dropped to values close to zero during the period of chick feeding. Second, we investigated the relationship between plasma levels of T and male age, size, and singing behaviour. During the mating period, T levels did not differ between 1 yr old and older males and did not correlate with body size or condition. However, song output during the dawn chorus tended to be positively correlated with T levels. Therefore, if high T levels are costly, song output might be an honest indicator of male quality in blue tits. Finally, we show that plasma levels of T are significantly higher during the night than during the day. This pattern has also been observed in captive non-passerine birds, but its functional significance remains unknown.
30244761|We evaluated the relationship between spatial variability in prey and food habits of eastern imperial eagles Aquila heliaca at a 90,000 ha national nature reserve in north-central Kazakhstan. Eagle diet varied greatly within the population and the spatial structure of eagle diet within the population varied according to the scale of measurement. Patterns in dietary response were inconsistent with expectations if either ontogenetic imprinting or competition determined diet choice, but they met expectations if functional response determined diet. Eagles nesting near a high-density prey resource used that resource almost exclusively. In contrast, in locations with no single high-density prey species, eagles' diet was more diverse. Our results demonstrate that spatial structuring of diet of vertebrate predators can provide important insight into the mechanisms that drive dietary decisions.
3677637|Recently Carter et al. (2000) have shown that it is possible to amplify microsatellite markers from the DNA of spermatozoa trapped in the perivitelline layers of avian eggs. This makes it possible to establish whether sperm reaches the ovum and to identify the males that contribute sperm competing to fertilise an egg. In this article we quantify the genotyping error rate associated with the biased amplification of differently sized alleles. We conclude that multiple marker loci should be used and that those markers where the competing males' alleles differ by more than ten base pairs should be avoided.
10.2307/3677240|During a 10-year study at two adjacent Scottish sites we tested the null hypotheses that Sparrowhawks Accipiter nisus selected overwintering Redshanks Tringa totanus independently of body size and condition. There was no significant difference in wing length, leg length and bill length between Redshanks killed by Sparrowhawks and the Redshank population as assessed from cannon-netted samples. On one site in one winter the survivors (where 20% of the surviving population was sampled) were no different in size from those killed by Sparrowhawks (where over 45% of the wintering population was killed), although shorter-legged adults were killed more frequently than expected. There was no significant variation in the size of Redshanks killed by Sparrowhawks with month. Redshanks maintained the same body condition relative to other Redshanks throughout a winter. The body condition of Redshanks killed by Sparrowhawks was not different from that of Redshanks cannon-netted at the same time of winter, and there was no suggestion that birds in either particularly poor or particularly good condition were selected. The lack of selection according to size or condition was probably due to Sparrowhawks being surprise, short-chase predators that selected prey on the ground.
10.2307/3676939|In many bird species, egg and/or clutch size increases with female age, and declines with laying date. The declines with date have been considered time-saving adaptations to seasonal environments. At Coats Island, N.W.T., Canada in 1994 and 1995, we examined the relationships among female age, laying date and egg size in the Thick-billed Murre Uria lomvia, an Arctic seabird that lays a one-egg clutch. In particular, we tested a model that views the seasonal decline in egg size in this species as a time-saving adaptation: the model predicts that, irrespective of their age, late-laying birds will reduce egg size. Laying dates became earlier with increasing female age to 8 years, because young birds initiated egg formation late. Egg size increased with age to 8 years, possibly because young birds deposited yolk at a slow rate. Individual effects explained much of the variation in laying date and egg size. Egg size declined with laying date in a random sample of eggs laid by birds of unknown age. However, egg size was independent of laying date among older birds. In contrast, egg size declined with laying date among young birds, but this was an effect of age, not date. Young birds that laid at the same time as older birds laid smaller eggs. These results indicate that the time-saving model does not adequately explain the seasonal decline in egg size in Thick-billed Murres. We suggest that characteristics of individual Thick-billed Murres, largely mediated by age (or experience) during early reproductive attempts, determine the size of egg they lay.
10.2307/3677008|Studies of sexual selection have focused mainly on explanations of how male characteristics influence mating success during the breeding season. By contrast, few studies have investigated how behaviours prior to the breeding season influence mate choice during the mating period. Males in many species of birds exhibit behaviours that resemble mating behaviours typically performed during the breeding season, even though environmental conditions are then not suitable for breeding. In one such species, the lekking Black Grouse Tetrao tetrix, both males and females visit leks regularly in autumn. Between 1988 and 1994 we studied autumn lekking and its relation to the performance of males and females in spring in a Black Grouse population in central Finland. We found that virtually all males, regardless of their previous copulation success, joined the lek in autumn, and that territory defence, in terms of fighting behaviour, was as intense in autumn as in spring. Furthermore, males that did not establish their territories until spring were less successful in obtaining copulations than males that established their territories in the previous autumn or earlier. In addition, males possessing central territories in autumn had higher copulation success in the following spring, probably because females visited the same male territories in autumn and in the following spring. Our results suggest that males lek in autumn to increase their copulation success in the following spring. Consequently, this behaviour may provide females with an opportunity to assess males prior to the breeding season.
30245209|Health state parameters in natural populations can be used as bioindicators of environmental health if they respond to environmental cues. We studied to which extent health state parameters (morphological, biochemical, and haematological) were determined by the environment in which nestling birds were reared or by their genotype, using a cross-fostering experiment in great tits Parus major. Morphological parameters and plasma protein, had a higher environmental than genetic component of variance which could be related with food availability differing between rearing nests. Glutathione peroxidase, an enzyme involved in antioxidant protection, also had a relatively high environmental component of variance, suggesting that nestlings in different rearing nests were exposed to different degrees of oxidative stress. Plasma cholinesterases were more influenced by the birds' genotype than by the rearing environment. The parameters with the lowest residual variance and the highest environmental component of variance such as glutathione peroxidase, plasma protein and morphological parameters (tarsus length and weight) would be more adequate as bioindicators.
3677490|Present knowledge of the effects of nest predation on spatial distribution, habitat selection and community structure of birds is to a large extent based on results from experiments with artificial nests. Although nest predation risk is likely to differ between artificial and real nests, most previous studies of nest predation using artificial nests have been lacking a proper control. We investigated whether predation rates on artificial nests predicted those on real nests by simultaneously comparing the fate of real and artificial nests (containing quail Coturnix coturnix and plasticine eggs) in 92 territories of the northern wheatear Oenanthe oenanthe in 1996. We also investigated whether risk for artificial nests was related to relative average risk for real nests in these territories (based on data collected two years before and two years after the experiment). Nest predation on artificial nests did predict relative predation risk for real nests only when quail egg depredation was used as the criterion for artificial nest predation. Despite plasticine egg depredation being the most common type of predation it was not associated with predation risk for real nests. Small mice and vole species dominated among cases with only plasticine egg depredation, while predatory mammals and snakes destroyed most quail eggs in artificial nests and most eggs in real wheatear nests. The results suggest that artificial nests may only predict the risk for real nests when the nest predator species are similar among the two types of nest. Furthermore, our data suggest that small mice and vole species rarely depredate nests of mid-sized passerine birds. Our results cast doubt on many previous conclusions based on experiments with artificial nests, since predation risk for such nests is likely to be uncorrelated with risk for real nests due to nest-type-specific differences in nest preying species.
3677001|In altricial birds, adults are expected to alleviate the impact of parasitism on their young by increasing parental care. We experimentally investigated the effects of blowfly parasitism on adult behaviour in the nest cavity in a population of Blue Tits in which nestlings are heavily parasitized by blowfly larvae. The behaviour of males and females was different, since only the females carried out nest sanitation activities related to the presence of parasites. The time females devoted to nest sanitation was higher in parasitized nests than in experimentally deparasitized ones, suggesting that chicks and adults might share the costs of blowfly parasitism.
30244803|We used stable isotope (SI) methods in combination with pen feeding trials to determine the importance of eggs of the Atlantic horseshoe crab Limulus polyphemus to migratory fattening of red knots Calidris canutus rufa and ruddy turnstones Arenaria interpres morinella during spring stopover in Delaware Bay. By manifesting measurable fractionation (ca + 3) and rapid turnover, blood plasma <tex-math>$\delta^{15}$</tex-math> nitrogen proved a functional marker for SI diet tracking during the short 3-week stopover. Blood samples from free-ranging knots (3 data sets) and turnstones (1 data set) produced similar convergence of plasma <tex-math>$\delta^{15}N$</tex-math> signatures with increasing body mass that indicated highly similar diets. Asymptotes deviated slightly (0.3 to 0.7) from that of captive shorebirds fed a diet of only crab eggs during stopover, thus confirming a strong crab egg-shorebird linkage. The plasma <tex-math>$\delta^{15}N$</tex-math> crab-egg diet asymptote was enriched ca +4.5 and therefore readily discriminated from that of either blue mussels Mytilus edulis or coquina clams Donax variabilis, the most likely alternative prey of knots in Delaware Bay. Crab eggs were highly palatable to captive knots and turnstones which achieved rates of mass gain (3-11 g/d) comparable to that of free-ranging birds. Peak consumption rates during hyperphagic events were 23,940 and 19,360 eggs/bird/d, respectively. The empirical conversions of eggs consumed to body mass gained (5,017 eggs/g for knots and 4,320 eggs/g for turnstones) indicate the large quantities of crab eggs required for the maintenance of these shorebird populations during stopover.
30244475|Despite a long history of anatomical studies in birds, the genitalia of most avian species remain undescribed. Birds are the only vertebrate taxon with internal fertilization where an intromittent phallus has been lost in most species. Studying the anatomical transitions of the avian phallus in those species where it is still present, allows us to test evolutionary hypotheses of why the phallus was lost in the ancestor of modern birds. As part of an anatomical survey of the evolution of avian phallus morphology, we have examined some avian species whose genitalia have not been described. Previously, there were only two known events of phallus reduction in birds: one transition from intromittent to non-intromittent in the Galliformes, and a complete loss of phallic structures in the ancestor of Neoaves. Here we report three additional cases of phallus reduction in birds: a transition from intromittent to non-intromittent phallus in Tinamiformes (Crypturellus, Tinamidae), the presence of a non-intromittent phallus in Alectura (Megapodidae), and a complete loss of the phallus in Leipoa (Megapodidae). In addition, we report on the unique morphology of the Crypturellus non-intromittent phallus. These new records of phallus reduction highlight the dynamic nature of phallus evolution in birds. Our findings provide evidence against the hypothesis that the phallus in birds is maintained to insure paternity in taxa with exclusive male parental care, since both groups where we report phallus reduction provide predominately male-only care.
3677664|As understanding of the processes and mechanisms of bird navigation has increased, older conceptual frameworks and terminology have become inadequate. Terminology used to refer to orientation and navigation behaviour have acquired varied and divergent meanings. Here I present a unified set of terminology that I hope will help clarify thinking and communication in the field.
3677693|The genetic mating system is known for only a few species of owls. Most of them are genetically monogamous. The Lanyu scops owl Otus elegans botelensis breeds in high density in the forests of Lanyu (Orchid Island), southeast of Taiwan. Because extra-pair copulations (EPCs) have frequently been observed, we suspected a high degree of extrapair fertilizations (EPFs). Through intensive field observations we quantified both within-pair and extra-pair copulations of this owl, and used a set of microsatellite loci to assign the parentage of 200 offspring from 108 families collected between 1999 and 2004. Among copulations for which we could identify both participants, 19.77% were EPC. However, no EPC was observed in the period just before egg laying. We found only two cases of parentage mismatch among 108 broods. The first case was most likely a case of brood usurpation, which would be the first case reported in the Strigidae. The second case was an EPF resulting in one offspring. Our study found that parentage mismatch in the Lanyu scops owls to be extremely low, therefore reproductive success can be estimated accurately by simply counting chicks in nests.
30244836|Condition indices are commonly used in an attempt to link body condition of birds to ecological variables of interest, including demographic attributes such as survival and reproduction. Most indices are based on body mass adjusted for structural body size, calculated as simple ratios or residuals from regressions. However, condition indices are often applied without confirming their predictive value (i.e., without being validated against measured values of fat and protein), which we term 'unverified' use. We evaluated the ability of a number of unverified indices frequently found in the literature to predict absolute and proportional levels of fat and protein across five species of waterfowl. Among indices we considered, those accounting for body size never predicted absolute protein more precisely than body mass, however, some indices improved predictability of fat, although the form of the best index varied by species. Further, the gain in precision by using a condition index to predict either absolute or percent fat was minimal (rise in r 0.13), and in many cases model fit was actually reduced. Our data agrees with previous assertions that the assumption that indices provide more precise indicators of body condition than body mass alone is often invalid. We strongly discourage the use of unverified indices, because subjectively selecting indices likely does little to improve precision and might in fact decrease predictability relative to using body mass alone.
30243285|Rates of food intake in animals consuming abundant prey can be constrained by the rates of digestion or excretion of ingested substances, such as salt, particularly so in the animals that regularly migrate between freshwater and saltwater environments. We tested this hypothesis in a long-distance migrant shorebird, the eastern curlew Numenius madagascariensis (suborder Charadrii), foraging on intertidal decapods in eastern Australia. We predicted that if food intake rates are constrained osmotically, individuals with access to freshwater and less saline prey (FW group) would have higher rates of food and water intake than individuals with seawater-only access (SW group). Food intake rates did not differ between the FW and SW Froups (0.14 g ashfree dry mass min), nor did the water influx rates (0.75 g min). Salt intake rates were lower at FW sites (19.3 versus 23.3 mg NaCl min) and overall they were similar to those of marine birds. Food intake rate in the eastern curlew appeared limited by digestive rather than by osmoregulatory capacity.
10.2307/3677009| Useful sampling guidelines have recently been provided to improve the precision of bird population parameter estimates from point count data. Less attention has been given, however, to the issue of accuracy or completeness of counts at each sampling point. While it may not be critical in studies that compare average counts among study plots, completeness of counts at the level of individual points may pose several problems in studies that assess relationships between response variables (species' occurrence or abundance) and explanatory variables (vegetation structure, size and isolation of the fragment, proportion of interior habitat) on a point by point basis. Reliability of models in such studies is greatly dependent on the accuracy of counts at each point. We examined how bias of incomplete counts could be minimised through refinements of the point-count method. Six forest types of the northeastern deciduous forest in Qubec (Canada) were intensively surveyed during an entire breeding season. Census performances of the point-count method for measuring species richness at individual points were assessed by resampling the original data set for a simulated census protocol of two visits at a point. Effects of daily variation, time of season, time of day, and count duration were tested. Census performances of counts conducted the same day were significantly poorer than counts from different days. Census performances were influenced by the time of season during which counts were conducted. When pooled across habitats, census performances for counts that combined visits at the beginning and at the end of the breeding season were significantly better than counts that were concentrated in either one of these periods. The 05:00 to 08:30 morning period yielded the best results for five of the six habitats. Census performances in open field were, however, significantly better during the first sampling period (04:30), suggesting that bird censuses in open habitats could be initiated before sunrise. Longer counts (25 and 20 min) greatly improved species richness estimates at a point. For studies that focus on comparisons at the scale of individual points, longer counts are preferable to short counts (15 and 10 min). We stress the importance of the scale (study plots or individual points) at which statistical analyses of point count data are conducted in the decision-making process of point count sampling procedures. 
30243294|Phylogenetic relationships between goldcrest populations from the Atlantic Islands (Azores and Canary Islands) were investigated by two molecular markers (mitochondrial control region and cytochrome b sequences), and partly by morphology and territorial song. The Azorean goldcrest populations are closely related to European nominate R. r. regulus. Most probably, the Azores were colonized by goldcrests in a single late-pleistocene invasion, while colonization of the Canary Islands presumably occurred in two steps: An early invasion to Tenerife and La Gomera 1.9-2.3 million years (my) ago and a more recent one to El Hierro and La Palma 1.3-1.8 my ago. Distribution of haplotypes on the Azores suggests a division of R. r. azoricus on So Miguel into an eastern population with close affinities to R. r. sanctaemariae and a western population belonging to the lineage of R. r. inermis on the central and western island group. The Canarian populations are genetically substructured into a northeastern group embracing Tenerife and La Gomera and a second, southwestern group including El Hierro and La Palma. Genetic distances between members of the two Canarian clades range at 3.1-3.4% (TrN distance, control region and cytochrome b). Differentiation between the two groups is also supported by morphology and by territorial song. Substitution rate estimates for the both genes range at approximately the same values of 0.0031 and 0.0044 substitutions per site and lineage per my which roughly corresponds 0.61-0.83% divergence between Regulus lineages per my. Highest local rates occur in island clades of the Azorean and the Canarian population and in R. r. japonensis from the Russian Far East and Japan. However, a general acceleration of a molecular clock in island populations is not evident from the Regulus data set due to extremely low local rate estimates in the Canarian clade of Tenerife and La Gomera. As a taxonomic consequence of the marked differentiation of the two Canarian goldcrest clades the populations from El Hierro and La Palma are described as a taxon new to science and are named Regulus regulus ellenthalerae n. ssp.
3677396|Differential migration is a widespread, but poorly understood, phenomenon in birds. In this paper, we present the first detailed field study of differential migration in the Old World warbler (Sylviidae) family. We studied two chiffchaff Phylloscopus [collybita] semispecies: the common chiffchaff P. [c.] collybita and the Iberian chiffchaff P. [c.] ibericus. Using data collected at several latitudes in Europe and Africa, we present convincing evidence for differential distance migration of sexes in chiffchaffs, with females moving further than males. Interestingly, while there was a pronounced gradient in the sex-ratios in Europe and North Africa (with an increasing proportion of females with declining latitude), no clear pattern was found south of the Sahara, where sex-ratios were more male-biased than predicted by a simple latitude model. This suggests that, amongst the chiffchaffs wintering in West Africa, a large proportion is composed by Iberian birds, and provides support to previous suggestions that Iberian chiffchaffs are long distance migrants. Results from detailed studies in Senegal also show that chiffchaffs display differential timing of spring migration, with males leaving the winter quarters considerably earlier than females. The results are discussed in the framework of the three main (non-mutually exclusive) hypotheses attempting to explain the latitudinal segregation of the sexes. Given the relative failure of standard comparative studies to discriminate between competing single-factor hypotheses to explain differential migration, it is argued that the chiffchaff species complex might be particularly suited to study this issue using a new approach suggested by Cristol et al. (1999): detailed (further) comparisons between closely related species (such as the common and the Iberian chiffchaffs) could help identifying the key factors to be incorporated into optimality models that can predict relative distance of migration of different sex or age classes.
25161528|Female Great Tits are known to eavesdrop on the singing behaviour of males. It is unknown, however, whether manipulation of these signals is sufficient to influence extra-pair copulations, or whether such potentially costly reproductive decisions are unaffected by altering short-term signals of condition. Using interactive playbacks, we systematically engaged males in territorial contests in which we could control whether the focal male won or lost the interaction, regardless of the males' true potential. We then determined the levels and patterns of extra-pair paternity among experimental and neighbouring pairs using DNA microsatellite analysis. Extra-pair young were found in equal frequency among the nests of males allowed to win interactions as among those who lost interactions. However, cuckolded males were significantly less variable in allele sizes across the five microsatellite alleles tested than males who were not cuckolded. As measures of genetic variability are increasingly being found to correlate with individual fitness, this may suggest that females are attentive to underlying measures of condition when making extra-pair decisions. Short-term modification of the males' perceived quality may be insufficient to cause females to alter extra-pair decisions.
3677458|Bird song is generally regarded as a sexually selected trait, and may represent a reliable handicap signal under at least certain conditions. Females may use the degree of male song production as a reliable cue to male condition or territory quality. We investigated the effect of supplementary feeding on song output in the migratory Australian reed warbler Acrocephalus australis. We experimentally increased the food availability on alternate days, and recorded several weather variables. We measured song rate and song length independently. Supplementary fed birds sang more on feeding days than on non-feeding days, while control birds did not show this effect. Song output was not significantly associated with any of the weather variables examined. Our results indicate that singing has the potential to serve as a reliable handicap signal to territorial food availability irrespective of the prevailing weather conditions. We discuss the role of energetic constraints and behavioural flexibility on the signaling function of song.
30244414|Several studies have shown that enlargement of clutches during incubation reduces the long-term survival of parents. In line with these findings, studies on the energetic costs of nocturnal incubation show an increase in energy expenditure with clutch enlargement. Studies on daily energy expenditure during incubation $(DEE_{inc})$ , however, do not consistently show such a negative effect of clutch enlargement. To determine whether differential survival results from a direct increase in energy costs or rather from costs associated with compensatory behaviour, we studied the $DEE_{inc}(kJ) day ^{-1}$ , change in body mass and nest attendance behaviour of free-living female great tits Parus major that incubated either control or experimentally enlarged clutches. $DEE_{inc}$ did not differ between the two treatment groups, but was negatively related to mean ambient temperature over the 24-h measuring period, and to the fraction of daytime females spent on the nest. Controlling for these two factors, females incubating enlarged clutches did not spend more energy per 24 h period than females incubating control clutches. Clutch enlargement also did not affect body mass of incubating females, or their nest attendance behaviour. Yet, in the enlarged group body mass change and nest attentiveness were negatively correlated, suggesting that females responded differently to the experimental treatment and thereby preventing us from finding an effect of clutch enlargement.
10.2307/3677262|Female Moorhens Gallinula chloropus laid their eggs in the evening, with more than 80% being laid between 1900 and 2200 hours BST. Parasitic eggs were laid within the same range of times as eggs laid by females in their own nests. Observation from videotape of laying events by eight different brood parasites revealed that parasitic laying is a stereotyped behaviour, consistent between females and characterized by speed and stealth. Parasitic females travelled directly to the host nest. By contrast with females laying at their own nests, brood parasites did not stop and wait for the host males to get off the nest before getting on, and they did not remain on the nest longer than was necessary to lay an egg. As predicted, hosts were aggressive toward brood parasites. Yet, brood parasites tolerated the hosts' aggression, and laid successfully in host nests in spite of the hosts' attacks. Although parasitic females and their mates both stood to benefit from brood parasitism, the act of laying parasitically was initiated entirely by (and entailed a potential risk for) the female alone. I discuss the implications of an evening laying hour for the evolution of intraspecific brood parasitism.
30245204|Feather stable isotope composition may not reflect local isoscapes in which they were grown if supplemented with protein of endogenous origin. Thus, feather isotope analysis, combined with knowledge of local isoscapes can be used to infer endogenous nutrient composition to feathers in cases where birds travel to moult. We investigated this possibility in a study of flightless moulting greylag geese Anser anser on the Danish island of Saltholm, which are known to mobilise endogenous protein stores (acquired at previous terrestrial staging locations in Sweden) to reconstitute muscle blocks and organs whilst feeding on a saltmarsh (i.e. marine-influenced) diet with contrasting stable isotope ratios. We used stable isotope ( $\delta^{13}C$ , $\delta^{15}N$ measurements to test the prediction that new-grown flight feathers would have stable isotope values intermediate between those derived from a purely terrestrial C diet and one composed purely of saltmarsh plants. Feather $\delta^{13}C$ and $\delta^{15}N$ values were intermediate between those expected for feather material derived from local saltmarsh (i.e. exogenous) food items and Swedish terrestrial (endogenous muscle) sources, suggesting a mixing of endogenous and exogenous sources. These results confirm that moult migrant Anatidae exploit body stores to meet specific protein needs during the flightless period of remige regrowth and caution against the use of feather stable isotope ratios as direct indicators of the isotopic environment in which they were regrown, where endogenous contributions may occur.
30243881|The costs imposed by parental care duties on an individual's future survival and reproduction generate conflicts because parents should attempt to minimize their investment in the present brood, and exploit the parental care of the other parent. This conflict is likely to contribute to cases of both polygamy and desertion. Here, we study the costs of polygyny in the tree swallow Tachycineta bicolor, using observations on 52 nests that were attended by polygynous males over 14 y. Both females mated to polygynous males paid reproductive costs at several stages of the nesting cycle. Clutches laid by social mates of polygynous versus monogamous males did not differ in size. However, initial brood sizes for polygynously mated females were lower because a higher proportion of their eggs failed to hatch. Likewise, fledging success was lower and nest predation rates were higher, perhaps reflecting the direct or indirect effects of reduced male attention. These results demonstrate that females pay a productivity cost when breeding with reduced male parental care. In contrast, polygynous males fledge on average more young than monogamous ones and clearly benefit from the association. We suggest that a mate-search cost is leading to the few cases of polygamous males: although females are likely evaluating males for their prospective dedication to the breeding attempt, in a short-lived bird with a short breeding season, the cost to females of searching for a more dedicated male is the risk of not breeding at all.
3677569|The evolutionary equilibrium hypothesis explains the existence of both acceptors and rejecters of brood parasite eggs within a host population as resulting from a balance between the costs of acceptance and the costs of recognition errors. In such equilibria conditional responses may play an important role. One such response that has been demonstrated in one common cuckoo Cuculus canorus host species is that first year, naive breeders accept parasitic eggs at a higher frequency than older and more experienced birds do. In the present study we tested whether this is the response in the bluethroat Luscinia svecica. We did not find any difference in rejection behaviour between first-year breeders and older birds. This finding is discussed in relation to recognition costs, cuckoo egg mimicry and the bluethroat's present status as a host. We conclude that the results are best explained by the evolutionary lag hypothesis.
3677657|In socially monogamous birds, males benefit from frequent copulations with their partner if this increases their paternity in the brood. By soliciting and accepting copulation attempts, female birds can control pair copulation frequencies. Engaging in copulations can be costly by taking up time and by increasing the risks of predation and pathogen transmission. Current hypotheses propose that high pair-copulation frequencies may compensate for these costs by providing females with direct benefits that can result in higher reproductive success. In this study, I examine in a Tree Sparrow population the prediction that high pair-copulation frequencies are associated with better female reproductive performance. The results show that clutch sizes laid were positively correlated with the pair-copulation frequency. The length of the incubation period was negatively correlated and, as expected, the number of fledglings was positively correlated with pair-copulation frequency. The results are consistent with current hypotheses for the evolution of frequent pair copulations and provide one of the few evidences for a positive relation between pair-copulation frequency and female reproductive performance. This study also suggests that within-pair copulation frequency could be an early expression of the pairs' reproductive ability and might signal their phenotypic quality.
3677401|The potential use of stable nitrogen ( <sup>15</sup> N), carbon ( <sup>13</sup> C) and hydrogen (D) isotope ratios in feathers of marsh warblers Acrocephalus palustris, river warblers Locustella fluviatilis and whitethroats Sylvia communis was evaluated as a means to help identify the location and isotopic composition of autumn stopover sites in northeast Africa. Feather D values were compared with regional precipitation D maps averaged over autumn months. Compared with whitethroats, feather <tex-math>$\delta {}^{15}{\rm N},\delta {}^{13}{\rm C}$</tex-math>, and D values of marsh warblers and river warblers suggest the two warblers occupy and grow their feathers in geographic locations with relatively mesic environments, and with higher proportions of C3 (vs. C4) plants. However,  <sup>13</sup> C values of marsh and river warblers were distinct enough to indicate use of different foodwebs. From previous studies, it is evident that during autumn stopover, river warblers moult their primaries in Ethiopia. It is likely that marsh warblers, like river warblers, stay in Ethiopia and/or in neighbouring regions. Based on feather D values and regional D precipitation maps, this region should lie between southeast Sudan and southwest Ethiopia. However, without additional regional isotopic maps in Africa, more precise locations of the stopover sites remain unclear. The relatively enriched  <sup>15</sup> N and  <sup>13</sup> C values of whitethroat feathers compared with the two other species, reflect the fact that whitethroats moult in relatively drier environments and/or with a lower proportion of C3 vs. C4 plants.
3677534|Many long-distance migrant birds regularly have to pass ecological barriers, like the Saharan desert, where fuelling is very difficult, and large fuel loads have to be stored in advance. In this paper, we have investigated how seven species of birds are distributed in autumn close to the Saharan desert in the eastern Mediterranean area by using ring recoveries from northern Europe. The result clearly shows that the species included are not randomly distributed at this point, about 3,000 km from the breeding area. Birds from rather large breeding areas were shown to converge in confined areas, which in several cases completely differ between species. This means that birds of the same species have to follow different migratory directions depending on the location of their starting point. The observed pattern support earlier findings indicating that birds, in combination with a clock-and-compass orientation procedure, must use some external cues in order to find confined species-specific areas. The possibility for birds to use information from the Earth's magnetic field as an external cue in this area is discussed.
10.2307/3677200|The findings from previous food-addition experiments designed to examine the effects of food availability on reproductive parameters could have led to false conclusions because most experimental designs fail to take account of population parameters during periods preceding the experiments and because the studied effects of supplemental food could have been confounded by effects on age composition and pair bonds. To test this possibility, we provided a population of the Varied Tit Parus varius with extra food (sunflower seed) from February to April and compared density, survival rate and mate change of the fed population with those of an unfed population. A similar comparison is made between these populations before and after the addition of food. In the fed area, population density was stable and pair bonds from the winter were maintained. By contrast, the survival rate in the unfed area was low resulting in lower density, and many members of winter units changed their partners. Since food supply in early spring promoted the stability of pair bonds and may make age composition more stable, we propose that food-addition experiments should include not only comparisons of reproductive parameters of fed and unfed populations, but also comparisons of both age composition and pair-bond stability before and after the addition of food.
10.2307/3677339|Animals may join flocks to gain protection against predation. In this experiment we investigated how predation risk affects the spatial distribution of forest birds during breeding time. We manipulated the perceived risk of predation by showing stuffed avian predators and by playing the warning signals of some of the passerine species in experimental areas. The spatial distribution of the bird individuals in both experimental and control areas was investigated by censusing birds and marking the locations of all individuals on maps both before and after the simulated appearance of a predator. We predicted that the distances between heterospecific individuals would be reduced in the experimental areas compared with those in control plots because of a perceived increased risk of predation. After predator presentation individuals in experimental areas were closer to heterospecifics than in control areas. Predation risk is one possible cause of clumped distribution of species and mixed-species foraging flocks in boreal breeding bird communities.
10.2307/3677048|Few studies are available on the responses of birds to fluctuations in prey abundance during the breeding season. The aim of this study was to study such responses of Grey Wagtails Motacilla cinerea. Prey availability varied significantly, and often very rapidly, on both a temporal and a spatial scale. Grey Wagtails were able to keep track of changes in prey availability and to switch between foraging sites. The use of foraging sites changed during the breeding period and in different weather conditions. During periods with high prey availability, 95% of prey capture attempts were recorded in the stream bed and specific kinds of prey, or prey of large body size, were selected. However, during periods of food scarcity, Grey Wagtails switched to hunt mainly for drifted invertebrates on roads etc. The results show that Grey Wagtails were able to optimize foraging behaviour in a changing environment.
30244448|Dispersal is a key parameter in evolutionary, demographic and conservation theory, but the factors influencing dispersal between populations are rarely known, and the contribution of immigrants to population stability remains uncertain. Using dispersal data from nine island populations of song sparrows, we show that female and male immigrants responded differently to population structure: in females, immigration varied with adult sex ratio; whereas immigration by males was more influenced by population density. These patterns are consistent with the hypothesis that intra-sexual competition for breeding resources influenced recruitment patterns. Immigrants often constituted a substantial fraction of local population size, and in six cases immigration by females prevented the extirpation of that sex from the island. Breeding vacancies and extirpations may have been more likely in females because their apparent survival was lower than in males. Local recruitment and immigration varied markedly among islands, perhaps as consequence of island size and isolation. Overall, our results suggest that immigration varied with local demography in a sex-specific way, stabilized population numbers and reduced extinction rates in the smallest populations.
30244791|Information about male infertility in free-living birds is scarce, but anecdotal and circumstantial evidence suggests that it does occur regularly at a low frequency. In this paper we document three cases of azoospermia in two passerine species, the willow warbler Phylloscopus trochilus and the bluethroat Luscinia svecica at their breeding grounds in South Norway. In willow warblers, two males out of a sample of 50 territory holders had no sperm in their seminal glomera, the storage site of sperm ready for ejaculation. The two males also had very small testes. One out of 48 bluethroat males also had no sperm in the seminal glomera. This male had an extreme asymmetry of the testes, with the right testis being about twice as large as the left. He also failed to fertilize any eggs in his own nest, as well as in neighbouring nests, as revealed by microsatellite genotyping. Thus, the proportion of males without sperm seems to be at a magnitude of a few (2-4) percent in both species. These are among the first estimates of the frequency of azoospermia in wild birds. Our results indicate a significant risk for sexually monogamous females of laying unfertilized eggs, which could favour the evolution of extra-pair copulation as a fertility insurance strategy in females.
25161507|Egg mass shows large intraspecific variation in birds and is repeatable within individuals. The mechanisms underlying this variation are unknown. We hypothesized that measures of egg quality (the mass of yolk protein, yolk lipid, and albumen protein) would be positively correlated with the plasma pools of the yolk precursor vitellogenin, and the masses of the oviduct, metabolic machinery (liver, heart, lungs, kidneys, gizzard, small intestine and pancreas), and endogenous stores of protein and lipid. We tested these predictions in European Starlings Sturnus vulgaris collected at the peak of egg production effort. In contrast to our predictions, both yolk protein and yolk lipid were negatively correlated with plasma vitellogenin levels. Albumen protein was positively related to oviduct mass, but other aspects of body composition failed to explain variation in egg quality. Hence, while we observed correlations between egg composition and peripheral systems (circulating precursor pools and the oviduct), we found no evidence that egg quality is determined by more general processes, i.e., the supply and processing of nutrients.
3677741|Phylogenetic relationships among Neotropical honeycreepers were studied by using cytochrome b sequence data. Although honeycreepers were once placed in their own family (Coerebidae), these species did not form a monophyletic group in any of the phylogenies in this study. Thus, our results indicate that nectar-feeding evolved independently multiple times among these birds. The Neotropical honeycreepers are best considered disparate members of a larger radiation of tanagers and finches, in which bill size and shape, and associated feeding behaviors have changed frequently to fill a variety of niches. Our phylogenies also provide specific taxonomic recommendations on the placement of each honeycreeper genus. The use of the taxon Coerebidae is no longer warranted given the well-supported relationships between different honeycreeper species and a variety of tanagers and finches.
10.2307/3677021|The effects of offspring food demand on the regulation of parental food provisioning were examined in the Rhinoceros Auklet Cerorhincha monocerata, a nocturnal single-provisioning species, by conducting mate removal and supplementary feeding experiments. Parents did not adjust their level of food provisioning in response to an increased or a decreased chick food demand, contrasting with previous studies of the Atlandtic Puffin Fratercula arctica and procellariiforms that provision their chicks at shorter intervals. The chicks reared by a single parent grew more slowly while those receiving supplementary food grew faster and fledged heavier and younger. The body condition of parents did not change.
3677422|Throughout the range of the Scarlet Rosefinch, its territorial song consists of 3-9 (usually 4-5) elements, of which there are 5 different types. The differences lie in the way the pitch of the element changes in time (frequency "slope") and the width of the frequency band. Within a given type of song, the various elements can be present in almost any combination. Therefore, so many song types can be formed that the songs in even small parts of the species' area are clearly distinct from one another. Despite this capacity for variation, however, by chance identical songs may be sung in widely separated parts of the area, in some cases by different subspecies. The species has not developed large-scale dialects or regiolects based on a song tradition acquired during an early imprinting phase. Scarlet Rosefinches tend to breed in small colonies, groups of up to about 15 pairs characterized by the same type of song (song neighbourhoods, formed by the development of a microlect). Microlects develop by a founder effect. When males, near one-year old or older, join one another to form isolated colonies after arrival in the breeding region, they adopt ("learn") the song type that will eventually characterize the colony from the first male to arrive at the site. After the colony has been founded, in most cases each male uses only one type of song during a breeding season, with practically no variation of the temporal and frequency parameters. Singing the same type of song, the members of a colony accept one another sufficiently to allow the breeding territories to be closely packed. It appears that a long-lasting capacity for acoustic learning, in combination with colony-like breeding and great ecological flexibility, has allowed the Scarlet Rosefinch to become the most successful species of the genus Carpodacus.
3677757|Many birds could expend substantially less energy at night by using hypothermia, but generally do not. This suggests that the potential savings are offset by costs; one of these costs is presumed to be the risk of predation at night. If this assumption is correct, a bird will face one of two trade-offs: (1) it can avoid the cost of hypothermia by gaining fat to decrease the risk of starvation, but this increases energetic costs of fat maintenance and risk of diurnal predation, or (2) it can maintain lower fat reserves and use hypothermia at night, but this option increases the risk of nocturnal predation. We used a dynamic model to investigate these trade-offs and how the use of nocturnal hypothermia changes energy management tactics in food-caching birds. Our model predicted that: (i) optimal daily routines of fat reserves, feeding rate, food caching, and cache retrieval should be similar in hypothermic and non-hypothermic birds; (ii) low fat reserves, small cache size, low ambient temperature, and high variability in foraging success favor increased use of hypothermia; (iii) the effect of ambient temperature on the use of hypothermia is especially important at higher levels of variance in foraging success; (iv) hypothermic birds are predicted to have lower mass at dusk than non-hypothermic individuals while their morning mass should be more similar. Many of these predictions have been supported by empirical data. Also, survival rates are predicted to be higher for birds using hypothermia, especially in the most severe environmental conditions. This is the first attempt to evaluate the role of cache maintenance and variance in foraging success in the use of hypothermia. This is also the first discussion of the relationship between behavior hypothermia and diurnal patterns of energy management.
3676925|In this study on free-ranging Crested Tits Parus cristatus, I examine the relationship between social dominance and the frequency of use of long-range communication calls. Calling rates of trills were highest among socially dominant individuals and they gave more calls when close to the boundary of their territories. Dominant females uttered fewer calls than their mates. However, they gave significantly more calls than subordinate males and subordinate females, the latter calling least. A removal and playback experiment revealed a relationship between the utterance of trilled calls and the defence of the winter territory in the Crested Tit. Although territorial vocalizations could incur costs, territorial individuals may gain from improved winter survival by decreasing the risk of food stealing by Crested Tits from adjacent territories.
3676989|Greater nest predation in tropical than temperate birds has been hypothesized to be a primary selective force generating latitudinal differences in avian life history traits. Few extensive data sets, however, have been available from tropical forests to compare with data from temperate forests. To increase the amount of empirical information available for addressing issues related to the evolution of life history traits of tropical birds, we measured the nesting success of understory birds in lowland forest of central Panama. We found and monitored the fates of 696 nests of 71 species over two breeding seasons. Daily nest predation rates for the ten species for which we obtained the largest samples ranged from 1.6 to 8.3%, equivalent to a loss of 43 to 92% of nests. These values overlapped extensively the range of daily predation rates experienced by ecologically similar species in North America. Proportion of nests fledging young, estimated with the Mayfield method, was significantly lower in tropical (range: 8 to 57%) than temperate (27 to 60%) species. Nesting success in Panama varied among years, however, being greater in 1996 than 1997. In 1996, nesting success was similar to that of species breeding in forest fragments of midwestern North America. When compared with success of nests in large, contiguous forest tracts of North America, however, tropical avian nesting success was consistently lower by approximately 23%. We conclude that nesting success in central Panama may be poor in most breeding seasons, but also may be punctuated by occasional years of relatively exceptional success, a possibility heretofore unappreciated because of a general paucity of data from the tropics. Furthermore, our results indicate substantial variation in levels of nesting success among species, and almost no variation in clutch size. Such large interspecific variation, as well as potentially large annual variation, in nesting success does not support the hypothesis that uniformly low levels of nesting success select for small tropical clutch sizes.
3677469|We examined the relationship between acoustic properties of male advertising calls, male body size and female responses in little penguins Eudyptula minor. Larger males produced calls of lower frequency. Playback experiments indicated that females were more likely to respond to low or medium pitched calls, than to high ones (although only 28% of females responded vocally to playback). This may reflect the interest of unmated females in large to medium sized senders as potential mates, or indicate a stronger territorial response to large intruders.
30243861|Body feathers are important to many interactions birds have with their physical and social environments, such as streamlining the body for flight, thermoregulation, and social signaling. Birds differ dramatically in the texture of their body plumage depending on species and age class, likely reflecting different functional demands and age-related trade-offs in feather production. Despite the important insights potentially offered by studying variation in the structure of body feathers, there is no clear system for quantifying this variation. We present methods for quantifying age and species differences in the structure of body feathers. Most variation in our measures is due to species and age-class differences, with little variance attributable to individual birds or to differences among feathers sampled from the same bird. We use our measures to test the hypothesis that the loosely-textured plumage characteristic of many juvenile passerines reflects a trade-off between investment in feather quality and rapid body growth that promotes early fledging. The structure of juvenile feathers was negatively correlated with duration of the nestling period among ten species of New World warblers (Parulidae), suggesting a trade-off between investment in feathers and investment in rapid somatic development promoting fledging. Systematic studies of variation in the structure of body feathers will likely offer numerous other insights into avian biology.
30244467|Several species of Nearctic-Neotropical migratory songbirds appear to form roosting aggregations while on their wintering grounds but little is understood about the ecology of this behavior. We studied roosting behavior and patterns of roost habitat selection in the northern waterthrush Seiurus noveboracensis, during three winter years (2002-2004) in Puerto Rico using radio telemetry. Overall, red mangrove was selected for roosting disproportionately to its availability. Regardless of diurnal habitat used, 87% (n = 86) of northern waterthrush selected dense stands of coastal red mangrove for roost sites. Individuals traveled up to 2 km to access roost sites in this habitat on a daily basis. The majority (8 of 14) of individuals roosted alone, while others roosted in loose aggregations near communal roosts of gray kingbirds Tyrannus dominicensis. Patterns of roost site selection did not vary by sex. Individuals showing aggressive response to playback during the day, however, selected roost sites significantly closer to the coast. Several additional migratory and resident bird species also used red mangrove for night-time roosting habitat. Red mangrove may be a critical nocturnal roosting habitat for bird populations that live in proximity to coastal areas in the Neotropics. The benefits of nocturnal roosting behavior as well as why individuals appear to select red mangrove remain poorly understood.
10.2307/3676943|The distribution of breeding birds on Siberian tundra was studied around nests of Long-tailed Skuas Stercorarius skua, Grey Plovers Pluvialis squatarola, Pacific Golden Plovers Pluvialis fulva and Bar-tailed Godwits Limosa lapponica, all of which have been observed attacking avian predators entering their nesting territories. Only the skua and the Grey Plover turned out to do so regularly, however. The efficiency of defence was measured using artificial nests 30, 70 and 150 m from nests of the four species. The survival of "defended" nests was significantly higher than the survival of control group nests only around Grey Plover nests. Long-tailed Skuas defended their own nests fiercely, but were observed preying on artificial nests inside their territories. Nest distribution of local birds around the potential protectors reflected the efficiency with which the protectors defended their territory, but most of all it reflected the survival probabilities found for artificial nests: the number of nests located within 100 m from Grey Plover nests was significantly higher than in control plots. The Long-tailed Skua did not attract more birds than control points, presumably because it could not be trusted as a reliable neighbour when rodent numbers were decreasing. It is concluded that tundra birds are able to make optimal decisions about the choice of protective neighbour.
10.2307/3677149|The Vickers microhardness of non-melanic keratin was measured from the bills, claws and outer primaries of Common Starlings Sturnus vulgaris. Highly significant differences in hardness were found between all three keratin types. Bill keratin was the hardest and feather keratin the least hard; the relative molecular weight of the different keratin types may explain these differences. Indentation hardness can be used as a measure of the competence of a material to resist abrasive wear so it is likely that the three keratin types differ in their competence at resisting abrasive wear.
10.2307/3676942|Nest predation in relation to nestling noise and nest conspicuousness was investigated in Blackbirds. In one year there was no temporal variation in nest predation or significant variation in nest predation rates due to nest conspicuousness. In a second year nest predation rates were significantly higher in the early stages of breeding (laying and the first half of incubation), and nests that were less conspicuous were more likely to survive longer or succeed. In both years there was no significant difference in nest predation rate between the second half of incubation and the first half of the chick stage, but there was a significant decrease in nest predation rate between the first and second half of the chick stage. The results suggest that increased noise from nests during the chick stage did not increase the probability of nest predation, and that if nest predation is important in determining clutch size in Blackbirds, selection may occur early on in breeding.
10.2307/3677064|Spring territorial behaviour and habitat selection of the Jay Garrulus glandarius were investigated in two study areas in the Maremma Natural Park (Central Italy). Seven birds in 1990 and seven in 1991 were trapped and subsequently radio-tracked. Incremental area plots and the analysis of auto-overlap showed that most of the Jays did not have fixed home ranges, and that these overlapped greatly. Furthermore, many untagged Jays were seen inside the home ranges of the tagged ones and one pair of Jays successfully reproduced in 1991 inside other Jays' home ranges. No aggressive interactions were observed. These data seem to suggest that the Jays in Maremma do not show territorial behaviour. Home range sizes at one study area (Faunistico) were larger than in the other area (Pratini) (on average 36 ha versus 5 ha). This could depend on the higher habitat diversity or lower habitat quality of the first area. Habitat use differed between the areas. At Pratini the maquis scrub was positively selected whereas the olive grove was avoided; at Faunistico the maquis, the olive grove and the cultivated fields were avoided whereas the meadows with scattered trees and the "open" scrub were positively selected. The non-territorial behaviour of the Jays in the Maremma Natural Park may be determined by several local factors, such as resource abundance, high density of birds, low reproductive rates and food partly being collected outside the maquis. In particular, both in the case of resource abundance and in that of high density of birds, the cost of sharing resources would be less than the cost of defending the territory against all intruders and a non-territorial system would indeed be expected.
3677559|Over the past three decades, the red-winged blackbird Agelaius phoeniceus has served as a model species for studies of sexual selection and the evolution of ornamental traits. Particular attention has been paid to the role of the colorful red-and-yellow epaulets that are striking in males but reduced in females and juveniles. It has been assumed that carotenoid pigments bestow the brilliant red and yellow colors on epaulet feathers, but this has never been tested biochemically. Here, we use high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) to describe the pigments present in these colorful feathers. Two red ketocarotenoids (astaxanthin and canthaxanthin) are responsible for the bright red hue of epaulets. Two yellow dietary precursors pigments (lutein and zeaxanthin) are also present in moderately high concentrations in red feathers. After extracting carotenoids, however, red feathers remained deep brown in color. HPLC tests show that melanin pigments (primarily eumelanin) are also found in the red-pigmented barbules of epaulet feathers, at an 'approximately equal concentration to carotenoids. This appears to be an uncommon feature of carotenoid-based ornamental plumage in birds, as was shown by comparable analyses of melanin in the yellow feathers of male American goldfinches Carduelis tristis and the red feathers of northern cardinals Cardinalis cardinalis, in which we detected virtually no melanins. Furthermore, the yellow bordering feathers of male epaulets are devoid of carotenoids (except when tinged with a carotenoid-derived pink coloration on occasion) and instead are comprised of a high concentration of primarily phaeomelanin pigments. The dual pigment composition of red epaulet feathers and the melanin-only basis for yellow coloration may have important implications for the honesty-reinforcing mechanisms underlying ornamental epaulets in red-winged blackbirds, and shed light on the difficulties researchers have had to date in characterizing the signaling function of this trait. As in several other birds, the melanic nature of feathers may explain why epaulets are used largely to settle aggressive contests rather than to attract mates.
3677388|Recent findings suggest that herbivores select feeding sites of intermediate biomass in order to maximise their digestible nutrient intake as the result of the trade-off between forage quality and quantity ('forage maturation hypothesis'). We propose a reformulation of this hypothesis which recognises this trade-off, but also underlines that constraints due to body mass (i.e. metabolism and digestive constraints, size of the feeding apparatus) can lead to variations in grazing patterns. We tested this latter hypothesis experimentally in three species of herbivorous Anatidae of different body mass: the wigeon Anas penelope (in our study c. 620 g), the barnacle goose Branta leucopsis (c. 2000 g), and the greylag goose Anser anser (c. 3500 g). Each species was tested separately from 0600 to 0930 hours, in an enclosure with a mosaic of patches of grass of three different heights: short, medium and tall. The behaviour, and the location (i.e. patch) of each individual were recorded every 5 minutes. Our results show important interspecific differences in intake rates resulting in different feeding site selection: wigeon and barnacle goose fed fastest on the shortest swards, and selected short grass which was also of higher quality. Tall grass provided the highest dry matter intake rate and digestible protein intake for greylag geese, and they preferred these swards. These choices allowed the birds to maximise their digestible nitrogen intake rate rather than dry matter intake rate and our results thus underline the importance of nitrogen as a major currency for foraging decisions in herbivorous Anatidae. Since the birds selected the two extreme sward heights (instead of the medium one), the results give support to our hypothesis and underline the role of body size as an important cause of variations in patch selection in herbivorous Anatidae.
10.2307/3677121|The frequency and mass of meals delivered to ten Antarctic Prion Pachyptila desolata chicks nesting at Bird Island, South Georgia were examined using automated weighing systems, placed in the nest chamber of the burrow. The weighing systems, which consisted of an artificial nest platform mounted on electronic load cells linked to a data logger, recorded the mass of the chick every 10 min. Meal delivery was concentrated in the first few hours after dark with a peak (45% of meals) in the second hour of darkness. The mean number of meals per night per chick ranged from 0.4 to 1.7 with 80% of chicks receiving at least one meal per night; there were no nights when none of the chicks was fed. Chick 9, which had the highest feeding frequency, received smaller meals (mean 18 g) than all of the other chicks (mean 37 g). The mass of first and second meals delivered in the same night was not different nor was there a relationship between meal mass and feeding frequency (except for chick 9). There was no relationship between meal mass and chick age between 5 and 50 days. Meals delivered following a night when a chick received no meal were larger than when a chick had been fed the previous night. The proportion of chicks receiving 0, 1 and 2 meals per night differed from the predicted binomial distribution, assuming the independence of feeding by both parents, with more chicks receiving one meal per night than expected. Comparison with periodic weighing methods indicates that the latter underestimates meal size and feeding frequency. The variation within the small sample of chicks studied indicates the need for large sample sizes to estimate population provisioning parameters. However, the weighing system was very successful in providing accurate data on chick provisioning and, with additional development, could provide data on the individual provisioning strategies of adult birds.
30244807|We presented monogamous pairs of New Zealand robins Petroica australis with a superabundant supply of artificial prey and then observed birds re-cache previously hoarded prey. Males and females frequently relocated and redistributed previously hoarded prey. Both sexes also re-cached prey that was originally hoarded by their mate. However, re-caching rates of retrieved and pilfered prey differed between sexes. Female-made caches were re-cached at the same rate by both females and pilfering males, while male-made caches were re-cached more frequently by pilfering females. The re-caching of previously hoarded prey is consistent with the hypothesis that re-caching reduces theft. However, re-caching pilfered prey suggests that it might also play a role in cache theft strategies. Higher rates of re-caching by pilfering females cannot be explained by current hypotheses used to account avian re-caching behaviours. We suggest two new hypotheses, sexual dimorphism in spatial memory and indirect mate provisioning, which may help to explain the evolution of re-caching in New Zealand robins.
3677582|Bar-tailed godwits migrate from West African wintering sites to breeding areas in northern Russia with only one stopover. We compared hematocrit (Hct), blood hemoglobin concentration (Hb), and mean cell hemoglobin concentration (MCHb; a measure of the relative proportion of Hb in the cellular blood fraction) between arriving godwits lured to land 60 km short of the stopover site and godwits during subsequent refueling. The Hct and Hb of arriving godwits was low when compared to that of refueling birds. On the stopover site, Hct and Hb correlated positively with size-corrected body mass. In addition, Hb and MCHb reached peak levels in the last days of stopover. We explored the possibility of regenerative anemia in arriving godwits by comparing the fraction of reticulocytes (young red blood cells) between arriving and refueling birds. No differences were found. Therefore, we suggest that the increase in Hct, Hb, and MCHb during refueling is not in response to a severe anemic state at arrival. Rather, we suggest that the increase in blood parameters may anticipate the increased aerobic requirements of impending migratory flight and possibly satisfy heightened oxygen demands of the larger body mass of fattened birds. The Hct increase on the stopover site may also serve to buffer the red blood cell population against possible red blood cell breakdown during long-distance flight.
30244759|The concept of effective population size ( $N_{e}$ ) is used widely by conservation and evolutionary biologists as an indicator of the genetic state of populations, but its precision and relation to the census population size is often uncertain. Extra-pair fertilizations have the potential to bias estimates of $N_{e}$ when they affect the number of breeders or their estimated reproductive success tallied from social pedigrees. We tested if the occurrence of extra-pair fertilizations influenced estimates of $N_{e}$ in a resident population of song sparrows Melospiza melodia using four years of detailed behavioural and genetic data. Estimates of $N_{e}$ based on social and genetic data were nearly identical and averaged c. 65% of the census population size over four years, despite that 28% of 471 independent young were sired outside of social pairs. Variance in male reproductive success also did not differ between estimates based on social and genetic data, indicating that extra-pair mating had little effect on the distribution of reproductive success in our study population. Our results show that the genetic assignment will not always be necessary to estimate $N_{e}$ precisely.
3677570| We used the doubly-labelled water technique to measure daily energy expenditure (DEE) of a free-living uniparental incubator, the white-throated dipper Cinclus cinclus, in Scotland. DEE was 205  8 (s.e.m.)
30244435|Animals may assess the quality of other individuals by using information that is contained in elaborate traits. We investigated the degree of sexual dimorphism in structural blue plumage coloration and the potential signal value of these traits in the azure-winged magpie Cyanopica cyanus. We predicted that in this species blue coloration should signal individual quality in both sexes since both females and males invest significantly in caring for offspring. Males have more saturated UV/blue coloration than females and blueness decreased from moulting to reproduction. Males and females did not mate assortatively for blue coloration although they did in relation to body size and condition. Blue colour did not correlate with adult body size or condition. However, nest predation decreased with female and male brightness. Our results suggest that blue coloration may potentially be used to assess parental qualities by potential mates in both sexes of the azure-winged magpie.
10.2307/3677061|In 1990 a complete survey of the south Pennines in England (covering
30244479|Most comparative studies of avian blood parasites based on visual inspection of smears have reported Haemoproteus infections to be more prevalent than Plasmodium infections in both tropical and temperate locations. Recently, molecular techniques have increased our ability to detect infections often missed on blood smears. Here we quantify the bias in prevalence resulting from unrecognized infections by examining blood smears of infected passerine birds from the West Indies (312 individuals) and the Ozark Mountains of southern Missouri (134 individuals) for which we could identify parasites based on cytochrome b sequences. In the West Indian sample, 63 of 179 Haemoproteus infections (35%) and 121 of 133 Plasmodium infections (91%) were not detected among ca. 2,800 red blood cells examined per smear. In the Missouri sample, 19 of 77 Haemoproteus infections (25%) and 31 of 57 Plasmodium infections (54%) were not detected among ca. 10,000 red blood cells examined. Clearly, visual inspection of blood smears at this level of effort fails to recognize many malaria parasite infections ascertained by PCR screening, and this bias for Plasmodium parasites exceeds that for Haemoproteus parasites. The lower prevalence of Plasmodium compared to Haemoproteus reported in comparative studies based on blood smears likely reflects differences in detection rather than infection rates. Estimates obtained from visual inspection of blood smears would appear to be more indicative of parasite virulence and how well host individuals control infections than of the prevalence of infections in host populations.
25161527|According to the optimal body mass hypothesis, resident individuals, having priority of resource access and better knowledge of food availability in an area, should carry smaller fat reserves than transients whose resource predictability is lower. We tested this prediction in a free-living population of Coal Tits Parus ater in sub-alpine coniferous forest during three winters. We examined the role of residence status in determining the daily patterns of fat accumulation of individuals using time of day, temperature, season, year and body size as covariates. Only time of day, residence status and temperature significantly affected daily variation of fat score in Coal Tits. Fat scores were higher in transients than residents, although within residents, juveniles did not carry significantly more fat than adults. Our results show that fattening strategies are associated with residence status in the Coal Tit, in support of the hypothesis that transient individuals facing lower food predictability carry larger body fat reserves. The finding that within residents, patterns of fat accumulation did not differ between adults and juveniles, suggests that residence per se, involving higher food predictability, rather than age-related dominance or hoarding behaviour, determines fattening strategies in wild Coal Tits.
3677682|Most terrestrial animals face the challenge of having to conserve water in a desiccating environment. Not surprisingly, the ability to produce concentrated urine has been relatively well studied in birds. Nectar-feeding birds are unusual among terrestrial animals in that they often ingest and excrete prodigious water volumes to obtain adequate energy. Thus, they confront the unusual challenge of having to conserve electrolytes. The diluting abilities of birds and the renal mechanisms that may correlate with them have been relatively neglected. To elucidate diluting and concentrating abilities in nectar-feeding birds, we fed rufous hummingbirds Selasphorus rufus an electrolyte-free nectar and a nectar containing a range of NaCl concentrations. Hummingbirds had a spectacular (and possibly unique) diluting ability: when fed on electrolyte-free food they produced excreta containing less than 0.5 mM 1
30244746|In many bird species, eggs laid late in the laying period hatch after a shorter incubation period than early-laid eggs. However, the mechanisms that explain these seasonal declines in incubation periods among clutches remain poorly understood. In this study we investigated the plasticity of brood patch development during incubation in yellow-eyed penguins Megadyptes antipodes and established whether differences exist in brood patch formation among early, mean and late-breeding penguins. We also examined whether brood patch development was influenced by sex and age of birds. We then placed an artificial egg in nests a few days prior to egg laying to investigate whether the presence of an egg influences brood patch development and whether an advanced brood patch development at the time of egg laying causes declines in incubation periods. Initial brood patch width on the day the first egg was laid was dependent on sex and age, while the development of brood patch width after first egg laying was slower in early-laying birds than in mean- and late-laying birds. Initial brood patch temperature as well as temperature throughout incubation was largely dependent upon sex, whereby males had higher brood patch surface temperatures than females. Placement of an artificial egg in nests stimulated successfully brood patch development in manipulated birds, so that by the time they laid their own first egg, their brood patches were wider and had higher temperatures than those of control birds. Moreover, incubation periods of first eggs from manipulated nests were significantly shorter (43.5 days) than were those from control nests (47.3 days). Thus, variation in brood patch development and related differences in incubation temperature during early incubation could contribute to seasonal declines in incubation periods.
10.2307/3677245| Late-nesting birds frequently have a lower reproductive success than early-nesting ones. This could be a consequence of seasonal variations in environmental conditions or because late-nesting parents are of lower quality than early-nesting ones. We tested the hypothesis that a difference between early and late parents in their ability to raise viable offspring could explain the seasonal decline in offspring growth and survival in the Greater Snow Goose Anser caerulescens atlanticus, a species with self-feeding precocial young. Over two years, we exchanged complete clutches between early and late parents, to change the hatching date experienced by parents. We exchanged eggs between 164 experimental nests, whose hatching dates differed by 0 to 9 days (x = 3 days). We detected no seasonal effect on survival rate in the sample of experimental nests, but there was a seasonal decline of growth rate. When delaying or advancing hatching, the fostered goslings grew respectively slower or faster compared to the parents' original hatching date, indicating that variations in environmental conditions are responsible for seasonal variation of growth. However, growth of experimental goslings did not differ from unmanipulated goslings hatched at the same date, indicating that parental quality did not contribute to seasonal variations of growth rate. We conclude that the seasonal variation in reproductive success is not caused by a difference in parental quality between early and late nesters, but mostly by environmental factors directly related to the date of the season. 
25662895|Study of the evolution of ecological characteristics using phylogenetic information is only beginning, but several new tools and approaches open fascinating possibilities. The Pipridae is a diverse and well-known family of frugivorous birds that are easily sampled and that are broadly distributed across many Neotropical environments, and as such are appropriate for studies of ecological niche evolution. Using known occurrences and climate and topography data sets, we modeled ecological niches for each species in the family, and carried out analyses aimed at describing ecological niches of manakins and understanding historical patterns of ecological change in the family. Most species' ecological niches were characterized by warm and relatively humid conditions, reflecting the great diversification of the family in lowland and montane forests of western South America. Ecological niche evolution was in general conservative, with most sister species pairs being closely similar ecologically, indicating that isolation rather than adaptation to new ecological conditions has dominated the diversification in this family. Exceptions to this pattern represent interesting foci for future research, whereas studies of ecological niches focusing on past distributions of manakins will allow further biogeographic inferences.
3677781|Individual-based data on little terns Sterna albifrons at a post-breeding moulting area were used to investigate the spatial extent at which this site attract birds. Combining information collected on young terns, ringed at the natal colonies, with that on birds captured a few months later at the moulting site, we estimated a survival/movement parameter for each age-by-colony combination. This parameter is the product between the survival probability and the probability to visit the moulting site. The distance between the natal colony and the moulting site negatively influenced the probability of reaching the site in yearlings. Having corrected for the distance from the moulting area, colony characteristics explained only about 10% of the spatial variation in the survival/movement parameter of juveniles. In older birds that had visited the site at least once in their life, neither the colony nor the distance affected the survival/movement parameter significantly. The average annual adult survival/movement probability was 0.90. Juvenile survival between June and September was 0.60. Overall results suggest that the moulting area could act as a 'population funnel' within a system of moult migration that involves birds breeding up to 500 km away. However, other unknown moulting site must exist within this area that could be important for the conservation of the species.
10.2307/3676973|Male characteristics used by females in choosing mates for good genes may also reflect outcomes of male-male competition. The extravagantly ornamented Wild Turkey Meleagris gallopavo is an appropriate species in which to test this relationship. Wild Turkeys have a highly competitive social system in which combat and other dominance interactions between males are common throughout the year. In this study dyadic dominance trials between unfamiliar captive males demonstrated that a male's relative snood length, a character previously shown to be used by females in mate choice, is also predictive of the outcome of male-male competition. Complementary trials using artificial males confirmed that live males assess the snood length of potential competitors independent of other male characteristics. In an earlier study snood length was shown to be negatively correlated with coccidian parasite load and positively correlated with male condition in free-living Wild Turkeys.
25161505|Phylogenetic relationships among major groups of passeriform birds were studied by analyses of nucleotide sequence data from two nuclear genes, c-myc and RAG-1. The results corroborated both the monophyly of the order Passeriformes, and the major dichotomy into oscine and suboscine passerines previously suggested based on syringeal morphology and DNA-DNA hybridizations. The representatives of the Old World suboscines (families Eurylaimidae, Philepittidae and Pittidae) formed a monophyletic clade. The New World suboscines clustered into two clades. The first contained Conopophaga (Conopophagidae), Furnarius (Furnariidae), Lepidocolaptes (Dendrocolaptidae), Thamnophilus (Formicariidae), and Rhinocrypta (Rhinocryptidae). Previously, the monophyly of this group has been inferred from their possession of a unique, "tracheophone" syrinx, and from DNA-DNA hybridisation data. The second clade of New World suboscines includes Gubernetes and Muscivora (Tyrannidae), Phytotoma (Phytotomidae), Tityra (Cotingidae) and Pipra (Pipridae). This group of families have been considered monophyletic based on morphology (although ambiguously) and DNA-DNA hybridisation. The sister group relationship of Tityra and Phytotoma supports the previously supposed cotingid affinity of Phytotoma. Nuclear DNA data also unambiguously group the lyrebirds Menura with the oscines. The presented results from the analysis of nuclear DNA agree well with morphology and DNA-DNA hybridisation data. The precise age of the divergences studied herein are unknown but based on interpretations of the fossil record of passerine birds many of them might date back to the early Tertiary. The agreement between data from the nuclear DNA and other sources, along with the fact that neither of the studied genes showed sign of saturation, indicate the great potential of these two nuclear genes to resolve very old divergences in birds.
3677644|It has long been suggested that competing groups of social animals assess one another on the basis of communal vocalisations, but so far this has only been demonstrated in mammals. We investigated this idea in the subdesert mesite, a group-living bird that produces communal songs during aggressive territorial interactions with other groups. Where groups compete as units, differences in group size might outweigh inter-individual differences in determining the outcome of contests. Given this species' variable social system, we predicted that the composition of groups would also influence their resource holding potential. Playback experiments showed that the number of simulated intruders significantly influenced the strength of response by defending groups hearing the stimulus: groups were less likely to approach but gave more protracted and more communal vocal responses as the number of vocalising intruders increased. We found that the likelihood of a group approaching playback increased as the ratio between the number of males in the defending group and the number of males in the intruding group increased. Furthermore, the ratio of adult males to females in the defending group significantly affected the probability of approach, with the probability increasing as groups became more male-biased. This finding supports the idea that the social structure of groups may be important in determining the outcome of contests between groups. Overall this study provides some indication in birds of relative numerical assessment based on vocal cues.
10.2307/3677337|The patterned hooting of owls may serve one or more functions including repulsion of territorial invaders, attraction of potential mates, and stimulation of the mate. In this study I looked for characteristics in the Tawny Owl hoot which might convey information on the signaller's quality or that of its territory to potential mates and rivals. I therefore analysed relationships between hooting rate, hoot harshness and 13 structural features of the hoots of 22 territory-defending male Tawny Owls on the one hand, and male RHP (i.e., aggressiveness in response to playback), territory size, stability, patchiness, fragmentation and owl reproductive output on each territory on the other. Hooting rate, hoot harshness and rhythm were all related to male RHP, but not to any measure of territory quality. These features therefore appeared to reflect aspects of male competitive potential, i.e. the male's quality as a defender. By contrast, duration and frequency range of notes were related to reproductive output and territory stability, possibly signalling better territories in terms of resources and better male parental performance. Males involved in territorial contests increased their hooting rate when females joined them in a communal response. This more conspicuous display, rather than functioning as a mate guarding strategy, may be interpreted as a means of influencing female choice directly.
30245323|Early arrival to breeding grounds is a life history trait in birds that can result in fitness benefits. We studied the relationship between arrival date and breeding success of individuals in a central Iberian population of white stork Ciconia ciconia, between 1999 and 2005, and the ways in which other potential factors, such as age or sex, affect this relationship. Our results showed that age was the factor most closely related to arrival date and breeding success. Older individuals returned earlier to the breeding grounds, achieved larger clutch sizes and produced more chicks than younger birds. After controlling statistically for age effect, breeding probability (laid eggs or not) and laying date were still significantly explained by arrival date. A higher probability of failure to reproduce (no eggs laid) was found in birds arriving later than in those arriving early. However, clutch size and nestling success (number of nestlings in the nest 40 days after hatching) were not correlated with arrival date. Food availability in the study area throughout the breeding cycle, due to a nearby rubbish dump, could be the factor mitigating differences in clutch size and nestling success related to individual arrival date.
3677709|Explanations for the ecological integration of migratory and non-migratory (resident) insectivorous birds in the tropics have been complicated by the paradox that arthropod abundances are low when bird abundances reach their annual peak. The breeding currency hypothesis and the nest predation hypothesis both account for this paradox by postulating that residents are held below the non-breeding season carrying capacity, which frees resources available for migratory insectivores. The breeding currency hypothesis suggests residents are limited by food suitable for nestlings, whereas the nest predation hypothesis emphasizes the primacy of high rates of nest predation. However, theoretical arguments suggest that food availability and predation risk interact strongly to limit breeding birds. We use graphical analyses to extend the breeding currency hypothesis to incorporate effects of nest predation. This yields a more synthetic and realistic model for the integration of migrant and resident insectivores in the tropics - the balanced breeding limitation hypothesis.
10.2307/3676946|The temporal variation of blood parasites in captive Yellowhammer males was studied in order to investigate possible costs of parasites. Birds were caught in the wild in early April and kept in aviaries during the study period. Blood samples were taken, body mass measured, and moult was scored twelve times for the same individuals from April to October. Blood parasites were detectable in smears during the whole study period with an intensity peak coinciding with breeding in the wild. Young birds had more parasites and a consistently higher body mass than older birds. There was no relationship between parasite intensity and mass in older birds but possibly one in young birds. Parasites did not seem to affect moult in either age class. Repeatability of parasite counts of smears from the same individual was very high and smears are therefore a reliable method for estimating parasite intensity. We conclude that blood parasites are probably most severe during, but occur in their hosts long after, the breeding season. Possible costs of parasites outside the breeding season require further study.
30244790|Recent data suggest that facultative hypothermic responses such as torpor are more important in the energy balance of birds from tropical and sub-tropical regions than previously thought. We used telemetric measurements of skin temperature ( <tex-math>$T_{skin}$</tex-math> ) for five individuals on 151 bird-nights to investigate the occurrence of torpor during winter in an 81 g African caprimulgid, the freckled nightjar Caprimulgus tristigma. We found that freckled nightjars have the capacity to enter torpor, with a minimum observed <tex-math>$T_{skin}$</tex-math> of 12.8C. During the torpor bouts we observed, complete rewarming typically occurred after sunrise, and coincided with the availability of solar radiation. There was considerable inter-individual variability in the frequency and depth of torpor bouts, with one female nightjar exhibiting particularly frequent and deep torpor. Our results confirm the ability to use torpor by a nocturnal aerial insectivore from the Afrotropics, and reiterate the variability in patterns of torpor that can exist within a population.
3677525|Bright plumage, song display, and aggressive resource defence in males may cause higher predation on males than on females during the breeding season. However, in birds, higher predation on females is sometimes observed. Parental investment may be high in females (egg-laying, incubation and feeding of offspring), which might lead to a high risk of predation. We studied predation by sparrowhawks Accipiter nisus in relation to behaviour in pied flycatchers Ficedula hypoleuca where breeding males are more conspicuous than females in plumage and behaviour. Male pied flycatchers generally occupied more exposed perches than females. Females were more mobile and foraged more than males, especially prior to and during incubation. During the incubation and nestling stages, when predation on the sexes could be directly compared, sparrowhawks took about the same number of male and female pied flycatchers. During incubation, however, females spent about 77% of the day in the nest and were 4.7 times more vulnerable than males per unit of time available (i.e. outside the nest). A comparison with the chaffinch Fringilla coelebs, where hawks took more females than males, indicates that timing of breeding, foraging behaviour and parental roles of males and females affect predation risk.
10.2307/3677112|We investigated the effect of hatching date on chick body condition, chick survival, post-fledging survival and eventual breeding performance as an adult (laying date and clutch volume) of Great Skuas in Foula (Shetland). In 10 out of 16 years there was a seasonal decline in chick body condition. In the remaining years, there was no detectable effect of hatching date on chick condition. Differences among years were statistically significant. Chicks in early broods survived better than late-hatched chicks in four years, and no trend could be detected in one year. Annual variation in the seasonal pattern of chick growth and survival, and of adult territorial attendance, suggests that environmental conditions play a role in determining the seasonal decline in performance. Post-fledging survival in relation to hatching date was studied by analysis of ringing recoveries. Hatching date affected post-fledging survival, but only in the first year of life. Breeding parameters of birds of known hatching date were studied when they came back to breed in Foula. Hatching date of an individual did not affect its laying date or volume of the clutches laid later in life. This suggests that laying date has a low heritability, or none at all. Birds that laid early in the season produced more future recruits than later birds. After an early breeding attempt, skuas had a higher overwinter survival probability than after a late season. These results suggest that laying date is an indicator of individual quality in skuas, in the sense that early birds apparently are more competent at gathering resources for reproduction and survival.
3677366|Territorial quality and parental quality are usually assumed to be the main sources of variation in the reproductive success of passerine birds. To evaluate their relative importance for variation in breeding time (itself an important factor for breeding success), clutch size and offspring condition at fledging, we analysed six years of data from a Blue Tit Parus caeruleus population breeding on the island of Gotland, Sweden. Hatching dates and the condition of offspring were consistent for territories between years and accounted for 30% and 33% of the variation in these variables, respectively. After removing the effect of territory quality, none of the breeding parameters were significantly repeatable for individual females, but offspring condition was repeatable for males, accounting for 28% of variation. For females breeding on the same territory in subsequent seasons (combined effect of individual and territory quality) only hatching date was repeatable (45% of variation accounted for). In males, the combined effect of individual and territory quality was repeatable for offspring condition and accounted for 33% of variation, but this result was only marginally significant. Consistency of the peak frass-fall date for individual frass collectors over the study period suggests that repeatable hatching dates on territories may be related to the relationship between timing of breeding and timing of peak food availability on territories. Our results suggest that territory quality is more important than parental quality for breeding success in the Blue Tit, and that male (but not female) quality makes a considerable contribution to reproductive success.
30244823|The energetic cost of immune responses has been proposed to be an important basis for trade-offs between life-history traits, such as between survival and reproduction. A critical assumption of this hypothesis is that the magnitude of the energetic cost increases with the strength of an immune response, so that energy can be saved by partly suppressing a response. Here, we test this assumption experimentally. The immune system of great tits Parus major was experimentally activated by injecting different doses of phytohemagglutinin (PHA) in the wing web. We found the resting metabolic rate of immune challenged birds to increase by 5%. However, although great tits injected with a high dose had a stronger immune response, this was not paralleled by a higher metabolic rate. Thus, we found the energetic cost of the immune response to be relatively low and not dose-dependent. This suggests to us that the energetic cost of immune responses cannot form the basis for trade-offs between life-history traits.
10.2307/3677019|The management of reedbeds for birds is often a controversial issue in discussions between conservationists, reed harvesters and managers. At the same time, data on the density and nesting success of birds in cut and uncut reed are scarce. This paper presents the results of a study on the density and nesting success of Reed Warblers Acrocephalus scirpaceus and Sedge Warblers A. schoenobaenus in cut and uncut reed in a peat marsh, De Weerribben National Park in the Netherlands in 1993-1995. Depending on year, densities of Reed Warblers were 1.2-2.5 times higher in uncut reed than in cut reed, while densities of Sedge Warblers in uncut reed and other vegetation were 6-50 times higher than in cut vegetation. Reed Warblers nested 6-12 days earlier in uncut reed than in cut reed. No difference could be detected in laying dates of Sedge Warblers in cut and uncut vegetation, presumably because many Sedge Warblers in cut vegetation nested in small remnants of uncut vegetation. There were no differences in clutch size or fledging success in non-depredated nests of Reed Warblers and Sedge Warblers between cut and uncut vegetation. However, the predation rate of Reed Warbler nests in cut vegetation was 2.2 times as high, and of Sedge Warbler nests 1.6 times as high as in uncut vegetation. Sedge Warblers started to nest two to three weeks earlier and their nests were more often preyed upon than Reed Warblers' nests, in particular by ground predators. This may explain why Sedge Warblers more strongly preferred uncut reed than did Reed Warblers. Contrary to Sedge Warblers, Reed Warblers close to trees were parasitized by Cuckoos Cuculus canorus, which may explain why Reed Warblers nested in lower densities close to trees than farther away from trees. The results show that uncut reed is more suitable for nesting Reed Warblers and Sedge Warblers than cut reed because it allows them to nest earlier - and thus to raise on average more clutches per season - and because the birds suffer a lower predation risk.
10.2307/3677273| Long term ringing of chicks and retrapping of adult Shags at a colony in south-east Scotland have provided information on survival to breeding age for 25 cohorts. The mean survival for 18 cohorts at risk of being recaptured for 10 years was 0.3070.2. Generalized linear modelling demonstrated that survival varied according to year, fledging date and brood size. The effect of each variable was apparently independent of those of the other two. Young hatched early in the season survived better than those hatched later which, when linked to the seasonal decline in breeding success, results in early laying individuals contributing 10 times as many recruits to subsequent generations as do birds laying two months later. Chicks in broods of three had a higher estimated survival than those in broods of two and both appeared to survive very much better than those in broods of one. Differences in the survival of cohorts could not be explained by annual differences in the timing of breeding or mean brood size. Rather, differential survival of cohorts appeared to be due to the timing of mortality during the first winter. 
10.2307/3677230|We investigated if one category of birds, prospectors, i.e. those likely to seek future breeding sites, attempt to gather information on the local reproductive success of their conspecifics. If prospecting is an important information-gathering process, it should occur when reliable estimation of the local reproductive success can be made. We tested this prediction in a colonial seabird, the Kittiwake Rissa tridactyla, by monitoring the number of prospectors and the value of the information available on local reproductive success in a series of breeding cliffs during two breeding seasons. We found that the bulk of prospecting occurred when the best information on local reproductive success was available. The pattern was very similar in the two study years (1985 and 1992); prospecting occurred late in the season, as reported for most bird species. This result is consistent with the potential use of conspecific reproductive success as a proximate cue for habitat selection.
30243847|In response to a variety of unpredictable conditions, birds secrete the steroid hormone corticosterone, which has numerous effects on physiology and behavior. A standardized protocol of handling and restraint has been demonstrated to elicit a robust corticosterone response in many species of birds. In contrast, comparatively little is known about the effects of capture technique on corticosterone secretion in wild birds. Setting up multiple live traps checked at regular intervals allows field researchers to capture many birds in a short period of time. However, one potential drawback of this technique is that birds may spend unknown lengths of time in traps prior to sampling. Many birds appear to remain calm and/or feed during this period, potentially leading researchers to assume that corticosterone secretion is unaffected by trapping. We assessed the impact of being left in traps for up to 30 minutes on baseline corticosterone and subsequent corticosterone responses to restraint in non-breeding and breeding house sparrows Passer domesticus. Traps were baited with seed, and birds were either removed immediately after entry (controls), or left in the trap undisturbed for 15 or 30 min. Upon removal, birds were subjected to a standardized handling/restraint protocol in which blood samples were collected within 3 min, and again at regular intervals for 60 min. Analysis of blood samples revealed that both non-breeding and breeding sparrows that were held in the traps had significantly higher baseline corticosterone than controls, and showed no further increase in corticosterone secretion in response to handling. However, corticosterone responses to trapping differed seasonally. Our study indicates that although birds did not exhibit prolonged escape behavior while trapped, entry into a walk-in trap initiated a robust stress response. Taken together with data from a previous study, our data suggest that ornithologists should consider species-specific and stage-specific effects of trapping on physiology when designing field studies.
3677577|We examined inter-clutch egg size variation of Eurasian kestrels Falco tinnunculus in western Finland over a period of 12 years, during which their main prey, Microtus voles, fluctuated in three-year population cycles. Females that bred twice in the area had highly repeatable egg size, and the main part of the observed variation was likely to be due to among-female differences. Laying date also explained some variation in egg size, but compared to the variation between individuals its effect was small and varied among the phases of the vole cycle. During decrease phases and years with low vole abundance mean egg size of clutches declined with laying date, whereas during increase phases mean egg size remained stable within the season. Although egg size was not related to fledging success, we found that egg size may have value for the development of eggs as the probability of total hatching success of a clutch increased with increasing mean egg size.
30243898|In many cooperatively-breeding species, the presence of one or more helpers improves the reproductive performance of the breeding pair receiving help. Helper contributions can take many different forms, including allo-feeding, offspring provisioning, and offspring guarding or defence. Yet, most studies have focussed on single forms of helper contribution, particularly offspring provisioning, and few have evaluated the relative importance of a broader range of helper contributions to group reproductive performance. We examined helper contributions to multiple components of breeding performance in the Karoo scrub-robin Cercotrichas coryphaeus, a facultative cooperative breeder. We also tested a prediction of increased female investment in reproduction when helpers improve conditions for rearing young. Helpers assisted the breeding male in allo-feeding the incubating female, increasing allo-feeding rates. Greater allo-feeding correlated with greater female nest attentiveness during incubation. Nest predation was substantially lower among pairs breeding with a helper, resulting in a 74% increase in the probability of nest survival. Helper contributions to offspring provisioning increased nestling feeding rates, resulting in a reduced incidence of nestling starvation and increased nestling mass. Nestling mass had a strong, positive effect on post-fledging survival. Controlling for female age and habitat effects, annual production of fledged young was 130% greater among pairs breeding with a helper, and was influenced most strongly by helper correlates with nest survival, despite important helper effects on offspring provisioning. Females breeding with a helper increased clutch size, supporting the prediction of increased female investment in reproduction in response to helper benefits.
30243903|The adaptive significance of avian egg speckling patterns has been a subject of ongoing debate. We examined speckling in a population of Mexican jays Aphelocoma ultramarina exhibiting extreme eggshell variability. We sampled 167 eggs at 55 nests from sites ranging across a steep elevation gradient within the Sierra del Carmen mountain range in Coahuila, Mexico, in order to test the recent hypothesis that egg speckling lends structural support to eggs and should therefore be more prevalent in females subject to reduced environmental calcium. Although we documented high variation in the amount and distribution of eggshell speckling within the Sierra del Carmen jays, we found no relationship between local soil calcium levels and the pattern of speckling. Our results indicate that explanations in addition to soil calcium levels are necessary to explain extreme variation in eggshell speckling in birds.
10.2307/3677144|Field studies have demonstrated interspecific niche separation between the Willow Tit Parus montanus and the Crested Tit P. cristatus in mixed-species flocks using mature coniferous forest. The dominant Crested Tit prefers the upper parts in pine, while the Willow Tit forages lower in the canopy. Foraging niche shifts of these species were studied when they foraged alternately in mature pine forest and in areas with saplings. In the saplings, where flying predators are unable to attack prey in the lower part of the canopy because of the dense branch structure there, Crested Tits switched to forage in the lower parts. As the subordinate species, Willow Tits foraged lower in the mature forest and higher up in the saplings, thus in both cases using more exposed parts of the canopy. Predation risk from Sparrowhawks Accipiter nisus seemed to be high. Since Crested Tits used the safest sites in both habitats, tits seem able to evaluate predation risk and adjust their habitat use. The spatial segregation of foraging niches in flocks of wintering tits can be explained by their response to habitat gradients in predator exposure.
10.2307/3677213| By analogy with patch-use decisions made by animals foraging among patches, animals storing food items among scattered sites must make decisions such as how long to persist in exploiting a known source before leaving to search for alternative sources. If the survival of scattered caches is density-dependent, then there should be a "source-departure threshold," beyond which additional caching would reduce the long-term average rate of storage of recoverable food. The hoarder would profit maximally by leaving the source at that threshold, even though the source still contains food. We experimentally examined how two factors influence various source-use decisions of Gray Jays Perisoreus canadensis exploiting locally abundant food sources. First, we examined the behavior of jays exploiting a food source during an initial "encounter" and during another encounter 3 days later. The jays made fewer caches during subsequent encounters with a source at a given location, around which the local density of previously made caches was high. They also compensated by spacing out their caches more widely and by increasing the rate at which they retrieved and redistributed previously made caches. Second, we investigated the effect of the composition of a food source (i.e., the value of its food items) on the jays' source-use decisions. The jays cached substantially more food items (raisins) from a large-item (X=491) than from a small-item (328) source when sources of each type were made available on different days. The cumulative number of caches made by individual jays (over 10 h) was more nearly asymptotic in the smaller-item treatment. We propose that the jays' tendency to recache previously made caches accounts for their failure to cease hoarding from our experimental sources. This two-stage process of food storage (i.e., initial placement and subsequent recaching) may yield long-term average rates of storage throughout the territory exceeding those predicted by simple rate-maximization, patch-use models. 
3676984|A recent experimental study reported that Thick-billed Murre Uria lomvia chicks that hatched from large eggs grew their wing feathers more quickly than did small-egg chicks. There is little evidence of this (or any other) egg-size effect on post-hatching development in other birds. Thick-billed Murres are marine birds of the family Alcidae that employ the unique "intermediate" developmental strategy: chicks go to sea after 15-30 days at the nest site, at < 30% of adult mass, accompanied by their male parent. Rapid feather growth during the brief nestling period is critical to enable chicks to make the transition from life at the nest site to life at sea quickly and safely. At the Gannet Islands, Labrador, Canada, in 1996 and 1997, I tested whether egg size has the same effect on wing-feather growth in the Razorbill Alca torda, another of the intermediate auks. To control for underlying correlations between egg size and other parental attributes, eggs were switched randomly among pairs. As in other birds, egg size strongly predicted hatchling mass, and to less extent hatchling size (tarsus length), but had no effect on the rate at which nestlings gained mass. However, egg size had the same effect on wing growth in Razorbills as in Thick-billed Murres: the wings of large-egg chicks began rapid, linear growth sooner, indicating that early development of wing feathers was enhanced in large-egg chicks. Differences in wing length established in this manner persisted through the nestling period. Egg-size effects on feather growth have not been detected in experimental studies on other birds, suggesting that effects of the magnitude seen in Razorbills and Thick-billed Murres might reflect evolutionary priorities in the post-hatching development of intermediate auks.
3677679|In order to succeed in crossing extensive ecological barriers, migratory birds usually deposit fuel en route. High rates of fuel deposition may enable birds to shorten their total migration time and are therefore advantageous for time-minimizing migrants. Several studies have suggested that water provision may increase food utilization in non-migratory birds. The goal of this study was to test the influence of water availability on the fuel deposition of en route migratory passerines. We studied fuel deposition of blackcaps Sylvia atricapilla and lesser whitethroats S. curruca staging in a plantation of Mount Atlas gum-tree Pistacia atlantica in the northern Negev desert, Israel, during the autumns of 2000 and 2002. We manipulated water availability at the site and measured the effect of water supplementation on fuel deposition of birds of both species. We found that when water was available, blackcaps had higher fuel loads and higher fuel deposition rates than during control trials. However, water availability had no effect on fuel deposition of lesser whitethroats. Species-specific differences in adaptations to arid conditions, reflected in the species' winter habitat preferences, may be responsible for the between-species dissimilarity in responding to water provision. We suggest that water availability may have strong ecological and evolutionary consequences for birds migrating through arid environments, by its possible effect on bird behavior and physiology.
30243296|Theory predicts that females should track resources while making decisions about where to reproduce, and males should track females. However, when males create the resource that females require, female settlement follows that of males. In this situation, how do individuals make settling decisions and what are the fitness consequences of these decisions? Here, I test the hypothesis that environmental factors (wind direction and velocity) affect optimal nest placement and orientation, and thus male and female settlement, in Baya weaver Ploceus philippinus colonies. Nests experimentally placed in windward locations with entrance tubes oriented toward the wind were more likely to lose clutches of artificial eggs than were nests placed in other combinations of placement and orientation. Correspondingly, males built their nests strongly clustered on the leeward side of colony trees, with entrance tubes oriented away from the wind. However, females did not discriminate amongst natural nests on the basis of nest placement or orientation. This may be because the effect of wind on the success of natural nests was small and was overwhelmed by other causes of nest loss. I suggest that, in some situations, female preference may remain undetected because the options available to females are constrained by preceding settlement decisions by males. In these cases, it is necessary to manipulate male distribution outside the range of natural variation to gain a better understanding of selective pressures imposed by female preferences.
10.2307/3677062|We studied the selective advantage of nest and egg crypsis in the Stone Curlew Burhinus oedicnemus. Experimental removal of camouflaging nest material resulted in replacement of a similar amount and size of nest material for the specific nest site. The match between the colour of the eggs and the ground was usually perfect and mismatches in coloration increased the predation rate by visually searching avian nest predators. Both nest building and choice of nest substrate appeared to increase crypsis and improved hatching success.
3677514|Woodpeckers, honeyguides, barbets, and toucans form a well-supported clade with approximately 355 species. This clade, commonly referred to as Pici, share with the South American clade Galbulae (puffbirds and jacamars) a zygodactyls foot with a unique arrangement of the deep flexor tendons (Gadow's Type VI). Based on these characters, Pici and Galbulae are often considered sister taxa, and have in traditional classification been placed in the order Piciformes. There are, however, a wealth of other morphological characters that contradicts this association, and indicates that Pici is closer related to the Passeriformes (passerines) than to Galbulae. Galbulae, in turn, is considered more closely related to the rollers and ground-rollers (Coracii). In this study, we evaluate these two hypotheses by using DNA sequence data from exons of the nuclear RAG-1 and c-myc genes, and an intron of the nuclear myoglobin gene, totally including 3400 basepairs of aligned sequences. The results indicate a sister group relationship between Pici and Galbulae, i.e. monophyly of the Piciformes, and this association has high statistical support in terms of bootstrap values and posterior probabilities. This study also supports several associations within the traditional order Coraciiformes, including a sister group relationship between the kingfishers (Alcedinidae) and a clade with todies (Todidae) and motmots (Momotidae), and with the bee-eaters (Meropidae) placed basal relative to these three groups.
30243851|Social monogamy with biparental care is the norm in gulls Laridae, but egg colour variation suggests that some nests may contain mixed clutches laid by more than one female. Here we use protein fingerprinting of egg albumen to assess the occurrence of mixed maternity clutches in three colonies of black-headed gulls. Among 160 analysed clutches with >1 egg, 34% contained eggs from more than one female, and 15% of the eggs in clutches >1 came from other females than the major female (laying most eggs in nest). Among clutches with 2-3 eggs 28% were mixed, and among clutches with 4 or more eggs 89% contained eggs from two or more females. There were significantly fewer eggs from the major female in mixed nests (mean = 2.060.63 SD) than in non-mixed nests (mean = 2.820.43 SD). In nests without evidence of female conflict, hatching success of minority eggs was similar to that of eggs from the major female (12.5 and 8.4%, respectively). In 21% of mixed maternity nests, one or more minority eggs was buried or punctured, and 25% of eggs from major females were also found evicted, suggesting conflict between females and rejection of eggs. Intra-specific nest parasitism seems the most likely cause of mixed clutches, but there are also other possible causes.
3677708|Understanding the degree of demographic connectivity among population segments is increasingly recognized as central to the fields of population ecology and conservation biology. However, delineating discrete population units has proven challenging, particularly for migratory birds as they move through their annual cycle. In this study, radio telemetry was used to assess movement rates among habitats by harlequin ducks Histrionicus histrionicus during the non-breeding season in Prince William Sound, Alaska. A total of 434 females were outfitted with radio transmitters over six years of data collection, and their signals tracked by aircraft. Using a spatially nested design, it was determined that 75% of radioed females remained in the bay or coastline area where they were originally trapped, 94% remained on the same island or mainland region of Prince William Sound where they began the winter period, and 98% remained within the 4500 km<sup>2</sup> study area as a whole. Home range analyses corroborated these findings, indicating that the scale of individual movements was small, with 95% kernel home range estimates averaging only 11.52.2 km<sup>2</sup>. A simple demographic model, which incorporated estimates for population size, survival, and movement rates, was used to infer the degree of independence among population segments. Immigrant females were found to contribute little to population numbers in most areas, accounting for only 4% of the adult female population at a scale of approximately 100 km<sup>2</sup>. These results have important implications for the scale of conservation action for the species and demonstrate that winter movements can have a strong influence local population dynamics.
10.2307/3677010|Recent studies have demonstrated that wild birds breeding in acidified areas may have difficulties in obtaining sufficient calcium for their eggshells, and that a shortage of land snails may be the cause. Here we present experimental evidence that calcium deficiency may affect reproductive traits also in birds breeding in non-acidified but naturally base-poor forest habitats. The study was conducted in Estonia in 1995 and 1996. We compared egg characteristics and other life-history traits of the Pied Flycatcher Ficedula hypoleuca and the Great Tit Parus major in two habitats differing in natural availability of calcium (base-poor pine forests and base-rich deciduous forests). In both species, egg volume was smaller in the poor than the rich habitat. Eggshell thickness also tended to be less in the poor habitat in 1996, but the difference was significant only in the Pied Flycatcher. An experimental supplementation of calcium was performed in the habitats to determine to what extent differences between rich and poor habitats might be caused by differences in calcium availability. Egg volume and shell thickness were positively affected by calcium supplementation in the Pied Flycatcher. The same tendency was observed in the Great Tit in 1996, although not significant. However, there was no effect of calcium provisioning on hatching success, nest desertion rate and number or quality of fledglings. Our results show that calcium limitation may occur in wild birds on naturally calcium-poor soils. Birds breeding in such habitats may be vulnerable to possible increases in acid deposition.
3677743|Reproductive performance varies with age in a wide range of organisms, and increasingly such patterns are interpreted in terms of state-dependent models. We sought to characterise 'state' with regards to age-related variation in clutch size, egg mass and timing of breeding in captive zebra finches Taeniopygia guttata, focusing on the roles of diet quality, age and breeding experience. Females on a high-quality diet laid larger clutches of larger eggs than did females on a low-quality diet. The effect of age on reproductive performance was examined by comparing females breeding (i.e. paired) for the first time at either 3- and/or 6-months of age. Clutch size increased with age but on the low-quality diet only, not on the high-quality diet. Furthermore, clutch size decreased between 3- and 6-months of age in birds bred first on the high-quality diet and then on the low-quality diet. Age did not affect egg mass but older birds had shorter laying intervals. Reproductive performance did not differ between females breeding at 6-months of age for the first or second time: the effects of age were not due to 'training' effects or experience specific to breeding (e.g. undergoing the physiological process of egg formation). In conclusion, nutritional condition (diet) emerged as a central component of state that could strongly influence, and even reverse, any age-dependent increase in primary reproductive performance.
10.2307/3677081|The incidence of Cuckoo Cuculus canorus parasitism among complete clutches of Rufous Bush Chat Cercotrichas galactotes in an area of southwestern Spain was 27.6% (N=29) and 27.3% (N=44) in two successive years. Breeding Rufous Bush Chats mobbed adult Cuckoos only if the latter tried to approach their nests. They deserted seven (46.7%) out of 15 parasitized nests found at the egg stage. Cuckoo eggs were mimetic in size and colour with respect to Rufous Bush Chat eggs, but could be distinguished by their greater size and mass and by their lighter colour. Cuckoos do not successfully parasitize other bird species breeding in the area and their eggs are not similar to those laid by any of them. Out of the 15 Cuckoo eggs found, 40% hatched and 33% reached the fledgling stage.
30244747|Large-scale climate fluctuations, such as the North Atlantic Oscillation (NAO), have a marked effect on the timing of spring migration of birds. It has however been suggested that long-distance migrants wintering in Africa could respond less to NAO than short-distance migrants wintering in Europe, making them more vulnerable to climatic changes. We studied whether migratory boreal and arctic bird species returning from different wintering areas show differences in responses to the NAO in the timing of their spring migration. We used data on 75 species from two bird observatories in northern Europe (60N). By extending the examination to the whole distribution of spring migration and to a taxonomically diverse set of birds, we aimed at finding general patterns of the effects of climate fluctuation on the timing of avian migration. Most species arrived earlier after winters with high NAO index. The degree of NAO-response diminished with the phase of migration: the early part of a species' migratory population responded more strongly than the later part. Early phase waterfowl responded strongest to NAO, but in later phases their response faded to non-significant. This pattern may be related to winter severity and/or ice conditions in the Baltic. In the two other groups, gulls and waders and passerines, all phases of migration responded to NAO and fading with phase was non-significant. The difference between waterfowl and other groups may be related to differences between the phenological development of their respective macrohabitats. Wintering area affected the strength of NAO response in a complicated way. On average medium distance migrants responded most strongly, followed by short-distance migrants and partial migrants. Our results concerning the response of long-distance migrants were difficult to interpret: there is an overall weak yet statistically significant effect, but patterns with phase of migration need further study. Our results highlight the importance of examining the whole distribution of migration and warrant the use of data sets from several sampling sites when studying climatic effects on the timing of avian life-history events.
3677775|We tested the prediction that at higher latitudes there will be an increase in the number hosts per cuckoo species. This prediction is confirmed, and the number of hosts exploited per cuckoo species increases with increasing latitude. Although this result is strongly influenced by a single species (the common cuckoo Cuculus canorus) in high latitudes, it is significant and holds even at lower latitudes where this species is absent. This trend may be explained as a case of competitive release and niche expansion by the few cuckoo species that have expanded their ranges north, despite the shortage of hairy caterpillar prey species at high latitudes.
3677409| The chick provisioning behaviour of Short-tailed Shearwaters Puffinus tenuirostris breeding at the northern edge of their distribution on Montague Island, New South Wales, was examined in February and March 1997. The duration of individual foraging trips of parents, weight changes of adults and chicks, and meal sizes delivered to chicks were determined. It was found that individual parents mixed a long foraging trip to Antarctic waters (14.4  2.0 days) with one to three short foraging trips (1.36  0.7 days, mode = 1 day). Adults gained body mass on long trips and lost weight on short trips. The size of meals fed to the chicks was significantly greater after a long trip (161  21 g) than after a short trip (135  28 g), although short trips increased the overall chick feeding frequency. The variable number of short trips made by adult Short-tailed Shearwaters and the relationship between short trips and adult body condition were consistent with current life-history theory: adults do not sacrifice their own body condition to increase food delivered to their chicks. Modelling revealed that this dual foraging strategy inevitable leads to chicks enduring long intervals between meals. These long intervals may have led to the evolution of an over-feeding strategy by parents and the nestling obesity reported in this shearwater. The durations of the long trips from Montague Island were significantly greater than those for Short-tailed Shearwaters breeding at the centre of their distribution in Tasmania, although there was no significant difference in the length of short trips. A commitment to feed regularly in Antarctic waters may explain why the breeding distribution of this species does not extend much further north. 
10.2307/3677272|In winter, Great Tits Parus major have a mixed diet of insect food and seeds. Field data suggest a dietary shift towards seeds with declining ambient temperatures. We hypothesised that Great Tits increase their preference for seeds with decreasing temperatures to raise their fat intake over time. An experiment was carried out to test whether this dietary shift with temperature exists. Six Great Tit females, held in captivity and acclimatized to winter conditions, had free access to two food types that differed in fat content. The ambient temperature was manipulated during the night, and for both food types the consumption and digestibility were estimated. During the night the energy expenditure was estimated using indirect calorimetry. Neither the digestibility of fat, nor the energy metabolization was related to ambient temperature. Evening weight, nocturnal energy expenditure, net food consumption and metabolizable energy intake were higher at lower temperatures. The proportion of fat in the diet was independent of the night temperature. There is no evidence that the preference for a fat-rich diet in Great Tits is affected by ambient temperatures.
10.2307/3677290| The bird migration pattern in June in southern Scandinavia was analysed on the basis of registrations from six years 1986-1991 by a long-range surveillance radar located in Scania, southern Sweden. The timing of migration, field observations and identification of some echoes suggested that mainly Knots Calidris c. canutus, on their way between the Wadden Sea and breeding grounds along the high arctic coasts of Siberia, were involved in the movements analysed. The daily timing was similar each year, with a peak passage across Scania in the night. The median time of passage (all years combined) was three hours after local sunset. The Knots have probably flown directly from well-known staging sites in the German Wadden Sea, and the median departure time from there was estimated to occur 1 1/2 h before sunset. The average track direction was 63  14 angular deviation. This is slightly, but significantly, to the south of the constant compass bearing (rhumbline = 57) between the German Wadden Sea and possible destination areas on the north coast of the Taymyr Peninsula in Siberia. Track directions varied significantly with wind, suggesting partial drift or pseudodrift. The groundspeed (
10.2307/3677049|A goal oriented migrant optimizing energy expenditure during flight should coordinate the adaptation of heading and airspeed with respect to wind. The model introduced in this study combines for the first time the simultaneous adaptation of heading and airspeed in an optimal strategy. Compared to other models (constant track or constant airspeed), the largest benefit from using the optimal strategy results with lateral and opposing winds. With decreasing distance to the goal, compensation for wind drift should be extended by adjusting heading and increasing airspeed. Regardless of their flight mechanics, birds completing their migratory journey in a few long flights should fly faster and compensate more for lateral wind drift, than birds travelling in numerous short hops. An analysis of flight paths of small passerines gathered with a tracking radar at night showed good correlations between measured headings and airspeeds and those predicted by the optimal strategy.
30243882|We measured breeding performance of little penguins Eudyptula minor at Phillip Island, Victoria, Australia, during a 21-year period. All birds considered in this paper (n = 307) were of known age (2-22 y) and sex, and most were of known, or closely-estimated, pair-bond status (1-8 mates per bird; pair-bond durations 1-13 y). Breeding dates and breeding performance varied markedly from year to year; measures of annual performance were not associated with early breeding. Measures of individual breeding performance (clutch-size, hatching success, chick masses and productivity) were related to early laying, parental age, and duration of pair-bond. Dependence of breeding performance on parental age was curvilinear, levelling off at about 8 y of age. Productivity declined significantly among birds older than 8 y; this decline was not due to events in the last year of breeding ("terminal illness"). Breeding performance increased with duration of pair-bond at least through y 5. Early breeding was significantly related to age and duration of pair-bond. Most of these relationships were stronger among males than among females, and many of them were not significant when females were considered alone. After controlling for other factors, breeding performance varied significantly among birds, but autocorrelations were low and limited to intervals of one year. Parental quality (defined for birds studied in six or more years as the individual bird term in a GLM for productivity controlling for other factors) was not correlated with lifespan or other demographic parameters, but high-quality birds were less prone to change mates and burrows than lowquality birds. We know of no previous study in which simultaneous effects of laying date, age and pair-bond duration on breeding performance were measured, while controlling for year, individual quality and terminal illness.
30243833|We analysed the hypothesis of Weihs and Katzir (1994) that feeding spoonbills use their broad bills by sweeping it through the water to shed a vortex. This would result in a hydrodynamic suction on the bottom for catching prey immediately or during the next sweep besides providing some extra benefits. The basic assumptions appear to be erroneous. (1) A spoonbill does not mainly feed on small, benthic invertebrates, but mainly on nekton such as fish and shrimps. (2) The inner surface of the upper mandible of a spoonbill is not concave but convex. (3) During feeding, a spoonbill does not keep its bill tip close to the bottom independent of the water depth. The outcomes of the tests supporting the hypothesis do not hold and the suggested benefits are dubious. Therefore, we reject the hypothesis and the claim that the bill of a spoonbill is used as a hydrofoil. The discussed paper tried to give an explanation of the behaviour of a bird with the help of hydrodynamic formulae. The fundamental mistake in the paper is that the use of the formulae is based on wrong assumptions concerning the food of the bird, its feeding behaviour as well as its anatomical details. The tests with a bird kept in captivity suggesting a proof of the rightness of the hypothesis lack a proper connection to the situation in the wild.
3677520|Despite many decades of study, scientists cannot answer why colonial breeding has evolved. This paper shows that the evolution of colonial breeding cannot be sufficiently explained by the evolutionary conditions proposed in previous studies. Until now, studies have compared colonial breeding with only solitary non-territorial breeding (two-state comparison) and have discussed factors that facilitate evolution of the former. Here, I propose a new approach, a three-state comparison, which compares colonial breeding with not only solitary non-territorial breeding but also solitary territorial breeding. This three-state comparison indicates that (i) merely determining the factors that make colonial breeding advantageous over non-territorial solitary breeding is not sufficient to explain the evolution of colonial breeding, (ii) the disadvantages of solitary territorial breeding can promote the evolution of colonial breeding, and (iii) the evolution of colonial breeding is far more influenced by different selection pressures than has been predicted by previous studies. Thus, the three-state comparison provides a more precise description of the conditions that lead to the evolution of colonial breeding.
10.2307/3677031|This paper analyses by means of ringing data the stopover site fidelity of four warbler species (Sylvia atricapilla, Sylvia borin, Phylloscopus collybita and Acrocephalus scirpaceus) during their migrations across the Iberian Peninsula. The mean recovery rates observed during migration periods (mean 0.28, range 0-0.54) were around 50% of the ones observed during the breeding and wintering seasons (mean 0.51, range 0.41-0.58). These differences in recovery rate were statistically significant in all species but Acrocephalus scirpaceus. This warbler, with its more restricted habitat requirements, showed higher recovery rates during the spring and autumn migration periods confirming the hypothesis that species depending on scarce, patchily distributed stopover habitats during their migrations show stronger stopover site fidelity during their journeys. Our results support the view that some migrant species actively select stopover sites during their migrations.
30243912|Individual differentiation is usually advantageous in maximising the fitness benefits of interactions with conspecifics. In social species, where intraspecific interactions are frequent, this is likely to be particularly important. Indeed, some form of differentiation underpins most hypotheses proposed to account for cooperative behaviour in birds. The auditory modality is a likely candidate for this function, particularly for species where individuals are widely spaced and in dense vegetation. In this study, we examined the acoustic structure of a distinctive mobbing signal, the 'chur' call, of the cooperatively breeding noisy miner Manorina melanocephala. Using 250 calls from 25 individuals, a combination of spectrographic-based measurement of call parameters, cross-correlation and multi-dimensional scaling was used to test for systematic individual differences in call structure. Strong differences between individuals were observed in all measures, indicating that this call encodes sufficient information to facilitate individual differentiation. We then conducted a series of field playbacks to test the effect of the behaviour on conspecifics. Results demonstrated that the call, in isolation, has a clear attractant effect. Given that chur calls are synonymous with the characteristic cooperative mobbing behaviour of this species, these findings suggest they are likely to have an important function in coordinating complex social behaviour.
3677515|The little penguin Eudyptula minor is unique among penguin species in being able to fledge chicks from two clutches in one breeding season. Pairs laying two clutches in a given season make a higher reproductive investment, and may be rewarded by a higher reproductive success as they may raise twice as many chicks as pairs laying one clutch. The higher effort made by pairs laying two clutches could correlate negatively with survival, future reproductive performance or offspring survival, indicating a cost of reproduction. Conversely, a positive relationship between the number of clutches produced in a given breeding season and survival, future reproductive performance or offspring survival would indicate that birds laying two clutches belonged to a category of birds with higher fitness, compared to birds laying only one clutch in the season. In this study we used a long-term data set taken from an increasing population of little penguins in Otago, SE New Zealand. We modelled the relationship between the number of clutches laid in a breeding season and survival probability, reproductive performance in the next breeding season and first year survival of offspring using capture-recapture modelling. Birds laying two clutches produced 1.7 times more fledglings during a breeding season than pairs laying one clutch. We found that birds laying two clutches had a higher probability of breeding in the following breeding season, a higher probability of laying two clutches in the following breeding season and a higher survival probability. There was no overall difference in post-fledging survival between the young of birds producing one clutch and the young of birds producing two clutches. However, the survival of young of single clutch breeders declined with laying date, whereas the young of double clutch breeders had the same survival rate irrespective of laying date. For a subset of data with birds of known age, we found evidence that the probability of laying two clutches increased with age. However, there were also indications for differences among birds in the tendency to lay two clutches that could not be attributed to age. We tentatively interpret our results as evidence of quality difference among little penguin breeders.
3677635|This paper summarizes and discusses the many new insights into passerine evolution gained from an increased general interest in avian evolution among biologists, and particularly from the extensive use of DNA sequence data in phylogenetic reconstruction. The sister group relationship between the New Zealand rifleman and all other passerines, indicates the importance of the former southern supercontinent Gondwana in the earliest evolution of this group. Following the break-up of Gondwana, the ancestors of other major passerine groups became isolated in Australia (oscines), South America (New World suboscines), and possibly, the then connected Kerguelen Plateau/India/Madagascar tectonic plates (Old World suboscines). The oscines underwent a significant radiation in the Australo-Papuan region and only a few oscine lineages have spread further than to the nearby Southeast Asia. A remarkable exception is the ancestor to the vast Passerida radiation, which now comprises 35% of all bird species. This group obviously benefitted greatly from the increased diversity in plant seed size and, morphology during the Tertiary. The lyrebirds (and possibly scrub-birds) constitute the sister group to all other oscines, which renders "Corvida" (sensu Sibley and Ahlquist 1990) paraphyletic. Sequence data suggests that Passerida, the other clade of oscines postulated based on the results of DNA-DNA hybridizations, is monophyletic, and that the rockfowl and rock-jumpers are the most basal members of this clade. The suboscines in the Old World (Eurylamides) and the New World (Tyrannides), respectively, are sister groups. A provisional, working classification of the passerines is presented based on the increased understanding of the major patterns of passerine evolution.
30244781|Components of avian egg quality often show remarkable variation between females and yet the causes of variation in this fitness-related trait remain poorly understood. We investigated the egg size and yolk carotenoid investment of blue tit Parus caeruleus females in relation to multiple parental traits. We show that females produce eggs with more colourful yolks when mated to ultraviolet (UV) attractive males. Since yolk carotenoids may enhance offspring fitness, but may be available to females in limiting amounts, the correlation we found suggests adaptive egg quality adjustment in response to mate attractiveness, but an experimental approach is required to rule out alternative explanations. Yolk colour was also correlated with laying date and yolk mass. Though the effect of laying date could not be explained by ambient temperature during egg formation, it suggests a proximate constraint of general carotenoid availability on yolk composition. Egg size was not affected by male attractiveness; however, females with a brighter crown produced larger eggs, suggesting that crown coloration might indicate individual quality in females too.
30244817|Optimality models are frequently used in studies of long distance bird migration to help understand and predict migration routes, stopover strategies and fuelling behaviour in a spatially varying environment. These models typically evaluate bird behaviour by focusing on a single optimization currency, such as total migration time or energy-use, without explicitly considering trade-offs between the involved objectives. In this paper, we demonstrate that this classic single-objective approach downplays the importance of variability in bird behaviour. In the light of these considerations, we therefore propose to use a full multi-criteria optimization method to isolate the set of non-dominated, efficient or Pareto optimal solutions. Unlike single-objective optimization where there is only one combination of bird behaviour maximizing fitness, the Pareto solution set represents a range of optimal solutions to conflicting objectives. Our results demonstrate that this multi-objective approach provides important new ways of analyzing how environmental factors and behavioural constraints have driven the evolution of migratory behaviour.
30244740|Different phases of the annual cycle in birds and mammals are often associated with characteristic and recurrent foraging behaviours. The extent to which stage-dependent changes in foraging behaviour are caused by intrinsic or extrinsic factors is unclear. We controlled for the effects of extrinsic factors by synchronising groups of incubating and chick-rearing black-legged kittiwakes Rissa tridactyla. Synchrony amongst incubators and rearers was achieved experimentally by switching eggs between nests. Behavioural responses to the treatment varied between the sexes. Male kittiwakes with prolongedincubation made fewer foraging trips but of greater duration compared to those rearing chicks resulting in no change in the time spent on trips between the two groups. Females with prolonged-incubation carried out fewer trips than those rearing chicks but trip duration did not differ between the two stages which resulted in prolonged-incubating birds spending a lower percentage time on trips. In contrast, foraging ranges did not differ between prolonged-incubation and chick-rearing birds for either sex. This suggests that extrinsic factors, such as food availability and distribution determine kittiwake foraging locations and ranges, whereas intrinsic factors, reflected in parental duties, constrain nest attendance. Female prolonged-incubators invested lower levels of parental effort, in terms of daily energy expenditure, compared to chick-rearers whereas males did not show stage-related differences in energy expenditure. This provides evidence that incubation could be an energetically cheaper stage although under normal conditions this difference may be masked by temporal variation in environmental factors. We conclude that while conditions differ between the incubation and chick rearing stages for kittiwakes at this colony, they are not the main factors prompting changes in stage-related foraging patterns. Intrinsic factors such as sex differences, or behaviours required for each stage of the annual cycle, rather than extrinsic factors related to seasonal environments, are likely to be the main proximate cause of recurring changes in behaviour between breeding stages.
30243896|Plunge-diving is a specialised hunting tactic used by some avian predators to overcome the high buoyancy encountered near the water surface and surprise prey. However, plunge-diving is effective only to a certain depth; to access deeper prey, birds need to use an additional method of propulsion, e.g. wings or feet. We used miniature accelerometers to record the details of the aerial and underwater phases of plunge dives by northern gannets Morus bassanus. Birds never reached depths > 11 m using the momentum of the aerial part of the plunge dive and had to flap their wings underwater to gain additional depth. A biomechanical model demonstrates that little additional depth can be obtained from momentum alone when initiating a plunge from heights > 40 m. Thus, the additional energy required to attain greater starting heights is not rewarded by reaching significantly greater depths. However, by using their wings underwater, gannets were able to more than double the depth attained (up to 24 m). It appears that prey may be captured by surprise in the first 10 m of the water column, whereas wing-propelled pursuit is required to catch prey at deeper depths, a strategy likely to be used only for prey of sufficient profitability to justify the cost of flapping the gannet's large wings underwater. Our study demonstrates the importance of understanding the constraints placed on predators by the physical environment when interpreting predator-prey interactions.
3677724|Redstart and black redstart inhabit different types of habitats under natural conditions. However, they come into close contact in a mosaic urban environment. Mechanisms enabling their local coexistence were looked for. We found that: 1) The two species occupied exclusive territories of different habitat compositions. 2) Territories differed in the proportion of trees and buildings. 3) Within their territories, the two species used the same foraging techniques, but with different frequencies. 4) Prey size was similar, but the proportions of taxonomic groups differed. 5) Spontaneous interspecific conflicts were observed. Interspecific aggression was confirmed in playback experiments. The black redstart was dominant in both natural and simulated encounters. We conclude that the main mechanism enabling coexistence of the two redstarts in a mosaic urban environment is different habitat selection with the proportion of trees as a key parameter. This proportion was always below 26% in black redstart territories, and above 27% in redstart territories. This is consistent with the habitat preferences these two species show in non-urban conditions. This pattern is compared to the other cases of coexistence of congeneric bird species such as chickadees Poecile or Sylvia warblers. As the two redstart species are able to hybridise in the wild, the observed interspecific aggression may operate as a pre-copulation barrier.
3677648|An increasing population of the mute swan Cygnus olor, was studied from its very establishment in 1976 until 1998. As the number of pairs increased, there was a decline in all production parameters, including the average number of clutches per pair, the average number of broods per clutch, and the average number of fledged young per brood. In a multiple regression analysis covering the whole breeding season, the number of pairs and the average number of clutches per pair explained 71% of the variation in the average number of fledglings per pair. During the brood season, the average number of fledglings per brood was an additionally important parameter in explaining fledgling production. Habitat quality seemed to affect breeding: in places occupied earlier more cygnets fledged from a clutch than in habitats inhabited later. The decreased production of young very likely reflects density-dependent effects on reproduction. This density dependence seems to operate on the breeding grounds, since winter harshness did not affect breeding success. Density-dependent processes started acting already when pairs were beginning to nest, and continued during the brood period. Density dependence has apparently not been detected at the pair stage in earlier studies of bird populations.
3677619| During May 1996 and April 1997, eight harlequin duck males were captured and fitted with satellite transmitters while migrating along the shores of Forillon National Park, Qubec, Canada. Another 17 males were equipped with satellite transmitters in river systems of eastern Hudson Bay, Ungava Bay and northern Labrador in June 1997 and 1998. Our objectives were to determine relationships between breeding, moulting and wintering areas, and to determine whether distinct population segments existed among harlequin ducks in eastern North America. All birds tracked from Forillon migrated to Labrador. Moulting areas were identified for six birds. Forillon males were followed to the eastern North American major wintering site in Maine. Males captured in northern Qubec and Labrador migrated to moult and winter in south-western Greenland. Our data suggest the presence of two demographically distinct population segments in eastern North America, perhaps originating from the Pleistocene glacial refuge in western Greenland and south of the Laurentide ice sheet in eastern Canada or United States. 
3677587|Theoretically, the trajectories describing the daily accumulation of body reserves are expected to differ between bird species in relation to whether or not they hoard food. To carry reserves on the body may be costly and hoarding species can be expected to hoard food early in the day when light and retrieve it in the afternoon, with a concomitant rapid increase in body mass. Also, the increased food predictability resulting from being able to consume hoarded food late in the day should lead to a relatively faster gain in body reserves in the afternoon in hoarding species compared to non-hoarders. Non-hoarders may have to hedge against possible afternoon losses of foraging opportunities by accumulating more reserves early in the day. In this study the daily patterns of body mass gain in four small bird species resident during winter in Scandinavia are described. Individually known birds were trained to come to a permanent feeder and their body masses were recorded every hour throughout the day with a remote-controlled balance. The hoarding willow tit Parus montanus, marsh tit P. palustris and European nuthatch Sitta europaea all displayed the most rapid gain in body mass in the early hours of the day. After the initial burst in the morning, reserves were accumulated at a roughly constant rate for the remainder of the day. In contrast, the non-hoarding great tit P. major apparently gained body reserves at a more even rate. The daily pattern of body mass gain found in the hoarding species differs from prevailing theoretical predictions, whereas the pattern in the non-hoarding great tit is in a better agreement with theory, from which this pattern has been predicted repeatedly.
3677727|Intraspecific brood parasites lay their eggs in the nests of conspecifics. There are a number of methods for detecting intraspecific brood parasitism (IBP) in birds based on egg morphology. Here we test Eadie's (1989) method, which calculates the Euclidean distances between eggs in a given clutch in a three-dimensional space (weight, length and width). A parasitised clutch is predicted to contain an egg (or eggs) that is significantly different from the clutch's other eggs. Data from three species were analysed. Our captive zebra finch Taeniopygia guttata clutches did not include any instances of IBP, the wild jackdaw Corvus monedula data were unlikely to contain any, and for the goldeneye Bucephala clangula data set we had an observational estimate of IBP. We simulated IBP in the zebra finch, jackdaw and goldeneye data to test whether the method reliably detects an experimentally 'parasitised' clutch. We show that the distributions of the test statistics greatly overlap in 'parasitised' and unmodified clutches, and are dependent on the clutch size. We therefore conclude that the method can only be used with caution, after calibrating it for a given population.
3677793|Seasonal decline in breeding success limits fitness in many bird species nesting in the temperate, boreal and arctic zones. Factors affecting this decline, especially if the decline is reduced, can thus have significant ecological and evolutionary importance. In an experiment designed to investigate fitness consequences of heterospecific attraction, no seasonal decline in breeding success was observed for pied flycatchers Ficedula hypoleuca breeding in the presence of resident titmice Parus spp., whereas a pattern of steep decline was observed for birds breeding in areas where residents were removed. Randomisation of removal treatment and pied flycatcher territories with respect to arrival date leaves enhanced foraging that results from the presence of resident titmice during breeding as the best, albeit currently hypothetical, explanation for the observed absence of a seasonal decline. Among terrestrial vertebrates, reports of this kind of direct positive interactions are rare.
3677538|Multiple brooding can substantially increase the annual reproductive output of birds, and the propensity for multiple brooding can vary geographically. Thus, studies attempting to understand the evolution of geographic variation in nesting success need to account for variation in re-nesting potential. However, direct assessment of rates of multiple brooding requires individually recognizable breeding adults, which are not generally available. We explore the possibility of comparing relative indices of multiple broodedness across a latitudinal gradient from studies of un-banded birds locally restricted to nest boxes. We analyzed nest box reoccupation by a multiple-brooding species, the eastern bluebird Sialia sialis, reported by volunteers in a citizen-participation project (1998-2002) in which nest boxes were monitored throughout much of the breeding range of the bluebirds. We found nest boxes in the southern portion of the bluebird range (30 latitude) had, on average 17-33% higher likelihood of repeated egg-laying, brooding, and successful fledging events than boxes in the north (48 latitude). Latitudinal variation in the reoccupation of nest boxes may indicate that either (1) the number of broods per female varies with latitude, (2) female breeding dispersal/site fidelity varies with latitude, (3) the density, distribution, and/or availability of suitable nest sites varies with latitude, or (4) observer bias varies with latitude. Various lines of evidence suggest that nest re-occupancy is a useful index of latitudinal variation in re-nesting. During the time-frame of second attempts, first-time box occupancy was as likely as second occupancy and approximately 45% more likely in the south than north, suggesting that, despite considerable breeding dispersal, observed trends in box reoccupation conservatively reflect latitudinal trends in the number of nest attempts/broods per female. Furthermore, despite a compressed nesting cycle in the north (shorter incubation and re-nesting interval), the shorter duration of the breeding season in the north restricted the potential number of broods. Studies of banded birds are necessary to confirm the behavior underlying the latitudinal trends in box reoccupation.
3676926|The effects of community dynamics in birds on the optimisation of their migratory strategies is a neglected area. For three years, we captured migrating warblers on autumn passage at a coastal site in western Britain. We used canonical correspondence analysis (CCA) to assess spatio-temporal patterns of occurrence, and principal components analysis (PCA) to assess morphological variation. We calculated Euclidean distance in ordination and morphological space to assess separation between species pairs, and used Monte-Carlo simulations to assess the probability of pattern occurring by chance. Ordination revealed five species-groups separated by habitat type and time of passage. Reed Warbler Acrocephalus scirpaceus and Sedge Warbler A. schoenobaenus (Group 1) occurred in wet habitats and peaked simultaneously. In drier habitats with scrub, a first wave of Blackcap Sylvia atricapilla (Group 2) significantly preceded Grasshopper Warbler Locustella naevia, Willow Warbler Phylloscopus trochilus, Whitethroat Sylvia communis and Lesser Whitethroat Sylvia curruca (Group 3), which in all but one case (Lesser Whitethroat) significantly preceded Garden Warbler Sylvia borin (Group 4); peak numbers of Chiffchaffs Phylloscopus collybita and a second wave of Blackcaps (Group 5) occurred later still. Age effects were found only in Acrocephalus, with adults peaking before juveniles. For seven out of eight pairings within genera, separation in time of passage increased significantly in species that were morphologically similar. The only exception was Blackcap and Lesser Whitethroat which differed substantially in both passage time and morphology. Monte-Carlo simulations showed that chance was unlikely to be responsible for ordination patterns, nor for inter-specific variation in passage time and its relationship with species morphology. These data provide annually consistent evidence that migrating sylviid warblers are separated ecologically by habitat use, time of passage and morphology: we cannot refute the hypothesis that community dynamics have influenced niche use and autumn migratory strategy. We call for further tests of the 'migrant interaction' hypothesis in other geographical locations and taxa, particularly where migrants are allopatric and interact ecologically only on migration.
10.2307/3677212|Twenty-four morphometric parameters were measured from samples of live southern African Peregrine Falcons Falco peregrinus minor and Lanner Falcons F. biarmicus biarmicus. The two species were different in most measurements, especially those relevant to prey capture and handling techniques, and flight performance (bill size, foot size, wing span, wing area, tail length and wing loading). Flight performance parameters calculated from mensural data predicted significant differences in the flying abilities of the two species, notably that Peregrines should fly faster in level powered and gliding flight, but incur greater fuel costs in terms of both time and distance flown. Peregrines should glide less efficiently and be restricted in their ability to soar in thermals. These predictions were compared with observations of Peregrines and Lanners under uniform environmental conditions, and mostly were confirmed. Peregrines flew faster but for less time, flapped more and soared in thermals less than Lanners. Theoretically, Peregrines should tend more towards sedentary perch hunting than Lanners, and be more habitat selective as a result. Observations and distributional data from South Africa corroborate this. Form and functional differences in these two falcons are relatable to differences in foraging mode, distribution and abundance. I suggest that similar inferences may be drawn from morphological comparisons of other large falcons to provide proximal explanations for broad-scale patterns of distribution.
3676993|During the night of 29-30 October 1995, over 600 Redwings Turdus iliacus died as a result of flying into the lighthouse at Bardsey, Gwynedd, North Wales. These migrating birds were used to investigate fat levels in relation to age, sex, biometrics and pectoral muscle mass. Wing length was the best single linear measure of size and mean wing length of males was 2.5 mm greater than that of females. Body mass of the casualties declined during the night and the mean body mass of birds arriving towards the end of the night was 1.5 g lower than that of the first arrivals. Fat deposits at different body sites were significantly correlated with each other and with body mass, and, by extrapolation, the mass of intra-abdominal fat remaining would be significant when other fat deposits have been depleted. Fat in the tracheal pit (the claviculo-coracoid fat body) demonstrated the best correlation with body mass and was linearly correlated with visual fat scores. Fat was also present in the pectoral muscle but did not make a significant contribution to overall body mass. Two-thirds of the variation in body mass was accounted for by wing length, the mass of claviculo-coracoid fat and the lean-dry mass of pectoral muscle. Claviculo-coracoid fat and lean pectoral-muscle mass contributed independently to overall body mass. These data support the view that increase in fat in relation to migration is accompanied by an increase in protein or lean muscle mass, but suggest that these are controlled independently.
10.2307/3677095|Sex-biased local resource competition (LRC) between parents and offspring has been suggested to exert selection pressure on progeny sex ratio variation in birds. In a recent article Weatherhead and Montgomerie (1995) questioned that the assumptions underlying the LRC hypothesis are applicable to birds. We here study the basic assumptions of the LRC hypothesis with data from the Common Goldeneye Bucephala clangula. First, we found strong female-biased natal philopatry, as expected in Anseriformes. Second, of all the females breeding in the study area, individuals born there comprised a major proportion each year. Third, we document a considerable overlap between home ranges of breeding mothers and daughters. Our results, combined with results from other Common Goldeneye populations and other Bucephala species, give strong support for the assumptions of the LRC hypothesis to be applicable to birds, at least to some species.
3677792|In animals that produce few offspring during their lifetime, the ability to raise high-quality offspring through the provision of parental care is particularly important for individual fitness. In this paper, we use repeatability analysis of data from two separate time-periods, in the 1970s and the 1990s, to examine parental and environmental effects on chick growth and food provisioning in a long-lived seabird, the Manx shearwater Puffinus puffinus. We test the hypothesis that asymptotic body masses of chicks are most strongly influenced by an individual's genotype, with growth rates intermediate and food provisioning rates most strongly affected by environmental conditions during growth. Peak body masses of chicks raised by the same parents showed significant repeatability in both samples, whereas mass growth rates up to the attainment of peak mass showed significant repeatability only in the 1970s. Several different measures of food provisioning by parents showed no individual consistency in either time-period, in keeping with our predictions. Food provisioning rate was a major determinant of annual variation in chick growth, and so it may seem surprising that Manx shearwaters showed repeatable patterns of chick growth but not of food provisioning, and several possible explanations for this pattern are discussed.
10.2307/3677224|Male-male mountings were commonly performed by sexually monomorphic Razor-bills Alca torda in mating arenas where males aggressively competed over extra-pair copulations (EPCs) with visiting females. In two breeding seasons, 417 male-male mountings were recorded. Forty-one percent of all non-pair mountings were of males, 66% of males performed male mountings, and 91% of males received mountings. Several lines of evidence suggest that male mountings were a form of fighting over EPCs rather than a case of mistaken identity: (1) In a multiple regression, the percentage of all mountings that were of males increased with the male-male aggression rate rather than with the male: female sex ratio; (2) the frequency of male mountings also increased with the aggression rate, rather than with the frequency of EPC attempts of females; (3) a large percentage (41%) of male mountings occurred after the mounted male had been settled in the arena and had time to be recognized, and not only immediately upon arrival, when mistaken identity may have been expected; and (4) males made significantly more, rather than fewer, male mountings as their age increased, suggesting that lack of experience did not lead to mis-identifications. The number of male mountings performed was positively correlated with EPC success, as well as with three other variables associated with EPC success, suggesting that male mounting belongs to a suite of behaviors aimed at obtaining extra-pair copulations. A possible benefit of this behavior is to inhibit competitors from attending the mating arenas, because there was a negative correlation between the attendance of males and the number of mountings they received per day. This is the first study to report quantitative evidence that male-male mounting by birds is beneficial.
3676929|Radar observations on the altitude of bird migration and altitudinal profiles of meteorological conditions over the Sahara desert are presented for the autumn migratory period. Migratory birds fly at an average altitude of 1016 m (a.s.l.) during the day and 571 m during the night. Weather data served to calculate flight range using two models: an energy model (EM) and an energy-and-water model (EWM). The EM assumes that fuel supply limits flight range whereas the EWM assumes that both fuel and water may limit flight range. Flight ranges estimated with the EM were generally longer than those with the EWM. This indicates that trans-Sahara migrants might have more problems balancing their water than their energy budget. However, if we assume fuel stores to consist of 70% instead of 100% fat (the remainder consisting of 9% protein and 21% water), predicted flight ranges of the EM and EWM largely overlap. Increased oxygen extraction, reduced flight costs, reduced exhaled air temperature, reduced cutaneous water loss and increased tolerance to water loss are potential physiological adaptations that would improve the water budget in migrants. Both the EM and EWM predict optimal flight altitudes in agreement with radar observations in autumn. Optimal flight altitudes are differently predicted by the EM and EWM for nocturnal spring migration. During spring, the EWM predicts moderately higher and the EM substantially higher flight altitudes than during autumn. EWM predictions are therefore in better agreement with radar observations on flight altitude of migrants over the Negev desert in spring than EM predictions.
3677580|The frequency of extra-pair paternity in a wild colony of swifts Apus apus was determined by multilocus DNA fingerprinting in two successive breeding seasons. The data were used to examine the expectation that extra-pair paternity is frequent in colonial-nesting species, either for proximal reasons such as the increased opportunity for extra-pair matings, or because extra-pair matings are important in the evolution and maintenance of coloniality. Forty-two broods containing 88 chicks were analysed. The genetic analysis revealed four cases of extra-pair paternity (4.5% of chicks) from four (9.5%) nests. Rapid mate-switching was considered unlikely to be the cause of extra-pair paternity since three of the cases were in the nests of previously established breeding pairs. Extra-pair copulations were not observed, but were assumed to be the cause of extra-pair paternity. The data show that high levels of extra-pair paternity are not an inevitable feature of high-density nesting.
30244418|Laysan and black-footed albatrosses, Phoebastria immutabilis and P. nigripes, exhibit both annual and biennial breeding frequencies, and annually replace flight feathers in patterns that can be described as large, small or medium in extent. Large molts are temporally incompatible with successful breeding. Small molts are temporally compatible with the longest breeding seasons. Medium molts are compatible with shorter, but still successful breeding seasons. On average, large and small molts combined replace the same feathers with the same frequencies as two medium molts combined. Thus, large and small annual molt patterns combined provide a mechanism for "transferring time from one year to another" enabling extended breeding seasons every other year, and thus biennial breeding. Medium-sized molts are compatible with annual breeding. Among multiple albatross species, large-scale, annual molt patterns can shift in response to shifting breeding frequencies, but there may be a time lag in the response. A newly identified period of rapid fattening following molt termination and preceding colony arrival suggests albatrosses maintain low fat stores throughout active molt to reduce wing-loading, intensifying temporal trade-offs between flight feather molt and breeding.
3677662|Measurements of costs of reproduction are essential for our understanding of the evolution of reproductive effort. While in birds the effects of increased chick-rearing effort on subsequent survival and fecundity have been relatively well studied experimentally, costs associated with increased egg-production effort have received relatively little attention. We experimentally increased the egg-production effort of individually marked Lesser Black-backed Gulls Larus fuscus and followed their breeding performance in the next year. In the season following increased egg production, females, but not males, were less likely to be resighted in the study plot and those that did return were less likely to produce a clutch compared to control birds. It is unclear whether the observed effect on local return rate represents differential survival, differences in breeding propensity or differences in dispersal between experimental and control females. In any event, all of these would adversely affect the fitness of experimental females. In addition, those experimental females that did breed invested less in egg production the following season, which again is likely to affect breeding performance. Thus, this study provides evidence that there is an inter-brood trade-off between current egg-production effort and future fitness in birds.
3677449|The trade-off between reproductive effort and adult survival in birds is modulated by several factors. Corticosterone and prolactin have additive effects on reproductive behaviour by stimulating foraging and parental behaviours, respectively. When incubation is associated with fasting, nest desertion is supposed to be activated by an unknown refeeding signal when body condition becomes critically deteriorated. The concomitant rise in corticosterone levels has been suggested to be the triggering factor. We tested the role of corticosterone on reproductive success by observing the effect of corticosterone implants on reproductive success and on plasma prolactin concentration in female common eiders Somateria mollissima. Implanted females showed a significant increase in corticosterone and a decrease in prolactin levels. Despite their enhanced daily body mass loss, females did not abandon incubation nor did they start to refeed in the four days following implantation. These data show that the experimentally induced rise in plasma corticosterone concentration alone does not trigger nest desertion. However, after 25 days of incubation, implanted females displayed a higher rate of egg loss, suggesting lower nest attentiveness towards the end of incubation. We suggest that the short-term effects of corticosterone may be dependent on the energy state of the bird. However, the late-induced change in reproductive success is indirectly linked to corticosterone, and we suggest that either a prolactin decrease, or a depletion in protein body reserves, may participate in the long-term adjustment of incubation behaviour in female eiders.
3677440|We manipulated the quantity of food provided to hand-reared song sparrows Melospiza melodia from 3 to 18 days post-hatching, a period when young birds in the wild are especially likely to experience nutritional stress. A control group was given unlimited food, while an experimental group was limited to 60% of the intake of the controls. Both groups showed excellent survival. The controls had significantly higher growth rates than the experimentals and fledged significantly earlier. At the end of treatment, controls were significantly larger than experimentals in body mass, tarsus length, and length of the third primary. After treatment ended, when all birds were receiving the same diet, both groups showed a recession in body mass, but the amount of mass lost was significantly greater in the controls. Consequently the difference in body mass between the treatment groups was much reduced after the period of weight recession. As adults, the controls were significantly larger than experimentals in a principal component measure of size that combined six post-mortem bone measurements. Controls and experimentals did not differ in the number of fault bars in tail feathers grown in part during the period of nutritional manipulation, nor did they differ in the degree of asymmetry in bone measurements. We conclude that early nutrition affects growth rates in young song sparrows, with effects on skeletal size that carry over into adulthood. These results are consistent with the nutritional stress hypothesis, which posits that early nutrition affects adult phenotypic quality as well as display attributes.
30244481|We used Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) amplification of 16S rRNA genes and Denaturing Gradient Gel Electrophoresis (DGGE) to describe the microbial communities present in the cloacae of spotted towhees Pipilo maculatus. Our goals were to quantify bacterial diversity of breeding females, describe microgeographic variation of cloacal communities in a network of four urban parks in Portland, OR, and evaluate the degree to which microbial species richness varied with individual female characteristics (age, size, and condition). We detected 57 Operational Taxonomic Units (OTUs) in 46 towhees, but most OTUs showed a relatively low prevalence. Discriminant function analysis correctly classified 69.6% of towhees to their park of origin based on the presence or absence of five OTUs. Parks thus had unique "microbial signatures". The presence or absence of specific OTUs was not associated with a female's age, but a general linear models analysis established that OTU richness was greatest among females with short tails, narrow bills, and with the exception of one individual, among relatively heavy birds. We speculate that the microgeographic differences in cloacal microbial community structure may exist due to differences in anthropogenic influences among parks. The explanations for the negative relationship between microbial richness and flight feather length, but positive relationship between microbial richness and body condition are unclear, but may reflect the different time frames over which feather growth and body mass are determined.
25662897|Contact zones between recently diverged taxa offer unique opportunities to test whether the forms are reproductively isolated and therefore distinct species. The Pacific-slope flycatcher Empidonax difficilis and Cordilleran flycatcher Empidonax occidentalis are closely related taxa that were officially separated into two species in 1989, a treatment that has been controversial due to reports of phenotypically intermediate birds across the southern interior of British Columbia and Alberta. We present the first analysis of molecular variation across this region, in order to determine whether there is genetic introgression between the taxa. Allopatric populations of Pacific-slope and Cordilleran flycatchers belong to distinct mitochondrial clades, and all of the individuals sampled in interior southwestern Canada have the Pacific-slope haplotype. In contrast, variation in nuclear DNA (AFLPs) indicates hybridization between Pacific-slope and Cordilleran flycatchers in this region. We suggest that the discordance between the mitochondrial and nuclear markers most likely results from stochastic loss of Cordilleran mitochondrial haplotype lineages facilitated by asymmetries in mating due to earlier arrival and greater abundance of Pacific-slope flycatchers in the contact zone. The discovery of hybridization between Pacific-slope and Cordilleran flycatchers in southwestern Canada may call into question the decision to split them into two species. On the other hand, allopatric populations are genetically distinct in both mitochondrial and nuclear DNA, and the hybridization might not affect populations outside of the contact zone. This study highlights the importance of employing multiple genetic markers in studies of contact zones between closely related species.
3677541|The great cormorant Phalacrocorax carbo is thought to have a wettable plumage, providing low body insulation during foraging. Great cormorants should thus be constrained by water temperatures, and show high energy requirements. Surprisingly, this species has one of the widest breeding distributions of all diving birds, and does not require more food than these other species. We explored this apparent paradox by comparing the insulative properties of body plumage in four subspecies of great cormorants ranging from tropical to polar regions. We found that all subspecies retained an insulating air layer in their plumage, which was, however, much thinner than for other species of diving birds. Detailed examination of the plumage showed that each cormorant body feather has a loose, instantaneously wet, outer section and a highly waterproof central portion. This indicates that the plumage of great cormorants is only partly wettable, and that birds maintain a thin layer of air in their plumage. Our findings suggest an unusual morphological-functional adaptation to diving which balances the antagonist constraints of thermoregulation and buoyancy.
10.2307/3677341|A bird foraging at concentrated food sources such as artificial feeders or carcasses of wild animals, irrespective of its dominance rank, may be preyed upon by airborne predators with a greater probability than other flock members foraging under protective cover. Field observations on 15 free-ranging Great Tit Parus major basic-flocks were carried out to examine whether duration of anti-predator vigilance and foraging at feeders is related to social rank, group size and location of a feeding site within a communal flock territory. The proportion of time spent scanning was positively correlated with dominance rank. Removal experiments supported results of field observations revealing a causal relationship between rank and ability to choose the safest foraging behaviour. This result suggests that dominants can benefit directly from their personal vigilance. The lack of a relationship between flock size and vigilance time of dominants also provides evidence for a direct benefit of being vigilant. Dominants were free to scan more than subordinates only within their home ranges. When visiting home areas of neighbouring basic-flocks, dominant individuals lost their priority. This supports results of previous studies that there is a site-related dominance in the Great Tit.
3677749|We investigate the trade-off between reproductive effort, health status and T-lymphocyte acquired immunity in female and nestling barn swallows Hirundo rustica using a brood size manipulation experiment. Maternal and total feeding effort increased with experimental brood size. Parents did not fully compensate for the increased food demand of the enlarged broods and as a consequence the per capita feeding rate of nestlings decreased with increasing experimental brood size. Body mass and a measure of T-cell mediated immunity in 12 days old nestlings also decreased with increasing experimental brood size. Different leucocyte concentrations and the heterophile/lymphocyte ratio - an index of stress - of nestlings did not change in relation to experimental brood size, suggesting that within brood competition did not affect stress to nestlings. The brood size manipulation had a significant effect on maternal T-cell mediated immunity, measured by the phytohemagglutinin skin test, but not on maternal body mass, haematocrit or differential or total white blood cell counts. Our results seem to support the prediction that under mild work stress females respond first by reducing the energetically expensive acquired immunity. Different leucocyte types and the heterophile/lymphocyte ratio appear less sensitive to parental workload.
10.2307/3677310|Variation in the seasonal pattern of mass changes by adult Arctic Skuas Stercorarius parasiticus on Foula, Shetland, was examined in relation to sex-role partitioning of breeding duties. Male body mass remained comparatively uniform throughout incubation and chick-rearing. By contrast, female mass showed an overall seasonal decline, although no significant changes occurred within incubation or chick-rearing. ANOVA confirmed a stepwise drop in female mass shortly after hatching, but that no further mass was lost during the remainder of the breeding season. We suggest that female Arctic Skuas retain body reserves during incubation as an insurance against natural fluctuations in food availability and/or to permit earlier relaying if the initial breeding attempt is unsuccessful. These reserves are then shed shortly after hatching as an adaptive response to reduce wing loading and improve flight efficiency in order to cope with the increasing energetic demands of growing chicks. The reduction after hatching of 4.3-5.3% of the female's incubation mass was estimated to result in energy savings of 5-10% of BMR in 24 hours, or alternatively, a reduction by 7-9% of the mechanical power required during flight.
30243284|Family cohesion in birds is often explained as a product of limitations on breeding opportunities leading to delayed dispersal among the offspring. Yet, it is not independent reproduction but floating (queuing outside the natal territory for a breeding opportunity) that is the alternative to delaying dispersal. In contrast to a strong phylogenetic bias in cooperative breeding that has been taken to indicate a hard-wired behaviour maintained by evolutionary inertia, offspring behaviour is plastic and facultative in group living in the short term, indicating that family cohesion is under selection. Non-breeding offspring could gain inclusive fitness that would promote family cohesion from delaying dispersal and providing alloparental care to subsequent broods to boost group productivity. This holds in particular for offspring hatched from early broods in multi-brooded species that have the opportunity to gain inclusive fitness from help in rearing siblings hatched from later broods in the same season. Yet, seasonality will circumscribe the potential for alloparenting to be the immediate factor selecting for family cohesion. The option of gaining inclusive fitness from providing alloparental care is not open to the offspring among single-brooded species until after they have survived a non-breeding season, rather indicating kin cooperation returning enhanced survival prospects from general group living effects as a more immediate factor selecting for family cohesion. Indeed, a variety of family groups maintained in the absence of alloparental care underlines the capacity of general group living enhancing survival as a primary agent selecting for family cohesion. These seasonal constraints on fitness components selecting for family cohesion may contribute to the large scale geographical pattern with a relative paucity of family cohesions among bird species in the northern hemisphere.
10.2307/3676947|Nest predation was studied in the Fieldfare Turdus pilaris and Redwing T. iliacus in relation to nest site characteristics and nest defence behaviour. Seventeen percent of the Fieldfare and 55% of the Redwing nests suffered predation. The frequency of predation was lowest for Fieldfare nests with many neighbours. In the Redwing short nearest neighbour distances were associated with low predation rates. The time of egglaying, nest cover and height of the nest above the ground did not influence predation rate. The nest defence responses to a Hooded Crow Corvus corone dummy varied from no aggression to strong nest defence behaviour including close dives, the birds sometimes hitting the dummy with their claws. The Fieldfare also used defensive defaecation. In both species the intensity of nest defence increased during the breeding cycle but predation rate did not differ significantly with variation in nest defence in either species.
3677622|Sympatric occurrence of two closely related species is expected to lead to diverging or converging shifts in signal characteristics of one or both species. We examined signal characteristics in the vinaceous dove Streptopelia vinacea and the ring-necked dove S. capicola, two sister species that are mainly allopatric but occur in sympatry in northwestern Uganda. Vocal characteristics of the birds in sympatry were compared with those of an adjacent and a distant allopatric population of each species. The sympatric population showed intermediate values between the allopatric populations from Uganda. However, within each species there is little geographic variation between distant allopatric populations. Since vocal differences between dove species have a genetic base, the convergence in vocal characteristics is most likely explained by hybridization. Probably, the two species came into secondary contact relatively recently. Climatic changes during the last several thousand years and recent habitat changes caused by the growing human population, may have allowed Streptopelia capicola to extend its range in the northern direction.
3677695|Social factors, such as the duration of territorial occupancy or of time paired with a mate can affect the rate at which individual birds sing. This study examined the influence of duration of pair-bond and territory occupancy as well as date on the rate of singing by male and female northern cardinals Cardinalis cardinalis. When differences in breeding status were controlled, female cardinals sang at higher rates earlier in the season. Females in newly formed pairs sang at significantly higher rates than those in pairs that had previously bred together. In contrast, male cardinals did not show significant variation in the rate of singing throughout the season. The song rates of males in newly formed and established pairs did not differ significantly. Song rates for males and females in mated pairs were not significantly correlated. This study suggests that social factors have a strong effect on the rate at which female cardinals sing. It is possible that increased intra-sexual aggression by females when they are establishing a new territory with a new mate leads to this higher level of song output. Once females have established a territory and acquired a mate, dear-enemy effects might diminish the need for acoustic territorial defence. Differences in the constraints of nesting or the attraction of extra-pair mates might explain the sexual differences in male and female singing behaviour.
3677575|We examined redstart Phoenicurus phoenicurus populations over a period of fifteen years to study interactions between the cuckoo Cuculus canorus and its cavity-nesting host. Over 380 redstart nests were checked and more than 100 cuckoo eggs were found during the study period. The average parasitism rate was 20%. The cuckoos' breeding success was extremely low, only 18 chicks surviving to the fledgling stage. When redstarts were parasitized experimentally with artificial cuckoo eggs, they rejected eight percent of mimetic eggs and 44% of non-mimetic eggs. We were not able to record any rejection of the real cuckoo eggs. However, about 30% of the real cuckoo eggs were found outside the redstart's nest cup. This could be the result of laying failures by the cuckoo, rather than of a strong rejection behaviour by the redstart. We suggest that redstarts' cavity nesting itself was a factor that reduced the cost of the parasitism dramatically. Firstly, it makes it difficult for the female cuckoo to lay her egg correctly in the nest and secondly, it is more difficult for the cuckoo chick to evict the host's eggs or nestlings effectively from the nest. Only 54% of the cuckoo chicks were able to evict all the host eggs or chicks from the nest. When reared in mixed broods, cuckoo chicks survived only in every second case to fledgling age, while at least one redstart chick from every brood managed to leave the nest.
10.2307/3677072|Previous work suggests that sexual dimorphism in the bill shape of tits is related to the relative importance of intra- and interspecific competition experienced by a species' population. Thus socially dominant species differ in bill size more due to sex than do subdominant species. We tested the hypothesis that competitive release could lead to greater sexual dimorphism in bill shape by comparing measurements of the Coal Tit from Wytham, U.K., where it is subdominant, with those from S. W. Ireland, where it has fewer competitors. Bill variation was indeed significantly greater in the Killarney population, and this was due to a significant sexual dimorphism in bill shape, which was not found in Wytham. The populations also differed in the relationships among bill and other biometric variables. Winter feeding height data from the two populations suggested that the differences in sexual dimorphism corresponded with differences in the degree to which the sexes segregated by feeding station.
30244432|In species defending territories, fitness of newly independent juveniles could depend on phenotypic quality or early access to vacant resources as a result of rapid dispersal. In the first case, parent-offspring conflict will arise when parents cease feeding maturing offspring while these still demand provisioning. In the latter case, the young should decide when to stop begging to search for vacant territories. I radio-tracked 72 juvenile tawny owls from independence to sexual maturity to investigate whether parents or offspring decided the timing of the onset of independence and compare effects of age versus date of independence on survival and reproductive status. Juvenile owls stopped begging when 90-123 d old. This was synchronous within broods, independent of gender or age rank. Independence age of cross-fostered young varied across foster nests but was independent of hatching nest. After independence, young roosted in their parents' territory for 18 d on average before dispersal. This suggests that juvenile owls would rather extend dependency than disperse early. As predicted from this behaviour, age of independence had a positive influence on survival and reproductive status at maturity, whereas there were no effects of date of independence.
30243877|In birds, female egg allocation patterns have a strong influence in offspring development and differential investment in egg size and composition has been shown to respond to male attractiveness. In this study we experimentally manipulated the perceived attractiveness of male starlings Sturnus unicolor by increasing the amount of green material in some nests (a male courtship display in this species). We predicted that, if female investment before laying is related to male attractiveness, experimental females would increase their reproductive investment in response to the addition of plants in their nests when compared to control females. We found that our manipulation caused variations in female reproductive investment in a way that seems to influence offspring quantity but not offspring quality: Females laid larger clutch sizes but not larger eggs when green plant material was added. However, yolk androgens contents were not related to the experimental manipulation. Contrary to expectations, females breeding in experimental nests laid eggs with smaller amounts of eggshell pigments. Interestingly, we found that eggs laid later in the sequence had higher testosterone levels and showed more intense egg colouration than eggs laid earlier in the sequence. These differences at the within-clutch level suggest that selection has favoured compensatory strategies for hatching asynchrony. Alternatively, since nest sabotages by other females are most common at the beginning of laying, this could be seen as female strategy to minimise losses due to nest sabotages. As far as we know, this is the first study to show that an external egg characteristic such as blue-green colouration reflects yolk androgen concentration.
10.2307/3677206|Flock size, food abundance and dispersion patterns, and cover at foraging sites were determined in winter for Hazel Grouse Bonasa bonasia at three study areas near the eastern edge of the species' range in eastern Siberia and one near the western edge in Sweden. Winter group size varied by habitat type; least in dense spruce forests in Sweden, where Hazel Grouse defended winter territories; intermediate in larch-birch ecotonal forests in Siberia; and greatest in open deciduous riparian forests in Siberia, where they formed cohesive, sexually mixed flocks. Group size in winter increased with increasingly open forests that had less cover at arboreal foraging sites but more winter food available, suggesting that the previously reported geographical differences in winter group size actually reflect habitat differences. A literature review supported this view. Winter food trees were significantly more abundant and more evenly distributed in the Siberian habitats than in the Swedish habitat. We suggest that groups were larger in more open habitats as a response to higher predation risk, but that food abundance also influences social organization. For example, abundant food may be a prerequisite for flocking behavior to originate. We present a conceptual model that can be used to test our hypothesis.
30245326|A common life history pattern in many organisms is that reproductive success increases with age. We report a similar pattern in house sparrows Passer domesticus, older individuals performed better than yearlings for most measures of reproductive success. Older males and females began breeding earlier in a given season and fledged more young than their yearling counterparts. Individual males also fledged more young in their second breeding season than they did in their first, but individual females did not show consistent improvement in reproductive success from year one to two. A path analysis indicated that age in both sexes acted primarily through the timing of breeding; earlier nesters laid more eggs and hence fledged more young but did not have more nesting attempts. We tested whether the increased reproductive success with age arose from high quality individuals surviving to be older (selection hypothesis). In contrast to the main prediction of this hypothesis that reproductive success and survival should be positively related, we found that survival from one year of age to two years of age was negatively related to reproductive success in the first year for males and females combined. Additionally, individuals that survived to breed as two-year-olds did not differ in total young fledged in their first year from those that did not survive to their second season of breeding. Our results indicate that fledgling production increases with age due to improvements in timing of breeding, particularly in females, and not because of the loss of poor breeders or increased output. Mechanisms producing age-related differences in timing of breeding warrant further study.
10.2307/3677041|The Black-headed Gull Larus ridibundus is the most abundant bird species in the Tagus estuary all year round, using intertidal areas as feeding grounds. Their diet varied according to the season: during summer ragworms Nereis diversicolor were the main prey while during winter gulls took siphons of the bivalve Scrobicularia plana, which represented more than 80% of the total ingested biomass. Average siphon feeding rate ranged from 7.9 to
3677667| We describe the features of waters where seabirds were feeding by sampling vertical water temperature profiles with data loggers mounted on five Brnnich's Guillemots in Svalbard, Norway. The guillemots foraged in a cold water (-0.5-0.5C SST (sea surface temperature)) by making 1.8 dive bouts in short trips (32-257 min duration) as well as in moderate (0.5-2.0C SST) and warm waters (2.5-4.0C SST) by making 6.0 dive bouts during long trips (411-688 min duration). Judging from outbound flying time (15.7-24.4 min), time between dive bouts (23.9-43.3 min) and water types, the birds probably fed in fjord or coastal waters during short trips and in both coastal and offshore waters during long trips. Water temperature and diving behaviour can be simultaneously recorded by small data loggers, which therefore will provide useful information on marine features and foraging activity of top predators. 
3677729|We tested the hypothesis that implanted data loggers have no effect on the survival, breeding success and behaviour of macaroni penguins Eudyptes chrysolophus. Seventy penguins were implanted with heart rate data loggers (DLs) for periods of up to 15 months. When compared to control groups, implanted penguins showed no significant difference in over-wintering survival rates, arrival date and mass at the beginning of the breeding season. Later in the breeding season, implanted penguins showed no significant difference in the duration of their incubation foraging trip, breeding success, fledging mass of their chicks, date of arrival to moult and mass at the beginning of the moult fast. We conclude that implanted devices had no effects on the behaviour, breeding success and survival of this species. We contrast these results to those from studies using externally attached devices, which commonly affect the behaviour of penguins. We suggest that implanted devices should be considered as an alternative to externally attached devices in order to obtain the most accurate representation of the free-ranging behaviour, ecology and physiology of penguins.
25161512|We compared haematocrits and blood haemoglobin concentrations of nestling House Wrens Troglodytes aedon in nests with relatively large numbers of haematophagous larvae of the blow fly Protocalliphora parorum (> 6.4 large larvae/nestling) and nests in which exposure to larvae was severely reduced or eliminated (0-2.0 larvae/nestling). Heavily parasitized nestlings showed no reduction in haematocrit levels but a significant 28% reduction in haemoglobin levels. Previous research on avian response to chronic blood loss suggests that parasitized nestlings may show normal volumes of red blood cells as a result of a rapid production of new cells in response to blood loss and, additionally, as a result of swelling of individual cells left in the bloodstream after parasite feeding. Rapid erythropoiesis places high numbers of haemoglobin-poor, immature cells into the bloodstream which would explain the reduced haemoglobin levels of parasitized nestlings. Our results refute the conclusion that larval feeding has "little direct effect" on nestling wrens in this parasite-host system, drawn earlier by Johnson and Albrecht (1993) based on examination of haematocrits alone. Our results also strongly suggest that researchers wanting to measure effects of blood-feeding parasites on birds measure haemoglobin levels, not haematocrits.
3677726|Mitochondrial control region sequences from European populations of the blue tit Parus caeruleus were used to reveal the Pleistocene history and the post-glacial recolonization of Europe by the species. The southern subspecies, P. c. ogliastrae was found to represent a stable population with isolation-by-distance structure harboring a lot of genetic variation, and the northern subspecies P. c. caeruleus a recently bottlenecked and expanded population. We suggest that after the last Ice Ages, the subspecies have colonized Europe from two different southern refuges following previously proposed general recolonization routes from the Balkans to northern and Central Europe, and from the Iberian Peninsula north- and eastwards. The two subspecies form a wide secondary contact zone extending from southern Spain to southern France.
3677434|Although redstarts Phoenicurus phoenicurus and black redstarts P. ochruros breed in different habitats they have been found to interbreed and to produce viable and fertile offspring, which backcross to the parental species. In a dual choice experiment, I investigated the preference of black redstarts and redstarts, and
30243838|It has been hypothesized that variation (e.g., of repertoire elements) in prolonged vocalization sessions of passerine birds can serve to minimize habituation by conspecifics. The repertoire of vocalization types limited in suboscine passerines, raising the question of how a limited set of elements can create patterns that minimize habituation. This question was studied by computational analysis of recorded singing sessions of 20 suboscine species from the subfamily Tyranninae, family Tyrannidae (tyrant flycatchers). The recordings of 12 of the species included two or more distinct vocalization types (VTs). In these species, the interval between vocalization units when the VT changed was on average shorter than that when the VT remained the same. In addition, when the VT changed, the mean interval length between successive vocalization units differed depending on which VT preceded the interval and which VT followed it. On the other hand, species with just a single VT in the session analyzed showed a surprisingly high degree of absolute difference between adjacent vocalization units with respect to both the length of the vocalization and percentage of time elapsed until peak amplitude. A change in the rhythm of vocalization accompanying a change in VT provided a potential means of drawing a conspecific listener's attention to the change in VT. The results showed that tyrant flycatchers use temporal patterning to achieve a high level of variety in vocalization sessions despite a limited vocal repertoire.
30243902|Parasites influence the expression of secondary sexual traits and the health of infected individuals. We set out to test the influence of reputed exogenous parasites, plumage bacteria, including feather-degrading bacteria (FDB), on secondary sexual characteristics and body condition of wild adult eastern bluebirds Sialia sialis. Previous work has shown that FDB alter the coloration of structurally-colored bluebird feathers in vitro (Shawkey et al. 2007). In a correlational study of how bacteria affect birds in the wild, we found that female plumage got duller with increasing FDB intensity. Males tended to get brighter with increasing FDB intensity, but the relationship was not significant. We also found significant associations between plumage bacteria intensity and body condition, but, again, with gender-based differences. Female body condition was negatively associated with plumage bacteria intensity, while male body condition was positively associated with plumage bacteria intensity. Interestingly, plumage bacteria intensity of males and females in nesting pairs was significantly positively correlated. We also report the highest prevalence of FDB measured in a wild bird population, with FDB detected on 67/68 (99%) of individuals. Further work is needed to fully understand the relationships between plumage bacteria and birds, but our data indicate that plumage bacteria may have sex-dependent effects on multiple phenotypic traits.
30244782|Acoustically-mediated individual discrimination has been the focus of much investigation in ornithology. For cooperatively breeding species, strong selection pressure favouring individual recognition during acts of altruism is predicted under many of the most interesting hypotheses proposed to account for helping behaviour. We investigated differences in 157 calls given by 12 different individuals as they provisioned nestlings, including both breeding and helper bell miners Manorina melanophrys (Meliphagidae), a cooperatively breeding honeyeater endemic to south-eastern Australia. Individual differences were apparent in all 15 call parameters analysed, many with a high level of repeatability. Moreover, the information capacity of mew calls allows as many as 515 different signatures to exist in the system. As many parameters showed strong sex differences, separate discriminant functions were used to predict individual identity within each sex. Five parameters were used in a function that correctly identified over 90% of female calls in both a training (n = 35) and test dataset (n = 11) not used to generate the function. Among males, a separate function used six parameters to correctly assign individual identity in 89.3% (n = 84; training) and 77.8% (n = 27; test) of cases. Three original parameters, including spectral and spatial characteristics, were highly correlated with functions predicting identity in both sexes. The accuracy of functions was not influenced by a signaller's sex, breeding status, or by sampling period which was spread over as much as two breeding seasons within individuals. Significant potential therefore exists for bell miners to use these simple provisioning calls in individual discrimination. If this is the case, call information also has the potential to be used by receivers as predicted by signalling hypotheses proposed to account for cooperative helping behaviour, such as the pay-to-stay and social prestige hypotheses.
10.2307/3677322|By manipulating the density and area of a food supply of grain offered to wild Jackdaws we showed that individuals in flocks varied in their ability to acquire food through direct physical competition, and that the relative pay-offs to individual competitors varied according to the distribution of the resource. There was a disproportionate ability of some individuals to occupy preferred flock positions or feeding sites and higher ranking males had greater access to clumped food. Rank was positively correlated with the more efficient provisioning of offspring and the raising of larger annual broods, but reproductive success and social status were also strongly dependent on age. Our results provided evidence that attributes of dominance (e.g. fighting ability) are valuable for maintaining access to increasingly restricted food supplies. Since the rank of an individual is explained at least in part by age we discuss the consequences of this for the durability of the pair-bond and life-time reproductive success.
30244458|According to honest signalling theory, signals must be costly to produce to retain information about the signaller's quality. The song produced by male birds during breeding is a vocal "ornament" used for intra- and inter-sexual purposes. The energetic cost of this vocal signal remains a contentious issue. We used the doubly labelled water method to measure field metabolic rate by estimating CO production and then convert this to daily energy expenditure (DEE) in great reed warbler males singing under natural conditions (10 at low to moderate intensity and 7 at very high intensity from dawn to dusk). There was a significant positive relationship between singing intensity and DEE. From this relationship we extrapolated the average DEE for intensely singing males (i.e., males producing song sounds 50% of the time and hence sitting at their elevated song post in the top of a reed stem more or less continuously throughout the  20 h of daylight) to 3.3 x BMR (basal metabolic rate) and for non-singing males to 2.2 x BMR. The mean DEE measured for the seven males singing with very high intensity was 3.1 x BMR. The maximum measured DEE for a single male was 3.9 x BMR, i.e. close to the maximum sustainable DEE (4 x BMR), and the minimum DEE was 2.1 x BMR for a male singing at very low intensity. These results imply that producing intensive advertising song in birds may incur a substantial cost in terms of increased energy expenditure.
10.2307/3677109|We manipulated the within-brood mass hierarchy of Lesser Black-backed Gulls Larus fuscus, controlling for chick quality (related to laying order) by swapping last hatched (c-) chicks in experimental broods with a- or b- chicks from residual broods to create either synchronous broods (all 3 chicks in the brood approximately the same mass) or asynchronous broods (same within-brood difference in mass between largest and smallest chicks as that of unmanipulated broods), whilst also controlling for variation in characteristics of parental quality (clutch size, egg size and timing of laying). Subsequent chick growth and survival for each brood were monitored in comparison with naturally asynchronous, unmanipulated broods in order to assess the effect of hatching asynchrony per se on chick growth and survival. There were no differences among treatments in fledging success or growth characteristics of surviving chicks. However, chick mortality occurred significantly later in synchronous broods and this was a consequence of the smaller within-brood hierarchical differences in size and body condition of these chicks. Apparently, parents could not regulate resource allocation in synchronous broods, and invested a greater amount of parental investment in chicks that later died. The results indicate that (1) the degree of hatching asynchrony may be optimized with respect to the prevailing food supply and/or female nutritional condition, and (2) the degree of hatching asynchrony is more important than initial within-clutch differences in egg or chick quality in determining the outcome of sibling rivalry over parental investment.
3677537|Birds rearing experimentally enlarged broods have lower antibody responses to a novel antigen, and we tested three hypotheses that could explain this result. We used zebra finches Taeniopygia guttata inoculated with sheep red blood cells (SRBC) as a study system, for which this trade-off was previously demonstrated. 1. Compensatory cellular immunity: The humoral immune response is slow, and removal of SRBC through upregulated cellular immunity could pre-empt an antibody response. However, cellular immune response to PHA decreased with increasing brood size, allowing rejection of this hypothesis. 2. Costs of antibody-production: Chicks in large broods grow less well, and birds with large broods may allocate resources to chicks instead of antibodies when these are costly. Compared to saline controls, SRBC suppressed metabolic rate in the hours following immunisation, but there was no effect in the following night, or at any time 4 and 8 days later. Fitness costs were measured by repeatedly immunising parents with SRBC while rearing young. Chick growth, parental condition, and subsequent reproduction of the parents were not affected by SRBC. We conclude that the costs of antibody formation cannot explain the trade-off between brood size and antibody responsiveness. 3. Costs of immune system maintenance: Maintaining a system enabling antibody-formation may be very costly, and birds rearing large broods may have down-regulated this system. Based on this hypothesis we predicted that antibody formation would still be reduced in parents rearing large broods when immunised after rearing the chicks. Our results confirmed this prediction, and we suggest that birds rearing large broods have lower antibody responses because they economised on the maintenance costs of the immune system.
10.2307/3677186|Two flocks of Red Knots Calidris canutus, belonging to the temperate-wintering subspecies islandica and to the tropical-wintering subspecies canutus, were kept in outdoor cages at north-temperate latitudes over two annual cycles during which their plasma concentrations of corticosterone were measured at 4-6 week intervals. Islandica-knots maintained the schedules of moult and body mass changes of their counterparts in the wild over the two years of study, but canutus-knots showed deviations from normal annual rhythms. Even though the range of measured corticosterone concentrations was great, values remained well within those measured in free-living shorebirds. As predicted on the basis of past research, plasma corticosterone increased with respect to time required to capture and handle the birds during each sampling episode (capture-stress response). Plasma concentrations of corticosterone were also somewhat greater during spring migration periods (when birds had higher than average body masses) than at other times. In the islandica-, but not the canutus-flock, there were significant differences between individual concentrations of corticosterone. However, even after taking the foregoing factors into account, for the group showing the most natural mass and moult cycles (islandica), by far the strongest effect on corticosterone concentrations was the time since being taken into captivity. The longer the birds had been in the artificial aviary-environment, the lower the concentrations of plasma corticosterone became. Long-distance migrant bird species such as Red Knots normally encounter a wide range of environments during the course of their annual cycle. We interpret the long-term decrease in corticosterone in the light of its role in mediating appropriate physiological responses of birds faced with ecological variability in their environment and the occurrence of unpredictable events. We hypothesize that only after experiencing a full annual cycle in captivity do such birds recognize captive conditions as normal and as predictable.
10.2307/3677356|The relationship between juvenile body condition and pre-reproductive survival and recruitment of female Common Eiders was analysed in three duckling cohorts marked in the Stavns Fjord colony, Denmark during 1991-1993, based on recoveries of females in the colony in 1996. Mean duckling condition differed significantly between the three cohorts, but recruitment was not affected by this difference, c. 18% having recruited from each cohort in the third year after ringing. Compared to mean cohort condition, in all years a positive relationship existed between individual duckling condition and recruitment, irrespective of duckling size at capture. The present results suggest that survival and recruitment of female eiders were related to the relative body condition attained as ducklings within cohorts rather than related to the absolute condition attained by separate cohorts.
10.2307/3677227|Mate-guarding behaviour and territorial intrusions were examined in a population of polygynous Corn Buntings Miliaria calandra. All males showed only a weak tendency to mate-guard by close following of the female. Monogamous and polygynous males did not differ in their extent of mate-guarding, and there was no difference in the extent to which polygynous males guarded primary and secondary females. Territorial intrusions and attempted extra-pair copulations were infrequent and not timed to coincide with the fertile period of females. All intrusions were by territory-holding males, the majority of which were immediate neighbours. Unmated males did not intrude more than paired males and were not observed to attempt any extra-pair copulations. Polygynous males did not suffer significantly more intrusions than monogamous males. We suggest that either the high detectability of intrusions in an open habitat or female control over access to fertilizations made close mate-guarding unnecessary. Males may benefit more from maintaining their own territory in the hope of one or more females settling to breed, rather than seeking extra-pair copulations.
30244459|The occurrence of group-living behaviour has often been explained by the benefits individuals receive through cooperation; including increased reproductive output, vigilance against predators, and load-lightening behaviour. However, to fully understand the benefits of group-living, it is important to quantify the costs of living alone. Here, we look at the fate of floaters (individuals who have no fixed territory and remain alone for extended periods) in a population of cooperatively breeding pied babblers Turdoides bicolor. We found that individuals spent less time foraging and more time vigilant for predators when found as a floater compared to when they were in a group. Consequently, they suffered a continuous loss of body mass, with long-term floaters suffering the highest losses. This had a long-term effect: floaters that eventually did regain a position in a group usually entered as helpers, in contrast to dispersers, who usually entered a new group as breeders. This high cost of living alone highlights the benefits of group-living and may help to understand patterns of delayed dispersal in some social species.
30245194|The importance of plumage colour as an indicator of individual quality and the basis of sexual selection has long been recognized. Of the three generally distinguished classes of plumage colours, melanin-based ornaments are traditionally considered to provide less reliable information than carotenoid-based traits. However, the role of structural ornaments in multiple signalling systems has rarely been examined, and no study has compared the information content and role of the three ornament types simultaneously. Here we investigated three plumage ornaments in great tits Parus major. the size of the melanin-based breast stripe, the carotenoid-based colour of the yellow breast and the structurally based reflectance properties of the black crown. We worked on both the mechanistic and the functional levels. First, we assessed the dependence of ornaments on body condition during moult using ptilochronology. Second, we estimated assortative mating for these traits, as a measure of mutual sexual selection. Only the spectral attributes of crown feathers correlated with body condition during moult. However, breast stripe size was related to age, while the brightness of the yellow breast indicated body size. Relative crown ultraviolet reflectance was much higher in males than in females. Assortative mating was strongest for crown ultraviolet reflectance, but composite measures suggest that a system of multiple sexually selected traits with different information content may work in this population. These data support the accumulating evidence that the condition-dependence of melanin and carotenoid coloration is not qualitatively different. They also suggest that more research should target the reflectance properties of dark plumage areas in general, and ultraviolet crown ornamentation in tits in particular.
30244814|Neighbour-stranger discrimination has been demonstrated in many species, but the mechanisms employed in discrimination vary. We tested whether an oscine bird with small repertoire size, the ortolan bunting Emberiza hortulana, discriminated between songs of neighbours and strangers. We performed playback experiments to measure response of males to a repeated single example of a single song type derived from a repertoire of a neighbour or stranger. Thirteen males were tested twice each, and in both cases songs were broadcast from the territory boundary shared by the subject male and the neighbour. Subjects responded more aggressively to songs of strangers than neighbours, i.e. they approached the loudspeaker faster and came closer and did more flights during the playback of stranger song. We found no significant differences in vocal response between treatments. We conclude that ortolan bunting can discriminate between songs of neighbours and strangers. This study provides experimental evidence for ortolan buntings in neighbour-stranger discrimination. It also demonstrates that a single example of song is enough to discriminate between neighbours and strangers. We discuss which song characteristics are the possible acoustic basis for discrimination in the studied species.
30245328|Studies on individual reproductive success in relation to interspecific competition between distantly related taxa are scarce. We studied whether the abundance of red wood ants Formica rufa -group is related to the breeding habitat selection, fecundity and offspring quality in the Eurasian treecreeper Certhia familiaris, an old-growth forest passerine. The nest-box occupancy data were gathered over a five-year study period, whereas the breeding performance analyses were based on a two-year data set. The abundance of wood ants, measured within 50 m around the nest-boxes, was not related to nest-box occupancy rate, fecundity or the physiological stress of nestlings. In contrast, the abundance of wood ants was negatively related to the offspring quality and life-history traits, such as lowered body mass, subcutaneous fat reserves, and tarsus length at fledging. Our results suggest that exploitative competition between distantly related taxa may have considerable and adverse influences on nestling quality as measured by body mass, subcutaneous, fat and tarsus length. Red wood ants may decrease the fitness of treecreepers as the lower body condition of nestlings has the potential to impair recruitment into the breeding population and, additionally, impair the future reproductive effort.
3677739|In a subalpine birch forest in Central Norway, the breeding population of fieldfare Turdus pilaris varied from 3 to 63 pairs per km
3677647|The relation between wind, latitude and daily migration speed along the entire migration route of white storks was analysed. Mean daily migration speed was calculated using satellite telemetry data for autumn and spring migration of white storks from their breeding grounds in Germany and Poland to wintering grounds in Africa and back. The National Center for Environmental Prediction (NCEP) reanalysis data were used to systematically fit 850 mb wind vectors to daily migration speed along the migration route. White storks migrated significantly faster and had a shorter migration season in autumn (10 km/h) compared to spring (6.4 km/h). In autumn mean daily migration speed was significantly slower in Europe (8.0 km/h) than in the Middle East (11.1 km/h) and Africa (11.0 km/h). In spring mean daily migration speed was significantly faster in Africa (10.5 km/h) as birds left their wintering grounds than in the Middle East (4.3 km/h). Migration speed then increased in Europe (6.5 km/h) as birds approached their breeding grounds. In both spring and autumn tailwind (at 850mb) and latitude were found to be significant variables related to daily migration speed.
30245189|Compared to other birds, most raptors take large prey for their size, and feeding bouts are extended. However, ingestion rate has largely been overlooked as a constraint in raptors' foraging and breeding ecology. We measured ingestion rate by offering avian and mammalian prey to eighteen wild raptors temporarily kept in captivity, representing seven species and three orders. Ingestion rate was higher for small than for large prey, higher for mammalian than for avian prey, higher for large than for small raptors, and higher for wide-gaped than for narrow-gaped raptors. Mammalian prey were ingested faster by raptors belonging to species with mainly mammals in their diet than by raptors with mainly birds in their diet, but the drop in ingestion rate with increasing prey size was more rapid for the former than for the latter. We argue that the separate sex roles found in raptors, i.e. the male hunting and the female feeding the young, is a solution of the conflict between the prolonged feeding bouts at the nest, and the benefit of rapid resumption of hunting in general, and rapid return to the previous capture site in particular (the prey size hypothesis). Thus, the sex roles differ more when prey takes longer to feed, i.e. from insects to mammals to birds. We then argue that the reversed sexual size dimorphism in raptors, i.e. smaller males than females, results from a conflict between the benefit of being small during breeding to capture the smallest items with the highest ingestion rate among these agile prey types (mammals and bird), and the benefit of being large outside the breeding season to ensure survival by being able to include large items in the diet when small items are scarce (the ingestion rate hypothesis). This hypothesis explains the observed variation in reversed sexual size dimorphism among raptors in relation to size and type of prey, i.e. increasing RSD from insects to mammals to birds as prey.
30243824|The timing of the chick-rearing phase is known to have a profound effect on the reproductive success of birds. However, little is known about the energetic costs faced by the parents during different periods of the breeding season. These costs may have vital consequences for both their survival and future reproduction. In most studies, daily energy expenditure (DEE) of breeding and non-breeding birds has been compared, without controlling for the effect of season. In the present study, we examined the energy demands of breeding compared to non-breeding Palestine sunbirds Nectarinia osea and whether there were sex-specific differences in DEE within and between different seasons. We predicted that DEE would be elevated when birds rear chicks, especially at cooler ambient temperatures. Time-energy budgets were constructed for pairs of sunbirds, rearing chicks, or not breeding, in spring and summer. There were significant seasonal differences in estimates of DEE in non-breeders that were 21% higher in spring than in summer. We attributed these to increases in non-flight metabolic rate rather than changes in time spent on different activities. Our estimates of DEE for the birds that were rearing chicks were higher than non-breeding adults. In females the increase in DEE when breeding, compared to when not breeding, was similar in both spring and summer, while males increased their DEE much less when breeding in spring. The differences in estimated DEE, however, were not significant between male and female birds in any season. Between seasons, female breeders had 17.1% higher DEE in spring than in summer, while male breeders showed no difference in DEE when rearing chicks in different seasons. Accordingly, our initial prediction was supported, as DEE in chick-rearing adults was higher than in non-breeding adults. In addition, although temperatures are lower in spring, breeding in the spring is only more costly than breeding in summer for females. Apparently, males are more flexible in reallocating their time and energy spent on different activities.
10.2307/3676975|Lesser Grey Shrikes and Red-backed Shrikes have much smaller ranges on the non-breeding grounds in the Kalahari basin than during breeding. This study investigated whether, as a result of competition, habitat segregation occurs on the non-breeding grounds. Migrant shrikes were surveyed in point-transect counts in 19 vegetation types in Botswana. There were clear differences in habitat distribution between the species, and also between the sexes in the Red-backed Shrike. Female Red-backed Shrikes occupied more densely wooded bushveld than males, while Lesser Grey Shrikes occupied the most open habitat and overlapped more frequently with male than with female Red-backed Shrikes. More subtle differences along gradients of herbaceous ground cover suggest that differences in habitat quality may be involved, the dominant species (Lesser Grey Shrike) occupying, on average, the best and the most subordinate birds (female Red-backed Shrikes) the poorest habitat. The sex differences in habitat occupation on the non-breeding grounds in the Red-backed Shrike are the first such differences documented in any Palaearctic-African migrant passerine.
3677451|We analyzed sequences of two mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) gene regions (control region and ND2) totaling 1477 base-pairs from 232 specimens of the white wagtail Motacilla alba obtained from 27 localities throughout Eurasia. Although overall haplotype diversity was relatively low (0.79) and the most common haplotype was shared by 45% of individuals, belonging to six subspecies, a high level of population differentiation was detected. The mtDNA tree revealed three clades: (1) most individuals from Krasnodar (belonging to M. a. alba subspecies), (2) all individuals from Almaty and some from Primor'e (belonging to M. a. personata, M. a. lugens and M. a. leucopsis subspecies), and (3) the remaining individuals (representing all subspecies and all localities except Almaty). We suggest that these three clades represent historically isolated populations that relatively recently came into secondary contact in Krasnodar and Primor'e. None of the six subspecies were reciprocally monophyletic in the mtDNA tree. The Krasnodar population appeared to receive immigrants from other localities, but distinctive haplotypes from this locality did not appear elsewhere, suggesting asymmetric gene flow. Signatures of recent gene flow between northern populations were detected, and there was no evidence of isolation by distance within the northern group of populations. Mismatch distributions for most localities were consistent with population expansions. We also analyzed 12 male plumage characters from 93 study skins sampled from 24 populations. Phylogenetic trees resulting from separate genetic and morphological analyses were incongruent. Plumage evolution seems to be under strong sexual or natural selection, which favors particular phenotypes in various areas irrespective of the mitochondrial background. Dispersal events at different evolutionary times could have obscured the effects of earlier isolation events. The mtDNA data does not support species status for M. a. lugens and M. a. personata, which shared haplotypes with other subspecies of M. alba. We recommend that M. lugens and M. personata are placed as junior synonyms of M. alba.
10.2307/3677326|African Stonechats at the equator in Kenya breed only once per breeding season, whereas European Stonechats breed two or three times. To learn whether this difference in annual brood number results mainly from the differences in environmental conditions in the field or is endogenously determined, pairs of both subspecies were kept in controlled conditions and their breeding behaviour was monitored. In the laboratory the difference between the subspecies found in the field was no longer observed: both the European and the African Stonechats were multi-brooded. In both subspecies the second or third clutches were laid while the preceding brood was still being raised ("telescoping"). However, the inter-brood intervals were longer for African than for European pairs. A possible functional implication of this difference is discussed. The finding that African Stonechats are just as capable as those of the European subspecies of producing multiple broods suggests that brood number in the field is limited by particular environmental factors. Canditates considered include limitation of a favourable food supply to the rainy season and the timing of the latter with respect to the endogenous "breeding window". Field observations suggest that in certain exceptional conditions African Stonechats might be able to produce two broods.
3677437|Food availability is an important factor affecting breeding success in birds. Food supplementation experiments in birds have in general focused on the effects on reproductive success in terms of female investment (laying date, clutch size, egg size), however, it is also known that the estimation of mate quality based on sexually selected signals influences female reproductive investment. In the particular case of magpies, females use nest size, a post-mating sexually selected signal, to assess male's likelihood to invest in reproduction, and accordingly adjust reproductive investment (clutch size). Then, the possible effects of food supplementation on female reproductive investment could be mediated by other variables related to parental quality, such as nest size in magpies. In the present study, we explore if higher food availability in a magpie territory affected both male sexually selected traits (i.e. nest size) and female reproductive investment (laying date, egg size, clutch size). We performed a food supplementation experiment in which we experimentally increased food availability in several magpie territories, keeping others as controls. In food-supplemented territories, males built significantly larger nests and females significantly increased egg size by 4.1% compared to control females. Results suggest that the continuous provisioning of protein rich food allowed magpie females to increase egg size. However, laying date and clutch size did not differ between control and food-supplemented magpie pairs. Food availability also affected the relationship between female reproductive investment and nest size. In control territories, females decreased their egg size in response to a larger nest, whereas a tendency for the opposite relationship was revealed in food-supplemented territories. We discuss the possibility that magpie females adopt different strategies for reproductive investment according to food availability.
10.2307/3677247| We used doubly-labelled water to measure field metabolic rates of breeding Common Terns Sterna hirundo, and hence to investigate differences in reproductive efficiency among birds of different ages. Field metabolic rates, activity patterns, changes in body mass, chick provisioning rates, and chick growth rates were measured for 14 males of known age (6-24 yr) during a 48-h period immediately after hatching of the first chick, when males provide most of the food. Males expended energy at high rates (3.3-6.3  estimated basal metabolic rates). We found no significant relationship between male age and energy expenditure. Some aspects of male performance (feeding rates and food provisioning rates) were age-related due to changes in efficiency. Efficiency in the use of time and energy was low in the youngest breeding males, increased thereafter to peak at about 12 years of age, but appeared to decline again amongst the oldest breeding males. Changes in body mass and measures of activity were not correlated with energy expenditure and hence were not appropriate measures of reproductive effort. 
3677777|In birds with hatching asynchrony and sexual size dimorphism, chicks hatched earlier and later in the laying sequence usually suffer different mortalities due to uneven abilities to compete for food, especially in poor years. If sexes differ in vulnerability to environmental conditions, e.g., by having different food requirements due to differential growth rates, mothers can increase fitness by allocating sex according to the laying order, producing less vulnerable sex later rather than early in the clutch. By analysing variation in primary sex ratio using a PCR-based DNA technique, we tested this prediction in black-headed gull Larus ridibundus chicks where males may be the less viable sex under adverse conditions. The overall primary sex ratio of the population did not depart from parity. However, first hatched chicks were more likely to be males whereas last hatched chicks were more likely to be females. Both egg volume and hatchling body mass decreased with laying order irrespective of sex. Time of breeding had no effect on offspring sex or hatchling sex ratios.
10.2307/3676980|The effects of ectoparasites of the genus Protocalliphora on nestling birds have been poorly investigated in Europe, probably due to low abundances of these parasitic flies. However, in a population of Blue Tits Parus caeruleus on the island of Corsica, we found extremely high infestation rates. In this population, we showed a negative relationship between the mean parasite load per chick and both nestling body mass and haematocrit level before fledging, which might affect post-fledging survival. Tarsus length decreased with increasing parasite load, but only in large broods, and we found no relationship between parasite load and the proportion of young fledged.
3677418|A recent hypothesis suggested that bird song repertoire size is a reliable indication of male quality because the number of songs emitted by an individual and the expression of many traits important for fitness are highly dependent on developmental conditions. To test this hypothesis, we studied the relationship between song repertoire size and a trait known to be strongly affected by developmental conditions: tarsus length of Blue Tits Parus caeruleus. We studied this relationship in three populations presenting differences in density, quantity of food available and relative and absolute densities of Great Tits Parus major. Great Tit density may be an important factor because this species is supposed to be in competition for acoustic space with the Blue Tit. We found a positive correlation between Blue Tit dawn repertoire size and tarsus length in the three study populations which is consistent with the tested hypothesis. However, this correlation was only significant in the population with the lower Great Tit density. We discuss the significance of this variation and propose that interspecific competition may limit the action of sexual selection on song repertoire size.
10.2307/3677059|In many bird species females parasitize the parental investment of other pairs by laying eggs in their nests. Such intraspecific brood parasitism is considered rare among altricial birds, but this may result from methodological difficulties in detecting and quantifying this behaviour. In this study, we investigated first whether intraspecific brood parasitism occurs in Blue Tits Parus caeruleus and Great Tits P. major, using a combination of frequent nest inspections, DNA profiling and a survey of the literature. No evidence for parasitism was found. Next, we investigated whether the absence of brood parasitism could be explained by efficient anti-parasite strategies of the hosts. We experimentally parasitized 75 Blue Tit and 51 Great Tit nests before and during egg-laying. We found no evidence for rejection of the parasitic eggs. Thus the absence of brood parasitism is not a product of undetected parasitism. Although intense female-female aggression may deter females that try to lay eggs in other nests, we suggest that in both species intraspecific brood parasitism has not evolved because females do not benefit from laying eggs in the nests of others.
3677372|In this study we assessed territory turnover of the European Scops Owl Otus scops, a migratory nocturnal raptor, using sonagrams of hoots recorded in the same territories in the 1993 and 1994 breeding seasons. Three structural parameters of the hoot (duration, inter-note interval and frequency) varied considerably, and a Discriminant Function Analysis classified >90% of individual calls correctly. In order to investigate yearly turnover and site-fidelity of male Scops Owls, the discriminant functions derived from the hoot sample recorded in 1993 were used to classify hoots of individuals recorded in the same territories in 1994. Apparently, turn-over rate of territory owners was high and rapid, because 55-78% of territories censused in 1993 were defended by a different male in 1994. The fast decline of our Scops Owl population, probably due to winter mortality, could be responsible for such a high turnover of territorial owners.
25662901|Many northerly breeding shorebird species show a separation in timing of adult and juvenile migration. If, in addition to genetic control of migration, learning from experienced conspecifics is advantageous, juveniles should join adult birds during their first fall migration when possible. We here present a method to test if juveniles mix with adults during the period of overlap during southward migration, using dunlin Calidris alpina migrating over southern Sweden as an example. While taking timing differences between age classes into account, we compare flock compositions observed in the field against randomized flock-compositions based on the pool of available individuals derived from the field data. During both the early, the adult-dominated, and later, the juvenile-dominated, part of the season, age classes segregate. Applied to other shorebird species, our method could be used in a comparative sense to evaluate the potential for social learning of migration routes.
3677698|Satin bowerbirds Ptilonorhynchus violaceus have an elaborate multi-component sexual display, some components of which have been extensively studied. We describe a relatively unstudied component of this display, bower painting, and birds' responses to manipulations of their paint. Males of this species focus their display around a stick bower constructed on the forest floor which they decorate with a variety of objects and paint. Painting involves a male masticating plant material and wiping the plant-saliva mixture onto the inside walls of the bower; during courtship visits to bowers, females nibble at this paint. We found that 93% of 53 males painted their bowers at our study site and the time males spent painting their bowers accounted for 24% of their time at the bower. We experimentally removed and added paint to bowers to test whether males respond to these changes in their paint. Males gave more advertisement calls and spent less time manipulating sticks at the bower when we added fresh wet paint to their bowers compared to older dried paint or a control treatment. They did not respond to the removal of paint from their bowers, perhaps because it was primarily older dried paint that was removed. We also found that males painted more frequently when there was measurable wind in their bowers, which could have degraded the quality of the signal. Our findings indicate that fresh wet paint is more important to males than older dried paint and, together with previous work at this site, suggest that paint may act as a signal to females. Given that females nibble bower sticks during courtship, we suggest that bower paint may function as a chemical sexual signal rather than a visual signal.
10.2307/3677241|The foraging behaviour of five plover species was studied at Mida Creek, Kenya, to assess how foraging behaviour is influenced by bird body size and/or diet. All five plovers had functionally identical instantaneous foraging behaviour, but the predicted allometric scaling of components of this behaviour with body size was not conclusively demonstrated. Variation in almost all foraging parameters could be better explained by interspecific differences in diet, specifically the relative proportions of prey providing a strong visual cue (e.g. surface-active crabs) versus a weak one (e.g. polychaetes and very small prey). One species, the Greater Sandplover Charadrius leschenaultii, was positioned anomalously in several scaling relationships. If this species was excluded from analyses, six of eight foraging parameters were significantly correlated with body mass. It is not possible to extrapolate the fine details of foraging behaviour from one locality to another and this study strongly suggests that predictions about foraging behaviour based on morphological allometry have limited robustness, even for sympatric species with stereotyped foraging tactics.
30244473|Experiments to determine sugar preferences of nectarivorous animals have been conducted using a wide variety of experimental procedures, all of which aim at ensuring that the solutions offered in choices are "equivalent". Each method used historically has controlled for a particular variable, such as number of molecules in solution, weight of sugar in solution, or amount of energy in solution, depending on what question the researchers have tried to answer. Biologists interpreting these results in terms of bird sugar preference have seldom taken these differences into account. The consequences of using different experimental procedures for sugar preferences exhibited by a nectarivorous bird, the malachite sunbird Nectarinia famosa, were examined using paired sucrose and hexose sugar solutions made up to be either equimolar, equiweight or equicaloric. We found the effect of methodology on bird sugar preference to be quite distinct, especially at low concentrations, where malachite sunbirds showed either sucrose preference, no preference, or hexose preference, depending on the method used. This study highlights the need for researchers to consider methodology when interpreting, or comparing among, results from previous studies.
3677624| During energy-demanding periods of the annual cycle such as migration or during cold days in winter, birds store fat comprised mostly of 16- or 18-carbon unsaturated fatty acids. In such situations, birds may feed selectively on foods with specific fatty acids that enable efficient fat deposition. We offered wild-caught yellow-rumped warblers Dendroica coronata paired choices between semi-synthetic diets that differed only in their fatty acid composition. Warblers strongly preferred diets containing long-chain (18:1; carbon atoms:double bonds) unsaturated, unesterified fatty acids to diets containing long-chain saturated, unesterified fatty acids (18:0) and they preferred diets containing mono-unsaturated fats (18:1) to diets containing poly-unsaturated fats (18:2). The preference for diets containing long-chain unsaturated fatty acids to diets containing long-chain saturated fatty acids was consistent in birds tested one week after capture at 21C, one month after capture when cold-acclimated (1C), and six weeks after capture at 21C. Birds acclimated to a diet with 50% of the fat comprised of unesterified stearic acid (18:0) lost mass and reduced their food intake when we reduced ambient temperature from 21C to 11C over three days. We conclude that especially in energy-demanding situations there are limits to the yellow-rumped warblers' ability to assimilate some long-chain saturated fatty acids and that this digestive constraint can explain in part why yellow-rumped warblers prefer diets containing long-chain unsaturated fatty acids to diets containing long-chain saturated fatty acids. 
10.2307/3677045|For most birds, nest predation is the main cause of reproductive failure. Many species reduce predation by hiding their nests in vegetation. However, it is unclear whether they maximize cover around nests. Individuals may benefit also by keeping potential predators, food, and conspecifics in view, and selection of nest site may be a trade-off between concealment and visibility. We examined this idea in the Song Thrush Turdus philomelos, which builds cup-shaped nests in trees. For artificial nests, the risk of predation decreased when nests were more concealed within individual trees. However, Song Thrushes did not maximize concealment of nests within trees but selected intermediate concealment from the range of concealment available. The proportion of destroyed natural nests was not related to degree of nest concealment. Song Thrushes also selected patches of intermediate tree density, but tree density did not influence predation rate of artificial nests. These results are consistent with the trade-off hypothesis, which deserves more attention in future studies of nest site selection.
10.2307/3677210|Three Fenno-Scandian populations of Pied Flycatchers Ficedula hypoleuca were sampled for their haematozoan parasites over the period 1989-1992. Pied Flycatchers from the environs of Uppsala, Sweden had lower prevalence and intensities of infections than those from Meltaus, Finland. In addition, birds from Uppsala were not parasitized by leucocytozoids and were virtually free from trypanosomes; conversely, birds from Meltaus were heavily parasitized by both groups. Birds from Konnevesi, Finland, showed an intermediate prevalence and intensity of parasitism. This study clearly shows the role of ecologically diverse conditions in determining the composition, transmission and prevalence of a blood parasite fauna presumably through their effect on vector composition and population density.
3677555|We investigated the effects of increased egg production on body condition as well as on measures of reproductive performance in great skuas, Stercorarius skua, over two subsequent years. We experimentally increased egg production from the normal two to six eggs. Six eggs might also be produced under natural circumstances after repeated clutch loss. After the production of the last egg we measured: (i) body mass, (ii) pectoral muscle, and (iii) haematocrit, total red blood cell count and mean corpuscular volume, as indicators of body condition. We took the same measurements of control females who had produced the normal clutch of two eggs. The measurements were repeated one year after the manipulation, and survival, laying dates, clutch sizes and hatching success were recorded for up to three consecutive years. After producing six eggs, females were lighter, had smaller pectoral muscles and lower haematological values than control females. Hatching success of eggs was significantly reduced. Even one year after the experiment there were still differences in body condition. Annual survival was not affected by the manipulations, although there was an indication that survival costs depended on whether chicks were raised after the increased egg production. While pair bonds and egg sizes were not affected in the post-experimental year, females started breeding significantly later than in the previous year. Two years after the experiment laying dates had advanced again and were not different from those of control females. This pattern of maintaining survival and egg sizes, but delaying breeding in the post-experimental year was found for two independent groups of females which had both been subjected to increased egg production. These results present evidence that increased egg production can have long-term effects on female body condition and aspects of reproduction. However, although present, the costs of extra eggs appear to have been relatively small in the great skua in comparison to the two other bird species for which inter-annual effects have been reported.
10.2307/3677199|Several raptors have been shown to mate assortatively, most commonly according to age, less often in relation to various linear measurements. This paper demonstrates positive assortative mating for winglength in three falcons: the Peregrine Falcon Falco peregrinus, Brown Falcon F. berigora and Nankeen Kestrel F. cenchroides. Because females showed greater variation in winglength than did males, larger females formed more dimorphic pairs than smaller females. The results suggest a possible link between assortative mating and dimorphism.
10.2307/3677094|We used a supplementary feeding experiment to investigate the existence of a causal relationship between the nutritional status of nestling Puffins and the subsequent rates of food provisioning by their parents. Chicks given supplementary food received less frequent meals than controls, with the effect that the total amount of food received by the experimental group (parental delivery plus supplementary food) was similar to the amount delivered by parents in the control group. This indicated compensatory regulation of provisioning by parents in the experimental group. Increases in body size and body mass were virtually identical in the two groups until shortly before fledging, when supplemented chicks attained higher body mass than controls. This difference appeared to result mainly from the fact that unmanipulated chicks normally receive little food from their parents towards the end of the nestling period; supplements thus constituted a large proportion of chicks' normal daily food intake over this period, and compensatory reduction in food delivery by parents did not completely match the extra food given to chicks in the supplemented group. If growth rates of chicks were usually limited by poor food supply and adults delivered food to the chick at the maximum rate permitted by food availability irrespective of the chick's immediate nutritional requirements, then regulation of food delivery by parents would not be expected. The fact that adults were regulating food delivery to their offspring below the maximum attainable rate suggests that in this study at least, nestling growth rate was not limited by a scarce and unpredictable food supply.
30244840|Fat reserves influence the orientation of migrating songbirds at ecological barriers, such as expansive water crossings. Upon encountering a body of water, fat migrants usually cross the barrier exhibiting 'forward' migration in a seasonally appropriate direction. In contrast, lean birds often exhibit temporary 'reverse' orientation away from the water, possibly to lead them to suitable habitats for refueling. Most examples of reverse orientation are restricted to autumn migration and, in North America, are largely limited to transcontinental migrants prior to crossing the Gulf of Mexico. Little is known about the orientation of lean birds after crossing an ecological barrier or on the way to their breeding grounds. We examined the effect of fat stores on migratory orientation of both long- and short-distance migrants before and after a water crossing near their breeding grounds; Catharus thrushes (Swainson's and gray-cheeked thrushes, C. ustulatus and C. minimus) and white-throated sparrows Zonotrichia albicollis were tested for orientation at the south shore of Lake Ontario during spring and autumn. During both spring and autumn, fat birds oriented in a seasonally appropriate, forward direction. Lean thrushes showed a tendency for reverse orientation upon encountering water in the spring and axial, shoreline orientation after crossing water in the autumn. Lean sparrows were not consistently oriented in any direction during either season. The responses of lean birds may be attributable to their stopover ecology and seasonallydependent habitat quality.
3677612|We describe winter territoriality in common cranes, Grus grus, a long-lived migrant species with long-lasting pair bonds and parental care extending throughout the winter. Cranes are territorial in the breeding season, and usually gregarious during migration and wintering. Only 2% of the families present in our study area were territorial, all other families foraged in flocks with immatures and adult pairs. Territorial pairs defended the same winter territory year after year, but only when they had offspring. They were gregarious otherwise. The average breeding success measured throughout several years was higher in territorial pairs. Winter territories were small (0.7 km
3677511|Over 11 winters I examined the interactions between sparrowhawk Accipiter nisus attack behaviour, the gregariousness of redshanks Tringa totanus and local geography to test hypotheses that suggest birds should flock to reduce their risk of predation and that predation risk should decline with the prey's distance from cover. Sparrowhawk attacks on redshanks feeding on beaches around the high tide mark (the strandline zone) were more frequent and more successful than attacks on redshanks feeding seaward of the strandline zone (in the intertidal zone). The results threfore confirmed hypothetical expectations that predation risk should decline with distance from cover. Flocking only appeared to influence the outcome of hawk attacks at shorter distances from cover on the strandline, with attacks on singletons and small flocks being more successful than attacks on larger flocks. Distance from cover had a stronger influence on the likelihood of attack success than did flock size. Mid-range flock sizes (6-45 birds) were attacked more frequently than expected, but singletons and large flocks were attacked less than expected. Despite these differences an individual redshank's likelihood of predation by a sparrowhawk declined with increasing flock size, thereby confirming the 'dilution effect' and 'vigilance' hypotheses for the evolution of flocking in birds. Food intake rates of redshanks declined with increasing flock size, further indicating that redshanks flocked to avoid predation rather than to increase their food intake rates. The strong interaction between two influences on predation risk revealed by the present study suggests other studies should take great care when considering a single influence on predation risk in isolation from others.
30244487|Wing-spreading of cormorants (Phalacrocoracidae) is a characteristic and enigmatic aspect of their behavioural repertoire. It has been suggested to have a range of functions including wing-drying, food-warming, and social signalling of foraging success. We investigated two of these putative roles by comparing the wing-spreading behaviour of fed and unfed animals after they had been swimming and diving. The duration of wing-spreading was correlated only with time spent on the water. The ingestion of food did not influence the duration of wing-spreading, a finding that supports a wing-drying, rather than a food-warming, function.
3677589| We investigated the seasonal pattern of changes in body condition of breeding black-legged kittiwakes Rissa tridactyla in Svalbard (79N) to evaluate whether changes in body condition were a consequence of the energetic demands of breeding (the reproductive stress hypothesis) or of voluntary anorexia to attain lower flight costs during chick rearing (the programmed anorexia hypothesis). Adult body condition was recorded from early egg laying to fledging and was examined in relation to date (relative to hatching), sex, parental time-budget, brood size and reproductive success. To distinguish between the two hypotheses we evaluate whether the reduction in body condition occurred during or ahead of the energetically most demanding part of the chick-rearing period. We combine our results on changes in body condition and time-budget with published information on field metabolic rate (FMR) and chick energy requirements from studies in the same colony. Our calculations of adult energy requirements and energy intakes indicate that the first part of the chick-rearing period was energetically the most demanding period, because adult energy requirement per hour spent off the nest was highest in this period, and adults were time constrained because of the need for 24-h brooding of the chicks. During the incubation period female body condition increased slightly, but significantly, while male body condition was stable. During the first part of the chick-rearing period, female and male body condition decreased by 14.8% and 8.4%, respectively. During the second part of the chick-rearing period, both male and female body condition remained stable. The reductions in body condition occurred during the phase which was suggested to be the energetically most demanding part of the chick-rearing period, thus supporting the reproductive stress hypothesis. Parental body condition during the incubation period was positively related to the probability of successfully fledging young, providing additional support for the reproductive stress hypothesis. 
3677377| All studies of interactions between fleas and hole-nesting birds so far have been done in nestboxes. This study, which is the first study of flea infestation of nests of hole-nesters in natural holes, was carried out in the Biaowiea National Park (E Poland) and demonstrated that, in contrast to those studies, both prevalence (below 10%) and intensity of infestation nests of Parus palustris and Ficedula flycatchers were very low, an order of magnitude lower than elsewhere. However, in the same forest, flycatchers breeding in nestboxes, and tits in natural holes within the nestbox plot, had significantly higher infestation rates, approaching those found in other studies. These observations indicate that the high flea loads reported for tits and flycatchers may be a product of biased sampling - exclusive collection of data in nestbox areas - rather than reflect their species-specific characteristics. The data from natural holes undermine the widespread assumption that data on flea loads in nestboxes can be treated as representative, and generalised to areas without nestboxes. 
30244426|The interactions among the multiple factors regulating predator-prey relationships make predation a more complex process than previously thought. The degree to which substandard individuals are captured disproportionately seems to be better a function of the difficulty of prey capture than of the hunting techniques (coursing vs. ambushing predators). That is, when the capture and killing of a prey species is easy, substandard individuals will be predated in proportion to their occurrence in the prey population. In the present study, we made use of eagle owls Bubo bubo and their main prey, the rabbit Oryctolagus cuniculus. (a) the brightness of the white tails of rabbits seems to be correlated with the physical condition of individuals, (b) by using the tails of predated rabbits as an index of individual condition, we found that eagle owls seem to prefer substandard individuals (characterized by duller tails), and (c) by using information from continuous radiotracking of 14 individuals, we suggest that the difficulty of rabbit capture could be low. Although the relative benefits of preying on substandard individuals should considerably decrease when a predator is attacking an easy prey, we hypothesise that the eagle owl preference for substandard individuals could be due to the easy detection of poor individuals by a visual cue, the brightness of the rabbit tail. Several elements allow us to believe that this form of visual communication between a prey and one of its main predators could be more widespread than previously thought. In fact: (a) visual signalling plays a relevant role in intraspecific communication in eagle owls and, consequently, visual signals could also play a role in interspecific interactions, and (b) empirical studies showed that signals may inform the predator that it has been perceived, or that the prey is in a sufficiently healthy state to elude the predator.
3677605|Unlike exercising mammals, migratory birds fuel very high intensity exercise (e.g., flight) with fatty acids delivered from the adipose tissue to the working muscles by the circulatory system. Given the primary importance of fatty acids for fueling intense exercise, we discuss the likely limiting steps in lipid transport and oxidation for exercising birds and the ecological factors that affect the quality and quantity of fat stored in wild birds. Most stored lipids in migratory birds are comprised of three fatty acids (16:0, 18:1 and 18:2) even though migratory birds have diverse food habits. Diet selection and selective metabolism of lipids play important roles in determining the fatty acid composition of birds which, in turn, affects energetic performance during intense exercise. As such, migratory birds offer an intriguing model for studying the implications of lipid metabolism and obesity on exercise performance. We conclude with a discussion of the energetic costs of migratory flight and stopover in birds, and its implications for bird migration strategies.
3677711|Mechanisms that drive sex-specific foraging behaviour in seabirds are not fully understood. In some cases, sexual-size dimorphism has been implicated. However, recent empirical work indicates that foraging behaviour may also differ between sexes of monomorphic seabird taxa. We simultaneously examined sex-specific differences in adult foraging behaviour, chick provisioning rates and maximum dive-depths in a monomorphic seabird, the wedge-tailed shearwater Puffinus pacificus. We found significant divergence between sexes. Mean foraging trip length was longer, provisioning rate lower and mean maximum dive-depth shallower in females. We found no evidence of divergence in foraging behaviour due to condition-dependant increases in self-provisioning by females, or differences in the nest attendance patterns of each sex. In addition, chick body condition did not influence meal mass or trip length differently in one or other sex. Consistent with results obtained for dimorphic species we suggest that inter-sexual competition at the foraging grounds provides the most parsimonious explanation for the sex-specific differences observed in this monomorphic species. Based on our findings we believe this possibility warrants further critical investigation.
30243850|Vocally differentiated common crossbill Loxia curvirostra populations ('vocal types') in North America show a high degree of morphological and ecological specialization coupled with significant genetic differentiation and appreciable levels of assortative mating in sympatry. Similar vocally differentiated common crossbill vocal types have recently also been uncovered in Europe. These vocal types frequently overlap in space and time, and preliminary data indicate strong assortatively mating in sympatry. These observations suggest that the European nominate subspecies also consists of several independent evolutionary lineages, but so far morphological and ecological support for this view has been lacking. Bill morphology of crossbills is tightly linked to resource use, and we earlier showed that average morphology (of birds of unknown vocal type) indeed differed among years, consistent with the possibility that vocal types are morphologically differentiated if the proportion of each type caught varies among years. Here we test specifically for morphological differences between birds assigned to vocal type, at two sites and during two independent influxes. Differentiation between the two vocal types studied is highly significant, with the same pattern uncovered at each site and for each influx. Of eight traits investigated, in both univariate and multivariate analyses, the trait that differs most between the two types is the ecologically important bill depth. The difference in average bill depth between these two European vocal types (0.26 mm) is equivalent to the difference between some ecologically specialised North American vocal types. These results provide further evidence that the nominate subspecies of the common crossbill consists of several ecologically distinct populations, if not cryptic species.
3677478| Great tits Parus major have generally much poorer breeding success in northern Finland than in mid- and western Europe. The aim of this study is to find out whether the poor success is linked to foraging behaviour. This was studied by monitoring great tits' foraging behaviour and food abundance in different substrates during the breeding cycle in two populations, N Finland (65N) and Latvia (56N). It was shown that breeding success, from eggs to fledglings, was significantly poorer (56% vs. 93%) and caterpillar abundance considerably lower in the northern population. The general patterns in foraging behaviour were the same in N Finland and Latvia (especially the preference of birches Betula spp.) indicating that great tits used basically the same species-typical foraging strategy in both populations. However, thin branches of birch were preferred in the north but avoided in Latvia, which may suggest that northern great tits have changed their foraging niche towards the outer parts of canopy, a niche typically occupied by the blue tit. This shift is theoretically advantageous, since the outer parts of the canopy are the richest caterpillar source. In practice, however, the poorer success of great tits indicates that this is not a beneficial strategy. Primarily, great tits in the northern population seem to be food limited since they lay too large clutches in relation to accessible food resources. This may be because great tits are not adapted to lower caterpillar production in the northern margins of their distribution and cannot change their narrow diet (3/4 caterpillars), like e.g. willow tits can. In search for caterpillars, food accessibility is further limited because the great tits' normal foraging behaviour, with wide search radius, may not function properly in the denser, outer parts of the canopy. Great tits may also be too heavy to forage efficiently on leafed twigs. 
3676994|We studied the nestling diet and the foraging performance of Great Tits in relation to prey abundance in the field. Numerous experimental studies present data on foraging decisions in captive Great Tits. Little is, however, known about prey selection in the field in relation to the food available and the consequences this has for the food delivery rate to nestlings. Since the foraging performance of the parents is one of the main determinants of fledging weight and juvenile survival, foraging behaviour is an important part of Great Tit reproduction. During the early breeding season up to 75% of the prey biomass delivered to the nestlings were spiders, which is in contrast with other studies. Only when caterpillars reached a size of 10-12 mg (approximately the average size of the spiders caught at that time) did the Great Tits change their preferences and 80-90% of the delivered prey masses were caterpillars, as reported by other authors. This 'switching' between prey occurred within a few days. It was not related to the changes in abundance but to size of caterpillars. The rate at which caterpillars were delivered to the nestlings (in mg/nestling/h) was strongly correlated with the caterpillar biomass available (in mg/m of branches) and nestling growth rate was significantly influenced by the mass of available caterpillars. The results provide evidence why perfect timing of breeding is so important for the Great Tit, and contribute to the understanding of the causal link between food supply, growth and breeding success.
10.2307/3676944|We analysed fat reserves of 28 species of trans-Saharan migrants after their crossing of the Sahara and most of the central Mediterranean on their way towards the breeding grounds in spring. A considerable variability was observed, with both fat and lean species, indicating species-specific strategies adopted to cross the Sahara and the Mediterranean. Lean species showed mean body mass values well below those reported during the breeding season, suggesting a pronounced physical stress caused by the migratory flight. To investigate the factors influencing the levels of residual fat reserves, we analysed correlates of mean fat load of each species at this stage of the journey. A stepwise multiple regression was run, with the fat reserve level as the dependent variable and the mean latitude of the wintering and breeding quarters, the northernmost latitude of the preferred habitat south of the Sahara, and wing morphology as independent variables. Residual fat load was standardised for each species' flying efficiency, using the residual of a regression of fat load on fat consumption per unit of distance covered, calculated using Pennycuick's (1989) model. After standardisation, residual fat load was significantly correlated only with the northernmost latitude of the optimal habitat south of the Sahara. The explained variance did not change when admitting for the species adapted to open habitats to make a stopover in northern Africa. Morphology (wing shape and tail/wing ratio) was significantly related to the distance covered but not to the residual fat levels. Our results suggest that the crossing of the Sahara and Mediterranean is constrained by the distribution of preferred habitat south of the Sahara. The ongoing desertification process in sub-Saharan Africa might therefore have a negative impact not only on the species wintering in the sub-Saharan area, but also on those species wintering in equatorial Africa.
30244736|Food abundance is an important determinant in habitat and patch selection but food accessibility and detectability is less often considered. Foraging on more cryptic seeds may increase predation risk by increasing the length of head down periods. Habitat structure may interact with this as birds are less able to detect predators with their head lowered in riskier obstructed habitats. We investigated patch choice in chaffinches Fringilla coelebs foraging in obstructed and open habitats and artificially manipulated the search times of seeds by colouring them either yellow or black. One trial consisted of a choice between the conspicuous seed in the open patch, and the cryptic seed in the obstructed patch; in the second trial the treatments were reversed. Individuals were more willing to forage in the obstructed habitat when the yellow seeds were present (43% of pecks made in the obstructed patch) than when the black seeds were present (18% of pecks in the obstructed patch). Differences in search time are likely to explain this result: yellow seeds were located almost twice as fast (1.260.60 seconds) as black ones (2.360.88 seconds). This experiment shows that individual foraging decisions may be influenced not only by food abundance but by the properties of individual food items (in this case seed crypsis) and the structure of the habitat they are present in.
3677386|Sexual dimorphism or dichromatism has long been considered the result of sexual selection. However, for many organisms the degree to which sexual dichromatism occurs has been determined within the confines of human perception. For birds, objective measures of plumage color have revealed previously unappreciated sexual dichromatism for several species. Here we present an unbiased assessment of plumage dichromatism in the yellow-breasted chat Icteria virens. Chats exhibit yellow to orange throat and breast plumage that to the unaided human observer differs only subtly in color. Spectrophotometric analyses revealed that chat throat and breast feathers exhibited reflective curves with two peaks, one in the ultraviolet and one in the yellow end of the spectrum. We found differences in both the shape and magnitude of reflectance curves between males and females. Moreover, for feathers collected from the lower edge and middle of the breast patch, male plumage reflected more light in the ultraviolet and yellow wavelengths compared to females, whereas male throat feathers appeared brighter than those of females only in the ultraviolet. Biochemical analyses indicated that the plumage pigmentation consisted solely of the carotenoid all-trans lutein and we found that males have higher concentrations of plumage carotenoids than females. Feathers that were naturally unpigmented reflected more UV light than yellow feathers, suggesting a potential role of feather microstructure in UV reflectance.
3677487| The crossing of ecological barriers is among the most energy-demanding and risky phases of migration. Scanty field data exist on the relationships between ecological barriers and pre-migratory fuel storing in songbirds. The aim of this study was to analyse whether the distance to be covered across ecological barriers can be considered as a factor affecting pre-migratory fuel stores in barn swallows Hirundo rustica following the two main western European flyways, funnelling through Iberia and Italy. Data refer to 13029 swallows and were collected during July-October in 1997-1998 at 19 roost sites, scattered over Spain and Italy (south of 43N). During the post-breeding phase (PB, July-August) energy stores did not differ significantly between the two geographical areas, whereas during the pre-migratory phase (PM, September-October) swallows in Italy carried larger energy stores than those in Spain. Assuming that swallows leave for migration from the fuelling site, we found a significant positive correlation between the width of ecological barriers and an average index of energy stores for each roost site during the PM phase. The width of ecological barriers (along a N-S migration route) was expressed as (1) the distance between the roost site and the coast of North Africa (representing the Mediterranean Sea), and (2) the distance between the roost site and the southern margin of the Sahara desert (the total width of ecological barriers). The weaker correlations obtained when considering only the Mediterranean as a barrier suggest that swallows may cross the desert without substantial refuelling in North Africa. Hence, we showed that fuel stores have a degree of population-specific variability among Italian and Iberian barn swallows and that the extension of ecological barriers may play a role in determining the amount of stores needed for the migratory flight. 
3677430|Recently acquired tissue makes possible a first molecular assessment of the taxonomic position of the Soccoro Island endemic mimid Mimodes graysoni. Mitochondrial DNA sequence data from the ND-2 gene was analyzed using parsimony, maximum likelihood and bayesian methods of inference. These methods all placed Mimodes graysoni within a strongly supported clade containing four representatives of the genus Mimus. Retention of the monotypic Mimodes would make Mimus paraphyletic, therefore Mimodes graysoni is more properly placed in the genus Mimus.
10.2307/3677092|Experimental feeding regimes in the field with laboratory mice tested the null hypothesis that food does not influence the reproduction of Eastern Screech-Owls. Dead mice were put in nest boxes. Only yearling females chose provisioned over unprovisioned boxes for nesting, but all owls took more mice from fed boxes in which they nested and increased consumption with the approach of egg laying. Experimental food did not affect laying date, which was earlier in warmer springs and among older females; nor did it influence clutch size, which was increased by warmer temperatures, more natural food, and female age. However, experimental food may have increased incubation attentiveness leading to more hatchlings and hence fledglings per egg in successful nests. Because female age (breeding experience) and environmental factors were the strongest or only determinants of egg laying, the null hypothesis was supported with modifications about nest-site selection and hatching. Favorable natural factors offset most effects of experimental food, suggesting that they should be measured and controlled statistically in order to place experimental food in its proper perspective in field situations. Also the amount of experimental food relative to daily maintenance must be specified, because different amounts may alter natural provisioning and experimental results.
10.2307/3677296| The prevalence and intensity of haematozoan infections were studied in a nest box breeding population of Great Tits on the island of Gotland in the Baltic Sea during 1990 to 1992. Adult birds were captured during the nestling period and blood smears taken. Ten taxa of haematozoa belonging to seven genera were identified. Haemoproteus majoris dominated with an overall prevalence of around 76%. There were year and age class differences in both prevalence and mean intensity of infection. Annual differences were probably due to variation in vector abundance and activity in the previous year. Older birds (2 years old) were more often infected, probably as a result of their longer time of exposure to vectors, but had a lower mean intensity of infection than young (1 year old) birds indicating an acquired immunity to parasites. Our results suggest that the frequency of blood parasites in avian populations may primarily be an effect of the abundance and behaviour of suitable vectors, and that birds may have little scope for behavioural adaptations to avoid being parasitized. 
10.2307/3677145|Sedge Warblers Acrocephalus schoenobaenus are reported to have no partial postjuvenile moult before migration, but this is uncertain and controversial. To resolve this issue, feather growth and development was studied in nestling, juvenile and 1st-calendar-year Sedge Warblers. Two phases of feather growth, representing growth of juvenile feathers in the main feather tracts of nestlings, and, within a few days of fledging, the later growth of feathers along the margins of the mid-dorsal tract, the ventral apterium and under-wing remigial coverts, are described. In addition, replacement of some dorsal-tract juvenile feathers was observed in 19% of birds and may represent the initiation of post-juvenile moult. These data indicate that a proportion of juvenile Sedge Warblers in northern England may initiate post-juvenile moult before migration. This observation is discussed in the context of strategies for moult, dispersal and migration in Acrocephalus species and highlights the need for a greater understanding of the physiological control of moult in relation to dispersal and migration.
10.2307/3677065|We collected House Sparrows Passer domesticus around London, Ontario, estimated their total body calcium masses, food habits and egg production to test for the effects of endogenous calcium levels on control of clutch size. Before egg production began, calcium levels increased significantly and remained high through the end of egg laying, and then declined significantly after egg laying. We found no evidence that clutch size was related to endogenous calcium levels. Upon first ovulation, House Sparrows greatly increased consumption of calciferous materials such as snail shells, bird eggshells and calciferous grit. Their diet returned to normal after the final egg was ovulated. Daily calcium intake was sufficient to meet eggshell calcium needs.
30243857|Sex ratio biases in avian species remain controversial, although several studies have documented apparent facultative adjustment of offspring sex ratios. While hybridizing pied and collared flycatchers have exhibited sex ratio skews that may be a response to sex-based costs associated with hybridization, this appears not to be true of a hybridized population of blue-winged Vermivora pinus and golden-winged V. chrysoptera warblers. We examined the primary sex ratio of nestlings in a population of hybrid and introgressed golden-winged warblers. The sex ratio of 298 nestlings from 81 nests in the population was approximately 50:50. We conducted paternity assignments and analyzed groups of nestlings with shared genetic parents ("genetic broods") and found no difference from the expected binomial distribution, and no statistically significant relationship between parental species phenotype and nestling sex ratio. We saw no evidence of preferential production of male or female nestlings, and female hybrids were found to mate and breed in the population. This suggests that heterogametic (female) hybrids are both viable and fertile, and thus that Haldane's Rule does not apply to this system. While populations of hybridizing golden-winged warblers should be monitored for evidence of costs of heterospecific pairings, it is unlikely that adjustment of sex ratios would be the form of compensation for sub-optimal mating conditions. Our results provide support for the emerging hypothesis that hybrids suffer no disadvantage relative to golden-winged and blue-winged warblers.
10.2307/3677306| In changes that are among the most dramatic known for birds, Eared Grebes undergo 3-6 atrophy/hypertrophy cycles in major body constituents annually. The most pronounced takes place at staging areas in fall, when grebes become flightless for up to several months. At this season they accumulate huge fat stores (to 46% of lean body mass) and more than double the mass of body, liver, stomach, and intestine; leg and heart mass also increase. Concurrently, pectoral muscles atrophy and can shrink below the size needed for flight ( 11% of total body mass). Before grebes depart for wintering areas these changes are reversed. In a 2-3 week predeparture period body mass drops by one-third as birds catabolize fat and reduce viscera mass by 50%; leg mass also declines, while pectoral muscle increases. Similar cycles, which do not involve fattening to obesity, are repeated at wintering and breeding locations and, in some birds, on additional spring staging and fall molting areas. Heavy fat deposits in fall may insure that grebes can postpone their migration to wintering areas into the months of maximum darkness, thereby minimizing the risk of predation. The extreme predeparture reductions in leg and visceral mass, which occur in all seasons, reduce flight costs by minimizing wing loading and enhancing flight speed. Why grebes allow pectoral muscles to atrophy if they must rebuild them presently remains a puzzle. Several lines of evidence suggest that grebes attain a specific (optimal?) body composition prior to migrating. Further research into changes that may take place in other species prior to migration or at different times of the annual cycle is warranted. 
30243837|Display flight in collared doves Streptopelia decaocto consists of a rapid ascent from a perch, followed by a glide back to the same or near-by perch. The hypothesis that ascending flight presents an honest signal of the maximum power generating capacity of the displayer is considered. Using a deliberately conservative approach to calculating the power requirements of collared dove display flights, the highest power performance in an ascending collared dove is equivalent to that derived from wind tunnel studies on the morphologically similar ringed turtle-dove Streptopelia risoria. Muscle power requirements are very high (up to 232 W/kg), representing the highest performance measured in the field to date. However, the maximum energy requirements over an hour due to climbing power equates to only 5% of the basal metabolic rate. Display flight in collared doves appears to be an efficient and 'uncheatable' system for demonstrating fitness, either for mating or for territory defence.
30244799|Young birds often face poor food supply, which reduces their growth and development. However, if the shortage of resources is only temporary, there is a possibility to adjust the growth trajectory of morphological traits after the end of the short-term limitation period. The two main ways of compensatory growth are delayed development (parallel growth) and growth acceleration (catch-up growth). Parallel growth has been widely demonstrated in birds, but the presence of catch-up growth in altricial species has been questioned. However, most experiments have been conducted in laboratory conditions. We manipulated the food supply of nestling collared flycatchers Ficedula albicollis in the wild by removing the male parent for three days at 4-7 days of chick age. We performed early partial swapping to control for origin effects on growth, and total swapping after the period of food limitation to ensure similar late growth environment for deprived and control chicks. Both body mass and tarsus length of deprived chicks was negatively affected by the food scarcity. Body mass showed efficient catch-up growth, but this compensation was absent in skeletal size. Body mass is an important determinant of postfledging survival in this long-distance migrant. Further studies are needed in a variety of species to examine developmental plasticity in relation to age at food scarcity and the allocation hierarchy of various morphological traits.
3677747|Tawny owls Strix aluco generally roost in cryptic locations during the day. To test the hypothesis that this cryptic behaviour is an effort to avoid mobbers or avian predators, we measured diurnal behaviour and cause-specific mortality of radio-tagged birds. Non-breeding adults (assumed to be well fed individuals, optimising their own survival) roosted in less exposed locations than adults with young and newly independent juveniles. Parents roosted in the most exposed sites when their young were immature and vulnerable to depredation, probably to guard offspring. Newly independent juveniles apparently selected roosting sites in exposed places to get access to food, as this behaviour was associated with lower perching heights and higher prey abundance beneath their roosting sites. They also perched in more exposed sites, closer to the ground, in summers with low prey abundance compared to summers with high prey abundance. After previous encounters with goshawks Accipiter gentilis, dependent juveniles roosted in less exposed places compared to other young. The increased risk of being mobbed was highly significant with increasing roosting exposure. Once an owl was mobbed, the intensity of the mobbing correlated positively with the mass of the mobbers, but mobbing birds never killed any owls. In contrast, diurnal raptors caused 73% of natural owl deaths (n = 15) and the depredation rate by raptors was 3.8 times higher in population classes that generally roosted in more exposed locations than did non-breeding adults. We therefore suggest that depredation by diurnal raptors is the main factor shaping the diurnal behaviour of tawny owls.
10.2307/3677125|Fruit-eating birds are thought to inefficiently digest and/or assimilate nutrients from fruits. Contradicting this established premise, I found that Cedar Waxwings Bombycilla cedrorum and three thrush species absorbed fruit sugars efficiently, comparable to levels of sugar assimilation shown by nectar-feeding birds. Relatively low sugar digestive efficiencies by birds eating Lonicera morowii fruit could be explained by the especially low sugar solute concentration of this fruit's pulp. Sugar digestive efficiency is a proportional measure of sugar extraction from ingested sugar solutions. When most ingested water is excreted with unabsorbed sugars, digestive efficiency will decline as fruit sugar concentration decreases if sugars are reduced to relatively constant, minimum concentrations in excreted water. Under this circumstance, fecal nutrient concentration may be more appropriate for comparisons of how well animals utilize nutrients from foods that differ in their concentrations of dissolved or dispersed nutrients. Efficient absorption of fruit sugars by Cedar Waxwings and thrushes contradicts the premise that sugary, bird-dispersed fruits challenge the digestive systems of avian frugivores so that nutrient utilization is impaired. Because simple sugars (glucose and fructose) are readily assimilated, digestive processing of sugary fruits is more rapid than processing of foods containing complex nutrients. Thus, fruits represent accessible, energy-rich foods from which nutrients are efficiently absorbed by avian frugivores.
10.2307/3677157|An animal that migrates may travel to an area where the hazards of winter are less severe than in the breeding area, or where the food supply is better, but the journey may be dangerous and its energy cost may be high. Simple conditions are presented for predicting whether migration will increase its probability of survival, or improve its energy balance. Speeds and energy costs of migration are estimated for walking, swimming and flying vertebrates of masses ranging from three grammes to three tonnes. Consideration of these in the light of the proposed conditions indicates that 1000 km (round trip) migrations may benefit flying vertebrates of all sizes, but are unlikely to be beneficial for small swimmers or runners. Migrations of 10,000 km are expected to be beneficial only for fliers and large endothermic (but not ectothermic) swimmers. These conclusions are consistent with the occurrence of long migrations among vertebrates.
3677554|In many bird populations, individuals display one of several genetically inherited colour morphs. Colour polymorphism can be maintained by several mechanisms one of which being frequency-dependent selection with colour morphs signalling alternative mating strategies. One morph may be dominant and territorial, and another one adopt a sneaky behaviour to gain access to fertile females. We tested this hypothesis in the barn owl Tyto alba in which coloration varies from reddish-brown to white. This trait is heritable and neither sensitive to the environment in which individuals live nor to body condition. In Switzerland, reddish-brown males were observed to feed their brood at a higher rate and to produce more offspring than white males. This observation lead us to hypothesize that white males may equalise fitness by investing more effort in extra-pair copulations. This hypothesis predicts that lighter coloured males produce more extra-pair young, have larger testes and higher levels of circulating testosterone. However, our results are not consistent with these three predictions. First, paternity analyses of 54 broods with a total of 211 offspring revealed that only one young was not sired by the male that was feeding it. Second, testes size was not correlated with male plumage coloration suggesting that white males are not sexually more active. Finally, in nestlings at the time of feather growth testosterone level was not related to plumage coloration suggesting that this androgen is not required for the expression of this plumage trait. Our study therefore indicates that in the barn owl colour polymorphism plays no role in the probability of producing extra-pair young.
25161508|The distribution of individuals among habitats that vary in quality (i.e. resource availability) may affect reproductive output at a population level. I compared indicators of habitat quality including the breeding experience ratios (inexperienced:experienced birds), turnover rates, pairing success, and densities of a forest songbird, the Eastern Yellow Robin Eopsaltria australis, in two small, food-poor forest fragments, with those in two large, food-rich fragments. I then evaluated the likelihood that the breeding experience ratio affected the reproductive output of populations. Inexperienced males occurred in small fragments eight times as often as in large fragments. Male turnover rates were 1.5 times higher in the small than large fragments, and 20% (10/50) of the male population were unpaired in the small fragments compared to 0% (0/25) in the large. None of these measures differed significantly for females. Experienced birds of both sexes produced almost all of the offspring compared with inexperienced birds. Despite these findings, reproductive output did not vary with fragment size for robins. Thus, while breeding experience clearly influenced the reproductive success of individuals, there were no obvious population consequences of having disproportionately more inexperienced males in the small fragments. I conclude that while male traits may be good indicators of resource levels within fragments (specifically, food availability), they may not be adequate predictors of population performance. Thus, the reproductive output of populations must be measured directly before conclusions concerning population performance can be made. Interestingly, breeding densities were not accurate indicators of either resource levels or population performance. Densities were two times higher in the smaller fragments, and I suggest that this result reflects problems with male dispersal among fragments caused by isolation.
3676931|Seasonal shifts in the diets of Garden Warblers Sylvia borin, Blackcaps S. atricapilla and Lesser Whitethroats S. curruca at a North German site were studied from samples obtained by flushing the digestive tract of the birds. The significance of seven species of berries and pulpy fruits in the diet of these species while feeding in riparian vegetation during the premigratory and migratory seasons was assessed and compared with the pattern of frugivory shown by the same species in southern Germany. Because of the short time span between hatching and onset of migration, first-year long- and medium-distance migratory Sylvia warblers from northern Europe are forced to accelerate their juvenile development. Presumably to meet the higher nutritional demands of an accelerated development, juvenile Garden Warblers and Blackcaps in northern Germany ate relatively more fruit during premigration than Blackcaps in southern Germany. Fruit occurred in about 90% of their diet samples during both premigration and migration. However, this might not hold true for experienced adult birds. Garden Warblers accelerated the rate of fattening and reduced the time needed to prepare for migration when feeding on a mixed fruit diet. There were indications that Blackcaps directly influenced the fruit choice of Garden Warblers when fruits preferred by both species were scarce. Blackcaps and Garden Warblers showed subtle differences in their seasonal preferences for black elder Sambucus nigra and woody nightshade Solanum dulcamara.
3677460|Many long-distance passerine migrants arrive with more fat stores than necessary to have reached their northerly breeding grounds. Researchers have argued for adaptive advantages associated with arriving with 'surplus' migratory fat, including increased breeding performance and insurance against adverse weather, and reduced food resources during the days following arrival. The objectives of this work were to document fat stores in American redstarts Setophaga ruticilla arriving to breed in northern Michigan and to test predictions associated with the hypothesis that arrival fat serves an insurance role. Results suggest that redstarts arrived in northern Michigan with fat stores sufficient to have continued migrating an additional distance greater than 1000 km. Significant yearly variation in arrival fat corresponded in part with environmental conditions measured at the breeding grounds. Birds arrived with the most fat in the year with the coolest temperatures and the lowest food abundance at the time of arrival to the site. Further, an inverse relationship between arrival fat and arrival day in males indicated that early arrivals carried more fat than later arrivals. Birds that arrived early faced cooler temperatures and lower densities of terrestrial invertebrates, and arrival fat may have provided a mechanism to overcome poor early season foraging conditions. However, our results are not entirely consistent with the hypothesis that arrival fat serves only as insurance. Arrival fat appeared important even during the most benign year of this study. Further, evidence suggests that females may have derived more benefit from arrival fat than males. These results highlight the connection between phases of a bird's annual cycle. Migrants that do well en route, arrive at breeding grounds in better condition, which may contribute to survival and reproductive success.
3677602|The intensity of parasite infections often increases during the reproductive season of the host as a result of parasite reproduction, increased parasite transmission and increased host susceptibility. We report within-individual variation in immune parameters, hematocrit and body mass in adult house martins Delichon urbica rearing nestlings in nests experimentally infested with house martin bugs Oeciacus hirundinis and birds rearing nestlings in initially parasite-free nests. From first to second broods body mass and hematocrit of breeding adult house martins decreased. In contrast leucocytes and immunoglobulins became more abundant. When their nests were infested with ectoparasites adults lost more weight compared with birds raising nestlings in nests treated with pyrethrin, whereas the decrease in hematocrit was more pronounced during infection with blood parasites. Neither experimental infestation with house martin bugs nor blood parasites had a significant effect on the amount of immune defences.
3676990|Most birds breed in pairs but at least 3% of passerine species are cooperative breeders, whereby more than two adults help to raise the young. The general rarity of cooperative breeding has led to the assumption that cooperative behaviour has evolved from the ancestral trait of pair breeding. However, it has been suggested that pair breeding may be the derived state in some taxa. The primary aim of this research was to test this suggestion using the genus Acanthiza, which contains examples of both cooperatively and pair breeding species. Mitochondrial DNA sequences were used to construct a phylogenetic hypothesis for the tribe containing Acanthiza, the Acanthizini. The breeding behaviour of the species sequenced was determined from records in the literature; where there were no such data the frequency of another social behaviour, flocking, was used as an indicator of breeding behaviour. The mapping of breeding systems onto the phylogeny led to the conclusion that cooperative breeding is the ancestral state in the Acanthizini, with pair breeding evolving twice in the genus Acanthiza. Models explaining the occurrence of cooperative breeding in terms of broad environmental factors or life history do not appear to be applicable to the genus Acanthiza. The pair breeding Acanthiza species cluster into two clades, suggesting some influence of phylogenetic history on the occurrence of the different breeding systems. Combining the results of this study with other data suggests the tendency to breed cooperatively could be ancestral in the superfamily Meliphagoidea.
3677415|In response to unpredictability of both food availability and core offspring failure, parents of many avian species initially produce more offspring than they commonly rear (overproduction). When parental investment is insufficient to raise the whole brood the handicap of hatching last means 'marginal' chicks are less likely to survive if brood reduction occurs. Conversely, if marginal offspring are required as replacements for failed 'core' chicks, or parental investment is sufficient to rear the whole brood, the handicap imposed on marginal chicks must be reversible if overproduction is to be a viable strategy. I investigated the ability of marginal offspring to overcome the handicap imposed by hatching asynchrony using a combination of a field experiment, designed to manipulate both the amount of total competition and the relative competitive ability of chicks within a brood, and data on the growth and survival of unmanipulated, three-chick broods from three consecutive years. The results indicate that, even when resources are abundant, marginal offspring do not begin to overcome the competitive handicap imposed by hatching asynchrony until the period of growth when energetic requirements reach their peak, and subsequent survival to fledging is almost assured. This is apparently a consequence of parents controlling allocation of early parental investment, so that any brood reduction 'decisions' can be left as late as possible. Marginal chicks initially channel resources into maintaining mass, relative to skeletal size, as a buffer against starvation. However this also means competitiveness is reduced, so if conditions are poor marginal chicks are rapidly out-competed, lose condition and die. Conversely, when food availability is good marginal offspring devote more resources to skeletal growth and quickly close the gap on their core siblings, meaning the handicap is reversible. The benefits of overproduction and hatching asynchrony as reproductive strategies to maximise success in Lesser Black-backed Gulls are discussed in relation to the reproductive alternatives.
10.2307/3677079|Nest density has been considered to affect the success of gull colonies. From 1984-1993 I studied the California Gull Larus californicus colony at Mono Lake, California, which has increased 30-fold since 1916 and attained nest densities that are among the highest reported for the species. I found that the Upper Critical Density (UCD) approximated
10.2307/3677253|When studying egg removal as a host defence against brood parasitism, most researchers have assumed that only females eject parasitic eggs. We examined the response of captive male and female Spotless Starlings to experimental intraspecific nest parasitism. Before their own egg laying started, females ejected all eggs during their first visit to the nestbox. Males ejected all eggs added between 10 and four days before laying, while in the last three days before laying ejection frequency decreased significantly. Eggs introduced after clutch initiation were never removed by either male or female Spotless Starlings. Our data provide further evidence against the long-standing assumption that only females eject parasitic eggs.
3677649|Theoretical models of short-term avian behaviour suggest that small birds adaptively balance the ecological costs and benefits of winter fat to maximize survival probability. When low starvation risk eliminates benefit but not cost of fat, birds are leaner than when under high starvation risk. Most models focus on single factors affecting starvation risk and subsequent choice of adaptive body mass; however, in complex environments, more than one factor affects starvation risk. To test for multiple interacting factors affecting fat reserves, long-term geographical data on winter fat in a ground-feeding finch, the dark-eyed junco Junco hyemalis were analyzed. Two measures of fat were used: (1) visible subcutaneous fat class, and (2) body mass residuals left after age, sex and wing length effects were factored out. Site means for fat measures were obtained from juncos visiting supplemental feeding sites in midwest and northwest North America. In backward elimination regression of fat class, the temperature-snowfall interaction term and its constituent variables, proximate temperature (averaged over capture day and the preceding ten days) and snowfall (frequency over the same time interval) were significant explanators of variation. Snowfall frequency is considered to be a surrogate measure of resource deterioration. The interaction term, also found in backward regression of body mass residuals, showed that as temperature declined at low snowfall frequency, less fat was deposited than when temperature declined at high snowfall frequency. Thus, in a recently cold environment suggesting relatively high resource predictability, perceived starvation risk is low, and less costly fat is needed to reduce starvation risk compared to a cold and unpredictable resource environment. The analysis of mass residuals also yielded a significant effect of daylength, suggesting an underlying fattening programme independent of proximate environmental conditions. A longitudinal study of junco fat stores indicated that individual environmental responses contributed significantly to midwinter fat peaks. These results agree with predictions of a synergistic model of adaptive fat regulation in small birds by suggesting that a ground-feeding bird may maximize winter survival probability by integrating multiple environmental factors affecting starvation risk.
10.2307/3677229| Since 1991, a trawling moratorium has been enforced in the provinces of Tarragona and Castell, NE Spain, where two Audouin's Gull Larus audouinii colonies are located 80 km apart: the Ebro Delta (on the mainland) and the Columbretes Is. (60 km off the coast). While the Columbretes Is. colony was established in 1973 and has grown only slightly (ca. 600 pairs in 1995), the Ebro Delta colony was established in 1981 and today holds 70% of total world population (ca. 10300 pairs in 1995). The trawling moratorium has coincided with the breeding season of the species, though the particular breeding stage affected was different each year. The lack of trawl discards caused by the moratorium and the likely decrease of clupeiform populations have affected both the feeding and breeding biology of the species. However, the effects of a reduced food supply were greater in the Columbretes Is., probably because of the lack of alternative food resources. When trawlers operated, the gulls' diet was very similar in the two colonies, but when the moratorium started, significant differences were found at both taxonomic and typologic levels. Prey from rice fields acted as a buffer for the Ebro Delta colony, whereas in the Columbretes Is. the gulls were forced to fish actively, probably at greater energy costs. In the moratorium years, breeding success was always significantly lower in the Columbretes Is. than in the Ebro Delta; extremely, no young fledged in the Columbretes Is. in 1993. Clutch size was also significantly lower in the Columbretes Is. colony, even when the moratorium did not coincide with the laying stage, suggesting that predation by Yellow-legged Gull Larus cachinnans could be an additional limiting factor at this locality, where the ratio of breeding pairs of Yellow-legged to Audouin's Gulls is much higher than in the Ebro Delta. In contrast to previous studies, the larger colony (Ebro Delta) had better breeding performance than the smaller colony (Columbretes Is.), suggesting that density-dependent effects may not operate in the Ebro Delta colony because of the large variety of foraging habitats (rice fields, lagoons, dunes, beaches) and the high productivity of the sea off this colony. While population size in the Ebro Delta colony suggested the absence of limiting factors until the establishment of the trawling moratorium, the size of the Columbretes Is. colony indicated a breeding site limitation, and probably competition with the Yellow-legged Gull. 
3677505| Optimal sex allocation for individuals can be predicted from a number of different hypotheses. Fisherian models of sex allocation predict equal investment in males and females up to the end of parental care and predict brood compositions based on the relative costs of producing males and females. The Trivers-Willard hypothesis predicts that individual females should alter the sex ratio of their broods based on their own condition if it has a differential impact on the lifetime reproductive success of their sons and daughters. The Charnov model of sex allocation predicts that females should alter sex allocation based on paternal attributes that may differentially benefit sons versus daughters. Because females are the heterogametic sex in birds, many recent studies have focussed on primary sex ratio biases. In black-capped chickadees Poecile atricapilla, males are larger than females suggesting they may be more costly to raise than females. Female condition affects competitive ability in contests for mates, and thus may be related to variance in fecundity. Females prefer high-ranking males as both social and extrapair partners. These observations suggest that females might vary the sex ratio of their broods based on the predictions of any of the above models. Here, we report on the results of PCR based sex determination of 1093 nestlings in 175 broods sampled from 1992 to 2001. Population-wide, we found a mean brood sex ration of 0.525  0.016, with no significant deviation from a predicted binomial distribution. We found no effect of clutch size, female condition, hatch date, parental rank or paternity. Our results reject the idea that female black-capped chickadees systematically vary sex allocation in their broods. 
30243884|Breeding success in ground-nesting birds is primarily determined by nest survival, which may be density-dependent, but the generality of this pattern remains untested. In a replicated crossover experiment conducted on 30 wetlands, survival of simulated mallard nests was related to "biome" (n = 14 mediterranean and 16 boreal wetlands), breeding "phenology" (early vs late nests), and "density" (2 vs 8 nests per 225 m shoreline). Local abundances of "waterfowl", "other waterbirds", and "avian predators" were used as covariates. We used an information-theoretic approach and Program MARK to select among competing models. Nest survival was lower in late nests compared with early ones, and it was lower in the mediterranean than in the boreal study region. High-density treatment nests suffered higher depredation rates than low-density nests during days 1-4 of each experimental period. Nest survival was negatively associated with local abundance of "waterfowl" in the boreal but not in the mediterranean biome. Effect estimates from the highestranked model showed that nest "density" (d 1-4) had the strongest impact on model fit; i.e. three times that of "biome" and 1.5 times that of "phenology". The latter's effect, in turn, was twice that of "biome". We argue that our study supports the idea that density-dependent nest predation may be temporally and spatially widespread in waterfowl. We also see an urgent need for research of how waterfowl nesting phenology is matched to that of prey and vegetation.
30243901|Two Australian species of teal (Anseriformes: Anatidae: Anas), the grey teal Anas gracilis and the chestnut teal A. castanea, are remarkable for the zero or near-zero divergence recorded between them in earlier surveys of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) diversity. We confirmed this result through wider geographical and population sampling as well as nucleotide sampling in the more rapidly evolving mtDNA control region. Any data set where two species share polymorphism as is the case here can be explained by a model of gene flow through hybridization on one hand or by incomplete lineage sorting on the other hand. Ideally, analysis of such shared polymorphism would simultaneously estimate the likelihood of both phenomena. To do this, we used the underlying principle of the IMa package to explore ramifications to understanding population histories of A. gracilis and A. castanea. We cannot reject that hybridization occurs between the two species but an equally or more plausible finding for their nearly zero divergence is incomplete sorting following very recent divergence between the two, probably in the mid-late Pleistocene. Our data add to studies that explore intermediate stages in the evolution of reciprocal monophyly and paraphyletic or polyphyletic relationships in mtDNA diversity among widespread Australian birds.
3677771|Migrating passerines moulting in the breeding quarters before autumn migration sometimes end up with less time than needed for a normal moult. To deal with this the birds could for example suspend moult or moult faster. In this paper we investigate the effect of an induced time-constraint on the moult of Lesser Whitethroats Sylvia curruca. The time-constraint was induced through a shift in light regime large enough to transfer the birds to a date when, under normal conditions, they already should have started moulting. Time-constrained birds moulted faster and also grew shorter wing feathers, resulting in a shorter wing, compared to control birds. Only one individual responded by interrupting moult and retained a number of inner primaries unmoulted. The observed adjustments of moult, and the higher fuel loads towards the end of moult, are consistent with the ideas that time is an important factor in bird migration, affecting not only migration but also the events preceding it.
3676991|In this study we used DNA fingerprinting to provide an accurate measure of paternity in a nest-box colony of Jackdaws. The species is a semi-colonial, socially monogamous passerine which establishes long-term pair bonds. Parents raise a single annual brood in which 50% brood reduction is commonplace. However, nest sites are a limited resource, non-breeding adults are also common around colonies and males are frequently separated from their incubating females during the fertile egg-laying period so that opportunities arise for extra-pair copulation. The parentage analysis, however, revealed no cases of extra-pair fertilisation (EPF) or intra-specific brood parasitism. Therefore fledgling output or survival is likely to be a good measure of individual reproductive success in this species. The lack of EPFs is not explained by nesting synchrony and we discuss the relative costs and benefits to females of seeking EPFs; the likelihood that paternal care and a life-history strategy similar to many long-lived non-passerines may also constrain the species to monogamy.
30243866|Dialects may signal social or population identity and increase tolerance within communities. We hypothesized that in European starling Sturnus vulgaris communal roosts, birds coming from the same breeding area, i.e. dialectal zone, might tend to stay together within the roost. Recordings were performed in the colonies, revealed in earlier studies, multiple dialects and small sectors where birds shared the same variants at the different levels. We also performed recordings in different locations within night roosts. The dialects recorded in the roosts were the same as those recorded at nest sites during the day and they were not distributed randomly within roosts: birds from the same geographical diurnal origin would gather and stay together, either because they arrived together or were attracted to their dialect. Although our results have to be confirmed by the study of identifiable individuals, we propose original lines of thought on roost structuring and on the role of song dialects.
30243876|Female birds are hypothesized to mate outside the pairbond to secure alleles that enhance the fitness potential of their offspring. To test this, researchers typically compare fitness-related attributes of extra-pair (EP) and within-pair (WP) half-siblings. Often neglected, however, is the possibility that females may provide EP offspring with certain non-genetic advantages. For example, in species in which eggs hatch asynchronously, females may place EP offspring amongst earlierlaid eggs in the clutch. Because they tend to hatch first, chicks from earlier-laid eggs are often larger and more developed than their nestmates and thus have a competitive advantage. We tested for an association between offspring paternity and position in the laying/hatching sequence in a Wyoming population of the house wren Troglodytes aedon. Eggs in this population always hatch asynchronously, usually in the order laid, over 24-48 h, setting up a stair-step-like size hierarchy within broods early in the nestling stage. This suggested that we could thus use a chick's mass relative to that of its nestmates as an index of the chick's position in the laying sequence. We first confirmed this, showing that position in the laying sequence explains 70% of the variance in chick size relative to nestmates. We then compared masses of EP and WP offspring shortly after hatching in 27 broods with mixed paternity. On average, EP offspring weighed 14% more than their WP counterparts, a highly significant difference. Our results therefore suggest that EP offspring are more likely than WP offspring to occur in earlier-laid eggs, thus gaining a size-based competitive advantage. We recommend that, when comparing EP and WP half-siblings in species in which eggs hatch asynchronously, researchers test for this potential maternally derived effect on offspring performance.
25161516|Darwin (1871) and later Fisher (1958) suggested that sexual selection can drive the evolution of ornamental traits in monogamous species when female preferences for these traits allow well-ornamented males to begin breeding earlier in a season and, as a result, gain reproductive advantages over poorly ornamented males. However, few studies have been conducted to test this fundamental concept upon which much of the sexual selection theory for monogamous species has been based. In this study, we examined the relationship between breeding onset, reproductive success, and male ornamentation in the House Finch Carpodacus mexicanus, a species in which males display bright carotenoid-based plumage pigmentation. In previous work, it has been shown that bright male House Finches are preferred as social mates by females and, as a result, begin nesting earlier in the season than do drab orange and yellow males. Here we show that, by initiating breeding earlier in the season, brightly colored males fledge more offspring in a season than do drab males. Thus, differential timing of breeding generates considerable variance in reproductive success among male House Finches and contributes to sexual selection for male plumage ornamentation in this species.
10.2307/3677170|Avian long-distance migration involves the storage and expenditure of very large fuel loads. Birds may double in weight before take-off on flights of many 1000 km, and they may lose half their body mass over the subsequent few days that such trips take. Recent studies indicate that in addition to the storage and depletion of fat, the muscles and belly organs also undergo considerable changes in size in the course of such migrations. Such intraindividual and repeatedly reversed changes in stores and organ sizes represent a class of phenotypic plasticity called 'phenotypic flexibility'. Using preliminary comparative data for different populations of Bar-tailed Godwits Limosa lapponica, and several other shorebird species adding variation to the migration strategies sampled (Golden Plover Pluvialis apricaria, Ruff Philomachus pugnax, Red Knot Calidris canutus and Bristle-thighed Curlew Numenius tahitiensis), the thesis is developed that the size of the organs carried during take-off represent evolutionary compromises between their functions during the storage, flight and post-arrival phases of migration. In all cases fat-free tissue along with fat is deposited during fuel storage, but the proportions vary a great deal between similarly sized species. Just before departure on long-distance flights, exercise organs (pectoral muscle and heart) tend to show hypertrophy and nutritional organs (stomach, intestine and liver) tend to show atrophy. Reductions in nutritional organs appear most pronounced in (sub-) species that are about to overfly barren oceans with few or no opportunities for emergency landings. Migrant birds seem to show a great deal of adaptive flexibility, and the study of this flexibility may shed light on (presently unknown) physiological mechanisms as well as on correlated ecological constraints on bird migration.
3677665|The absence of an intromittent organ (IO) in most species (>97%) of birds is an enigma: birds are the only terrestrial vertebrates in which insemination typically occurs without the use of an IO. In an earlier review, we evaluated six hypotheses to explain the loss of IOs among birds. We found some support for the influence of sperm competition and female choice, but other hypotheses (e.g. avoidance of sexually transmitted disease) could not be tested because of a lack of empirical data. Wesolowski (1999, J. Avian Biol. 30: 483-485) has criticised our female choice and sexually transmitted disease hypotheses as implausible and insufficient to explain the loss of the IO in birds. Instead, he proposes that IOs were lost to minimise the risk of predation (by shortening duration of copulation) and/or to increase the efficiency of sperm transfer. Here we respond to Wesolowski's (1999) criticisms and test his efficient copulation (EC) hypothesis with data on the duration of copulation in 243 species. Contrary to expectations from the EC hypothesis, copulation durations did not differ significantly between species with and without an IO. Thus we can reject the EC hypothesis as an explanation for the loss of IOs in birds.
3677542|Nest site selection by birds is a critically important life history trait as competition for suitable sites can be intense, and because birds are at their most vulnerable to predators during nesting. Previous studies show that the clutch size and nestling period evolve in response to competition for nest sites and nest predation, respectively. This provides the opportunity to study the relative contribution of competition and predation to the evolution of nesting niche. Using previously published phylogenies for parrots and trogons, I found evidence for at least 13 independent evolutionary transitions from tree cavities to alternative nesting niches (including termitaria, cliffs, and burrows). I analyzed variations in clutch size, incubation period and nestling period for 16 phylogenetically controlled pairs of species to test the relative roles of competition for tree cavities and nest predation, in favoring evolutionary switches to alternative nest sites. Tree cavity nesting species did not have larger clutch sizes as predicted if competition for tree cavities leads birds to invest heavily in nesting once they obtain a nest site (the limited breeding opportunities hypothesis). Instead I found that shifts to alternative nesting niches were accompanied by an increase in nestling period. As nestling period is a surrogate measure for long-term nest predation rates, this finding suggests that nest predation has been more important than competition in niche diversification among cavity nesting parrots and trogons. The timing of events in South America suggests that the explosive radiation of mammalian nest predators during the Upper-Oligocene, Lower-Miocene (20-30 million years ago) corresponded with the radiation of parrot and trogon taxa that exploit novel nesting niches.
10.2307/3676957| Nestling feeding behaviour of Willow Tits Parus montanus was studied in natural and artificially size-altered broods at Oulu, northern Finland. Per-brood provisioning effort was positively and per-offspring effort negatively correlated with brood size. Brood size manipulations (about  30% relative to control broods) did not significantly affect the patterns of per-offspring provisioning effort, i.e. parents of enlarged broods could increase their per-brood effort significantly as compared with control broods. Thus, Nur's refined trade-off model of optimal nestling feeding was supported. On the other hand, no measurable extra costs (in physical condition, body mass or size) to parents of enlarged broods were detected; however, the young of enlarged broods had lower body masses than those of control and reduced broods confirming earlier results in the same population. Thus, in broods above the modal size parents primarily tried to ensure their own rather than their offspring's survival. At the beginning of the nestling period, when females brooded the young, male contribution to provisioning was higher. At the end of the nestling period male load sizes were larger but female visiting rates slightly higher, resulting in sexually equal total feeding effort. This was expected for a monogamous passerine with biparental care. Feeding effort increased with offspring age owing to the increased load sizes, increased female feeding rates and prolonged working days. However, the temporal increase in female visiting rates may be explained by the decreased brooding effort. A temporal increase in feeding effort is consistent with the corresponding increase in nest defence intensity, found in our earlier studies. 
30244466|Several hypotheses have been proposed to explain genome size variation in birds. However, no general consensus has been reached thus far. In this study, we analysed the inter- and intraspecific variation of genome size in some parrot species, and we tested the hypotheses that (1) weaker fliers have larger genomes, and (2) long-living species have lower DNA content. In general, parrots have a mean genome size (2.93 pg/nucleus) comparable to that of other avian orders. Amazona ochrocephala tresmariae has the highest genome size (4.30 pg/nucleus) among parrots. As expected, weaker flyers have larger genomes than better ones. In contrast to our prediction, we found a positive correlation between genome size and longevity. Finally, the species-group Amazona has a higher DNA content than the two groups Ara and Cacatua. Since oxidative stress is causally related to longevity, we suggest that DNA oxidative damage could have acted to some extent as a constraint on GS variation in parrots and perhaps also in other avian orders.
10.2307/3677168|The relationship between mass loss rate and chemical power in flying birds is analysed with regard to water and heat balance. Two models are presented: the first model is applicable to situations where heat loads are moderate, i.e. when heat balance can be achieved by regulating non-evaporative heat loss, and evaporative water loss is minimised. The second model is applicable when heat loads are high, non-evaporative heat loss is maximised, and heat balance has to be achieved by regulating evaporative heat loss. The rates of mass loss of two Thrush Nightingales Luscinia luscinia and one Teal Anas crecca were measured at various flight speeds in a wind tunnel. Estimates of metabolic water production indicate that the Thrush Nightingales did not dehydrate during experimental flights. Probably, the Thrush Nightingales maintained heat balance without actively increasing evaporative cooling. The Teal, however, most likely had to resort to evaporative cooling, although it may not have dehydrated. Chemical power was estimated from our mass loss rate data using the minimum evaporation model for the Thrush Nightingales and the evaporative heat regulation model for the Teal. For both Thrush Nightingales and the Teal, the chemical power calculated from our mass loss rate data showed a greater change with speed (more "U-shaped" curve) than the theoretically predicted chemical power curves based on aerodynamic theory. The minimum power speeds calculated from our data differed little from theoretical predictions but maximum range speeds were drastically different. Mass loss rate could potentially be used to estimate chemical power in flying birds under laboratory conditions where temperature and humidity are controlled. However, the assumptions made in the models and the model predictions need further testing.
30245193|Animals often spend less time vigilant and more time feeding when foraging in larger groups. This group-size effect does not, however, consider if larger groups differ systematically from smaller ones: Large groups could form in different habitats than small groups or be composed of a different mix of ages or classes than small groups. We examined how habitat differences and flock size and composition explain feeding and vigilance rates in common cranes Grus grus, wintering in holm oak Quercus ilex dehesas of Spain. Flock size and composition were related to habitat type in cranes: flocks formed in areas sown with cereal crops were larger than flocks formed in set aside areas. Vigilance rate depended on habitat but decreased with increasing flock size in a similar way across all habitats. Juveniles were less vigilant than adults and showed little change in vigilance with flock size. Vigilance increased and feeding time decreased over months from November through February. Our results show that vigilance is affected by habitat but that the group size effect on vigilance is not the product of differences between habitats in group size or composition.
10.2307/3677156|Among the movements of animals across the surface of our planet, the wide-ranging migratory journeys of birds and the smaller-scale foraging excursions of social (hymenopteran) insects provide some of the most intriguing examples of biological systems of navigation. Many sensory cues have been found to be involved in accomplishing these tasks, but how this sensory information is integrated into the animal's overall system of navigation has remained elusive. Several over-arching concepts such as sun- or star-based systems of astronavigation, E-vector-based spherical geometry, map-and-compass and bi-coordinate position-fixing schemes have been developed to account for the animals' performances. Although these metaphors have some heuristic value, they are potentially distracting and might obscure some of the most important computational strategies used by the brain. Moreover, these top-down approaches are especially inappropriate in trying to understand the evolutionary design of an animal's navigational system. Instead, we must go back to basics, use modern recording technology to unravel the detailed spatial and temporal structures of migratory routes and foraging trajectories, study the animal's sensory and computational abilities by combining behavioural and neurophysiological approaches, then work bottom-up, as evolution did, by trying to integrate the individual navigational methods. Rather than being part of a general-purpose navigational toolkit, the various guiding mechanisms have most certainly arisen from an opportunistic grafting of particular special-purpose modules on to pre-existing sensory-motor control systems.
3677475|When choosing subsequent nest sites, species that produce multiple broods in a single breeding season have the option of dispersing from a site where they previously suffered depredation, i.e., a predator-avoidance tactic. In our study on yellow-faced honeyeaters Lichenostomus chrysops it was found that 89% of nest failures were attributed to nest depredation, the primary cause of reproductive failure. Pairs re-nested further from depredated nesting attempts than from successful nesting attempts and progressively higher above the ground as the breeding season progressed. Pairs nesting in dioecious Coprosma quadrifida plants only nested in non-fruiting male plants. Artificial nests were used to test the hypothesis that nest height and plant preferences were strategies to reduce the risk of depredation. There was no evidence that either higher nests or nests in non-fruiting C. quadrifida achieved reduced levels of depredation during 14 days of artificial nest exposure. Specific nest site characteristics were not found to be associated with nest outcome for either natural or artificial nests. Our study provides further evidence that species may choose a diverse range of nest sites in order to avoid predators from developing specific search images and then, following depredation, compensate by rapidly re-nesting away from the failed attempt.
30244488|High rates of extra-pair paternity (EPP) can be relatively common in passerines whereas low rates or absence of EPP are often associated with taxa that are long-lived and exhibit obligatory paternal care. We examined EPP in an under-represented category: passerine species with relatively long life spans (or low annual mortality rates). Specifically, we studied EPP in New Zealand saddlebacks Philesturnus carunculatus and robins Petroica australis, two species with unusually low annual mortality rates (6.5-11% and 10-20% respectively). No EPP (0%) was detected in saddlebacks (39 pairs, 202 offspring) and only one case of EPP (1.9%) was detected in robins (54 pairs, 198 offspring). Genetic monogamy in these passerine species supports the hypothesis that low annual mortality rates play an important role in explaining variation in rates of EPP across species.
3677428|Despite the overriding importance of nest predation for most birds, our understanding of the relationship between birds and their nest predators has been developed largely without reliable information on the identity of the predators. Miniature video cameras placed at nests are changing that situation and in six of eight recent studies of New World passerine birds, snakes were the most important nest predators. Several areas of research stand to gain important insights from understanding more about the snakes that prey on birds' nests. Birds nesting in fragmented habitats often experience increased nest predation. Snakes could be attracted to habitat edges because they are thermally superior habitats, coincidentally increasing predation, or snakes could be attracted directly by greater prey abundance in edges. Birds might reduce predation risk from snakes by nesting in locations inaccessible to snakes or in locations that are thermally inhospitable to snakes, although potentially at some cost to themselves or their young. Nesting birds should also modify their behavior to reduce exposure to visually orienting snakes. Ornithologists incorporating snakes into their ecological or conservation research need to be aware of practical considerations, including sampling difficulties and logistical challenges associated with quantifying snake habitat use.
3677646|The effects of simulated goose grazing on common saltmarsh-grass Puccinellia maritima plants were tested on a Danish salt marsh during the flightless moulting period of greylag geese Anser anser (3-21 June 1998). Plants in an area exclosed from the influence of grazing and the nutrient effects of goose faeces were subject to removal of youngest lamina at 3-, 6-, 9- and 18-day intervals during this period. Average biomass and protein accumulation between harvests was highest at defoliation intervals of 9 days or more. Field observations from two separate study areas demonstrated geese returned to regraze the Puccinellia sward after 6-8 days and oesophageal contents from feeding geese showed selection for lamina lengths consistent with the results of clipping every 6 days. Geese therefore regrazed Puccinellia patches at shorter intervals than expected were they to maximise their intake of biomass or protein at each visit. However, total cumulative lamina elongation, equivalent to the long term gain during the entire moult period, showed no significant difference between the three most intensive defoliation treatments, which were significantly greater than those of plants defoliated at 18 day intervals. Highest overall lamina protein levels were maintained at 6- and 9-day defoliation intervals. This suggests geese regrazed Puccinellia patches at a rate that maximised their number of harvests during the flightless period, but maintained highest protein levels and overall biomass in the sward. This suggests, in line with earlier studies, that moulting greylag geese combine dietary selection, reduced nitrogen excretion and regrazing patterns to meet protein demands during regrowth of flight feathers.
30244757|The signalling hypothesis of eggshell colouration in birds posits that females of species with blue-green eggs signal their phenotypic quality or the quality of their eggs to their mates through deposition of the antioxidant biliverdin as pigment. Males respond by investing more in the offspring. Through a cross-fostering experiment where we have exchanged whole clutches between pairs of pied flycatcher Ficedula hypoleuca nests, we managed to break potential associations between female quality and clutch chromaticity. We show that males respond to incubated clutches with more variable and higher peak values in blue-green chroma through a higher proportional investment in nestling provisioning on day 4 of the nestling period, when males invest more heavily than females in provisioning. More variable clutches show higher peak chroma values. We also show that egg colour during the two-week incubation period has a significant effect, which is not found for the colour of eggs during the laying period. Finally, the proportion of male provisioning visits affects negatively female brooding effort and nestling mortality, and thereby has positive effects on female fitness. Blue-green chroma in the pied flycatcher functions as a signal of female or clutch quality to males which respond by adjusting their relative investment with respect to total pair effort.
30243828|Intraspecific sexual differences, high variation, and positive allometry of sexually-selected external display structures are common. Many sexually-selected anatomical specializations occur in the avian vocal tract but intraspecific variation and allometry have been investigated little. The tracheal bulla bulla syringealis occurs in males of most duck species. We quantified variation and size-scaling of the bulla, plus sexual differences in size of trachea, bronchi, and vocal muscles, for 62 common eiders Somateria mollissima and 51 king eiders S. spectabilis. Trends were similar in both species. Bullar ossification and definitive size occurred early in life: bullar size did not differ between first-year and older males. Bullar size did not vary more than size of other body parts (CVs of 3.4-7.0% for bullar length and breadth). Bullar size scaled to body size with negative allometry or isometry. Vocal muscles were 10-50% thicker in males than females, a much greater sexual difference than in body size (CVs of 3-6% on linear body-size variables). Vocal muscles were larger on the left side in both sexes and bilateral asymmetry was slightly more pronounced in males. Low variation and a trend towards negative allometry suggest that bullar size is under stabilizing selection; if bullar size affects vocal attributes of voice, then the latter cannot be condition-dependent. We recommend comparative research on vocal communication, vocal individuality and vocal-tract anatomy and function in eiders and other ducks.
30243860|Breeding Brnnich's guillemots Uria lomvia show stepwise mass loss at the time of hatch. This mass loss has usually been explained as an adaptation to reduce the cost of flight during the chick-rearing period because flight time increases during that period. It is possible, however, that mass loss also increases dive performance during the chick-rearing period because time spent diving also increases during that period. Reduced mass could reduce basal metabolic rate or costs associated with buoyancy and therefore increase aerobic dive limit. To examine the role of mass loss in dive behavior, we attached time-depth-temperature recorders for 24-48 h to chick-rearing and incubating Brnnich's guillemots at Coats Island, Nunavut (2005: n =45, 2006: n = 40), and recorded body mass before and after each deployment. There was no relationship between mass and dive duration during either incubation or chick-rearing. Seventeen of the birds we sampled during incubation were resampled during chick-rearing. For this group, dive duration increased with mass loss between incubation and chick-rearing (r = 0.67-0.75). Mass loss occurred through reductions in metabolically-active tissues (liver, bladder) and buoyant tissues (lipids) although muscle and gut mass did not change. Despite the large change in lipids, buoyancy only changed by 0.1%, and mass loss therefore did not have much effect on costs associated with buoyancy. Nonetheless, surface pause duration for a given dive depth decreased during chick-rearing, supporting the idea that reduced mass led to increased aerobic dive limit through reduced metabolic rate and inertial costs; oxygen stores did not increase. We also attached neutrally (n = 9) and negatively (n = 11) buoyant handicaps to the legs of adults to assess the effect of artificial mass increases on time budgets. Artificially increasing mass decreased total time spent diving but did not change time spent flying. There was no change in shift length between incubation and chick-rearing, and therefore no support for the idea that mass loss reflected a change in fasting endurance requirements. An energetic model suggested that the observed mass reduction reduced dive costs by 5-8% and flight costs by 3%. We concluded that mass loss may be as important for increasing dive performance as increasing flight performance.
30244441|The colouration exhibited by nestling birds is generally cryptic, but in some species it has a conspicuous appearance. The adaptive function of these nestling displays is poorly known, especially in altricial species. We performed an experimental study in which the ultraviolet-blue reflectance of the carotenoid-based plumage of great tit Parus major nestlings was reduced in order to find possible evidence of parental favouritism. Tarsus length increment in a three-day period was significantly lower in manipulated nestlings than in their control siblings. As tarsus length may be a good predictor of survival, the parents may increase their fitness return by investing more in those nestlings reflecting more in the UV-blue spectral region. Interestingly, this effect was only found in a yellow patch located at the nape of nestlings that has been previously overlooked, as all the studies on plumage colouration in this species have focused on the breast plumage. Some quality indicators are proposed for the colour of nestling plumage, though the possibility exists that selection may operate through aspects of signal efficacy instead of aspects of signal content.
25161532|Many factors may affect symbiont distributions within host populations. Intrinsic factors, such as genotype, body condition and age may account for variations in symbiont loads between individuals. However, abiotic factors may also contribute to variations. We investigated correlates of variation in the number of feather mites, Trouessartia sp. (Trouessartiidae), per individual in the Seychelles Warbler Acrocephalus sechellensis on Cousin Island. Warblers from territories exposed to high levels of salt spray had lower feather mite loads than warblers from territories unaffected by salt spray, and juveniles had higher mite loads than adults. When the effects of salt spray were controlled for statistically, incubating birds had lower mite loads than birds in other stages of reproduction. Thus, an extrinsic and two intrinsic factors contribute to predicting feather mite loads.
30244767|From a year-long study of molt in the golden eagle Aquila chrysaetos, we recorded 2069 contour feathers replaced in 137 d (6 May-19 September). Very few contour feathers were lost outside this period. From precise daily counts of feathers lost, and using time series analysis, we identified short-term fluctuations (i.e., 19-d subcycles) around a midsummer peak (i.e., a left-skewed normal distribution). Because these subcycles have never before been reported and because the physiological basis for many aspects of avian molt is poorly known, we offer only hypothetical explanations for the controls responsible for the subcycles.
3677720|A recent hypothesis posits that the bright colours of many avian eggs may act like signals of female genetic quality or condition to males in species with biparental care, inducing them to work harder for their offspring. We measured the colour of blue eggs of pied flycatchers Ficedula hypoleuca in Central Spain with a spectrophotometer on the day of laying, and also quantified the provisioning effort by males and females during the last days of the nestling period. Both chromaticity coordinates in the CIELAB colour space (blue to yellow, green to red) showed significant associations with male provisioning rates, explaining more than 20% of variation in male parental effort. Male provisioning rates were positively correlated with nestling condition, thereby potentially contributing to female fitness. This evidence is only tentative until experimental confirmation, but suggests that males are affected by the colour of their mates' eggs, a possibility not considered hitherto in the study of sexual selection.
10.2307/3677114|Sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) in animals are caused by pathogens that are transmitted during copulation. Birds have played an important role in the development of STD-centered theories of mating behavior. However, it is not known whether STDs exist in wild bird populations. While the avian cloaca with its dual functions of gamete transfer and excretion seemingly predisposes birds for the evolution of STDs, the life history patterns of most birds (i.e., seasonal breeders with relatively brief annual periods of sexual activity) suggest otherwise. The importance of STDs as selective forces that shape host biology depends on whether host life history patterns provide the necessary conditions for the evolution and spread of virulent pathogens that rely on host copulation for dispersal. Infrequent dispersal opportunities for microbes that rely on host sexual contact for dispersal should favor the evolution of low pathogen virulence, persistent infection, and lengthened infectious periods. I examine the disease characteristics of documented STDs that are relevant to birds in order to evaluate the (1) importance of STDs as selective forces in birds and (2) ecological conditions in which avian STDs are likely to be discovered. I conclude that socially monogamous short-lived birds with short breeding cycles and altricial nestlings (e.g., temperate zone songbirds) are not likely to have coevolved with highly virulent STDs which would be important selective forces. However, virulent STDs may have evolved in birds with one or more of the following life history characteristics: long life spans, long breeding cycles, multiple matings, and precocial young because these conditions produce increased opportunities for pathogen transmission and can favor the evolution of virulence. These life history characteristics are found and exaggerated in the birds for which STDs have been documented, the domesticated fowl and waterfowl.
30244830|Nest-sites often have a major influence on avian reproductive success. The use of reliable cues that assist nest-site selection should thus be favoured by natural selection. The old nests have been known to serve as a cue in nest-site selection in several species. To find out whether the old nests act as cue in nest-site selection in the Eurasian penduline tit Remiz pendulinus, we carried out two experiments in southern Hungary, where the penduline tits breed around fishponds and build sophisticated pendulous nests on tree branches that often hang over water. In April 2006, we choose 20 groups of two nearby trees, and hung an old nest on one of the trees in each group. The male penduline tits choose 12 of these groups to build a new nest, and every of the twelve nests were built on trees with an old nest. This suggests that the old nests serve as a cue in the selection of breeding sites for males when they enter a habitat. To find out whether the old nests are cues of plentiful nest building material, or to signal high quality breeding areas, we carried out a second experiment in 2007 by selecting 13 groups of three nearby trees. A "worn-out" old nest was hung on one of the trees, a "re-utilize" type of old nest on another tree, whereas the third tree was left without an old nest in each group. The rationale was that while the worn-out material of the old nests is of no use in building the new nests, material of the "re-utilize" nests is good enough to be used for building new nests. Males built a new nest in 10 of the 13 groups, and eight of the new nests were built on trees with an old nest. Of the eight new nests, five were built on trees with a "worn-out" old nest and three on trees with a "re-utilize" type of old nest. It appears that for the penduline tit males it is the presence of an existing old nest and not the quality of the old nest material that serves as cue during the selection of the suitable breeding sites.
30244808|Ultraviolet (UV) plumage is thought to be sexually selected through intra-sexual competition, female choice and differential allocation. Experimental manipulations of plumage UV reflectance are essential to demonstrate that mate choice or intra-sexual competition are causally related to UV coloration. The most widely-used technique for manipulating UV reflectance in wild birds is the application of a mixture of UV-absorbing chemicals and preen gland fat. However, although this UV reduction technique is commonly used, little is known about the persistence of the treatment and the temporal variation in UV reflectance that it causes. We manipulated the UV crown plumage of wild and captive blue tits Parus caeruleus, and took repeated photospectrometric measurements of both UV-reduced and control-treated individuals. Our results show that the UV reduction lasts for at least five days and that the treatment has no negative effects on the survival of wild birds.
10.2307/3677294|The diurnal and nocturnal foraging behaviour of Dunlins Calidris alpina was investigated during their autumn migration in the Danish Wadden Sea. Dunlins fed regularly by both day and night. However, they tended to utilize different habitats during daytime and night-time, with relatively more birds aggregating on soft sediment containing high densities of Corophium volutator at night. Pecking was the dominant foraging technique during the daytime, whereas probing was the preferred technique at night. Dropping analysis revealed quantitative differences between the birds' diurnal and nocturnal diets. It is proposed that nocturnal foraging may be important for restoring fat deposits in migrating birds.
30244480|We examined the occurrence of six species of meadow birds (four wader species and two songbird species) in relation to the distance to the nest location of an avian predator (three species). We related our findings to the degree of openness of the landscape in which this avian predator nest was located. The degree of openness varied from very open to very closed, depending on the number of view-obstructing landscape elements in the landscape (none or very few in open ones, but completely covered with forest or built-up area in very closed landscapes). We used a dataset containing nesting locations of meadow birds and predators in the province of Gelderland, the Netherlands, allowing us to perform the analysis on three grid cell sizes (100 x 100 m, 250 x 250 m and 500 x 500 m). Our results show that, for each grid cell size, all meadow bird species showed highest nesting densities in open landscapes. Lowered densities were found around occupied nests of avian predators,; irrespective whether the predator's nest was situated in an open or closed landscape. The preference of meadow birds for open landscapes away from predator's nests suggests that a large visibility, that allows them to scan for predators to be able to chase them away in time, is an important habitat requirement for meadow birds to select a nest site. It also suggests that openness of the landscape, independent from the presence of occupied predator's nests, is a factor in selecting a nest site. In contrast, for two out of three species of avian predator, we found that they chose more closed landscapes to nest because these species nest in landscape elements like wood lots and lone trees which make the landscape more closed by definition. For the third avian predator species, the grid cell size was probably too small to find a consistent result, as that species has territories larger than even the largest grid cell size we used.
30244765|The white-browed woodswallow Artamus superciliosus and masked woodswallow A. personatus (Passeriformes: Artamidae) are members of Australia's diverse arid- and semi-arid zone avifauna. Widely sympatric and among Australia's relatively few obligate long-distance temperate-tropical migrants, the two are well differentiated morphologically but not ecologically and vocally. They are pair breeders unlike other Artamus species, which are at least facultative cooperative breeders. For these reasons they are an excellent case in which to use molecular data in integrative study of their evolution from ecological and biogeographical perspectives. We used mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) to test whether they are each other's closest relatives, whether they evolved migration independently, whether they have molecular signatures of population expansions like some other Australian arid zone birds, and to estimate the timing of any inferred population expansions. Their mtDNAs are monophyletic with respect to other species of Artamus but polyphyletic with respect to each other. The two species appear not to have evolved migration independently of each other but their morphological and mtDNA evolution have been strongly decoupled. Some level of hybridization and introgression cannot be dismissed outright as being involved in their mtDNA polyphyly but incomplete sorting of their most recent common ancestor's mtDNA is a simpler explanation consistent with their ecology. Bayesian phylogenetic inference and analyses of diversity within the two species (n = 77) with conventional diversity statistics, statistical parsimony, and tests for population expansion vs stability (Tajima's D, Fu's Fs and Ramos-Onsin and Rozas's R) all favour recent population increases. However, a non-starlike network suggests expansion(s) relatively early in the Pleistocene. Repeated population bottlenecks corresponding with multiple peaks of Pleistocene aridity could explain our findings, which add a new dimension to accruing data on the effects of Pleistocene aridity on the Australian biota.
3677423|The presence of density dependence of clutch size is tested in 57 long-term population studies of 10 passerine bird species. In about half of the studies of tit species Parus spp. density dependence of clutch size was found, while none was found in studies of two flycatcher species Ficedula spp. One hypothesis explaining this difference is that migrants are less able to predict the final competitor density, because new pairs are still settling when the first females start laying eggs. Such unpredictability is only a problem for early laying females. If this explanation is true, the commonly observed negative correlation between clutch size and laying date should be stronger in high-density years. I tested this prediction in three populations of Pied Flycatcher Ficedula hypoleuca, and compared the results with three populations of Great Tit Parus major. In none of the six populations was there a significant correlation between the strength of the seasonal decline in clutch size and population density. Thus the lack of density dependence of clutch size in Pied Flycatchers was not consistent with the idea that this is caused by the unpredictability of final density at the time of egg-laying of the earliest females in the population. Furthermore, density does not have any adverse effect on reproductive output of Pied Flycatchers, and therefore they do not adjust clutch size to density.
10.2307/3677026|Seasonal und daily variation in body mass and fat was monitored in Starlings Sturnus vulgaris and related to the different phases of the annual cycle, to changes in temperature and daylength, and to Lehikoinen's (1987) models for body mass regulation of wintering birds. Lean mass and fat were estimated using total body electrical conductivity (TOBEC) and a combined fatscore index for the abdominal and furcular visible fat-depots. With the fatscore, lean mass and fat were estimated better
10.2307/3677319|A regular census of an Oxfordshire farm, U.K., showed that the resident Starlings Sturnus vulgaris preferred to feed in established pasture fields. Fields which were closer to the daytime roost, provided feeding areas further from hedges, and had shorter swards were particularly preferred. The Starlings' habitat preferences could also be explained in terms of the availability of prey. This was quantified via the foraging behaviour of individual birds allowed to forage in small enclosures in a sub-sample of the fields available to the flock. The experimental birds' prey capture rates in each of the fields were significantly correlated with the observed flock foraging densities. This was a prey-specific effect: although the birds could have obtained a higher energy intake rate by feeding on earthworms in less preferred fields, the Starlings were seen to feed in those fields which allowed them to maximise the amount of energy obtainable from leatherjackets. A laboratory prey choice experiment demonstrated that this field preference could be attributed to an absolute preference for leatherjackets over earthworms.
10.2307/3676958|Of 233 adult male White-crowned Sparrows Zonotrichia leucophrys pugetensis recorded in British Columbia and Washington, 25 (10.7%) were found to have repertoires of two or three song types. This proportion is higher than any reported previously for this species. Within repertoires, most song type differences were minor, but some songs differed in theme and dialect type. Individuals sang few renditions of one song type before switching to the other. We believe that the songs in an individual's repertoire have the same meaning, and that multi-song repertoires provide no selective advantage over a single song type in this species.
30243917|We measured daily energy expenditure (DEE) continuously for a whole year in a free ranging bird, the macaroni penguin Eudyptes chrysolophus. We combined these measurements with concurrently recorded foraging behaviour, and literature information on body mass and dietary factors to estimate prey consumption rates and foraging success. DEE was at a maximum during late chick-rearing but was equally high during all other active phases of the breeding season. DEE was approximately 4 x resting metabolic rate, which accords with established theory and suggests a common 'energetic ceiling' throughout the summer period. However, whether this represents a maximum in physiological capacity, or a rate which optimises fitness is still unclear. Rates of prey consumption and foraging success followed different patterns from daily energy expenditure. Daily prey consumption was high as the penguins prepared for long fasts associated with moulting and incubation but relatively low during chick-rearing, when foraging areas were restricted and foraging success lower. It appears that the energy intake of macaroni penguins is subject to extrinisic or environmental constraints rather than to intrinsic physiological limits.
10.2307/3677098|I measured the basal metabolic rate (BMR) of 24 juvenile waders of 5 species (Little Stint Calidris minuta, Dunlin C. alpina, Sanderling C. alba, Curlew Sandpiper C. ferruginea and Turnstone Arenaria interpres) during the first part of their southward migration along the Arctic coast of Eurasia. The average BMR was in general higher than the BMR of birds of the same species on wintering grounds in Africa. This supports the hypothesis that BMR can vary seasonally in migratory birds, possibly reflecting adaptive seasonal changes in the size of the bird's metabolic machinery.
3677684|This study is the first validation of the doubly-labeled water (DLW) method on birds (1) to evaluate the accuracy of 2 points versus multiple points for computing fractional isotopic washout rates (k) and CO
3677703|Patterns of feather wear in birds captured in spring have traditionally been analysed to describe the extent of winter moult in long-distance migrants. However, the interpretation of feather wear may be rendered extremely difficult due to long moult periods, by the progress of the season, and by the existence of complex moult patterns. Here, stable isotope analysis is used to determine the origin of the wing feather generations present in Savi's warblers Locustella luscinioides captured in Portugal. Carbon, nitrogen and hydrogen isotope ratios of feathers of known European origin differed significantly from those known to have grown in Africa. A discriminant analysis, in which 91.1% of the cross validated samples were correctly classified, was used to determine the origin of tail and wing feathers collected from birds caught when they returned to the breeding quarters. The interpretation of feather-wear generally agreed with the stable isotope analysis, but some inconsistencies were identified. The extent of winter moult in Savi's warblers is described and its moult strategy discussed.
3677762|Individual variation in the degree of feather wear is potentially a useful marker of individual quality or fitness, but next to nothing is known about causes and fitness consequences of feather wear in birds. We studied the effects of sex, age, year and experimental manipulation of brood size on primary feather wear in Collared Flycatchers Ficedula albicollis, and related variation in degree of feather wear to differences in fitness (viz. recruitment, survival). At the end of the breeding period, females and young birds had more worn flight feathers than males and adult birds, and the sexual difference in the degree of feather wear was particularly pronounced in one of the two study years. Experimental reduction of brood size reduced the degree of primary feather wear, whereas experimental enlargement of brood size did not lead to increased feather wear. In both sexes, there was a clear tendency for very old (> 5 years old) birds to have more worn feathers than middle aged birds. The individual differences in the degree of feather wear were not correlated with individual differences in recruitment rate of young, but survival probability to the next breeding season increased with increasing degree of feather wear.
25161509|Autumn migration routes and orientation of Swedish Ospreys Pandion haliaetus were studied by satellite tracking of 18 birds. Of these, 13 could be followed during the entire migration (6 females, 5 males and 2 juveniles). Most birds migrated across western and central Europe to winter in tropical West Africa. However, one juvenile flew to Cameroon and one female used a very easterly route and reached Mozambique. On average, the birds travelled a total distance of about 6700 km, with little variation except for the female wintering in Mozambique, who travelled more than 10000 km. Of 21 stopovers (of > 1 day), only five were made south of 45N; three of these in Africa. Females departed before males and juveniles and flew to a stopover site they probably were familiar with. After 3-4 weeks there, they continued to their wintering grounds. Also males and juveniles usually made one or more stopovers. Adults seemed to travel to a known wintering site, where they remained stationary, whereas juveniles were more mobile after reaching tropical regions, probably looking for good wintering sites. Males generally left the breeding area in directions similar to the mean migratory direction, whereas a few females departed in diverging initial directions. Apart from these diversions, adult Ospreys followed very straight migratory routes, with overall mean directions of 185-209 and with mean angular deviations of 6-33. Some juveniles also departed in diverging directions. Moreover, young birds tended to show a larger variability in orientation. Thus, the Ospreys kept a fairly straight direction and did not avoid geographical obstacles such as mountain ranges and desert areas. However, they seemed reluctant to cross large water bodies. There was no correlation between angular deviation and length of the migrational segment, indicating that the principles of orientation by vector summation may not be valid for Osprey migration. Moreover, the geographic direction of migration did not vary in accordance with variations in the magnetic declination, suggesting that the Ospreys did not orient along magnetic loxodromes.
30243290|Extrapair paternities (EPP) are relatively common in passerines, but rare in seabirds. Like most seabirds, albatrosses are long lived, form long-term pair bonds and require biparental care for chick-rearing. Microsatellite analyses of 327 chicks from blackbrowed Thalassarche melanophris, grey-headed T chrysostoma and wandering albatrosses Diomedea exulans over two breeding seasons revealed the presence of EPP in all three species. Though EPP rates varied between species and years, up to 21% of offspring were the result of extrapair matings. Rates were highest in wandering albatrosses (6-21%) followed by grey-headed (3-10%) and black-browed (0-9%) albatrosses. EPP rates were lower in 1998 compared to 1999 in both black-browed and grey-headed albatrosses, whereas the reverse was true for wandering albatrosses. Interspecific differences in EPP rates may reflect differences in breeding phenology and sexual size dimorphism. Differences in timing and frequency of breeding may promote different opportunities for interactions with birds other than their normal partner. The different breeding habitat, dispersion and mate-attraction rituals in wandering albatross, together with the disparity in size between the sexes may also offer more scope for higher rates of EPP Despite extensive sampling within each colony, we were unable to identify sires for many of the extrapair young; however males from other colonies were involved, raising interesting questions regarding the timing and nature of such events.
10.2307/3677066|We take issue with a recent study by Gowaty (1993) that finds evidence in support of the idea that fledging sex ratios in birds are influenced by Local Resource Competition. After controlling for the lack of independence among species due to shared phylogeny, we show that the relation between fledgling sex ratio and natal philopatry in birds is far from statistically significant. From a theoretical perspective, the documented low rate of natal philopatry in birds also makes it unlikely that parents and their offspring will often compete for resources on the breeding grounds. Thus we argue that there is neither empirical nor theoretical support for the LRC hypothesis to explain tertiary sex ratio variation in birds.
30245198|We studied head ornamentation in owls by focussing on the hypothesis that it may serve both intra- and interspecific communication. We carried out pairwise comparisons of morphological, ecological and behavioural traits on a subset of closely related species with contrasting head ornamentation patterns. We found that the degree of head ornamentation was associated with habitat and activity rhythm, highly ornamented species (e.g., most of the genus Bubo) living preferentially in open habitats and being active by day, but not with body size. Although our results do not exclude the possibility that head ornaments may represent a warning mechanism to startle predators and mobbers, they nevertheless suggest that such signals have evolved for visual communication with conspecifics, being more expressed in species that may use them more effectively without incurring the risk of predation or disturbance.
3677784|Incubating birds must balance their energetic demands with the time needed to provide care to developing embryos. Reduced care by incubating parents can result in longer incubation periods that increase predation risk and potentially influence neonate phenotype. We measured nest temperature, incubation period, and body mass dynamics of female wood ducks Aix sponsa, and used an information-theoretic approach to investigate effects of several explanatory variables on incubation period and thermal characteristics of nests. A model that included clutch size and standard deviation of nest temperature best explained the variation in incubation period. Parameter estimates indicated that incubation period increased with increases in clutch size and standard deviation of nest temperature. Next, we examined relationships between maternal effects and the standard deviation of the nest temperature. The best fitting model included initiation date of incubation. There was little support for including early incubation body mass of females, incubation constancy, and percent change in female body mass in the model. The parameter estimate showed that standard deviation of nest temperature declined as initiation date of incubation advanced. Female body mass at the start of incubation was not related to structural size suggesting that heavy females were in better physical condition than were light females. Heavy females nested earlier and lost more body mass during incubation than light females, but heavy females did not reduce variation in nest temperature to decrease the incubation period. The fact that early nesting females in good physical condition did not shorten incubation periods by keeping nest temperatures less variable could have been due to either energetic limitations or restraints. Experimental manipulations of incubation costs will be needed to distinguish between these hypotheses.
10.2307/3676956|We examined Tawny Owls Strix aluco from different regions of Europe, especially Italy, in order to determine whether a predominance of either rufous or grey colour morphs depended on geographical, weather or habitat features. Proportions of rufous and grey owls differed throughout Europe showing a mosaic pattern of variation. Although grey owls dominated strongly in the Italian sample, no effect of latitude, altitude, weather or habitat could be found. However, the annual frequencies of the two colour morphs differed significantly over a 101-year period, depending on the weather of the years of collection, with rufous birds suffering a higher mortality in cool-dry years and grey birds in warm-wet years. This provides potential for disruptive selection.
30243913|The yellow carotenoid-based plumage coloration of great tit Parus major nestlings is found to be paler in polluted and urban environments. Because carotenoid pigmentation is often considered to be a condition dependent trait in birds we wanted to find out whether food-limitation and poor nestling condition could explain the pale plumage colour in a polluted area. P. major nestlings were supplemented with variable diets along a well known heavy metal pollution gradient around a copper smelter: two food treatments with carotenoids, one food treatment with little carotenoid and one unsupplemented control. Our field experiment showed that nestlings in the polluted area grew better with carotenoid rich diets, while such effect was not found in the unpolluted area. Nestlings showed higher plasma carotenoid (lutein) levels and higher plumage carotenoid chroma values in the unpolluted area than in the polluted area. However, plasma lutein levels or plumage colour were not associated with heavy metal levels in nestling faeces (a proxy for dietary exposure). Our results provide only weak evidence for carotenoid-based colouration to be condition-dependent in great tit nestlings as we found a positive relationship between body mass and carotenoid chroma in the non-supplemented control group only. The positive relationship between body mass and plumage colour intensity is more likely to be produced by the fact that good availability of caterpillars, an important food source for P. major, also means a good availability of carotenoids to nestlings. Our results suggest that main reason for pale nestling plumage in the polluted area is lower quality invertebrate food, and not nutrition-related oxidative stress.
30244445|Genetic variation in the common bush-tanager Chlorospingus ophthalmicus complex in Mesoamerica was studied. An 800-bp mitochondrial DNA fragment, including a portion of COII, full tRNA-Lys, ATP8, and partial ATP6, was sequenced and analyzed for 96 individuals of the species and related taxa, resulting in a detailed framework of genetic differentiation in the northern half of the distribution of the complex. Phylogenetic analyses based on maximum parsimony, maximum likelihood, and Bayesian optimality criteria found deep divergence between South American and Mesoamerican isolates, and seven differentiated populations corresponding to clear geographic breaks across the highlands of Mesoamerica. These distinct populations coincide with geographic structure found in previous analyses of morphological and molecular data for Chlorospingus ophthalmicus, as well as in previous phylogeographic studies of other taxa in the region. Species status for these populations is discussed under the evolutionary and biological species concepts.
10.2307/3677161|Bird migration is typically characterized by periods of flight, when fuel is consumed, and intervening stopover periods when fuel is deposited. The resulting overall migration speed can be calculated on the basis of flight speed, rate of fuel deposition and power consumption during flight. Energy deposition rate
10.2307/3677355|We analysed total clutch volumes and condition of female ducks relative to their haemosporidian blood parasite loads. Twenty-four percent of Gadwalls Anas strepera and 60% of Mallards A. platyrhynchos were infected with at least one type of blood parasite, although infection intensities were generally light. After controlling for potential covariates of clutch volume (clutch initiation date, female age, female mass, and female structural size), we found no significant relationships between clutch volume and parasitism. Mallards in poorer condition were more likely to be parasitised. However, because condition was not related to clutch volume, we conclude that the blood parasites we detected were relatively benign with respect to reproductive investment, at least at the intensities observed.
3677492|A previous study of survival in territorial and non-territorial red grouse Lagopus lagopus scoticus conducted between 1957 and 1967 found that territorial status in the autumn pre-determined over-winter survival. A very high proportion of territorial birds survived and virtually all non-territorial birds died or emigrated. We tested the hypothesis that over-winter survival was dependent on territorial status within four grouse populations in Scotland between 1986 and 1993. In contrast to the previous study, 66% of non-territorial birds survived over winter compared to approximately 70% of territorial birds. There was no significant effect of territorial status on the survival estimates. Moreover, some of the birds considered to be non-territorial during autumn went on to successfully raise a brood. We suggest that on our study sites, territory ownership in autumn did not greatly influence over-winter survival, and territorial behaviour did not determine breeding density as previously supposed. We postulate differences with other studies may reflect variations in scale and predation pressure.
10.2307/3677177|Whitethroats at a coastal autumn stopover site were supplied with mealworms ad libitum and their fuel accumulation rates were recorded by repeated weighings by means of a remote-controlled balance. This study focuses on two questions: (1) How does the daily fuelling rate change in relation to departure? (2) Is the decision to depart affected by weather conditions? The fuelling rates were not constant during the fuelling period. A decreasing fuelling rate close to the departure was evident in both first-year and adult birds and as many as a fourth of the birds did not gain any body mass on the last day before departure. Among possible explanations for the observed pattern are mass-dependent costs, adverse weather conditions as well as physiological changes in preparation for the flight. The decision to depart was not affected by local weather conditions (wind and cloudiness) and some individuals departed under head wind and overcast conditions. The frequency of strong head winds was, however, low during the period of departure. Weather data do not support the hypothesis that individuals that did not gain any body mass on the last day did so as a result of their departures being delayed as a consequence of adverse weather.
10.2307/3677349|Theory predicts skewed offspring sex-ratios in a range of situations in which the economics of producing the two sexes differ. Offspring sex-ratio skews in birds are relatively scarcely observed compared to other taxa. This could be because avian molecular sexing techniques, which allow young birds to be sexed, have only recently become available. Alternatively, birds may be largely constrained from adaptively manipulating the sex-ratio of their offspring. We used a recently-developed molecular sexing technique for birds to sex 420 Yellowhammer Emberiza citrinella offspring from 168 clutches found in Oxfordshire. Clutch sex-ratio of the population did not depart from the expected binomial distribution, and there was no variation in clutch sex-ratio with laying date, breeding attempt, or a variety of habitat variables which were predicted to differentially affect the survival and future reproductive success of offspring of the two sexes. There was no difference in size or growth rate of the sexes and nestling mortality was not sex-biased. Hence, although we can identify possible advantages of manipulating the sex-ratio in this species, it seems not to be used as a breeding strategy. Given the lack of consistent evidence for skewed avian offspring sex-ratios, more experimental work is required to determine whether, and how, birds may adaptively manipulate their offspring sex-ratio.
10.2307/3677278| Tawny Owl diet was studied in the primeval deciduous forests of Biaowiea National Park (eastern Poland), where the Tawny Owl was the most numerous predator and the forest rodents were non-cyclic with recurrent waves of outbreaks-crashes (triggered by heavy seed crops at 6-9-year intervals). The study (1985-1992) covered both noncyclic and outbreak-crash years. Analysis of 1,116 pellets showed that Tawny Owls were specialised on forest rodents, mainly the yellow-necked mouse Apodemus flavicollis, but that they also exploited secondary resources: birds (especially Turdus, Parus and Carduelis), insectivores, and frogs. Between-year changes in the Tawny Owls' diet were mainly influenced by the abundance of yellow-necked mice, which thus determined the proportion of bank voles Clethrionomys glareolus taken and of alternative prey such as birds, amphibians, and shrews. Snow cover decreased the efficiency with which owls hunted for bank voles but not for mice and shrews. The alternative prey hypothesis, proposed to explain the linked cyclicity of microtines, shrews, and small game in northern Europe, may also be applied to animal population fluctuations in the temperate oak-dominated forests of Europe. During rodent crash years, predation by Tawny Owls may heavily affect the population dynamics of other small animals. 
30244792|We asked whether willow tit Parus montanus males adjust their parental care according to their paternity in current brood. The origin of the nestlings was determined by using molecular technique, and the studied broods were assigned into extra-pair paternity (EPP) broods, if at least one nestling was fathered by another male, and truly monogamous broods. Over 3 years, 14 of 40 broods (35%) included EP-offspring, and 29 of 273 nestlings (11%) were EP-young. Intensity of parental care was measured with risk-taking against a potential predator, mounted stoat Mustela erminea. The results showed that risk-taking by EPP males did not differ from that by monogamous males. Neither was the sexual difference in risk-taking different at EPP and monogamous broods. Our results are consistent with the hypothesis that males do not adjust their level of care to paternity, perhaps because they have no reliable cues for assessing their paternity. This may be related to the success of mate-guarding in their breeding environment, closed forests. Guarding is seemingly successful as the EPP levels are rather low, but it is not totally sure making the potential costs, rejection of own young, too high. We also discuss other population characteristics which may further prevent the evolution of paternity assessment in northern willow tits.
3677676|The role of salt glands in avian osmoregulation has been widely studied. Acclimation to saline habitats in aquatic birds involves increases in the relative size and complexity of the salt glands, and it is generally agreed that salt gland size varies as a function of salt loading, and is broadly correlated with habitat salinity. We report here salt gland sizes in three age classes of American avocet Recurvirostra americana chicks. Mean relative (mg/g body mass) salt gland masses for newly hatched (<24 h old) avocet chicks collected at a wetland supplied with pumped fresh water was 0.48 mg salt gland/g body mass. This value is comparable to the low end of published values for some strictly marine birds and similar to values for adult American avocets collected at saline lakes. These results suggest that American avocets, which are frequently raised in saline environments, hatch with salt glands that are large enough to cope with the osmoregulatory demands of saline environments.
3677368| The relative importance of pollen as a source of protein to vertebrates is controversial. In nectarivorous psittacine birds, field studies support its importance, but an experimental study in a nectarivorous parrot showed that less than 7% of pollen grains were emptied. We investigated pollen grain emptying by two nectarivorous Australian parrots, the Swift Parrot Lathamus discolor and the Musk Lorikeet Glossopsitta concinna. We used a controlled experiment, and examined pollen located at different levels through the alimentary tract of wild L. discolor. There was significant emptying of pollen grains (x = 45.4%  1.91 s.e.) by all birds in the experimental trials. There was also a progressive increase in the percentage of pollen grains emptied at different sites along the alimentary tract in wild birds (crop x = 24.2%  4.44 s.e., proventriculus x = 34.0%  7.29 s.e., duodenum x = 54.3%  5.42 s.e. and distal intestine x = 64.2%  4.68 s.e.). The percentage of pollen grains emptied by captive L. discolor in the experimental trial (x = 44.1%  2.77 s.e.) was not significantly different from that found in wild L. discolor (x = 40.3%  4.25 s.e.). Both species of nectarivorous parrot were able to rapidly ingest large quantities of Eucalyptus pollen and appeared to empty the pollen grains efficiently. Eucalyptus pollen appears to be an important source of protein for these birds. 
30244457|Variation in predator behavior has been proposed, but not tested, as a mechanism producing seasonal declines in avian nest success. We test this hypothesis by documenting seasonal activity of Texas ratsnakes Elaphe obsoleta and nest failure of endangered black-capped vireos Vireo atricapilla and golden-cheeked warblers Dendroica chrysoparia on which the snakes prey. Nest survival analysis was based on 880 vireo and 228 warbler nests and 3,060 snake locations from 62 radio-tracked snakes. Although nest success varied with snake activity for both birds, specific patterns differed substantially. Vireo daily nest survival was negatively correlated with snake activity over the three-year study, despite substantial variation among years in weather, and the fact that these birds are almost certainly a minor prey species of the ratsnakes. Warblers exhibited less clear-cut seasonal variation in nest success, and the association between nest success and snake activity was less pronounced than for vireos. Increased activity at warmer temperatures explained some of the seasonal change in snake movements, although mating may have accounted for a mid-season peak in activity. These results indicate that variation in predator behavior can be associated with and potentially cause seasonal changes in nest success, but also that these relationships are species specific even within the same community and may depend on aspects of the nesting ecology of the prey such as nest site selection.
30244818|The predator avoidance hypothesis suggests that the failure of subordinate birds to provision nestlings in communally breeding species is a consequence of increased predation risk. Parents exclude subordinates from the nest area and thus reduce the frequency of predator-attracting visits when the nest is most vulnerable, leading to increased reproductive success. I evaluated this hypothesis for the speckled warbler Chthonicola sagittata, a group-living member of the Pardalotidae in which subordinate males never feed nestlings or fledglings even though they are unrelated to the primary pair, compete for copulations and sometimes sire young in the brood. Parents did not modify provisioning behaviour relative to the risk of nest predation; provisioning rates to 10 d-old nestlings were similar on high and low risk territories. Furthermore, there was no evidence that parents modified the timing of deliveries or adjusted the relative size of deliveries in relation to predation risk. The condition (residual mass) of nestlings differed between high and low risk territories because nestlings on high risk territories had smaller tarsi but similar body mass to those at low risk. Tarsus length was the result of parental phenotype, not modified provisioning behaviour. Given that parents were unresponsive to predation risk, it seems unlikely that predation can account for the failure of subordinates to provision at the nest.
30243910|Understanding the factors that affect the occurrence of extrapair paternity (EPP) is one of the central issues in sexual selection. We investigated genetic parentage and the ecological factors affecting patterns of EPP in the vinous-throated parrotbill, Paradoxornis webbianus, a flock-living species with double broods. Using microsatellite DNA fingerprinting, we determined parentage of 246 offspring in 50 broods over two years (2005 and 2006). Nineteen offspring (8%) from 13 broods (26%) were sired by extrapair males and one offspring (0.4%) was probably the result of intraspecific brood parasitism. The prevalence of EPP varied significantly through the breeding season: 95% of broods with EPP (12/13) occurred in the first of two laying peaks. Parentage assignment revealed that half of extrapair males (6/12) were adjacent neighbours. The distribution of EPP was not significantly related to the ecological factors including breeding density and breeding synchrony. Instead, we suggest that social characteristics such as flocking and weak territoriality may determine the observed pattern of EPP in this study.
30244430|Lesser black-backed gulls Larus fuscus migrate regularly along coastlines or the Nile to their wintering grounds in sub-Saharan Africa. They usually avoid the interior of the Sahara, but occur occasionally far inland when moving upstream along rivers. We discovered several flocks of lesser black-backed gulls crossing the western Sahara about 500 km east of the Atlantic coast. Their concentrated flight directions along a northeast-southwest axis indicate that the gulls were on an intended migratory flight and not incidentally drifted inland. Ground speed of 8 flocks of gulls averaged 20 m/s and was considerably larger than the mean air speed (12 m/s) demonstrating that the gulls were strongly assisted by tailwinds. Highest ground speed was 26 m/s. Warmest temperature encountered when crossing the study site was 13 C due to relative high flight altitudes of 3,500 m above sea level. Thus, lesser black-backed gulls migrated under favourable conditions with respect to energy and water consumption. Our observations strongly suggest that the gulls performed long non-stop flights between the eastern Atlantic coast of sub-Saharan Africa and the Mediterranean Sea.
3677509|During a radar study of autumn migrating waterfowl Denmark, individual flight trajectories of bird flocks were seen to show zigzag-like patterns, rather than exact straight lines. An analysis of these small-scale changes in flight directions, which are too small to be detected by satellite telemetry, showed that geese and common eiders Somateria m. mollissima were flying on average 0.7% and 1.6% longer distances, respectively, than if they would have flown along exact straight lines. Thus, it is concluded that the flight paths are remarkably similar to straight lines. A multivariate regression analysis suggested cross wind as a factor increasing flight distance, and hence, the small-scale changes in flight directions could in part be a result of birds trying to compensate for wind drift.
3677770|We analysed genetic relatedness through DNA-fingerprinting in 38 two-chick families of Chinstrap Penguins Pygoscelis antarctica in the Vapour Col colony on Deception Island, Antarctica. Band-sharing coefficients between males and chicks in their nests, females and chicks in their nests and brood mates were very close to 0.50 and were not significantly different. Presumably unrelated pair mates showed much lower band-sharing coefficients (0.12), which differed significantly from those between putative parents and their chicks and between presumed siblings. No case of extra-pair paternity was detected according to the presence of novel bands or to band-sharing coefficients. Monogamy in the study population is not only social but also genetic.
10.2307/3677147|Polyandrous females in the Charadriiformes lay relatively small eggs, which is hypothesized to allow increased egg production. I examined the generality of this hypothesis by testing the prediction that the classical polyandrous Black Coucal C. grillii (Cuculiformes) will have relatively smaller eggs than its monogamous congenerics. Indeed, C. grillii did have smaller eggs than monogamous Centropus spp. In addition, Centropus spp. that lay larger eggs invest more in incubation and feeding of offspring, with C. sinensis (females both incubate eggs and feed young) having significantly larger eggs than predicted by body size alone.
10.2307/3677105|Behavioural studies indicate that the use of foraging niches in wintering tits is the outcome of a trade-off between using sites rich in food and keeping exposure to predators as low as possible. Previous studies suggest that predation risk varies within the tree and is higher for tits using outer parts of branches and low positions in trees. This is the first study of the use of foraging sites in the tree by Willow Tits Parus montanus that actually manipulates the perceived likelihood of a predator attack. Captive Willow Tits were subject to simulated attacks using stuffed predators. After spotting an avian predator the tits shifted to forage to a larger extent in sheltered parts of the tree than before the attack. The result shows that niche use in Willow Tits is directly linked to the perceived predation risk and that the birds assess the predation risk to be lower on the inner parts of the branches than further out.
3677397|The propensity of migratory waders to remain on the non-breeding grounds during the arctic breeding season ("oversummer") in their first biological year of life ("juveniles") may be latitude, and thus migratory distance dependent. We compared the extent of preparation for northward migration of western sandpipers Calidris mauri spending the non-breeding season in Mxico and Panam during 1995-1998. During winter residency and premigratory periods, we measured body mass and scored the extent of dull basic versus bright alternate breeding plumage of captured juveniles and adults (second biological year or older), and obtained additional plumage scores from observations of uniquely colour banded birds. Nearly all western sandpipers in Mxico prepared for northward migration by increasing body mass and moulting into breeding plumage. In Panam, most adults prepared for migration, but few, if any, juveniles did so. Patterns of body mass and breeding plumage development do not generally support the hypothesis that oversummering by juveniles results directly from less efficient foraging or from resource competition with adults. We suggest instead that costs directly associated with migratory distance per se influence the life history strategies of sandpipers spending the non-breeding seasons at different latitudes. This latitudinal difference should interact with the well documented sex-ratio cline in non-breeding distribution (male western sandpipers predominating in northern parts of the range and females in southern parts). This suggests that females have more conservative life histories, prioritizing first year survivorship, relative to males that instead weight first-year breeding opportunities.
3677410|We studied several determinants of laying date variation and the relationship between laying date and reproductive success in the Snow Petrel Pagodroma nivea. The effects of female body size and condition, year, individual laying period, colony size, mate fidelity, previous reproductive success, and duration of the pre-laying exodus on laying date, were investigated during a 3-year study. The average laying date was 4 December. The laying period was compressed into 10-16 days and was very constant from year to year, both for the population as a whole and for individual females. The laying period of individual females varied from year to year on average by less than one day. Body size explained 24% of the variation in laying dates, with large females laying their egg later than small ones. Laying in large colonies occurred c. 2 days later than in small colonies, mainly because a higher proportion of large females bred in large colonies. There was no effect of mate fidelity, age, body condition and previous reproductive success on laying date, but the duration of the pre-laying exodus was strongly correlated with laying date. Smaller females had shorter pre-laying exodus (c. 17.7 days) than larger ones (c. 20.4 days). During the three years of the study reproductive success either increased, decreased or did not vary with laying date. Although body size is not maintained by selection on laying date alone, the genetic body size component of this species suggests that balancing selection on body size may act through laying date.
10.2307/3676972|We examined the winter body mass patterns of a northern, ground-feeding passerine, the Snow Bunting Plectrophenax nivalis, which we attracted to artificial food sources in three different altitudinal habitat zones in north-east Scotland. Despite similar patterns of food availability in mid- and late-winter, Snow Buntings appeared to regulate their energy reserves by gaining body mass more quickly during the shorter days of mid-winter than during the longer days of late-winter. The increased rate of mass gain was more than sufficient to offset the longer periods of overnight fasting, so that dawn body mass peaked in mid-winter: the birds therefore showed true winter fattening. Birds also carried more reserves at higher altitudes. These seasonal and altitudinal trends suggest that Snow Buntings increase their reserves when the risk that food will become unavailable increases. However, we calculate that most birds still need to feed every day to avoid starvation.
10.2307/3677291|To establish a framework for detailed investigations of the roles of protein nutrition and metabolism as proximate factors limiting avian egg production, I analyzed the amino acid compositions of the mixed proteins in the albumen and yolk of eggs of Zebra Finches Taeniopygia guttata and Pigeons Columba livia and compared these data with analyses of eggs from three other avian Orders. I also analyzed the amino acid compositions of muscles and carcasses of a representative passerine, the White-crowned Sparrow Zonotrichia leucophrys gambelii and compared these analyses with analyses available for other species. The amino acid compositions of the mixed proteins of albumen and yolk were very similar, as were the amino acid compositions of eggs or tissues among the species examined. Using the aforementioned measures, I compared the apparent essential amino acid (EAA) requirements for egg production (i.e. the EAA deposited) with (1) the estimated daily EAA requirements for maintenance in nonproductive birds, (2) the amino acid composition of the mixed proteins of muscle (a source of amino acids during fasting or periods of trophic shortages) and (3) the average amino acid concentrations in several food types. For all species examined, during egg production, the daily requirements for Phe + Tyr increased most among the EAA, followed by Lys or Val. The sulfur amino acids (SAA) and Phe + Tyr, or Trp were the first and second limiting amino acids, respectively, for synthesizing egg proteins from amino acids derived from muscle proteins. The SAA and Lys were the most likely to be limiting for synthesizing egg proteins from dietary proteins. Even the most prolific passerines can probably meet their SAA demands for egg production without highly selective foraging, but some selective foraging may be needed. Many ducks, however, may need to forage intensively for SAA-rich foods to avoid severely depleting their body protein reserves and (or) very inefficient use of EAA and energy.
10.2307/3677236|The body water dynamics of egg-laying Zebra Finches Taeniopygia guttata was investigated by isotopic dilution of deuterium oxide or D
30245195|Many avian species initiate incubation before clutch completion, resulting in an asynchronous hatch of their eggs. Several studies suggest that early laid eggs in birds that exhibit synchronous hatching may be more vulnerable to the negative impacts of ambient temperatures and/or trans-shell infection by microbes. However, nearly all of these studies have exposed fertile eggs to environmental conditions in artificial cavity nests, and thus, the effects of exposure of eggs to environmental conditions in open-cup nests remains largely unknown. Therefore, we directly compared hatchability and rates of trans-shell infection in fertile domestic chicken eggs that were exposed for 1-5 days in either open-cup or cavity nests. Eggs in open-cup nests had significantly higher rates of trans-shell infection and lower hatchability than those in cavity nests. These differences may result from different environmental conditions in open-cup nests, as well as in rates of microbial colonization of eggs. Cavity nests maintained slightly higher temperatures than did open-cup nests in the same location; thus, eggs in cavity nests were exposed for a longer period of time to temperatures 27 C, the temperature at which antibacterial enzymatic activity is initiated in the albumen. Moreover, microbial growth on eggs was much higher in opencup nests even when eggs in these nests were cleaned daily with alcohol. It may be that the increased exposure to rain events in open-cup nests may facilitate microbial growth and egg infection. Thus, our data suggest that open-cup nesters may face constraints on reproduction different from those that cavity nesters face, and therefore may make choices regarding incubation that reflect these challenges.
10.2307/3677307|In Purple Martins Progne subis, adult males were found to have significantly longer wings and tails than subadult males whereas females of both age classes were equal in flight feather length. This male age class difference was not caused by higher mortality of long-winged subadult males because the pattern also existed for the same individuals measured at age one and two years, indicating that males postponed full feather growth for their first breeding year while females did not. Another male age class difference was that adult males were paired to their mates assortatively by wing-length while subadult males were not. This difference suggests either that females paired to subadult males were constrained in their choice of mates or they did not prefer to pair with longer-winged males. A possible lack of female preference for longer-winged subadult males is consistent with two apparent costs that females suffered by pairing with subadult males that had longer wings than themselves: (1) The greater the difference in wing-length between subadult males and their mates, the less the male provisioned the brood relative to the female, and (2) in a parallel study, females paired with longer-winged subadult males obtained many fewer extra-pair fertilizations from adult males. These findings suggest that, contrary to previous hypotheses, "delayed size maturation" may be primarily sexually selected in some species, rather than naturally selected.
3677476|In the jackdaw Corvus monedula, eggs hatch asynchronously with the youngest chicks in the brood often starving to death. So far, it is unknown whether there are sex differences in vulnerability to starvation. Adult females are smaller than males suggesting that daughters should be cheaper to produce than sons and so, less likely to starve when nest conditions are poor. Here, we determine whether sex, laying order and season interact to influence growth and fledging success. In a nestbox population of jackdaws, we found a non-significant female bias at both hatching (112:120) and fledging (37:52). Generalised linear models revealed that parents seemed to be investing differently in sons and daughters depending on their chances of success. Broods produced late in the season were significantly female biased, particularly those from small clutches. Females hatched towards the end of the season, when conditions were poor, were more likely to fledge than males. Nestlings that were relatively large at hatching were more likely to fledge. This effect was particularly important for last hatched individuals. Overall, males had a higher mortality rate than females. The most likely cause was starvation due to higher energetic requirements, because males were larger than females at fledging. We suggest that in species with brood reduction, sex-biased mortality may be at least as important as primary sex ratio manipulation in determining avian sex ratios.
30244429|Mating calls of animals are often detected by unintended receivers which use sexual signals to obtain information about the signaller. We investigated whether white storks Ciconia ciconia can eavesdrop mating calls of moor frogs Rana arvalis. White storks are dependent on moor frog abundance in early breeding season. Interspecific eavesdropping by predators is common and well documented in tropical anurans, whereas it is less known in temperate zone. We compared the frequency of approaches of white storks to loudspeakers when frog calls and the song thrush Turdusphilomelos songs were simultaneously played back using the later as controls. The loudspeaker broadcasting the calls of male moor frogs clearly attracted white storks at 22 out of 84 nests. The bird songs attracted white storks in only one case. In 19 cases birds left the nest for unknown reasons which were considered as potential foraging movements. The results of this field experiment report a new case of eavesdropping on acoustic signals showing that advertisement calls of temperate moor frogs are an important stimulus for white storks.
3677387|The abilities of some cave-nesting swiftlets to echolocate has traditionally been used to separate the genus Aerodramus, which includes echolocating species, from the genus Collocalia, thought to lack echolocation. Here we report the discovery of echolocation in a member of the latter genus, the pygmy swiftlet Collocalia troglodytes. We also present a well-supported molecular phylogeny for the swiftlets and their relatives based on DNA sequence data from two mitochondrial genes, which we use to reconstruct the evolution of echolocation. Our data provide strong evidence that the swiftlets are a monophyletic group. This monophyly plus the presence of echolocation in C. troglodytes indicate that either (1) echolocation evolved much earlier in the swiftlets than previously thought and has since been lost in most Collocalia taxa, or (2) this ability evolved independently in Aerodramus and Collocalia. Based on our results, echolocation can no longer be considered a useful character for distinguishing these two genera.
30243865|In Hungary an unusually high rate of parasitism on the great reed warbler Acrocephalus arundinaceus by the common cuckoo Cuculus canorus has been maintained for at least the last one hundred years. We evaluated parasitism rate, antiparasite defence and genetic differentiation among Hungarian great reed warblers at three sites located 40-130 km from each other, where hosts suffered from a high (41-68%), moderate (11%), and almost no (<1%) parasitism. We were especially interested in whether the level of antiparasite defence was related to the local parasitism rate, and, if not, to understand why. There was no difference among the three sites in the responses to experimental parasitism by nonmimetic model cuckoo eggs (rejection rate 71-82%), which can be explained by strong gene flow between populations: there was low level of philopatry and no genetic differentiation in the region. Reproductive success of the host in the heavily parasitised site was about 54% of that in the unparasitised site, indicating that long-term persistence of host populations in highly exploited areas depends on continuous immigration.
10.2307/3677118|Twenty-five kleptoparasitic attempts by Kestrels on Short-eared Owls were recorded in 16 afternoons of observation (70 hours) during the winter of 1996-97 in western France. Nine attempts were successful. The daily hunting yield of Kestrels is related to the time spent flight-hunting, an energetically costly hunting technique. Medium to strong winds allow Kestrels to use flight-hunting at a lower cost, hence increasing the rate of net energy intake. I found that kleptoparasitism occurred more frequently when wind speed was unfavourable for flight-hunting (i.e. weak winds). Food theft was more successful when done by a pair; the female always initiated the attacks. One stolen prey per day was estimated to compensate for 50% of the potential reduction in hunting yield caused by the lesser time spent flight-hunting in poor wind conditions.
10.2307/3677343|Extra-pair matings are now recognized as a fundamental component of avian mating systems. However, in tropical regions where breeding is typically asynchronous socially monogamous species appear to have low sperm competition and few extra-pair matings. We predicted that if breeding synchrony promotes the evolution of extra-pair matings, then tropical species that breed synchronously, like the Clay-colored Robin Turdus grayi, should have abundant extra-pair young (EPY). Breeding began relatively abruptly during the dry season (Feb-Mar) in this non-migratory species, with a mean of 25% of females fertile on a given day. Overall, 53% of females produced EPY, and 38% of nestlings were EPY. Males have a long and conspicuous dawn chorus, which could be a result of intense male-male competition for extra-pair matings. Male songs are individually recognizable and males vary greatly in song output. Male song output declined significantly from the pre-nesting stage through the incubation stage, as would be expected if song is important in mate choice. Our results support the idea that breeding synchrony favors extra-pair matings, however further studies of tropical songbirds are needed to fully explore how ecology is tied to extra-pair mating systems.
30244777|We present estimates of standardized selection (directional and quadratic) differentials via reproductive success on eight morphological traits in a newly founded long-term study population of great reed warblers Acrocephalus arundinaceus in Sweden. In order to predict the evolutionary response to selection in these traits we present estimates of heritabilities (h), phenotypic ( $r_{p}$ ) and genetic ( $r_{A}$ ) correlations among the same traits. We also examined the extent of parental effects in the expression of the phenotypic traits. Overall, the population is subject to low levels of directional selection and higher levels of stabilizing selection. This makes us predict that the population is changing very little if anything, even though h in many cases are considerable. Midparentmidoffspring h ranged from 0.14 and 0.94 (mean 0.58) and were significant for seven of eight traits. We found indications of positive maternal effects in tarsus length. Phenotypic correlations between traits ranged from 0.02 to 0.43 (mean 0.15) and showed generally much lower values than the corresponding genetic correlations that ranged between 0.08 and 1.04 (mean 0.46). Overall, the correlation between $r_{p}$ and $r_{A}$ was significant, although moderate, but they tended to differ in magnitude, possibly due to overestimation of additive covariance between traits.
3677557|A large body of theories on extra-pair paternity (EPP) in birds has proposed four main "genetic" hypotheses to explain this behaviour: the "good genes" hypothesis, the genetic diversity hypothesis, the genetic compatibility hypothesis and the fertility insurance hypothesis. Empirical tests have been scarce, mainly because high sample sizes are difficult to collect. We have tested these hypotheses in three Mediterranean populations of blue tits Parus caeruleus in which 50-68% of the broods contained extra-pair young. Results showed that the distribution of extra-pair young among broods was not random, and that survival to fledging of extra-pair young was higher than that of their within-pair sibs. These results support the idea of genetic effects benefiting extra-pair young. However, comparison of cuckolded and cuckolding males showed no significant difference in their body size, age, survival or relatedness with their paired females, and offspring morphometrics did not differ between extra-pair and within-pair young. We conclude that none of the genetic hypotheses can explain fully the high level of extra-pair paternity, at least in our populations of Mediterranean blue tits. We suggest that direct ecological benefits of EPP for females should be tested more often in correlative as well as experimental approaches.
10.2307/3677028|Laying date and clutch size were studied in Canada Geese Branta canadensis breeding in two areas in Sweden during five seasons. The objectives were to elucidate differences in individual laying dates and differences among years in the relationship between laying date and clutch size. Laying date differed significantly among years in both areas. Laying date and clutch size were negatively correlated only in early years. Standardized laying dates but not clutch sizes differed significantly among individuals. Clutch size increased between an individual's first and second breeding season, and the body mass of individual incubating females increased between breeding seasons. The results indicate that the amount of stored body reserves available for egg production was the main factor responsible for the seasonal clutch size decline in years with early breeding. The absence of such a decline in years with late breeding was likely the result of late-nesting females' access to fresh vegetation.
10.2307/3677280|We investigated spatial and temporal differences in the habitat associations of five New World vulture taxa (family Vulturidae auct. Cathartidae) in the Llanos of central Venezuela. Overall numbers of vultures were higher over open or semi-open savanna habitats than closed canopy riverine gallery forest. Black Vultures Coragyps atratus brasiliensis and Lesser Yellow-headed Vultures Cathartes burrovianus foraged principally in open habitats at all times. Although King Vultures Sarcoramphus papa were counted mainly over gallery forest they also sometimes foraged outside the forest area. During the wet season, resident Turkey Vultures Cathartes aura ruficollis foraged in all habitats but highest densities occurred over gallery forest, east of the main highway. This indicated that, to some extent, vulture species were ecologically segregated by habitat. During the dry season, a larger, dominant, migratory race of Turkey Vulture, C. a. meridionalis, coexisted with the resident subspecies. Migrants foraged at highest densities over open and semi-open habitats, but they also occurred in low numbers over gallery forest. When sympatric with these migrants, resident Turkey Vultures foraged almost exclusively in closed gallery and semi-deciduous tropical forest to the east of the highway, and, in contrast to the wet season, avoided open habitats. At the end of the dry season (March to April), migrant Turkey Vultures departed for North America to breed, resulting in a dramatic reduction in densities of Cathartes vultures. Despite the absence of migrants, densities of Cathartes vultures remained higher in open and semi-open savanna habitats than the gallery forest area. Support for a possible niche shift came from the proportion of carcasses visited in different habitats by resident Turkey Vultures, habitat sightings of wing-tagged birds and radiotracking studies.
30243874|How long is a sand martin Riparia riparia spermatozoon? In a recent study, Helfenstein et al. (2008) presented data on the intraspecific variation in sperm length, swimming speed and longevity in this species and some interesting correlations between these variables. However, the reported sperm lengths are remarkably short for the species, which casts doubts about whether sperm total length has actually been measured and how the observed relationships should be interpreted.
30244490|Many ecological studies use stress hormones to assess the condition, health or disturbance levels of wild organisms. Common blood sampling protocols for this research involve trapping individuals and taking blood within three minutes to obtain a "baseline" for analysis of stress hormones ("conventional method"). In some situations it may be difficult to get an accurate measure of baseline values; therefore, alternative sampling techniques may be preferable. We compared corticosterone levels in samples taken via a newly developed, minimally invasive blood sampling technique with corticosterone levels in blood taken via the conventional method. We collected samples from incubating adult common terns Sterna hirundo via blood sucking bugs (Heteroptera, Triatominae) contained in "dummy eggs" ("bug method") and compared measured corticosterone concentrations to concentrations in blood taken from the same birds using the conventional method. We found no significant differences in mean or variance of baseline corticosterone levels between samples collected via the different methods. This suggests that the bug method offers a viable alternative for hormone sampling.
30245212|Molecular tools are reshaping many traditional paradigms concerning the timeframe of avian diversification in North America. Phylogeographic studies have become essential for guiding the emerging paradigms. However, the current pool of such studies tends not to be evenly dispersed across the landscape, which limits the generality of inferences. The southeastern United States is one region where the tempo and mode of recent avian diversification is poorly understood. One phylogeographic break in particular, the Tombigbee River discontinuity, divides eastern and western phylogroups in Alabama, and, though it is known to have influenced the phylogeographic patterns of some fish and reptiles, its role in promoting recent avian diversification is not well understood. Eastern and western morphological subspecies of the yellow-throated warbler Dendroica dominica divide along the phylogeographic break created by the Tombigbee River discontinuity suggesting that this bird was also affected by this vicariance. To determine whether the phylogeographic patterns of the yellow-throated warbler are consistent with this biogeographic barrier, I analyzed mitochondrial control region sequences of 109 yellow-throated warblers from across the species' range and, from a subset of these samples, sequences from a sex-linked nuclear gene. Considerable variation was uncovered, but most of this variation was found within rather than among populations or subspecies. A shallow phylogenetic tree, star-like haplotype network, and unimodal mismatch distribution all suggested a recent expansion. Coalescent modeling indicated that modern populations are derived from a single common ancestral population and that differences among subspecies in morphology, ecology, and migratory pathways are the result of recent and rapid evolution, possibly driven by selection.
10.2307/3676959|Crested Parus cristatus and Willow tits P. montanus are severe food competitors owing to their similar body size, diet and foraging sites. In Belgium, they occupy overlapping territories and form mixed-species winter flocks. Earlier, we found environmental stress to govern foraging strategies of first-year Crested Tits (subordinates) in unispecific flocks. I here test whether niche shifts of Willow Tits (subordinates) in mixed flocks with Crested Tits (dominants) are in the direction expected if interspecific competition governs foraging site segregation when wind velocity increases. At high wind velocity, Willow Tits shifted to sites higher up and further out in trees in the presence, but downward and inward in the absence of Crested Tits. In the latter case, they used similar positions to allopatric Willow Tits. At high wind velocity, foraging shifts of Willow Tits decreased the niche overlap with Crested Tits foraging in the same tree, but there were no such shifts when foraging in neighbouring ones. The fact that Willow Tits frequently join coherent flocks with Crested Tits on windy days, suggests that environmental stress might govern flocking strategies adopted by subordinate tit species in dominance-structured associations.
3676988|We examined different song parameters leading to a complex song configuration, and song output (production), and their relation in male Moustached Warblers and discuss them with reference to female choice. With more than 120 different syllables per two minutes of song, male Moustached Warblers can be regarded as one of the most complex singers within the genus Acrocephalus. We found significant differences between males for almost all song parameters investigated (repertoire size, switching and repetition rate, song speed and strophe length) but not for time spent singing per 20 minutes. This individual variation probably is an important cue for female mate choice. Male Moustached Warblers achieve song complexity mainly via frequent syllable switching. Song complexity seems to be consistent throughout the song and our results suggest that females could assess the overall song complexity of a singer by examining even very short song bouts. Furthermore, a high proportion of motifs - clusters of syllables with the same sequence - occurs within the song of each male which would also facilitate assessment of song complexity by females. However, repertoire size and strophe length were positively related, thus it remains to be investigated which song feature, if any, females actually use.
10.2307/3677215|The costs of incubation were studied in a population of Pied Flycatchers Ficedula hypoleuca both by gathering non-manipulative data and performing clutch size manipulations in three successive seasons. Enlarging clutch size caused a prolonged incubation and increased hatching failures in every year. The length of incubation did not differ between control and reduced clutches but was extended by 0.8 d in enlarged clutches. The manipulation of clutch size did not affect the weight of incubating females. However, in 1993 the incubation weight of females was negatively correlated with the length of incubation. Adverse spring weather most likely caused the many abnormalities and failures during incubation in 1993. Seven females disappeared and three dead females were found in nest-boxes during the incubation period. Moreover, in six nests one or two eggs were rolled to the rim of the nest cup presumably by the incubating female. All these observations suggest that incubation might be an energetic bottleneck for breeding and thus could be a contributory factor in the determination of clutch size in this species.
10.2307/3677033|The acoustic competition hypothesis predicts that song variability within a species will be inversely correlated with the amount of acoustic competition from other species. To test this hypothesis, we recorded 10 territorial male American Tree Sparrows from each of 14 locations within a 500 km
3676935|Populations of Reed Buntings Emberiza schoeniclus in the western Palearctic are classified in two major subspecies groups according to morphology: northern migratory schoeniclus and Mediterranean resident intermedia. Songs of the two groups differ mainly in complexity and syllable structure, with intermedia songs being more complex. We explored the possibilities of song as a subspecies isolating mechanism by testing if male schoeniclus Reed Buntings reacted differently to field playbacks of songs from their own subspecies group, from the foreign subspecies group and from a control species, the Yellowhammer Emberiza citrinella. We tested 30 different males, each with a different song belonging to one of the three categories: own, foreign and Yellowhammer. Unlike songs of the two subspecies groups, Yellowhammer song elicited no response. Differences between reactions to own and foreign subspecies group songs were not significant, even though differences in response type (singing vs approaching) suggested some degree of uncertainty in classification of foreign song. We conclude from these results that the subspecies may be only in the first stages of the isolation process.
30243842|In cooperatively breeding apostlebirds Struthidea cinerea philopatry by both sexes is coupled with low levels of dispersal, resulting in large groups (up to 17 birds) that may include multiple males and females of varying age and relatedness. We investigated mating patterns within 18 groups of apostlebirds using a set of six polymorphic microsatellite loci. Apostlebirds appear to adopt flexible and context-dependent mating strategies, with both monogamy and polygamy detected in separate groups. Most groups (11/18, 17/26 group-seasons) were putatively monogamous, with a single pair matching all typed offspring. Despite the potential for inbreeding, members of breeding pairs were less closely related than other potential within-group mating combinations. Polygamy was inferred in four groups (four group-seasons) from the presence of more than four alleles at one locus among offspring within a brood. Pairwise relatedness was lower among adults in polygamous groups than those in groups that included a monogamous breeding pair. There was no conclusive evidence of extra-group paternity or egg dumping.
3677567|We used radio-telemetry to study autumn migratory flight initiation and orientation in relation to wind and air pressure in a nocturnal passerine migrant, the reed warbler Acrocephalus scirpaceus at Falsterbo, southwest Sweden. The majority of the reed warblers departed in the expected migratory direction towards south of southwest, while a low number of the birds took off in reverse directions between north and east. Flight directions at departure correlated with wind directions. These correlations were particularly prominent at higher wind speeds but were absent at wind speeds below 4 m/s. Birds departing in the expected migratory direction compensated completely for wind drift. The reed warblers preferred to depart during nights with tailwinds and when air pressure was increasing suggesting that reed warblers are sensitive to winds and air pressure and select favourable wind conditions for their migratory flights. Since air pressure as well as velocity and direction of the wind are correlated with the passage of cyclones, a combination of these weather variables is presumably important for the birds' decision to migrate and should therefore be considered in optimal migration models.
10.2307/3677244|This paper analyses the variation of several morphological traits in five populations of Blackcaps Sylvia atricapilla distributed along a latitudinal gradient in the Iberian peninsula. The northern and central populations differ from the southern ones in their longer and more pointed wings, narrower bills, shorter tarsi and smaller body size. These features define two morphological groups and correlate with differences in their migration and feeding habits. Birds from northern and central Iberia breed in habitats with harsh winter conditions, which they abandon in autumn when they migrate to their wintering grounds. Birds from the mild, southern sectors remain there throughout the winter. Their migratory behaviour, and a stronger specialisation for feeding on foliage invertebrates, could explain the morphological differentiation of northern Blackcaps relative to southern ones. Our results suggest that the Iberian migratory populations might have descended from ancestral, southern-like ones, that have become adapted to exploit their seasonal breeding grounds.
30244801|Stable nitrogen ( <tex-math>$\delta^{15}N$</tex-math> ), carbon ( <tex-math>$\delta^{13}C$</tex-math> ) and hydrogen (D) isotope profiles in feathers of nine migratory bird species trapped in Kenya were examined to test the extent to which they were segregated, geographically or by habitat, during an earlier autumn migration stopover in northeast Africa. We examined whether isotopic differences between species varied between years, and whether the isotope profiles of individual species appeared to be consistent. The relationship between mean feather <tex-math>$\delta^{13}C$</tex-math> , <tex-math>$\delta^{15}N$</tex-math> and D assorted the migrants into several clustered groups. Similar feather isotope values among successive years revealed that each species tended to return to the same or similar stopover areas and selected habitat and diet that generated similar isotopic signatures. Possible explanations are discussed for the existence of these isotopic groups.
30244838|Sexual ornaments might indicate better condition, fewer parasites or a greater immune responsiveness. Carotenoid-based ornaments are common sexual signals of birds and often influence mate choice. Skin or beaks pigmented by carotenoids can change colour rapidly, and could be particularly useful as honest indicators of an individual's current condition and/ or health. This is because carotenoids must be acquired through diet and/or allocation for ornamental coloration might be to the detriment of self-maintenance needs. Here, we investigated whether the carotenoid-based coloration of eye rings and beak of male red-legged partridges Alectoris rufa predicted condition (mass corrected for size), parasite load (more specifically infection by coccidia, a main avian intestinal parasite) or a greater immune responsiveness (swelling response to a plant lectin, phytohaemagluttinin, or PHA). Redness of beak and eye rings positively correlated with plasma carotenoid levels. Also, males in better condition had fewer coccidia, more circulating carotenoids and a greater swelling response to PHA. Carotenoid-based ornamentation predicted coccidia abundance and immune responsiveness (redder males had fewer coccidia and greater swelling response to PHA), but was only weakly positively related to condition. Thus, the carotenoid pigmentation of beak and eye rings reflected the current health status of individuals. Our results are consistent with the hypothesis that allocation trade-offs (carotenoid use for ornamentation versus parasite defence needs) might ensure reliable carotenoid-based signalling.
3677601|We sought to investigate the extent to which natural feather availability constrains avian nest construction by provisioning a site with feathers. Twenty patches, each of fifty marked feathers, were made available to naturally breeding passerine birds each week for three breeding seasons. The mean feather loss per week was 14.4% and only in one week of the study did it rise above 40%. The proportion of feathers recovered from local nests of ten passerine species that were marked was less than 3%. It was concluded that natural feather availability is high and that species requiring them for nest building can readily find them.
10.2307/3677006|The Eleonora's Falcon Falco eleonorae breeds on islands and islets in the Mediterranean region and feeds its young on migratory birds caught in the air. The breeding season is scheduled to coincide with the peak of bird migration. Between 12 and 20 September 1997 we measured flight tracks of falcons within a range of 4 km from their breeding cliffs on Isola di San Pietro 6 km off the south-west coast of Sardinia, by using an optical range finder. The male falcons left the colony in directions between W and NW to hunt far off-shore, probably intersecting migrants departing from mainland Europe in southern France. Flight tracks of falcons leaving for off-shore hunting and falcons searching for prey closer to the colony differed significantly, as revealed by a straightness index. Falcons leaving the colony for the far off-shore hunting area climbed to altitudes over 1000 m. The highest altitude recorded was 1649 m. The altitudes reported from radar studies on nocturnal migrants in the Mediterranean match the flight altitudes observed in the departing Eleonora's Falcons. Calculations based on the times taken for falcons to return with prey to the nest indicate a maximum distance to the hunting area of about 24 km. The falcons compensated partially for wind drift caused by cross winds when departing for off-shore hunting. Complete compensation might not be possible if the wave pattern of the sea is used for orientation, due to movements of the reference system relative the ground. The flight time of Eleonora's Falcons did not seem to be severely restricted by a metabolic ceiling, although such a ceiling does not allow extensive day and night hunting.
3677486|Flightless rails were once ubiquitous in the avifauna of Pacific oceanic islands. Most species have become extinct since human colonization of islands began about 2000 years ago. In this study, we use mitochondrial sequence data to estimate the phylogenetic relationships and ages of four species of flightless insular rails in the genus Porzana: palmeri, from Laysan Island in the Hawaiian archipelago; sandwichensis, from the island of Hawaii; monasa, from Kosrae Island in Micronesia; and atra, from Henderson Island in the Pitcairn group. Although all four species survived into historic times, all but atra are now extinct. The optimal trees show that palmeri is descended from Porzana pusilla, a volant crake distributed widely throughout the Old World. Porzana sandwichensis, P. monasa, and P. atra are each descended from the lineage leading to P. tabuensis, a volant rail widespread in northern and eastern Australia and on islands north to Micronesia and the Philippines and east through Polynesia. Loss of flight appears to have evolved rapidly in these insular rails, based on both sequence divergence values and data on the ages of the islands. In the case of the Laysan Rail (palmeri), divergences including loss of flight probably evolved in less than 125,000 years.
10.2307/3677318|Black-capped Chickadees Parus articapillus scatter hoard food. Because they live in social groups during the winter, flock members may observe caching by others and take their caches. We present two laboratory experiments that investigate the possibility of observational learning of cache location and related behaviours. In the first experiment, 15 chickadees were observed storing food in an indoor aviary, either individually or in pairs. Five percent of caches were taken within a few minutes by birds that observed the occurrence of caching. These cache thefts may have been assisted by observation. Dominant birds made more caches and subordinate birds were more likely to take another bird's caches. When cache recovery was tested several hours later, birds recovered their own caches more accurately than those of other birds but recovery of other birds' caches was not improved by the previous observation of caching. A second experiment with 6 additional chickadees examined whether birds attempt to conceal their caching activity. In this experiment 9% of caches were taken by birds that had the opportunity to observe caching. When birds carried seeds, they flew away from their companion more than they did when they were flying without a seed. Overall, these results are consistent with those of previous laboratory studies and suggest that conspecific cache theft may be relatively rare in flocks of food-storing chickadees.
30244773|The summer tanager Piranga rubra is a Neotropical migrant that has experienced noted declines in the southwestern United States caused by extensive habitat loss of native riparian woodlands. This species is composed of two morphologically and behaviorally distinct taxa that traditionally have been recognized as subspecies, each occupying unique habitats in the southern part of North America. Genetic analyses of intraspecific variation are important in studies of threatened or endangered species because they can indicate whether smaller management units exist below the species level and they also provide estimates of within population variability. Using a mitochondrial DNA marker, the intraspecific genetic variation of this species is explored to determine whether the morphologically and behaviorally distinct subspecies are also genetically unique. By using traditional phylogenetic methods and building haplotype networks, results from this study indicate that the subspecies represent two phylogenetic species and should be managed as separate units. In addition, the level of gene flow among geographically isolated populations of the western subspecies is explored using Nested Clade Phylogeographic Analysis and population genetic tests. These analyses show that populations are genetically diverse and that haplotypes are shared across populations. Newly colonized populations are as diverse as older populations. This suggests that as habitat degrades in traditional breeding areas of the summer tanager, if suitable habitat elsewhere becomes available for new populations, these new colonies should be genetically diverse.
10.2307/3677179|Hatchling sea turtles emerge from underground nests, scramble to the ocean, and migrate to the open sea. Loggerhead Caretta caretta hatchlings from eastern Florida, U.S.A., appear to use three different sets of orientation cues sequentially as they migrate offshore. On the beach, hatchlings crawl seaward by orienting toward the low, bright oceanic horizon. In the ocean, turtles initially orient offshore by swimming into waves, which can be detected as wave surge motion or orbital movements. As a hatchling crawls across the beach, swims offshore, or both, it apparently transfers the initial seaward heading to a magnetic compass. This transfer of directional information may allow turtles to maintain offshore courses in deep water where waves no longer move reliably toward land. Sea turtles may use the earth's magnetic field not only as a cue for compass orientation but also as a source of positional information. Results have demonstrated that loggerheads can detect inclination angle and field intensity, two geomagnetic features that vary predictably across the earth's surface. Hatchlings responded to magnetic features found along their migratory route by swimming in directions that would presumably favor retention within the North Atlantic gyre, an oceanic region favorable for growth and development. How adult turtles navigate to their natal regions to nest is not known. We speculate, however, that adults may exploit geomagnetic features in one of several different ways to guide themselves into the vicinity of a nesting area.
3677499|We report on a first DNA fingerprinting study of paternity in a Psittaciform bird, the burrowing parrot Cyanoliseus patagonus. In two consecutive breeding seasons, a total of 49 families was sampled, of which 11 breeding pairs were investigated each of two years. Extra-pair paternity was not encountered suggesting that burrowing parrots are socially as well as genetically monogamous. Strict genetic monogamy is comparatively rare in birds and occurs predominantly in some groups of non-passeriformes all of which exhibit long reproductive lifespans and essential paternal care. Psittaciformes fit this pattern. We conclude that paternal care plays a crucial role in the evolution and maintenance of genetic monogamy in the study species. Cases of intraspecific brood parasitism are rarely observed.
3677411| The foraging range and principal feeding areas of White-chinned Petrels breeding at South Georgia were determined using satellite telemetry. Foraging trips during incubation lasted 12-15 days and covered 3000-8000 km and 2-11 days and 1100-5900 km during chick-rearing. Adults covered less distance per day during chick-rearing (71 km) than during incubation (91 km) but the proportion covered at night (47%) was the same. Mean (31-34 km/h) and maximum (80 km/h) flight velocities were similar during both periods of the breeding season and during day and night. Between incubation shifts, White-chineed Petrels travelled to the Patagonian shelf; during chick-rearing they foraged more extensively. Most locations were between 30 to 55W and 52 to 60W around South Georgia/Shag Rocks and south to the South Orkney Islands. Diet samples from known foraging locations suggested birds fed mainly on krill and squid. They caught the squid Brachioteuthis? picta and Galiteuthis glacialis around Shag Rocks/South Georgia and also at sites close to the South Orkney Islands; Illex argentinus on the Patagonian shelf. Dispersal of adults after breeding failure was south to the South Orkney Islands then west to the Falkland Islands. This study confirms that breeding White-chinned Petrels are amongst the widest-ranging of seabirds; they may minimise competition with other Procellariiformes in the South Atlantic by their more extensive foraging range. The nature and extent of their range also brings substantial risk of high mortality rate in South Atlantic long-line fisheries. 
30244739|The 2004 invasion of northern bullfinches into parts of western Europe was the largest on record. It also involved some birds that gave the normal piping call of the species, and others that gave a different 'trumpet' call, previously unknown to most observers in the invasion areas. This suggests that many birds in the 2004 invasion were drawn from areas outside the usual breeding range of immigrants to western Europe, and a summer sound-recording of a similar trumpet call had previously been obtained from a bullfinch in the Komi Republic of northern Russia. Measurements of D values in feather samples suggested that bullfinches in the 2004 invasion could have come from a wide area of northern Europe eastward into Russia. No difference in the range of D values was apparent between the 2004 birds obtained in Scotland compared with Denmark, nor between birds obtained in the 2004 invasion and others from the 1910 invasion to Scotland. Northern birds obtained in autumn-winter in Denmark and Scotland showed a wider spread in D values than resident bullfinches from either Denmark or Scotland. In almost all the samples, females had generally lower D levels than males. The reason for this sex difference is unknown, but could not be attributed to differences in moult timing, location or diet between the sexes.
30243897|A bimodal foraging strategy has previously been described for procellariiform seabird species and is thought to have evolved in response to local resource availability being too low for adult birds to meet chick requirements and simultaneously maintain their own body condition. Here, we examine the dual foraging trip pattern of an alcid, the little auk Alle alle, at five colonies with contrasting oceanographic conditions. In spite of large variation in local conditions, little auks at all colonies showed the same general pattern of alternating a single long-trip with several consecutive shorttrips. However, we found that the foraging pattern was flexible and could be adjusted at three levels: (1) the length of long-trips, (2) the frequency of short-trips, and (3) the total time spent foraging. Birds facing unfavorable conditions increased the duration of long-trips and reduced the number of short-trips. These adjustments resulted in reduced provisioning rates of chicks despite the fact that birds also increased the time allocated to foraging. Travel times during foraging trips were positively correlated to the total duration of the trip suggesting that differences in trip length among colonies were partly driven by variation in the distance to foraging areas. Most birds spent substantially more time traveling during long compared to short-trips, indicating that they accessed distant foraging areas during long-trips but remained close to the colony during short-trips. However, the difference in travel times was small at the site with the most favorable conditions suggesting that bimodal foraging in the little auk may be independent of the existence of highquality areas at distance from the breeding ground.
10.2307/3677350|Increases in maximal capacity for thermogenesis (or Peak Metabolic Rate, PMR) are typically associated with winter acclimatization in passerines showing marked seasonal changes in cold tolerance. Thermogenic capacity also increases in spring migrant Warbling Vireos Vireo gilvus, a Neotropical migrant, relative to summer acclimatized individuals, but a similar increase does not occur in fall migrants. We tested whether migratory disposition was associated with variation in thermogenic capacity in another Neotropical migrant passerine, the Yellow Warbler Dendroica petechia, and in two passerine species migrating to mild temperate regions in winter, Yellow-rumped Warbler Dendroica coronata and Ruby-crowned Kinglet Regulus calendula. PMR was elicited by cold exposure in an atmosphere of 79% helium:21% oxygen during spring and fall migration for all species, and also during summer for Yellow Warblers. Yellow and Yellow-rumped Warblers both exhibited significantly higher thermogenic capacity in spring than at other seasons (23.3% greater than pooled summer and fall values in Yellow Warblers, 19.8% greater than in fall Yellow-rumped Warblers). For kinglets, males showed significantly higher PMR in spring than in fall (10.9%), but PMR did not vary seasonally in females. Thus, these species conform to a pattern of elevated thermogenic capacity in spring relative to other seasons, at least in the sex establishing breeding territories, suggesting that this may be a common pattern in migratory passerines. Mild temperate migrants migrate earlier in spring and later in fall than Neotropical migrants and, as a consequence, experience less variation in temperature between spring and fall migrations. Nevertheless, PMR varied similarly on a seasonal basis among Neotropical and mild-temperate migrants, despite the greater seasonal variation in temperatures encountered by Neotropical migrants. Moreover, ANCOVA on log PMR with log mass as a covariate did not demonstrate systematically lower PMR in Neotropical migrants than in mild temperate migrants for the species in this study, despite the differences in temperatures encountered during migration. This suggests that seasonal changes in PMR during migration are not associated with temperature acclimatization, but instead vary with other features of migratory patterns.
3677394|The feeding ecology of barnacle geese and pink-footed geese was studied in Sassendalen, Svalbard during the pre-nesting period (late May) to assess the potential for inter-specific competition. Barnacle geese fed almost exclusively (97%) by grazing above-ground plant material, mostly (79%) along snow edges in moss-mat habitats. Pink-footed geese fed mostly (93%) by excavating below-ground parts of plants, mostly (56%) away from snow and were more evenly distributed between habitat types. Bernacle goose faeces contained mostly (62%) moss, that of pink-footed geese mostly (48%) below-ground plant storage organs (especially Bistorta viviparum L.). Principal components analysis of dropping contents showed no overlap in species diet in allopatry or sympatry. There was little overlap in diet and feeding ecology of the two species at this pre-nesting feeding site. Hence, unless increased goose feeding densities affect future vegetation density and composition, under present circumstances, increasing numbers of either species is unlikely to affect foraging conditions for the other at this important stage in the annual cycle. However, such changes could have local density-dependent intra-specific effects.
3677374|Feather mites (suborder Astigmata, superfamilies Analgoidea, Pterolichoidea and Freyaniidae) are among the commonest ectosymbionts of birds. Most researchers have assumed they are parasites, having negative effects on hosts. Here we present evidence that suggests that feather mites may not be parasites. We develop a framework for considering conditional outcomes in these interspecific associations, dealing with different kinds of relationships between symbionts. The non-parasitic status of feather mites is supported by a literature review as well as by preliminary data on mites' food. We illustrate symbiotic relationships with a graphical model showing different scenarios in which hosts' cost-benefit relations are determined by the interactions among their symbionts.
3677507|Many Holarctic bird species have been shown to be laying progressively earlier in response to global warming. Most studies have been conducted on small-bodied species at northern latitudes. In Italy, black kite Milvus migrans populations are concentrated near large pre-Alpine lakes, whose water temperatures have been increasing steadily in recent decades. Annual black kite laying dates have become 10-11 days earlier during the last nine years. This shift was related to temporal variations in spring air temperatures, with earlier laying in warmer springs. The progressive advancement in laying dates was not associated with an increase in population level productivity, despite the fact that productivity declined with laying date at the individual territory level within years. Avian response to climate change may be occurring more rapidly than previously thought, even in relatively long-lived species, and not only at the most northern latitudes or highest elevations. Because this change has occurred so rapidly, and because laying dates match annual variations in spring temperatures, the response must be facultatively driven by prevailing conditions, rather than genetic in response to natural selection.
3677463|Although extra-pair fertilizations (EPF) are common in socially monogamous systems, the benefits to females remain elusive. One potential benefit that recently has begun to receive empirical attention is increased offspring heterozygosity. We tested the heterozygosity hypothesis in the black-throated blue warbler Dendroica caerulescens using a panel of five microsatellite loci. We did not find any evidence that male heterozygosity influenced female extra-pair mating patterns, that females choose genetically dissimilar extra-pair mates, nor that extra-pair offspring were more heterozygous than within-pair offspring. However, simple Monte Carlo simulations indicated that the number of microsatellite loci used in this study, and most other recent studies, would detect an effect of heterozygosity only if that effect is pronounced. Thus, we were unable to demonstrate any effect of offspring heterozygosity in our study species, but a more subtle effect remains possible. Researchers wishing to test this hypothesis should use a large number of genetic markers and interpret negative results cautiously.
10.2307/3677217|Nectarivorous birds are often territorial when nectar resources are scarce, but they relax their territory defence when resources are abundant. They are also likely to trade foraging efficiency against predation risk. We here present data indicating that sunbirds (Nectarinia) foraging on abundant nectar resources prefer to forage in a dense habitat type rather than in an open habitat type, and discuss our results in relation to travelling costs and predation risks.
30244834|Many species of birds exhibit brilliant ornamental plumage, yet most research on the function and evolution of plumage has been confined to the breeding season. In the American redstart Setophaga ruticilla, a long-distance Neotropical-Nearctic migratory bird, the acquisition of a winter territory in high-quality habitat advances spring departure and subsequent arrival on breeding areas, and increases reproductive success and annual survival. Here, we show that males holding winter territories in high-quality, black mangrove habitats in Jamaica have brighter yellow-orange tail feathers than males occupying territories in poor-quality second-growth scrub habitats. Moreover, males arriving on the breeding grounds from higher-quality winter habitats (inferred by stable-carbon isotopes) also had brighter tail feathers. Because behavioral dominance plays an important role in the acquisition of winter territories, plumage brightness may also be related to fighting ability and the acquisition and maintenance of territories in high-quality habitat. These results highlight the need for further research on the relationships between plumage coloration, behavior, and the ecology of over-wintering migratory birds.
3677417|Experimental Hoopoe Upupa epops songs prepared with synthetic sound to differ in strophe length were used to test whether Hoopoe females prefer long strophes. The songs were broadcast simultaneously in the field from two loudspeakers situated 100 m apart, in early spring, when females actively search for mates. The playbacks attracted a total of 87 individuals, both males and females, with a maximum of five individuals (three males and two females) per trial. A female was considered to have been attracted by the song broadcast from a loudspeaker when she approached unaccompanied by a male, and when there was no male nearby. A total of 15 females chose one of the songs and significantly more were attracted by the one with long strophes. These results suggest that in the Hoopoe, male song attracts females, and that strophe length is a sexually selected song cue. There were no differences in the number or kind of males (classified according to strophe length) attracted by each playback. Frequently the experiment attracted more than one male simultaneously. These aggregations cannot be explained as territorial responses, and their significance is discussed together with that of natural spontaneous groupings of displaying males. Apparently males aggregate where they expect to find females.
10.2307/3677027|I observed Orange-crowned Warbler Vermivora celata behavior at or near 40 nest sites over 287 h during the nest construction, egg laying, incubation, nestling, and/or fledgling stages. I recorded intrusions most frequently during nest construction (
30244424|Theory predicts that overall population sex ratios should be around parity. But when individual females can receive higher fitness from offspring of one sex, they may benefit by biasing their brood sex ratios accordingly. In lekking species, higher variance in male reproductive success relative to that of females predicts that male offspring gain disproportionately from favorable rearing conditions. Females should therefore produce male-biased broods when they are in a position to raise higher quality offspring: i.e., in better body condition or when they reproduce earlier in the breeding season. To investigate these hypotheses, we studied brood sex ratios of lance-tailed manakins Chiroxiphia lanceolata. We found that overall sex ratios and mean brood sex ratios were not different from random expectation. Brood sex ratios were not related to laying date or female body condition. However, we detected a quadratic relationship between brood sex ratios and maternal age: both young (1-2 years) and old (8+ years) females produced female-biased brood sex ratios. This relationship was most clear in a year also distinguished by early rainy and breeding seasons. We suggest that breeding inexperience in young females and senescence in older females is the most plausible explanation for these results, and that the relationship between female age and brood sex ratio is mediated by environmental conditions.
10.2307/3677181|Cage experiments with various species of migrating passerines indicate two distinct phases in migratory orientation in which magnetic and celestial cues interact in different ways. The first phase during the premigratory period involves the conversion of genetically coded information into an actual compass course. Celestial rotation and the geomagnetic field serve as external references. Celestial rotation alone, mediated by rotating stars at night or by the changing pattern of polarized light during the day, provides a reference direction away from its center, corresponding to geographic South. Population-specific deviations from this reference direction appear to be coded only with respect to the magnetic field. Both cue systems interact to produce the population-specific migratory course. In the role of providing the reference direction, celestial rotation dominates over the magnetic field during this first premigratory phase. Magnetic South, however, can also serve as reference direction when celestial cues are not available. The second phase involves orientation during migration, once the course is set and the birds have left their breeding area. Migrants en route have several options to locate this course, namely a star compass, sunset cues and the magnetic field, and they seem to make use of them all. During this phase, however, the magnetic compass dominates over celestial cues, as indicated by cue-conflict experiments. In case of conflict, the directional significance of stellar cues and sunset cues is adjusted to be in agreement with the ambient magnetic field. Migratory orientation is thus based on an integrated system of celestial and magnetic cues that reverse their dominant role between the premigratory phase and actual migration. The reasons may lie in the changes in the sky and in the magnetic field migrants experience when travelling from higher to lower latitudes towards their winter quarters.
10.2307/3677220|Migratory orientation of Dunlins Calidris alpina at sunset was studied by using orientation cages, during autumn migration in SW Iceland. The aim of the experiments was to examine whether orientation funnels can be used to record the directional behaviour of shorebirds. The results clearly demonstrate that Dunlins are capable of expressing their preferred migratory direction in funnels. Unmanipulated Dunlins showed a well-oriented mean direction towards geographical SSE which is in excellent agreement with available ringing recovery data on Dunlins linked to Iceland. This opens up the possibility to perform carefully controlled experiments to investigate the orientation and navigation mechanisms of migrating waders.
3677801|Parent-offspring recognition systems are used in bird colonies to avoid misdirected parental care. In penguins, where the risk of confusion is particularly high, recognition is achieved by acoustic signals that constitute highly efficient vocal signatures. Comparisons between species from the Pygoscelis and Aptenodytes genera have revealed interspecific differences on the encoding of information within the signatures which correlate with the presence/absence of nests in the colonies. However a recent study of individual recognition in macaroni penguins Eudyptes chrysolophus revealed diversity within nest-building species. This paper investigates whether the original and intermediate signature system found in macaroni penguins is shared by another species of Eudyptes, the rockhopper penguin E. chrysocome. Vocal signatures of rockhopper penguins were analysed and compared to macaroni penguins'. We used a methodology derived from the theory of information to determine which parameters of the call were likely to encode individual identity. Playbacks of modified calls in the field complemented the analyses, and parent-chick reunions were compared between the two species. Our results reveal a similar double signature system within the Eudyptes genus, which integrates information simultaneously from the temporal and spectral domains. This double encoding is made through the tempo given by the successive syllables of the call and the harmonic content of the call. While it confirms the hypothesis that signatures are simpler in nest-building species, this result reveals differences in the efficacies of signatures within this category. This suggests that other parameters such as the mean distance recognition should be considered to account for the differences in the encoding of the vocal signatures and in their resulting efficacies.
30243825|The loss of anti-parasite adaptations against the European cuckoo Cuculus canorus was studied in three European passerine species, song thrush Turdus philomelos, blackbird T. merula, and chaffinch Fringilla coelebs, introduced to New Zealand in the 19th century. Chaffinches in New Zealand ejected non-mimetic eggs at a rate similar to their source population in the United Kingdom, but both song thrushes and blackbirds in New Zealand rejected non-mimetic eggs at a higher rate than the United Kingdom. It is not clear if this difference reflects variation among hosts in their response to brood parasitism or if it is an artefact of subtle differences in the types of non-mimetic eggs tested. In contrast, all three introduced species showed little aggression to a taxidermic model of a European cuckoo presented at their nests. This differs from European populations of these species, where model cuckoos are typically attacked. Our results suggest that in the  130 years since their release in New Zealand, introduced birds have lost recognition of the European cuckoo but not their ability to discriminate non-mimetic eggs. The differential loss of anti-parasite adaptations by introduced birds in New Zealand suggests that cyclical models of host/parasite co-evolution may need to take into account the differing rates at which different host adaptations are lost and gained.
10.2307/3677172|During long-distance migration, passerine birds alternate between flight and stopover phases. Flight phases can last one to three consecutive nights with rest during the days; stopover phases last one to three weeks. During long flight phases, such as across the Sahara desert, the substrate of catabolism is fat and protein in proportions of about 3 to 1. Comparison of migrating Garden Warblers Sylvia borin before and after the desert crossing shows that the protein originates primarily from the muscles of the breast and leg and from the digestive tract. Breast and leg muscles are reduced by 19%, the digestive tract by 39% in mass. A simulation of the flight phase by food deprivation over 48 h results in the same extent of organ reduction in the digestive tract but not in the breast and leg muscles, which indicates that different mechanisms are involved. It is hypothesised that during extended flights, without food intake, protein metabolites serve as intermediates in the citric cycle for the oxidation of fat. Loss of protein metabolites is at the expense of tissue proteins from the above-mentioned organs. This hypothesis does not, however, exclude other hypotheses about the functional consequences of hypertrophy and atrophy in specific organs. Flexibility in size of the breast muscle may also be a mechanism to adjust the power output to the changing power requirement during flight with change in fat load. Flexibility in the digestive system may save maintenance energy during flight at the cost of restoration during stopover.
3677568|The response of foraging animals to human disturbance can be considered as a trade-off between the increased perceived predation risk of tolerating disturbance and the increased starvation risk of not feeding and avoiding disturbance. We show how the response of overwintering oystercatchers Haematopus ostralegus to disturbance is related to their starvation risk of avoiding disturbance. As winter progresses, oyster-catcher energy requirements increase and their feeding conditions deteriorate. To survive they spend longer feeding and so have less spare time in which to compensate for disturbance. Later in winter, birds approach a disturbance source more closely and return more quickly after a disturbance. Their behavioural response to disturbance is less when they are having more difficulty surviving and hence their starvation risk of avoiding disturbance is greater. These results have implications for studies which assume that a larger behavioural response means that a species is more vulnerable to disturbance. The opposite may be true. To more fully understand the impact of disturbance, studies should measure both behavioural responses and the ease with which animals are meeting their requirements. Conservation effort should be directed towards species which need to spend a high proportion of their time feeding, but still have a large response to disturbance.
10.2307/3677320|This study documents patterns of variation in abundance and prevalence of Docophorulus capillatus (Insecta: Ischnocera, Philopteridae) on the crown feathers of Pied Flycatchers Ficedula hypoleuca in relation to host sex, age, survival, physical condition, expression of secondary sexual traits and genetic relatedness. Louse populations were relatively stable over a 3-year period, with low prevalences in the range 15-30%. Pair mates had similar louse loads, indicating the possible role of direct contact between birds as an agent of louse dispersal. Females were consistently more heavily and frequently infested than males at almost all ages. Louse prevalence and abundance tended to decrease or oscillate with advancing age, with a major peak late in life which was much more marked in females; no surviving birds older than five years had lice on their crown. Although bird condition in a given year seemed not to be affected by louse infestations, there were decreases in individual condition between years which were linked to increases in louse infestations in females. Individual birds of both sexes had similar louse loads in successive years. Within-family resemblance in louse loads was only detected between mothers and daughters and, to a lesser extent, between females and their male offspring. We discuss different hypotheses to account for intersexual differences in parasite infestation.
10.2307/3677238|Interspecific brood parasitism is a strong selective force that has favoured the evolution of anti-parasite strategies. The Shiny Cowbird Molothrus bonariensis is a generalist parasite that uses more than 200 species as hosts. Scarlet-headed Black-birds Amblyramphus holosericeus are infrequently parasitized by Shiny Cowbirds in contrast to other sympatric marshbird species that are heavily parasitized. In this paper, we attempted to identify specific anti-parasite defences of the Scarlet-headed Blackbird. Parasitism by Shiny Cowbirds of Scarlet-headed Blackbirds averaged 14.2%, whereas in Brown-and-yellow Marshbirds Pseudoleistes virescens, a sympatric marsh-nesting species, it was 52%. Both host species reared Shiny Cowbird chicks. Scarlet-headed Blackbird did not reject artificially added parasite eggs and did not respond more aggressively toward a female Shiny Cowbrid dummy model than to control species, the Yellow-winged Blackbird Agelaius thilius or the Brown-and-yellow Marshbird. However, high levels of nest attentiveness were recorded during nest-building, egg-laying and incubation stages. About 95-98% of the time at least one parent remained less than 20 m from the nest. Our results show that the low frequency of parasitism on the Scarlet-headed Blackbird may be better explained by life-history traits such as territorial defence, rather than by evolved anti-parasite strategies.
10.2307/3677025|While clutch abandonment in birds is typically thought to be a result of the effects of poor weather, few studies have analyzed the characteristics of abandoning females. Female Collared Flycatchers typically abandon their clutches at low rates (average 8% over 4 years) and most do not attempt to re-nest in the same breeding season. Here we analyze clutch desertion data from five breeding seasons, including one season with particularly high desertion rates (23%). In most years, clutch desertion was associated with late nesting and (independent of date) with small clutch size. In addition, subsequent return rates were significantly lower for birds that deserted their clutches. During a particularly poor weather season, females that deserted their clutches were in poor body condition, relative to females that hatched young. We suggest that the decision to desert the clutch is typically made by low-quality parents with low energy reserves and poor prospects for offspring production.
3677565|Food provisioning in birds requires a considerable amount of time and usually has to be traded-off against other parental and non-parental activities. I investigated experimentally the rate at which blue tit Parus caeruleus parents deliver food to their brood after a change in food availability. The main argument behind this study is that parents enjoying an additional food source may use less time for self-feeding and therefore use more time for food provisioning. This could increase the rate at which food is brought to the nest. However, a prey choice model that takes the energetic needs of the parent into account allows for the possibility that the food-supplemented parents would deliver the same amount of food by increasing prey size (through an increase in prey selectivity) and reducing visit rate. The field data indicate that the parents changed provisioning strategy when food-supplemented: they fed the chicks natural food less frequently, but brought larger larvae. On the whole, delivery rate of natural food was the same or lower than in controls. The results suggest that food-supplemented parents used the time saved to increase their degree of food selectivity. When the gains from an increased delivery rate are not worth the increased costs (mainly resulting from an increased visiting rate), the parent with low energetic need may increase selectivity to provide the same amount of food to the brood as the unmanipulated parent, but at a lower cost.
30244754|Recent findings in non-migratory birds have reopened questions about the interpretation and seasonal organization of Zugunruhe. I address the relationship between Zugunruhe and migration by comparing underlying circannual patterns in captive populations of migratory and non-migratory stonechats. Zugunruhe was highly variable and lacked clear periodicity, indicating its sensitivity to external cues. Patterns of Zugunruhe were similar in African residents, European short-distance migrants, and Siberian long-distance migrants, revealing no major difference in circannual organization. Moult was regulated independently of Zugunruhe and timed more rigidly, particularly in stonechats from equatorial Africa. The persistent and variable circannual patterns of Zugunruhe suggest that non-migratory and migratory stonechats have similar underlying programs but have modified the expression of actual migration. The findings, together with published observations from other species, emphasize the importance of considering programs for migration in a wide range of species, without losing sight of its environmental context.
10.2307/3677180|Little attention has been given to the types of maps used in migration studies. However, we think that analyses of migration in two dimensions by applying different map projection rules may give valuable insights about biological control programmes for long-distance migration. The Earth, being a globe, cannot be projected on a two-dimensional plane without distorting one or more of the following properties: distance, direction or area. Map projections which correctly preserve two of the above-mentioned properties do so only from one point. For analysing the routes of long-distance migrants the distance and direction are the most important factors due to high costs of travelling, either in the form of energy or time. When migrants are not influenced by topographical features they are expected to follow either orthodromes or loxodromes. The orthodrome (great circle) is the shortest path between two points on the Earth's surface, the loxodrome (rhumbline) is the path of constant course between two points. Properties of several map projections and their usefulness for evaluating to what extent travelling paths of migratory birds incorporate the effects of a spherical Earth are discussed and illustrated. For studying orthodrome orientation principles the azimuthal projections are most relevant, mainly the gnomonic-, orthographic-, stereographic- and azimuthal equidistant projections. Mercator and related projections (oblique Mercator- and loximuthal projection) show migration in the light of loxodromes and orientation along constant geographic or magnetic courses.
30243863|Sperm mobility is known to be an important determinant of a male's sperm competitive ability. Although more debated, sperm length and its relation to sperm swimming ability has also been proposed to determine a male's fertilisation potential. Furthermore, both mobility and length may covary with a male's phenotype, either positively (the phenotypelinked fertility hypothesis) or negatively if, for instance, low-quality males have less access to females but invest more in sperm production. Using dummy females, we collected sperm samples from wild sand martins Riparia raparia males. We investigated the relationship between sperm length and sperm swimming speed as measured by sperm straight line velocity (VSL), and determined whether sperm traits are correlated with male body size and condition. We found that total sperm length is repeatable within-ejaculate and shows substantial inter-male variation. Sperm length was associated with sperm velocity: males with short sperm have sperm that swim initially faster but die sooner, whereas males with longer sperm have sperm that swim more slowly but for a longer time. Smaller males produced sperm with higher overall velocity. This correlation between male size and sperm behaviour may reflect alternative fertilisation strategies where small males having less mating opportunities invest more in sperm competitive ability. The existence of such alternative strategies would participate in maintaining variation in sperm length and velocity in this species.
10.2307/3677140|This study was designed to determine whether the development of an increased aerobic capacity (increased potential for oxygen uptake) during the initial growth stages of hatchlings is associated with an increase in blood hemoglobin content. We measured the resting (at thermoneutrality) and maximum (cold induced) oxygen uptake of Arctic Tern chicks from 0 to 9 days of age. In addition, blood hemoglobin content and hematocrit were measured. The results show that in spite of a marked increase in both resting and maximum oxygen uptake, indicating increased metabolic performance, there was a slight decrease in blood hemoglobin content during the first few days of development. A residual analysis, made to eliminate the effect of age, showed that blood hemoglobin content was not significantly correlated with either resting or maximum oxygen uptake. The conclusion is that, despite a wide variation in the hemoglobin content of individual chicks, blood hemoglobin content is not a limiting factor for oxygen uptake by Arctic Tern chicks.
10.2307/3677293|Pointed wings allow faster, more energy-efficient flight, and so are thought to be an adaptation for migratory movements. Here we compare wing-shape variation between Siskins Carduelis spinus that either remain in a single wintering area (residents) or move continually throughout the winter (transients). Wing shape was computed using the PCA technique of Chandler and Mulvihill (1988). We develop, however, a statistical modification that controls for allometric effects on body shape, allowing a size-independent interpretation of the data. Transients showed shorter proximal primary lengths (Principal Component 1) than residents, so that their wing was more pointed than that of resident birds. Since both winter-resident and transient Siskins are migratory, different strategies in the use of the same wintering area have apparently been sufficient to select for a different wing shape. Given the heritability of several body size variables, the difference in wing shape reported here suggests that there has been parallel evolution of morphological and behavioural adaptations to either a nomadic or a winter-resident lifestyle.
3677457|Comparison of 1017 nucleotides of mitochondrial ND2 and ND3 DNA sequences of 26 individuals of white-crowned forktail Enicurus leschenaulti from SE Asia revealed multiple evolutionary lineages within Borneo. Montane birds were genetically homogeneous across localities, but diverged by more than 4.3% from all other samples. Lowland birds formed two distinct clades, one consisting of individuals from northern Borneo, and the other including individuals from western Borneo, as well as Sumatra and Malaya. Relationships among the subspecies were not well resolved. These findings indicate another example of montane and north Bornean endemicity, support the seperation of the montane and lowland species, and define areas of conservation interest.
10.2307/3677263|Brood size of Zebra Finches Taeniopygia guttata was manipulated in an attempt to identify a trade-off between current and subsequent reproduction in a laboratory situation with ad libitum food availability. The birds were able to raise a larger brood than the most frequent brood size under the same conditions. Initiation of the subsequent clutch was advanced after raising a small brood, and delayed after raising a large brood. The size of the subsequent clutch was not affected by the previous, experimental brood size. Thus, a cost of reproduction was observed in modification of the reproductive interval. Brood size also affected the prospects of the current, experimental brood. Both nestling survival and nestling weight at independence decreased with brood size. It has often been suggested that food availability limits reproduction in the field. This study shows that under unrestricted access to food, other factors restrain reproduction. Time allocation, energy expenditure and nutrient reserves of the parents are discussed as potential alternative constraints.
3677658|There are seven species of Phylloscopus warblers breeding sympatrically in Central Siberia. In general they are very similar in morphology and behaviour. Slight differences in morphology, however, are often interpreted as having arisen through adaptation to distinct foraging ecologies, thereby mediating species coexistence. We studied the morphology and foraging behaviour of these warblers, taking into account phylogenetic relationships using Felsenstein's method of independent contrasts. Striking correlations were found between morphology and foraging techniques, as well as between morphology and microhabitat selection. Species with large hind limbs and short wings foraged in dense vegetation near the ground using gleaning techniques. In contrast, species with long wings and large bills favoured open vegetation, and foraged using sallying manoeuvres. Independently of these trends, small species foraged at higher levels in the vegetation, and used hoverflight more often than did larger species. Foraging methods were highly correlated with vegetation structure. Coniferous trees were exploited using hoverflight when they had short needles and gleaning when needles were long. Sallying predominated in light deciduous vegetation whereas gleaning was used most in dense, deciduous bushes. After controlling for the effects of vegetation structure on foraging behaviour, species differences became less pronounced, but were still significant. It is therefore concluded that morphology may be regarded as having adapted to enable more efficient exploitation of certain microhabitats. A preference for these microhabitats then further increases the observed behavioural differences between species. Morphology may therefore partly determine a species' ability to colonise new habitats.
3676998|Several studies on mass loss during breeding in female birds have shown a significant correlation between initial body mass and subsequent loss of body mass. The significant positive regression coefficient of mass loss on initial mass was interpreted as evidence for a greater mass loss of initially heavier birds. However, the positive correlation between mass loss and initial mass arises automatically even when initial and final body masses are uncorrelated and has no necessary biological meaning. This is shown analytically here. In general, a spurious correlation arises when one variable (e.g. mass loss) is part of another variable (e.g. initial mass) and then regressed on it.
30244415|Nesting birds use several behavioural or physiological defence mechanisms against parasites. On Corsica, female blue tits Cyanistes caeruleus incorporate fresh fragments of a limited number of aromatic plants in the nest cup, from the end of nest construction until fledging. Some of these plants negatively affect bacterial growth and host location by blood-sucking mosquitoes in laboratory conditions. In natural populations, Corsican blue tit chicks are exposed to the highest levels of blood-sucking ectoparasitic blow flies Protocalliphora spp. reported in Europe. These ectoparasites can have severe negative effects on chick development and survival probabilities, especially when food constraints are elevated. Here we investigated in several natural Corsican blue tit populations the hypothesis that aromatic plants brought to the nest have anti-blow fly effects during the chick-rearing stage. We predicted that: 1) the amount of aromatic plants should be negatively related to blow fly infestation intensity across nests, 2) experimental addition of aromatic plants in nests should reduce blow fly infestation intensity, and 3) nestlings should be in better physical condition in nests where aromatic plants were experimentally added. No significant relation was found between amount of aromatic plants in nests and blow fly infestation intensity. Experimental addition of aromatic plants did not reduce blow fly infestation intensity and did not affect the chick phenotypic parameters we measured. We conclude that aromatic plants in blue tit nests are not used as a defence against ectoparasitic Protocalliphora blow flies in our study population.
3677763|During severe weather, Redshanks suffer the heaviest mortality amongst all the shorebird species wintering around the North Sea coasts of the British Isles. An earlier study had suggested that this resulted from a failure to accumulate sufficient body fat reserves before mid-winter. Detailed field studies in northeast England between 1993 and 1995 of seasonal changes in body mass, and in estimated lean and fat masses, of two races of Redshank, both of which winter in the same estuary, were accompanied by similar studies of small numbers held in captivity with unlimited food. After differences in body size were allowed for, there were no differences in body composition and its seasonal pattern of change in birds of the Icelandic and British races. Body mass changes in wild birds paralleled those in captives between November and March, and mid-winter levels were not limited by food supply; indeed they were slightly higher in a winter with lower prey densities. It is concluded that Redshanks regulate body mass and, indirectly, fat reserves at levels set by a trade-off between the risks of predation and starvation. Unlike most other shorebird species, they take very small prey in relation to their body size and hence must feed for long periods during each tidal cycle to achieve their daily energy intake needs. Thus they have little scope to extend their feeding time during severe weather, which also forces them to feed on ice-free exposed coastal habitats where wind chill cannot be avoided. Both factors lead to more rapid depletion of fat reserves than in other species which have higher energy intake rates or lower total daily requirements.
10.2307/3677165|Micro Air Vehicles (MAVs) have excellent potential utility as flight platforms for optical, acoustic, electronic and chemical sensors for operation in hazardous sites with aerial access. The dimensions and performance specifications call for a 100 g take-off mass with 100-200 mm wingspan that must fly at 5-20 m/s for approximately 30 minutes. Owing to the low operating Reynolds number (Re), the aerodynamic performance of all lifting surfaces is degraded. The small scales and speeds also mean that atmospheric turbulence has a severe effect, and small thermal cycle engines that could profit from the high energy densities of fossil fuels are unavailable. It is thus difficult to obtain good performance. Studies have been made of wing plus propeller systems, rotor systems and flapping wing systems. In all cases, L/D is in the range of 5-10. Flapping is about as efficient as propeller motion at this Re, but more complicated mechanically. The ThrustWing is a configuration derivative of the dragonfly, with characteristics lying between a helicopter and an ornithopter. It has both zero and forward flight capabilities, and appears to have good potential as a MAV configuration. Finally, the effects of atmospheric turbulence are described and shown to fall into four qualitatively different categories as turbulence intensity increases. Due to favourable scaling, the stresses in MAVs will be very low, and although turbulence will cause large G loads on the MAV, no structural damage will result.
10.2307/3677050|Song flight in birds serves as a signal involved in mate choice and territoriality. In the Skylark Alauda arvensis the song flight is a noticeable feature during the breeding season. Single song flights sometimes lasted for more than 30 min, but the average duration was about 4 min. In this study I dissect the flight performance during the three phases of Skylark song flight: climbing, level and descending flight. During climb, the Skylark exhibits a power expenditure well below the estimated maximum capacity. The average climb speed was
3677452|Many migratory songbirds produce flight calls that vary, sometimes strikingly, among species in duration, frequency, modulation, and pattern, and little is known about what factors are responsible for this variation. Negative correlations between body mass or bill length and song frequencies are well documented in birds, but no studies have examined these associations for flight calls. We explored relationships between flight call and song frequencies and body mass or bill length in 33 species of wood-warblers. Phylogenetically controlled and uncontrolled analyses showed no significant relationship between body mass or bill length and flight call frequency; however, we found significant differences between flight call and song frequencies and a significant relationship between maximum frequencies of flight calls and songs. Our findings suggest that factors other than body mass and bill length are responsible for variation in flight call frequencies in wood-warblers. We suggest that different ecological and atmospheric properties might play important roles in selection for flight call frequencies.
30244741|We analyse the effects of rainfall, temperature, food availability and nest predation on the between-year variation in reproduction of the Canary Islands stonechat Saxicola dacotiae, a bird species endemic of the semiarid island of Fuerteventura (Canary Islands, Spain). We monitored the reproductive performance and output of the species across its whole distribution area during three consecutive breeding periods, also measuring rainfall, temperature and food (arthropod) availability on the ground monthly. Rainfall varied from 27.3 mm in 2000-2001 (dry year) to 124.5 mm and 125.1 mm (average years), respectively, in the 2001-2002 and 2002-2003 breeding seasons. The onset of breeding closely matched variation in the onset of the autumn-winter rains among years. Arthropod availability was strongly and positively related to rainfall one month before. Reproductive investment (number of clutches and clutch size) was correlated to arthropod availability both among years and among sites within years. Stonechat pairs bred once or did not breed at all in the dry year whereas they bred twice in the other two years. Clutch size was smaller in the dry year and larger in the second as compared with the first in the other two years. Reproductive investment largely determined reproductive output (number of fledglings) as there were no significant spatial or temporal variation in hatching success (90% on average) or nest predation (29% on average, mostly due to feral cats Felis catus). Within- and among years variability in temperature or predation did not match variability in the onset, length or reproductive investment and output recorded throughout the study years. These results suggest that variability in annual fecundity in the Canary Islands Stonechat was mainly driven by rainfall through a food-mediated process.
30243846|In many animals, an individual's social environment and status can change quickly and unpredictably, suggesting an advantage for signals capable of responding to these changes. However, many signaling traits are fixed for relatively long periods. In birds, for example, most plumage-based signals are constrained by molt and unable to respond to sudden changes in social environment. Soft parts, conversely, are vascularized and may provide an alternative signaling system that can be updated relatively quickly. In this study, the effects of changes in breeding status are documented for a putative plumage-based signal, plumage brightness, and a putative soft part signal, bill darkness, in the red-backed fairywren Malurus melanocephalus. Males that switched from unpaired helper to paired breeder within a breeding season developed significantly darker bills within three weeks of the switch relative to males that did not change status. There was no clear corresponding change in plumage brightness, though the data suggests that changes in plumage brightness are at least possible. These results suggest that bill color is a socially mediated trait capable of responding rapidly to changes in breeding status, and it is proposed that the importance of soft parts as labile signals in birds may be currently under-appreciated.
3677723|To test the influence of past vicariant events on population genetic structure of the sooty tern Sterna fuscata, we examined sequence variation in the mitochondrial control region of individuals from the Indo-Pacific and Atlantic Oceans. Our analyses indicate a rapid population expansion at a global scale during the last 100 000 years, consistent with global recolonisation during the interstade following the Pleistocene glacial maxima (125 000-175 000 years bp). We estimate islands of the Great Barrier Reef and Coral Sea were colonised no more than 16 000 years ago, most likely in association with the appearance of new breeding habitat following the final Pleistocene glacial retreat (19 000-22 000 years bp). Our results suggest that ice sheets linked to major glacial events not only impact genetic structuring in temperate seabirds, but that sea level changes in the tropics associated with these same events have also significantly impacted contemporary genetic structuring in tropical seabird species.
3677620|When the timing of breeding affects the reproductive value of sons and daughters differently, parents are expected to increase their fitness by changing the offspring sex ratio during the course of the breeding season. Previous studies have shown that in great tits Parus major hatching date has a stronger effect on the fitness of juvenile males than on that of juvenile females. We tested whether this difference was reflected in a seasonal decline in the proportion of sons per breeding attempt. Although offspring sex ratio was more variable than would be expected from a binomial distribution, there was no significant relationship between the proportion of sons and the laying date of the clutch. Moreover, individual females did not adjust the sex ratio of their offspring following an experimental delay of breeding. This study therefore fails to demonstrate adaptive seasonal variation in great tit offspring sex ratios.
30244461|The association between the distribution of blue-footed boobies Sula nebouxii (BFB) and marine productivity around their breeding grounds is unclear. In Peru, they breed in a region seasonally influenced by the cold, nutrient rich Humboldt Current, and by warm, nutrient poor oceanic waters. The foraging range of BFB in Peru is unknown, although some evidence suggest that they may feed in warm offshore waters. During the austral winter 2002 and summer 2003, we tracked 26 BFBs breeding on Isla Lobos de Tierra, Peru (located approximately 15 km west of the mainland), during 59 feeding trips using small direction recorders to determine their marine habitat use. BFBs preferentially moved to the east of the island and foraged over the continental shelf in cold water masses where marine productivity and the abundance of the main prey, the Peruvian anchovy Engraulis ringens, are usually higher than in other areas. Overall, the median maximum foraging distance from the colony was 39 km (range 3-109 km), with 90% of all trips located within 30 km from the mainland, and enclosed in an area of 13,113 km. These results reveal that BFBs exploit the productive waters of the Peruvian Coastal Upwelling System, rather than open oceanic waters as previously suggested. BFBs travelled a greater distance, dispersed in a broader area, and visited more offshore waters during the winter 2002, than during the summer 2003, following the typical seasonal horizontal dispersion of the Peruvian anchovy.
3677745|Variation in coloration with a strong underlying genetic basis is frequently found in birds, insects, anurans, molluscs and plants. Although such a variation can be large, little is known about its functional value. Correlative data, however, can help suggest testable hypotheses about potential covariation between reproductive parameters and a colour polymorphism displayed by individuals belonging to a single population. In this context, we studied two Swiss populations of tawny owls Strix aluco, a polymorphic species that varies in coloration from reddish-brown to grey. Observations in the first population showed that although greyer females had shorter tarsi, they produced heavier offspring in two of three years. Pairing with respect to plumage coloration was not significantly disassortative, indicating that these correlations were probably not inflated by plumage coloration of the mate. In the second population, where breeding females had been monitored for 14 years, the proportion of all breeding females that were reddish-brown was greater in years when the breeding density was lower. Capture-recapture analyses show that the latter result is explained by the fact that greyish females bred less often than reddish-brown females, although their survival probability was similar. The number of greyer breeding females was greater when spring/summer temperatures were lower. When combined, the results from the two populations lend support to the hypothesis that grey females do not breed every year, but produce offspring of higher quality. Whatever the mechanism underlying the correlations reported in this study, colour polymorphism in female tawny owls appears to reflect some components of individual quality.
30244482|Melanins are common feather pigments that contribute to signaling and crypsis. Melanins may also help feathers resist feather-degrading bacteria (FDB). Two recent studies (Goldstein et al. 2004, Grande et al. 2004) tested the resistance of melanized versus unmelanized feathers to FDB using in vitro experiments, but draw opposite conclusions. Goldstein et al. (2004) concluded that melanized feathers resist FDB more than unmelanized feathers, while Grande et al. (2004) concluded that unmelanized feathers resist FDB more than melanized feathers. To resolve this conflict in the literature, we replicated previous studies but included additional tests not previously used. We inoculated melanized and unmelanized feathers of domestic geese Anser anser domesticus, with the FDB Bacillus licheniformis and measured bacterial activity every two days over two weeks. Three metrics of bacterial activity on feathers were measured: soluble protein content around feathers in solution, bacterial growth on feathers, and loss of feather mass. The latter two metrics were not considered in the aforementioned studies, which indirectly measured bacterial activity. We conducted two trials, one in which feathers were sterilized by autoclaving before inoculation (Goldstein et al. 2004, Grande et al. 2004), and a second in which feathers were sterilized by ethylene oxide gas. This allowed us to test whether autoclaving, done in previous studies, influences bacterial activity on feathers and could confound results. In both trials, unmelanized feathers degraded earlier, supported greater bacterial growth, and lost more mass than melanized feathers. These results support the findings of Goldstein et al. (2004); melanized feathers are more resistant to FDB than unmelanized feathers. Thus, using direct metrics of bacterial activity, we resolve a current conflict in the literature. We also found that autoclaving feathers influences FDB activity on them, and thus autoclaving should be avoided in future studies.
10.2307/3676977|We used a PCR-based molecular DNA sexing technique to sex European Starling Sturnus vulgaris chicks from a nestbox colony at Wytham, Oxford, UK. The nestling sex ratio among 350 one-week-old chicks from 108 broods was significantly. There was no significant heterogeneity in brood sex ratio. We found no significant correlations between sex ratio and several environmental and parental variables, nor were there any significant differences in egg dimensions or growth rates of the sexes. Mortality but not fledging sex ratio, was strongly correlated with hatching order suggesting that the sex ratio imbalance was not due to sex-biased chick mortality. The possibility that the overall sex ratio bias is dictated by maternal adjustment of the sex is discussed.
30245187|For over a half century numerous hypotheses have surfaced aimed at explaining a key life history trait, the evolution of clutch size in birds. A principal goal has been to explain why clutch size generally increases with latitude both within species and among closely related species. Most hypotheses have stressed food limitation, predation, or seasonality. I present a novel hypothesis to explain geographic variation: a limitation of calcium resulting from broad scale variation in this element. Because the storage capacity of avian medullary bone is limited or nonexistent, during egg formation, female birds must intake supplemental calcium. Yet calcium and other exchangeable bases are much rarer in tropical soils. I briefly review the abundant experimental and observational evidence supporting how calcium limitation affects clutch size and other life history traits, and I present a series of predictions (and apparent support for them), stemming from the calcium variation and limitation hypothesis. The balance of evidence suggests that variability in availability of environmental calcium plays a proximate and ultimate role in the evolution of clutch size. Although this hypothesis is not mutually exclusive with others, it highlights another factor that needs to be considered in studies of the geographic variation in clutch size.
30244779|The quality of conditions provided by avian parents will have consequences for both parental and offspring fitness. While many components of avian reproduction appear to vary with parental age, the effect of age on incubation has largely been ignored so far. In this study, we tested whether young herring gulls provide a different incubation environment from mature ones and whether this has consequences for offspring performance. Laying and rearing conditions were standardised using a cross-fostering protocol. Egg predation rates tended to be higher in the nests of young parents. However, nest site, nest construction and egg temperature during incubation did not vary with parental age. Overall, the duration of incubation was shorter in young compared to mature birds and this reflected the later laying date of the former, since incubation duration generally decreased across the season. However, male eggs incubated by young parents had longer incubation periods than predicted for their laying dates. In contrast, incubation length of female eggs incubated by young pairs, and of male and female eggs incubated by mature birds did not deviate from the expected for any given laying date. Offspring that had been incubated by young parents had considerably poorer survival than those incubated by mature pairs, despite being reared under standardized, favourable conditions (singly, by mature parents). This was due to increased mortality among female chicks that had been incubated by young parents. The chicks incubated as eggs by young and mature birds, which survived until fledging, did not differ in body mass and size growth, or body condition. The results of this study demonstrate that parental age can influence offspring performance via variation in incubation environment, and that females are more susceptible than males to conditions experienced during embryonic development.
30244841|An animal's foraging decisions are the outcome of the relative importance of the risk of starvation and predation. Fat deposition insures against periods of food shortage but it also carries a cost in terms of mass dependent predation risk due to reduced escape probability and extended exposure time. Accordingly, birds have been observed to show a unimodal foraging pattern with foraging concentrated at the end of the day under conditions of predictable food resources and high predation risk. We tested this hypothesis in a tropical granivorous finch, the rock firefinch Lagonosticta sanguinodorsalis, in an outdoor aviary experiment during which food was provided ad lib and the risk of predation was varied by providing food either adjacent to, or 5 m away from cover. Rock firefinches showed a bimodal foraging pattern regardless of the risk of predation at which they fed. The results suggest that predation is relatively unimportant in shaping their daily feeding pattern despite mass gain during the day being similar to temperate birds. Foraging patterns closely follow diurnal temperature variation and this is suggested to be the main determinant of the observed bimodal pattern.
10.2307/3676970|Most reports of interactions between feather mites and their avian hosts have assumed that mites have detrimental effects on their hosts, i.e. that they behave as parasites. We investigate the effects of feather mites Gabucinia delibata on the body condition of Red-billed Choughs Pyrrhocorax pyrrhocorax, a highly social, medium-sized corvid species. Feather mites were absent in fledglings at the nest and were probably acquired by Choughs from 1 to 5 months after fledging, when they joined communal roosts. The abundance of feather mites on both wing and tail increased with age and development of social habits in non-breeding Choughs, but decreased when they reached breeding status. Mated Choughs had similar abundances of feather mites. The abundance of mites correlated positively with body condition (computed as the residuals of mass on a "size factor") in both males and females, and body condition was in general better for Choughs holding mites than for those lacking mites. The conclusion that feather mites do not have detrimental effects on Choughs was reinforced by the fact that feather mite abundance did not differ between Choughs with normal and crossed bills, respectively, suggesting that preening does not remove mites from the feathers. This particular association thus could be labelled as non-parasitic, suggesting at least a commensal, and possibly a mutualistic relationship. In the latter case, the hypothesised benefits accrued to Chough hosts from their association with mites may derive from an improved feather cleaning, and from the supposed protection against pathogenic organisms achieved primarily by preemption of resources by more benign species, such as feather mites.
3677740|According to sex allocation theory, females may benefit from a differential investment in sons and daughters, where fitness returns from male and female offspring vary. One way in which investment may be differentiated is by assigning male and female offspring to eggs of different sizes, and/or eggs laid early or late in the laying order. Here, we investigate whether such sex-specific adjustments occur in blue tits Parus caeruleus. We found that the proportion of males changed non-linearly with laying order showing the increase in early-laid eggs. Egg size increased with laying order, but this pattern differed between female and male eggs. Female eggs increased initially in size and became smaller later in the laying sequence, while male eggs exhibited constant increase in mass. However, egg size did not differ between genders. Egg size and laying order was found to interact in moulding sex of the embryo. Thus, females seem to simultaneously adjust the sex of the offspring in relation to their investments into eggs and the position of the egg in the laying sequence.
30244815|In altricial birds, nestlings usually respond to the sound and appearance of the provisioning adults by begging for food when the adults arrive at the nest. Nestlings can, however, also beg incorrectly on hearing misleading sounds in the environment and fail to beg when the adult arrives. This study uses the blue tit Cyanistes caeruleus to test the hypotheses that nestling begging strategies are influenced by the reliability of the stimulus to beg, and that nestling motivational state affects the response to different stimuli. Here, we show experimentally that nestling hunger strongly influences the response to stimuli that vary in their reliability. While hunger increases begging rate, it also increases the likelihood that nestlings will beg when the parent is absent. This is in agreement with both the predictions of signal detection theory and recent empirical work on other species. We found, however, no evidence that age-related perceptual constraints influence the begging response of ten day old nestlings to different stimuli.
30243287|Many open-nesting bird species orient their nests relative to surrounding vegetation to avoid adverse environmental conditions. In eastern England, tree pipit Anthus trivialis nests predominantly faced east, an orientation that provided shelter from prevailing WSW winds, allowed warming by the morning sun and which, together with relatively high field layer cover, shaded nest contents from the midday sun. Mean orientation moved from south to north through the breeding season as temperatures increased, suggesting that solar radiation was a key influence on nest placement for tree pipits in the study area. Tree pipit nests with eastward orientations experienced better hatching success than those in less-preferred orientations and it is suggested that this was due to their thermal advantages. In contrast, nest orientation had no influence on nestling survival.
10.2307/3677032|The importance of male presence on their territories for maintaining paternity in their mates' offspring was investigated in the Yellowhammer. Males were experimentally detained for one hour before and during their mate's fertile period. When males were detained, their territories received an increased number of intrusions and intruding males. Also the duration of intrusions increased compared with when they were present on their territories. No difference was found in intrusion patterns between the prefertile and the fertile period. No intrusions were observed during the post-fertile period. The rate of intrusion was not related to number of neighbouring males although young males suffered from a higher intrusion rate when the number of young neighbouring males increased. Old males with much yellow were subject to more intrusions than other males, predominantly by other older males, indicating a cost of wearing colourful plumage. In spite of the low intensity, or absence, of mate guarding found in a previous study of the Yellowhammer, results indicate that male presence on their territories may reduce the potential for extra-pair fertilizations.
25161511|We studied the reproductive strategy of a Rock Sparrow Petronia petronia population, breeding in nest boxes in the Western Alps (Italy). Over seven years of study (1991-1997) 19% of the females laid second clutches after successfully fledging the first one. Among these, about 50% deserted the first nest when nestlings were 14.3 d old (range = 8-19 d), 3.6 d before fledging (range = 1-8 d). In all these cases the primary male mate took over all parental duties and successfully reared the young. Inter-clutch time of deserting females was 8.1 d shorter than that of non-deserting double-brooded females. The breeding success of deserting females was significantly greater than that of both single-brooded females and double-brooded females that did not desert their first brood. The fledging success of the second clutches depended on the status of the secondary male: females paired with previously unpaired males had a higher fledging success than those that paired with a polygynous male. The frequency of deserting females varied among years from 0 to 16%, and was significantly and positively correlated with the frequency of males available as mates at the time of desertion. In this study we showed that sequential polyandry with brood desertion is a regularly occurring strategy in the female Rock Sparrow.
3677369| Hatching asynchrony in avian species often leads to the establishment of a size hierarchy among nestlings. Because the youngest nestlings in a brood are often at a significant disadvantage with respect to competition for parentally-delivered food, one might expect to find that mechanisms have evolved to alleviate the detrimental effects of hatching asynchrony and enhance the survival of last-hatched offspring. The musculus complexus, or hatching muscle, is responsible for breaking the shell during hatching and for dorsal flexion and extension of the neck during begging. An increase in its strength in last-hatched nestlings could therefore reduce the duration of hatching or enhance the ability to beg for parentally-delivered food, thereby enhancing the competitive abilities of those nestlings. I previously found in the Red-winged Blackbird Agelaius phoeniceus that the mass of the complexus increases with laying order and that its development is mediated by the actions of yolk testosterone. I investigated the hypothesis that yolk steroids also affect the development of the complexus in the European Starling Sturnus vulgaris. I asked, first, whether the mass of the complexus increases with laying order and, if so, whether this increase is at least partially attributable to a corresponding increase in the concentration of yolk testosterone. Because exogenous progesterone increases the water content of the complexus in the domestic fowl Gallus gallus I also asked whether an increase in complexus mass, if present, could be partially attributable to an increase in progesterone concentration across the laying order. I found that both yolk testosterone concentration and the mass of the complexus increased with laying order; however, there was no variation in the concentration of either yolk progesterone or the proportion of water in the complexus across the laying order. There were no differences in the concentrations of either androstenedione or 5-dihydrotestosterone across the laying order. 
10.2307/3676945|Genetic parentage was studied in a Norwegian, sub-alpine population of Willow Warblers Phylloscopus trochilus by means of multilocus DNA fingerprinting. We found that 33% (36/109) of the offspring were unrelated to the putative father, and that one additional offspring was unrelated to both putative parents. Altogether 50% (10/20) of the broods contained illegitimate young. The distribution of extra-pair paternity was bimodal, with several broods containing many extra-pair offspring. These results contrast markedly with a previous study of the same species, reporting no cases of mismatched parentage in a Swedish lowland population. Potentially, the high frequency of extra-pair paternity could be attributed to a higher breeding density and/or synchrony in our study population. Cuckolded males had a lower body mass, but no shorter tarsi or wings, than non-cuckolded males. This suggests that a male's loss of paternity is somehow related to his body condition. The data set includes five broods in which the pair male was permanently removed on the day the first egg was laid. There was no tendency that the manipulation increased the frequency of extra-pair paternity.
30244474|We describe an unknown mode of solar-assisted egg development in the crab plover Dromas ardeola, a shorebird that breeds in self-excavated burrows. The insulating properties of the nest burrow and the intense solar radiation allowed egg development at near-optimal temperature (35.2C0.2) and humidity (60.2%4.4), allowing a very low incubation attendance by the parent birds (28.3% of time, with recesses lasting up to 58 h). Crab plovers did not abandon completely parental incubation, possibly because of the need to turn their egg, and because the slight warming provided by parents (0.8C) may improve hatching. This is the first case of solar assisted incubation in a species unrelated to the Megapodiidae, the only birds known to develop their eggs without contact incubation.
3677367|The Noisy Miner Manorina melanocephala (Meliphagidae) is a cooperatively breeding bird species in which sons often remain on their natal home ranges and help one or both of their parents. In a population of Noisy Miners in SE Queensland, Australia, a molecular technique was used to explore adult and offspring sex ratios, and also hatching sequences. Among the adult population, there were 2.31 males for every female, and roughly 99% of helping was performed by males. At hatching and fledging, the population sex ratio was even, with exactly 57 males and 57 females. However, in 17 out of 18 broods the first egg to hatch was male. First-hatched males were significantly larger and heavier than their sisters just prior to fledging. Through their helping behaviour, large healthy sons could clearly enhance the future reproductive success of parents, and benefit the entire group. Sex-biased hatching sequences could potentially provide cooperatively breeding birds with a subtle and precise way of varying investment in the helping sex.
3677495|During 1995-1997, we monitored Carolina chickadee Poecile carolinensis nests in a fragmented forest landscape in northcentral Ohio, USA. Nest success was positively correlated with woodlot area and most nest loss was due to nest destruction by house wrens Troglodytes aedon. During 1998 and 1999, we conducted an experiment in both large (> 6.8 ha) and small (< 6.8 ha) woodlots in which we gave chickadees a choice of nesting on edges of woodlots (preferred wren habitat) or in the center of woodlots. We found no difference in nest success between large and small woodlots, but regardless of woodlot size, nest success was lower on edges than in the center. In the experiment, 100% of nest loss was due to nest destruction by house wrens. Given a choice, Carolina chickadees preferred to nest centrally more often than on edges. These results suggest that in fragmented landscapes where house wrens are common, nest destruction by house wrens is a major cause of nest failure in the Carolina chickadee. Such edge-dependent interspecific nest-site usurpation has not been previously recognized as a potentially important selective factor in nest site selection.
10.2307/3677132| We looked at the routes taken by Magellanic Penguins up the beach while moving between the sea and the colony at a breeding site in San Julian, Argentina. Birds swam parallel to the shore for a period before leaving the water to cross the beach but trajectories over the beach were not perpendicular to the water's edge but at an angle of 39. We examined the premise that birds might be optimizing for a trade off between time or energy by adopting this procedure and found that birds can gain little or no time by walking obliquely but can, under particular circumstances, save energy. These circumstances require that the previously-calculated costs of transport for walking have been over-estimated by a factor of two. 
10.2307/3677171|Energy management for endurance flight critically determines the ecological options in the life history of migrant birds. Apart from the amount of energy stores, the types of fuel used and metabolic constraints determine endurance performance in long-distance migrants. The three main types of fuel (lipids, glycogen, protein) are evaluated regarding (a) costs of transport and maintenance, (b) supply to the muscles during flight, (c) adverse effects during, and (d) after, flight, and (e) refuelling. Lipids are the best fuel type with respect to three of these five criteria, but pose problems regarding the supply from adipose tissues to the muscles and regarding oxidation. Nevertheless, birds can maximize the contribution of energy derived from lipids as a proportion of the total energy expenditure to about 95% during migratory endurance flight. Mechanisms to do so may include enhancing fatty acid transport to the flight muscles, increasing initial fat stores and increasing aerobic capacity. A very low relative contribution of energy derived from protein (RPC) is attained by migrating birds (around 5%), similar to that of long-term fasting birds. RPC values of fasting birds depend on initial fat content and are lower than in fasting mammals. This suggests that in fasting birds the absolute amount of protein catabolism is roughly proportional to metabolic rate. Mechanisms to increase the relative contribution of energy derived from fat are costly. Hence, they are expected to modify the power curve relating energy expenditure to flight speed and predictions derived from it. It is also expected that migrants flying short non-stop distances or risking dehydration will not maximize lipid utilization to the same extent as birds flying long distances non-stop. Hence, the optimal amount and proportions of fat and protein stored and functional organ sizes are expected to depend on the migration strategy, particularly on the duration of non-stop flights and the risk of dehydration.
30244833|We investigated sex-specific parental care behaviour of lesser spotted woodpeckers Picoides minor in the low mountain range Taunus, Germany. Observed parental care included incubation, nest sanitation as well as brooding and feeding of nestlings. Contributions of the two sexes to parental care changed in progress of the breeding period. During incubation and the first half of the nestling period, parental care was divided equally between partners. However, in the late nestling stage, we found males to feed their nestlings irrespective of brood size while females considerably decreased feeding rate with the number of nestlings. This behaviour culminated in desertion of small broods by females shortly before fledging. The fact that even deserted nests were successful indicates that males were able to compensate for the females' absence. Interestingly, the mating of one female with two males with separate nests could be found in the population, which confirms earlier findings of polyandry in the lesser spotted woodpecker. We conclude that biparental care is not essential in the later stage and one partner can reduce effort and thus costs of parental care, at least in small broods where the mate is able to compensate for that behaviour. Reduced care and desertion appears only in females, which might be caused by a combination of two traits: First, females might suffer higher costs of investment in terms of mortality and secondly, malebiased sex ratio in the population generally leads to higher mating probabilities for females in the following breeding season. The occurrence of polyandry seems to be a result of these conditions.
3677766| The Chiffchaff Phylloscopus collybita is represented in Sweden by two different subspecies; the northern well-established abietinus and the southern recently established collybita which has expanded its range northward during the past two decades. At present, an area approximately 500 km wide separates the two subspecies. In order to document differences between the northern and southern populations we compared morphology, vocalisation, habitat choice, and neutral genetic variation in mitochondrial (mt) DNA and at four microsatellite loci of 30 male Chiffchaffs from each subspecies. Our results show significant differences in several morphological traits and in song. Playback experiments revealed a significant difference in aggressive behaviour depending on which population-specific song that was played to the birds. Mitochondrial DNA was geographically structured with  90% of the birds carrying a mt haplotype matching their sample population. No allelic differences at the microsatellite loci were found between populations. Our data demonstrate a substantial differentiation between the northern and southern populations despite gene flow, clearly separating them into the subspecies abietinus and collybita. 
30244813|Many evolutionary studies of birds rely on the estimation of molecular divergence times and substitution rates. In order to perform such analyses, it is necessary to incorporate some form of calibration information: a known substitution rate, radiometric ages of heterochronous sequences, or inferred ages of lineage splitting events. All three of these techniques have been employed in avian molecular studies, but their usage has not been entirely satisfactory. For example, the 'traditional' avian mitochondrial substitution rate of 2% per million years is frequently adopted without acknowledgement of the associated uncertainty. Similarly, fossil and biogeographic information is almost always converted into an errorless calibration point. In both cases, the resulting estimates of divergence times and substitution rates will be artificially precise, which has a considerable impact on hypothesis testing. In addition, using such a simplistic approach to calibration discards much of the information offered by the fossil record. A number of more sophisticated calibration methods have recently been introduced, culminating in the development of probability distribution-based calibrations. In this article, I discuss the use of this new class of methods and offer guidelines for choosing a calibration technique.
10.2307/3677226|We use two approaches to compare the reproductive success of secondary (S) females to the reproductive success of monogamous and primary (M/P) females in two populations of the polygynous Red-winged Blackbird Agelaius phoeniceus. One approach is to calculate x, the mean reproductive success of all S females divided by the mean reproductive success of all M/P females. Estimates of x are corrected for seasonal declines in reproductive success of M/P females when necessary. Considering all nests, the mean x is 0.98 for two years in a Washington population and is also 0.98 for four years in an Indiana population. Considering only successful nests, and pooling data over years, x is 0.98 for Washington and 0.96 for Indiana. A second approach is to perform pair-wise comparisons of the reproductive success of each S female to the reproductive success of those M/P females that choose unmated males available to, but not chosen by, the S female. In both redwing populations, individuals more often than not have higher success breeding as S females than they would have breeding as M/P females with available unmated males. The implications of these results for polygyny models are discussed.
3677592|Lack (1946) suggested that male songbirds exhibit consistent individual differences in the vigor or manner in which they defend their territories against intrusion. The causes and consequences of such individual variation have not been incorporated into models of territoriality, however, because of a lack of experimental data confirming Lack's suggestion. In this paper, we test the possibility that male song sparrows Melospiza melodia who are successful territory holders differ consistently in the vigor with which they defend their territory, by conducting repeated song playback trials with the same set of territory-holding subjects across a breeding season. We found only relatively weak seasonal trends in responsiveness: the amount birds sang in response to playback increased significantly across the breeding season and responsiveness was generally lower when a male's social mate was egg laying. By contrast, we found extensive variation among males in how closely they approached a simulated territorial intrusion. These individual differences remained significantly consistent across four rounds of playback trials that spanned the breeding season as determined by Kendall's coefficient of concordance. Our results confirm that some individual song sparrows are consistently more vigorous than others in territory defense, at least in one conspicuous aspect of their behavior, and suggest that further work is needed to understand the nature and consequences of variation in patterns of defense among successful territory holders.
3677783|The red-chested cuckoo Cuculus solitarius parasitises many passerines in Africa, but some common species sympatric with this brood parasite are rarely used as hosts. We tested the responses of three turdid hosts to parasitism with artificial cuckoo eggs. The kurrichane thrush Turdus libonyana, which is not regularly parasitized by the cuckoo, rejected 60% of mimetic model eggs and 81% of non-mimetic eggs. We observed female thrush behaviour during the first visit after parasitism, and thrushes appeared to be initially fooled by mimetic eggs in completed clutches in all cases, and incubated. By contrast, in half of the experiments with non-mimetic eggs, these were ejected by the thrushes, with the host grasping the egg and flying away with it. The time spent nest checking prior to ejection was only one third of the time spent nest checking when females decided to incubate the clutch, suggesting that females were immediately aware of a foreign egg in the nest. By contrast, southern olive thrushes T. olivaceous rejected all non-mimetic and accepted all mimetic model eggs, whereas cape robins Cossypha caffra accepted all model eggs, irrespective of whether or not they were mimetic. Our results support the hypothesis that rejection behaviour in these two thrush species evolved as a defence against interspecific nest parasitism, with thrushes appearing to be ahead in this particular host-parasite arms race. The cape robin, by contrast, appears not to reject cuckoo eggs, either because it is to unable to recognize them, or because the costs associated with removal may be too high.
30243293|To evaluate the importance of tree leafing for the start of laying and clutch size of birds, we compared the breeding phenology of great tits Parus major and blue tits P. caeruleus between one coastal and two inland sites in the same geographical region. Because of the cooling influence of the sea, trees at the coastal site were known to initiate budburst about a week later than at the inland sites. During 5 years, breeding by the tits and the leaf phenology of birch Betula pendula, and oak Quercus robur were monitored. The leaf phenology of birch and oak explained a significant part of the between-year variation in the start of egg laying in blue and great tits, respectively. The tits started laying earlier at the sites with an early budburst, i.e. normally inland. However, leaf phenology was not an absolute cue to the start of laying, since blue tits laid earlier relative to leafing at the inland site than at the coastal site, and both tit species laid eggs earlier relative to leafing during late springs. In neither species was clutch size affected by leafing phenology. However, great tit females at the coastal site consistently produced fewer eggs than did those at the inland site. No such difference was found in the blue tits. Although leafing phenology may predict the start of laying in tits, other factors also influence its timing. These factors might include other cues, or differing life-history trade-offs depending on site or general climatic factors during the spring.
10.2307/3677146|We tested whether the age-related differences in reproductive success in male American Redstarts are caused by differences in date of arrival on the breeding grounds. By relating arrival date to three measures of reproductive success we determined what stage of the breeding cycle is affected by date of arrival. Adult male redstarts were more successful than subadults at obtaining mates. Adult males were also more likely than subadults to have nests built in their territories, and to fledge young. Among mated males, neither age class was significantly more likely to obtain nests. However, among males that nested, there were significant age-related differences in fledging success. Adult males arrived on the breeding grounds before subadults. Within both age classes, males that mated had arrived significantly earlier than those that did not mate. Similarly, males that nested had arrived significantly earlier than those that did not. There were no significant differences in arrival date between males that fledged young and those that did not. Finally, adult males were more likely to renest after nest failure. Therefore, we conclude that reproductive success in male redstarts is independently affected by both arrival date and age, and that the lower success of subadults may not be a consequence solely of their age and late arrival, but also of their lack of experience in selecting territories early in the breeding season.
3677802|A chick of the Horsfield's hawk cuckoo Cuculus fugax has a vivid yellow skin patch on each wing-bend, which is very similar in colour to its own gape. Almost every time a host parent delivers food, the chick explicitly displays the wing-patch by raising and shaking the wing. We observed that host parents tried to place food onto the wing-patch of the nestling instead of into its mouth. The wing-patch would be perceived as a gape by host parents, possibly resulting in an overestimation of brood size. Signals induced by the wing-patch may vary with the luminosity of environments.
30245211|Sexual selection theory posits that ornamental traits can evolve if they provide individuals with an advantage in securing multiple mates. That male ornamentation occurs in many bird species in which males pair with a single female is therefore puzzling. It has been proposed that extra-pair mating can substantially increase the variance in reproductive success among males in monogamous species, thus increasing the potential for sexual selection. We documented the frequency of extra-pair paternity and examined its effect on variation in male reproductive success in the mountain bluebird Sialia currucoides, a socially monogamous songbird in which males possess brilliant plumage ornamentation. Extra-pair paternity was common in our Wyoming study population, with 72% of broods containing at least one extra-pair offspring. The standardized variance in actual male reproductive success (i.e., the total number of within-pair and extra-pair offspring sired) was more than seven times higher than the variation in apparent success (i.e., success assuming that no extra-pair mating occurred). Success at siring within-pair and extra-pair offspring both contributed to the variation in overall male reproductive success. Within-pair success, however, did not predict a male's level of extra-pair success, suggesting that males do not sacrifice within-pair paternity to gain extra-pair paternity. Calculation of the sexual selection (Bateman) gradient showed that males sire approximately two additional offspring for each extra-pair mate that we identified. Thus, in this sexually dichromatic species, extra-pair mating increases the variance in male reproductive success and provides the potential for sexual selection to act.
3677479|We measured thyroid hormone (T3) levels and energy expenditure of pre-breeding house sparrows Passer domesticus in relation to the timing of breeding and reproductive success. The onset of reproduction was synchronised in two waves, separated by a three-week interval. On an annual basis, early breeders (birds that bred for the first time during the first wave) made significantly more breeding attempts, laid significantly more egg and raised 2.3 times more chicks to fledging than late breeders (birds that bred for the first time during the second wave). By the end of March, about one month before the first egg was laid in the population, plasma titres of testosterone in males and estradiol in females were still low and did not differ between early and late breeders. However, birds that subsequently bred early had higher titres of plasma triiodothyronine (T3) than birds that started to breed late. We show for the first time in a free-living bird population that Basal Metabolic Rate (BMR) is positively correlated with the plasma titre of T3. Differences in plasma T3 accounted for 48% of the inter-individual variation in BMR. Elevated T3 levels indicate that energy requirements increase prior to breeding. Although early breeding appears to be advantageous in terms of the number of offspring raised on an annual basis, the increased energy requirements prior to breeding are thought to delay the onset of reproduction in those birds that cannot afford the additional energy expenditure early in the season.
30244478|To assess regression models for lipid and lean body mass in small birds, we recorded live body mass 0.1 g, total body electrical conductivity (TOBEC; from "third generation" TOBEC machine EM-SCAN SA-3000) or E-Value, visual fat score (VisFat), and seven body measurements for 52 migratory passerine birds of 13 species (5-40 g). We determined lipid and lean mass of each bird after petroleum-ether extraction of lipids. We obtained "net" E-Value (NEV) for each scanned bird by subtracting the E-Value of the empty bird-restraining tube, because these showed an inverse temperature dependence (P <0.005). Leave-one-out cross validation was used to assess model selection and construct 95% confidence intervals. Although precision of TOBEC increased with bird size (CV of NEV vs. live mass: r = -0.276, P = 0.002) and it explained an increasing proportion of variation in lean mass moving from small- to medium- to large-bird classes of our data, it did no better than head length in single-variable prediction of lean or lipid mass and was included in five of the 14 multivariate models we developed. The best multiple regression to predict lean mass included live weight, VisFat, bill length, tarsus and lnNEV (adjusted R = 99.0%); however, the same model lacking only lnNEV yielded aR = 98.9%. A parallel to the above pair of models, but predicting lipid mass, yielded aR = 90.3% and 90.0%, respectively. Subdividing the data by three size classes and three taxa (American redstart Setophaga ruticilla, ovenbird Seiurus aurocapilla, warblers), best-subset multiple-regression models predicted lean mass with aR from 94.7 to 99.6% and lipid mass with aR from 85.4 to 98.3%. Best models for the size- and species-groups included VisFat and zero to five body measurements, and most included live weight. lnNEV was included only in the models for ovenbird (lipid), warblers (lipid), all birds (both), and large birds (both). Actual lipid mass of all birds was more highly correlated with multiple-regression-predicted lipid mass (r = 0.955) than with visual subcutaneous fat-scoring (r = 0.683). These multiple-regression models predicting lipid content using live-bird measurements and visual fat score as independent variables represent more accurate and precise estimates of actual lipid content in small passerines than any previously published. They are particularly accurate for placing birds into percentage body-fat classes.
3677799|Male eastern bluebirds Sialia sialis have striking ultraviolet (UV)-blue coloration on their heads, backs, rumps, wings, and tails and bold chestnut coloration on their breasts. These colored areas are ornaments that correlate with pairing date and reproductive effort, and thus probably influence the choice of mates by females. Such ornaments are expected to increase in color with age and body condition. We investigated the effects of age on body condition and the UV-blue and chestnut coloration of males over four years using both cross-sectional (comparing age classes) and longitudinal analyses (following individuals as they age). We found that both the body condition index and brightness of UV-blue rump coloration increased with age, while UV-blue tail plumage coloration increased between yearling and older males, and the chestnut breast coloration decreased in the oldest age class. The proximate mechanisms whereby individuals reliably signal age via rump brightness and tail coloration are probably different. Contour feathers, including rump feathers, are molted at approximately the same time in all age classes and are likely subject to the same production costs in all age classes. In contrast, the molt schedule of the tail and wing feathers differs between individuals of yearling and older age classes, with yearlings retaining wing and tail feathers for several months longer than adults. The relationship between tail color and age was probably, in part, a consequence of yearlings expressing tails that have increased feather wear and accumulation of dirt. In general, UV-blue coloration increased with age while chestnut plumage decreased with age, indicating that older individuals may tradeoff investing energy in structural and melanin ornaments. By assessing overall plumage coloration, female eastern bluebirds could estimate age class when choosing mates.
10.2307/3677275|Offspring number was manipulated in Willow Ptarmigan Lagopus lagopus to determine the effect of brood size on parental effort in defence of young. Three chicks were added (n = 8), exchanged (n = 10) or removed (n = 12) among broods of females that had laid 7-9 eggs. If parents based effort on the value of the brood, it was predicted that defence should increase with offspring number because ptarmigan parents receive greater returns from large broods. Parental effort in defence was unaffected by brood size, probably because a predator cannot threaten the entire brood simultaneously when ptarmigan young are scattered. This evidence supports theoretical models which predict that if the young are able to disperse, patterns of defence will be different in precocial birds from that in fish or altricial birds.
3677595|Restriction fragment length polymorphisms of mtDNA were used to assess genetic structure at two geographic scales for five species of Neotropical forest-understory birds. At the local scale (in northeastern Bolivia), I studied populations of each species from six sites within 200 km of one another. At this scale, I studied the effects of forest fragmentation on mtDNA genetic structure: three sites were in natural forest fragments separated by cerrado (savanna), and three sites were in continuous forest. Genetic variation did not appear to have been lost in the forest fragment populations of any species. However, for three antbirds (Thamnophilidae), patterns of haplotype distributions suggest fragmentation affected genetic structure in an unusual way. For these species, numerically dominant haplotypes in forest fragments did not occur in continuous forest, whereas predominant haplotypes in continuous forest are widespread (occurring in fragments and continuous forest). These results suggest that forest fragmentation on a local geographic scale can affect genetic differentiation even in birds, a group that is considered to disperse well. The two other taxa studied were a woodcreeper (Dendrocolaptidae) and a tyrant-flycatcher (Tyrannidae). These two taxa did not show genetic effects of forest fragmentation, but they possessed notably different numbers of haplotypes per total individuals surveyed. The woodcreeper had few haplotypes (5 in 58 individuals), whereas the flycatcher had many (31 in 34 individuals). The numbers of haplotypes per individuals surveyed for the three antbirds were intermediate. Such variable levels of polymorphism can greatly influence analyses of genetic structure. At the regional geographic scale (across southwestern Amazonia), the flycatcher exhibited lower levels of differentiation than the other taxa. Levels of estimated sequence divergence within the other four taxa are similar to levels of differentiation between species from other avian studies, suggesting that genetic diversity is underestimated by current species-level taxonomy in these birds.
3677791|Climate change has advanced the breeding dates of many bird species, but for few species we know whether this advancement is sufficient to track the advancement of the underlying levels of the food chain. For the long-distance migratory pied flycatcher Ficedula hypoleuca the advancement in breeding time has been insufficient to maintain the synchrony with their main food sources. The timing of arrival in the breeding areas from their African wintering grounds is likely to constrain the advancement of breeding date. We hypothesise that this is because in Africa they cannot predict the advancement of spring in their breeding habitat. However, long-distance migrants may advance their arrival time by migrating faster when circumstances en route are favourable. In this study we show that both arrival and breeding date depend on temperatures at their main North African staging grounds, as well as on temperature at the breeding grounds. Male arrival and average laying date were not correlated, but the positive effect of temperature in North Africa on breeding dates suggests that breeding date is indeed constrained by arrival of females. Long-distance migrants thus are able to adjust arrival and hence breeding by faster spring migration, but the degree of adjustment is probably limited as timing schedules in spring are tight. Furthermore, as climate change is affecting temperatures differently along the migratory flyway and the breeding areas, it is unlikely that arrival dates are advanced at the same rate as the timing of breeding should advance, given the advancement of the underlying levels of the food chain.
3677638|On the offshore island Helgoland, passerine birds killed by predators (feral cats Felis catus and raptors, mainly sparrowhawks Accipiter nisus) during stopover were measured and weighed when found freshly killed and still intact. Supplemented by data of migrating birds ringed on Helgoland and predated on the island later on, age and body mass of victims were compared to live birds trapped on Helgoland during ringing operations. In the eleven species considered, most predator kills fell within the lightest 20% of birds measured during ringing, regardless of which type of predator was involved. It seems that the risk of being heavy due to fuel loads with respect to reduced escape performance is overestimated. The higher exposure of light birds due to more intense foraging and displacement to suboptimal habitats is probably of higher biological significance by offering conspicuous prey for predators. The lower risk of heavy birds when prey of different body condition is available for predators has implications for modelling optimal migration behaviour, and predation risk is perhaps not an important factor for migrants when deciding on site use.
3677699|From 1976 to 1997 passerines were mist-netted and ringed on the island of Christians, in the Baltic Sea. Here we present analyses of phenological changes (i.e. time of arrival) for 25 species based on the entire populations of mist-netted songbirds during spring migration. We used two approaches (least square and quantile regression) to test for changes in arrival time of first individuals and three different parts of the songbird populations (i.e. first 5%, 50% and 95% of the total number of trapped individuals corrected for trapping effort). Our results generally confirm earlier spring arrival of migratory passerines with an overall earlier arrival of 0.26 days per year. Changes in the arrival time of first individuals are often the only data available. They are typically analysed on the assumption that they are representative of their respective population. We found a unidirectional, significant change towards earlier arrival for all four measures of arrival timing which seem to support this. However, the four measures of arrival are changing at different rates. First individuals changed arrival time more rapidly than the first 5%, 50% and 95% of the spring total. Such differences are likely to be important for our understanding of population-dynamic changes in relation to climate change. These differences may also have long-term evolutionary consequences. Migration distance seems to affect the degree of change in arrival time, but we found no difference between species wintering in different regions of Africa.
3677650|There is considerable evidence that reproductive success improves with age in birds. It is often suggested that improved performance of older birds is because they are more experienced. Less consideration has been given to the possibility that improvements may be a consequence of age-related changes in reproductive physiology. One factor that consistently changes with age is laying date - first year birds lay later than older birds. In European starlings Sturnus vulgaris, older males begin reproductive activity earlier than first year males and dominate available nest sites. I monitored changes in testicular volume in captive starlings exposed to natural changes in day length and temperature, from their first autumn through the next two annual cycles. Testicular maturation was advanced by 3-4 weeks in birds during their second year compared to the first, and testicular regression occurred about 2 weeks later. The period of full sexual maturation was 50% longer during the second year. The timing of the post-nuptial moult was the same. A possible physiological mechanism to explain this is discussed. The results show that earlier reproductive activity in older birds can be explained, at least in part, by intrinsic physiological mechanisms. This does not preclude additional effects of experience of an individual in the improvement in reproductive performance between first and second year birds.
10.2307/3677103|Survival rates, natal dispersal, and age at first breeding of Little Egrets Egretta garzetta breeding in the Camargue (southern France) were estimated using individually marked birds observed in nesting colonies from 1987 to 1995. Survival and probability of resighting were estimated separately, using capture-mark-recapture models. Annual survival rates of adult breeding birds were constant (71.4%) during the study period, whereas the survival rates of yearlings showed marked variations between years, ranging from 6.54% to 55.19%. Rank in the brood at fledging had no effect on subsequent first-year or adult survival. There was no evidence for an effect of winter severity or trophic conditions at fledging on first-year survival during the study period. Age and time (study year), but not rank in the brood, had a significant interactive effect on resighting rates. A higher proportion of philopatric individuals was observed among birds first observed breeding at age one, compared to individuals observed breeding for the first time at an older age. Little Egrets that settled in colonies other than the natal one, dispersed at fairly even distances, with only a slight tendency to stay close to their natal colony. There was no influence of rank in the brood on the degree of philopatry. Direct observations and estimates from demographic models revealed that a substantial proportion of birds started breeding at age one, with large variations between years. This pattern of recruitment contrasts markedly with previous records for Ciconiiforms.
3677480|We investigated whether trace elements in tail feathers of an insectivorous and long-distance migratory bird species could be used to identify moulting areas and hence migratory pathways. We analysed tail feathers from birds of different age and sex collected from a range of different breeding sites across Europe. The site of moult had a large effect on elemental composition of feathers of birds, both at the European and African moulting sites. Analysis of feathers of nestlings with known origin suggested that the elemental composition of feathers depended largely upon the micro-geographical location of the colony. The distance between moulting areas could not explain the level of differences in trace elements. Analysis of feathers grown by the same individuals on the African wintering grounds and in the following breeding season in Europe showed a large difference in composition indicating that moulting site affects elemental composition. Tail feathers moulted in winter in Africa by adults breeding in different European regions differed markedly in elemental composition, indicating that they used different moulting areas. Analysis of tail feathers of the same adult individuals in two consecutive years showed that sand martins in their first and second wintering season grew feathers with largely similar elemental composition, although the amounts of several elements in tail feathers of the older birds was lower. There was no difference between the sexes in the elemental composition of their feathers grown in Africa. Investigation of the trace element composition of feathers could be a useful method for studying similarity among groups of individuals in their use of moulting areas.
3677737|Nestling parasites typically beg more intensively than do host nestlings yet these exaggerated displays are also honest in that they are modulated by hunger and age. We hypothesized that honesty was also maintained in the food solicitation behaviors of fledgling brood parasites because the benefits and costs of their begging displays are similar to those of nestling parasites. Begging displays of hand-reared 14-32 days old brown-headed cowbirds Molothrus ater that had experimentally manipulated nutritional needs were recorded to analyze variation in the peak frequency, duration, and rate of fledglings' begging bouts. Peak frequency of bouts decreased with greater age and was lower for females. Bout rate was greater with increasing hunger levels of fledgling parasites but did not vary with age. Consistent and predictable variation of acoustic begging displays with age, sex, and hunger-level indicates honesty in host-parasite communication systems through conveying truthful information about the many possible needs of parasitic fledglings.
10.2307/3677063|The mitochondrial genetic differentiation and molecular phylogenetic relationships of western and eastern Bonelli's Warblers (Phylloscopus b. bonelli, P.b. orientalis) and Green Warbler Phylloscopus nitidus were investigated. The cytochrome b gene was amplified by polymerase chain reaction and 1038 nucleotides were sequenced directly in these and several other Phylloscopus species plus Sylvia atricapilla and Acrocephalus scirpaceus. The mitochondrial genetic distance between eastern and western Bonelli's Warblers was as large (8.3-8.6%) as between each of them and the Wood Warbler P. sibilatrix. Compared to the amount of mtDNA differentiation between other closely related species and subspecies of birds, the divergence between the Bonelli's warblers is far greater than among typical subspecies. Together with the distinct differences in calls and structure of song elements the genetic data support full species status of the two taxa. The cytochrome b sequence of P. nitidus differed by 2.5-3.1% from P. trochiloides, to which it is most closely related. This divergence is also larger than between most subspecies of birds studied so far at this locus and is consistent with the placement of P. nitidus as an allospecies within the superspecies P. [trochiloides]. We discuss population-genetic scenarios for a potentially accelerated rate of mtDNA differentiation in relatively small, geographically isolated populations that might help to explain the large sequence divergence observed. A phylogenetic tree was constructed by maximum parsimony and neighbour-joining. Chiffchaff P. collybita and Willow Warbler P. trochilus are sister species and together form the sister group of Bonelli's and Wood Warblers. As expected, Arctic Warbler P. borealis was found to be the sister species of the Greenish Warbler complex (including nitidus), whereas the relationships of P. (inornatus) humei relative to the other species could not be resolved. Among the taxa studied, those without wing-bars belong to a phylogenetically older clade than those with wing-bars. MtDNA sequence data promise to be very useful in quantifying the genetic differentiation and phylogenetic relationships among closely related species, especially in morphologically poorly differentiated genera like Phylloscopus.
10.2307/3677353|Reproductive performance of Great Tits and Blue Tits breeding in highly fragmented woodland was investigated in relation to woodland area in a landscape dominated by intensive arable agriculture in eastern England. Breeding performance was recorded for five years (1993-1997) for tits breeding in nestboxes in up to 43 woods ranging in size from 0.1 to 157 ha. Trends in the components of breeding success with woodland area were investigated using a linear, mixed model including both fixed and random effects, and logistic regression analysis. In both Great Tits and Blue Tits, breeding performance declined with decreasing woodland area. For Blue Tits, the decline was accounted for by the timing of breeding which was later in smaller woods. Great Tits showed a similar trend in laying date with woodland area, but over and above this effect of timing on breeding success, they also reared lighter young in smaller woods. The variation in first egg date accounted for by woodland area was about 25% for Great Tits and 33% for Blue Tits. In some years, failure at the nestling stage was frequent for Great Tits (but not Blue Tits) in small woods, but was not recorded to the same extent in large woods. The results are discussed in the context of previous studies of tit breeding success in relation to individual bird quality, habitat quality and availability, and the consequences of habitat fragmentation.
10.2307/3677111|The clutch size, a-egg volume and hatching success of Great Skuas on Foula, Shetland, were examined on successive breeding attempts following recruitment. Clutch size and a-egg volume increased with breeding experience but hatching success was not affected. The increase in clutch size was evident only between the first and second breeding attempt, but increase in a-egg volume was apparent up to at least the third breeding attempt. Improvements in clutch size were associated with breeding experience rather than age of the bird. There was evidence that improvements in clutch size and a-egg volume occurred within individuals from the first to the second breeding attempt, thus providing support for the maturation hypothesis. Primiparous Great Skuas (those breeding for the first time) that laid a two-egg clutch were more likely to return to breed in the following year than those with one egg. This would give an apparent increase in breeding performance with experience in cross-sectional analyses, because poor-quality birds would be under-represented in the second breeding attempt. This finding provides support for the selection hypothesis.
10.2307/3677260|Raptor migration was studied at two locations in southern Israel in spring 1992. Tracking radars provided exact data on individual flight paths throughout the day, whereby emphasis was on recording entire 'inter-thermal gliding' and 'thermal circling' phases. Steppe Eagles Aquila nipalensis adjusted their flight tactics to the actual wind and thermal conditions: They increased their gliding airspeed under strong thermal convection and in opposing winds. Under certain conditions the usual circling in thermals and inter-thermal gliding tactic was combined with soaring in straight line gliding, suggesting large scale updrafts. Cross-country speeds were considerably enhanced if birds used this combined flight tactic, since it provides gain of altitude as well as progress in the direction of migration. Cross-country speed was positively related to climbing rate in thermal circling. Over the whole diurnal cycle, the mean climbing rate in thermal circling was 1.9 m/s. The highest climbing rates, occasionally up to 5 m/s, were reached around noon. Mean cross-country speed was 12.4 m/s, mean gliding airspeed 15.6 m/s. The upper limit of migration was at about 1600 m above ground level, but 90% of the Steppe Eagles flew below 1000 m above ground, 50% even below 400 m. A comparison with Steppe Buzzard Buteo buteo vulpinus and Honey Buzzard Pernis apivorus, observed under the same conditions, revealed similar flight characteristics. However, Steppe Eagles reached higher cross-country speeds, reflecting a higher selectivity for optimal flight conditions combined with the use of updrafts while soaring in straight line gliding.
3677656| The requirements of the orientation system of nave long-distance night migrants were analysed by comparing data on Barred Warbler Sylvia nisoria, Marsh Warbler Acrocephalus palustris and Spotted Flycatcher Muscicapa striata with data from a computer model of a clock-and-compass system. These species show, respectively, a rather restricted winter distribution in East Africa, migration through a very narrow corridor in East Africa, and rather widely distributed recoveries in the Mediterranean with more concentrated recoveries south of the Sahara. For all three species, to obtain the observed concentrations either a very high directional migratory concentration was needed in computer simulations to bring the birds successfully to their wintering areas or misorientating individuals would be subjected to a very high mortality. Neither the very high directional concentration nor the high mortality amongst misorientating individuals fit the empirical data sets. On the basis of the present study, the observed patterns seem difficult to explain by a simple clock-and-compass system only, and to account for the exceptionally precise migratory routes shown in this study it is proposed that first-time migrants might be able to use landscape topography on a regional scale in combination with corrections of directional mistakes/wind displacements. 
30245202|Despite two decades of research into over one hundred species, the function of extrapair paternity to female birds remains unclear. Recent studies have demonstrated patterns between extrapair paternity and the genetic similarity of females with social partners and extrapair males. We believe that selection on females to gain genetically compatible fathers for their offspring offers a possible general explanation for the function of extrapair paternity. The idea of sexual selection being driven by genetic compatibility is widely considered by workers on other taxa but has been largely ignored by studies of birds. Genetic compatibility could be optimised by females through a behavioural process before copulation or through a postcopulatory process. Postcopulatory processes such as cryptic female choice have been recently demonstrated in birds and would allow female birds to use a 'genetically loaded raffle' to target compatible genes through sperm competition. We discuss the general weaknesses of studies of extrapair paternity to date and suggest a number of avenues for future research that will help to elucidate the function of extrapair paternity and widespread genetic polyandry in birds.
3677558|Eastern curlews Numenius madagascariensis spending the nonbreeding season in eastern Australia foraged on three intertidal decapods: soldier crab Mictyris longicarpus, sentinel crab Macrophthalmus crassipes and ghost-shrimp Trypaea australiensis. Due to their ecology, these crustaceans were spatially segregated (=distributed in 'patches') and the curlews intermittently consumed more than one prey type. It was predicted that if the curlews behaved as intake rate maximizers, the time spent foraging on a particular prey (patch) would reflect relative availabilities of the prey types and thus prey-specific intake rates would be equal. During the mid-nonbreeding period (November-December), Mictyris and Macrophthalmus were primarily consumed and prey-specific intake rates were statistically indistinguishable (8.8 versus 10.1
3677790|Data on nest success and brood productivity of three ground-nesting, three canopy-nesting and four hole-nesting (non-excavator) passerines were gathered in a primeval lowland temperate forest (Biaowiea National Park, E Poland). Natural holes were superabundant and the birds had to cope with a heavy pressure of a diverse assemblage of nest predators. We tested whether in such conditions nesting in holes is more productive, and whether nesting on the ground is most risky, as expected from some earlier generalisations. The nesting success varied significantly across the nest types. As predicted, the success of hole-nesters (51-74%) and their brood productivity were the highest. Contrary to expectations, the ground-nesters (27-40%) did not breed less successfully than the canopy-nesters (22-33%). Nest predators, responsible for 64-94% of nest losses in individual species, were the major cause of the differences among nest types. The Biaowiea results confirm the long-held view that holes tend to be the safest breeding places, but lend no support for the idea that nesting on the ground is more dangerous than in tree crowns.
10.2307/3677317|Scanning and flocking behaviour of 16 species of wader showing three different foraging strategies (pause-travel, visual continuous, tactile continuous) was studied to test predictions regarding the effect of foraging technique on such behaviours. The scanning hypothesis predicts that (1) pause-travel foraging species will spend less time vigilant and will scan less frequently than species using a continuous foraging strategy (either visual or tactile); the flocking hypothesis predicts that (2) visually hunting species (both pause-travel and visual continuous) will tend to form smaller flocks than tactile-foraging species. The results show differences between pause-travel and continuous foraging species in vigilance rate but not in time spent vigilant or in mean scan duration. The two continuous strategies did not differ in any variable related to scanning behaviour. However, with respect to flocking behaviour, both pause-travel and visual continuous-foraging species differed from tactile continuous-foraging species in foraging flock size. These results are discussed in the light of the syndrome hypothesis.
30245213|The uropygial glands of birds serve multiple functions, and there is great interspecific variability in the composition and properties of their secretions. A special case is the secretion in the hoopoes Upupa epops, and green woodhoopoes Phoeniculus purpureus, which, contrary to the commonly white and odourless secretions, are dark with pungent odour. Recently, bacteria have been isolated from glands of both woodhoopoes and hoopoes and here we test the hypothesis that bacteria are responsible of some of the special properties of glands and secretions of this group of birds. We explore natural seasonal changes and intersexual differences in the properties of hoopoe glands and secretions, check the natural occurrence of bacteria within secretions, and analyse the effect of experimental injection of antibiotics on uropygial gland properties. Male glands underwent no seasonal changes, and their secretions were invariably white and odourless, very similar to female glands outside the breeding season. However, in comparison to the uropygial gland of non-breeding females, those of incubating females showed a marked increase in size and volume of secretion produced, which became dark and pungent. All these parameters increased until the hatching date and returned to values similar to those in the prelaying phase towards the end of the nestling period. Nestling glands produced secretions similar to those of females in colour and odour. Gland size of both females and nestlings predicted the amount of secretion produced. Microscopic techniques confirmed the presence of bacteria at high density and in active division in all dark secretions examined. The antibiotic treatment significantly reduced the load of enterococci in nestling glands, did not affect size of glands, but diminished the volume of secretion, which was lighter in colour than that of control nestlings. In nesting females, the experimental injection of antibiotic affected some measurements of gland size and secretion colour. Because the experiment did not affect general health estimates (immunocompetence, body condition or growing) of nestlings, our results suggest that some of the special properties of hoopoe glands are mediated by the presence of symbiotic bacteria.
10.2307/3677089| The Osprey is a long-distance migrant breeding in the northern Holarctic and wintering in the tropics. Two breeding females in Sweden were provided with satellite transmitters and their autumn migration to Africa was followed in detail. Both birds left the nest area before the young were independent, leaving the final care to the male. One female left Sweden in late August and spent 30 days migrating to a winter site in the Ivory Coast. Ringing recoveries indicate that most Swedish Ospreys spend the winter in West Africa. The other female, however, left in early August and first went east to spend 30 days in an area north of the Caspian Sea, before continuing south to winter in Mozambique. En route she made two more stopovers and the whole journey lasted 83 days. On average the Ospreys covered 270 km on a day of active migration and they were apparently stationary at night. The southward tracks of the two birds were strikingly parallel with a mean orientation of 200 and 196 respectively. In contrast to other raptors more dependent on thermal activity, the Ospreys maintained a constant heading across sea passages, as well as mountain ranges and deserts. It is suggested that the Osprey is more time-selected on migration compared to other thermal migrants. Both females were very stationary at their winter sites, staying within a very limited area. Early arrival to gain a good winter and stopover territory may be a driving force for time minimization during migration. 
3677446|Sexually selected displays, such as bird song, are expected to be costly. We examined a novel potential cost to bird song: whether a less favourable microclimate at exposed song posts would be predicted to raise metabolic rate. We measured the microclimate and height at which willow warblers Phylloscopus trochilus sang and foraged. Song posts were higher than foraging sites. The wind speed was 0.60.3 ms<sup>-1</sup> greater at song posts (meanSD, N = 12 birds). Song rate and song post selection were not influenced consistently by temperature or wind speed, but the birds sang from lower positions on one particularly windy day. This may have resulted from difficulty in holding on to exposed branches in windy conditions rather than a thermoregulatory constraint. The results suggest that the extra thermoregulatory costs at song posts would increase metabolic rate by an average of 104% and a maximum of 258% (N = 12 birds) relative to birds singing at foraging sites. We estimated that metabolic rate would be 3-8% greater during singing than during quiet respiration because of heat and evaporative water loss in exhaled gases. The combined energy requirements for sound production, thermoregulation at exposed song posts and additional heat loss in exhaled air could increase the metabolic rate of willow warblers by an average of 14-23%, and a maximum of 42-63%, during singing. The energetic cost of singing may thus be much greater for birds in a cold, windy environment than for birds singing in laboratory conditions.
25161525|We propose that growth bar size may indicate the quality of individuals in Styan's Grasshopper Warblers Locustella pleskei. Positive correlations of an individual's standardized growth bar width between years showed that some individuals of both sexes were usually in better condition than others. The survival rate of males with wider growth bars was higher than that of other males. These survivors might have survived better because of a better body condition. We also examined the relationships between growth bar width and reproductive parameters (arrival date, pairing date and reproductive success). Males with wider growth bars arrived earlier, acquired a mate earlier and achieved higher total reproductive success by breeding twice. In females, growth bar width was correlated with reproductive parameters (arrival date, pairing date and total reproductive success), but not with survival. These results suggest that males with wider growth bars were of higher quality than those with narrower bars. The contrasting results for the two sexes may be explained by differences in their breeding tactics.
3677787|In sexually size-dimorphic species, the larger sex can be more sensitive to stressful environmental conditions, often resulting in reduced growth and elevated mortality rates. Development of the immune system is regarded as highly resource dependent, and recent data suggest that nestling passerines experience a possible resource-based trade-off between growth and immunity. Given the hypothesized importance of maximizing growth for the larger sex, the corresponding immune system may also exhibit similar sensitivity to limited resources. To better understand how natural variation in brood size and resources might differentially affect growth and immune function in nestlings of a sexually size-dimorphic species, we examined the relationship between brood size and inter-sexual differences in cell-mediated immunity (CMI) and survival in European starling Sturnus vulgaris nestlings where males are larger in both mass and structural size. We hypothesized that male CMI response should be negatively impacted by increasing sibling competition (brood size), especially during periods of low resource availability. In a year of reduced parental provisioning rates and reduced chick growth rates, male offspring exhibited the predicted negative relationship, whereas female CMI response was unaffected. However, in a year of improved provisioning rates and chick growth, neither sex exhibited a negative relationship between immune response and brood size. Thus, natural variation in brood size can affect sex-specific immunity differently in offspring of a sexually size-dimorphic passerine. However, this relationship appears resource-dependent, suggesting that the hypothesized resource-based trade-off may be compensated for in years of adequate resource abundance.
3677516| Plantcutters (Phytotomidae) represent the only Passeriformes with a predominantly folivorous diet. Little is known however about their feeding habits and adaptations for leaf consumption. Here we analyze the relationship between diet composition and nutritional value in the white-tipped plantcutter Phytotoma rutila in a Chaco woodland in Crdoba, Argentina. The white-tipped plantcutter consumed mainly dicot leaves (91%), complemented with a small proportion of fruits (7%) and flowers (2%). Eleven plant species were utilized, of which five were strongly dominant: Lycium cestroides (38%), Prosopis alba and P. nigra (28%), Celtis tala (22%), and Schinus longifolius (8%). No animal food was consumed. The leaf material ingested by the white-tipped plantcutter had high protein content and low proportion of fibers and phenols. In multivariate analysis, leaf chemical properties accounted for over 81% of the variation in diet composition throughout the year. However, only protein and phenols content related significantly with diet composition in single regressions. The quality index that relates protein with lignin and phenols showed the highest correlation with diet composition. Availability of highly nutritive leaves of Lycium cestroides during the dry season seems to be a key factor for the occurrence of the white-tipped plantcutter in the study area. Our results confirm that plantcutters are truly folivorous passerine species, being able to obtain a highly nutritional diet throughout the year. 
10.2307/3676949|The polygyny threshold model was introduced in the 1960s in order to explain why females in some species choose to mate with already mated males. Since then, a number of complementary or alternative hypotheses have been suggested. By using a hierarchical testing approach Searcy and Yasukawa (1989) organised the models that proposed to explain the maintenance of territorial polygyny. Here, I point out that there is no true way to organise the models, and that the organisation itself may influence which explanation the observations will support. In particular, I discuss Searcy and Yasukawa's distinction between cost and no-cost models. As an alternative to the hierarchical approach I suggest careful comparisons of those variables that inflict costs of sharing with those that provide compensation. While the hierarchical approach may put very similar systems in different model families, a cost and benefit evaluation might instead show that the difference is quantitative rather than qualitative. Also, an identical cost of polygyny can arise from several different combinations of costs of sharing and benefits of sharing. Hence, the hierarchical approach may put systems with different mechanisms behind polygyny into the same model family.
30244737|Host-parasite interactions are central in evolutionary and behavioural ecology. In the last few years, skin injections of the mitogen Phytohaemagglutinin (PHA) have become one of the most important and widely used in-vivo assays of immune function in birds. However, there are no studies of the circadian variation suggesting that care should be taken interpreting results when using this technique. This 3-year study assessed PHA responses as a function of daylight time in 310 Eurasian kestrel Falco tinnunculus nestlings at 24 days of age in Central Spain. I found that T-cell-mediated immunity was positively related to nestling mass and varied among years. Controlling for these variables, I also found that T-cell-mediated immunity decreased with the hour of sampling, and that this pattern was consistent between years. In addition, I found that at the end of the day only, T-cell-mediated immunity decreased with brood size. Parasites seem not to be behind this pattern, but I suggest that the cumulative effect of sibling competition during the day might explain the decrease of cellular immunity with the hour of sampling. Thus, I strongly recommend that future studies of cellular immunity should control for this potential source of variation when nestling self-maintenance is evaluated by the PHA-induced skin-swelling response.
3677668| How birds respond to the recent phenomenon of calcium deficiency in acidified areas is still poorly known. This study, carried out in the Jesenky Mountains (heavily polluted, acidified area in the Czech Republic), in alpine ecosystems of central Norway, and in the limestone part of the Mal Fatra Mountains (Slovak Republic), provides the first experimental evidence that birds select and bring supplemented calcium-rich items to their nestlings more often in an acidified area. Meadow Pipits Anthus pratensis and Water Pipits A. spinoletta selected calcium-rich items (mainly snail shells) from various materials placed near their nests and this selectivity did not differ between areas or species. Thinning of egg shells (8% at blunt pole, 5% at egg side) suggests that Meadow Pipits in the Jesenky Mountains were negatively influenced by the low calcium availability, in spite of their ability to adjust foraging behaviour. 
30245192|High variation in egg coloration among birds has traditionally been explained as adaptation for camouflage. We tested this hypothesis by conducting reciprocal clutch exchanges (n = 301) among Brewer's blackbirds Euphagous cyanocephalus, red-winged blackbirds Agelaius phoeniceus, and yellow-headed blackbirds Xanthocephalus xanthocephalus. We predicted that clutches placed against their natural nest backgrounds would have higher survival rates than heterospecific clutches. Intraspecific clutch exchanges were used as a control. Clutch survival was monitored for a 9-d period at all nests, during which time incubation rhythm and nest defense were quantified. Intraspecific clutch exchanges did not influence incubation or nest defense. For two of the species, intraspecific clutch exchanges did not influence clutch survival; in red-winged blackbirds, however, intraspecifically exchanged clutches had somewhat depressed survival curves relative to control clutches (P = 0.08). The effect of interspecific clutch exchanges differed by host species. In Brewer's nests, eggs of the yellowheaded blackbird had lower survival than Brewer's eggs (P = 0.02), but survival of red-winged blackbird eggs did not differ from Brewer's eggs (P = 0.50). In nests of red-winged blackbirds, all three clutch types had approximately equal survival. In yellow-headed blackbird nests, eggs of the red-winged blackbird had lower survival than yellow-headed blackbird eggs (P = 0.06), and survival of Brewer's eggs did not differ from yellowheaded blackbird eggs (P = 0.31). These findings support a role for egg coloration as camouflage in two of the three species studied.
30244755|Molecular clocks have seen many applications in ornithology, but many applications are uncritical. In this commentary, I point out logical inconsistencies in many uses of clocks in avian molecular systematics. I call for greater rigor in application of molecular clocks - clocks should only be used when clocklike behavior has been tested and confirmed, and when appropriate calibrations are available. Authors and reviewers should insist on such rigor to assure that systematics is indeed scientific, and not just storytelling.
3677609|Use of artificial nests in studies of nest success in birds has become increasingly popular, but this practice has been criticised because the appearance and success of artificial nests may differ from natural nests. Typically, artificial nests are presented with few visible eggs throughout the entire exposure period while natural nests during their life have different appearances, possibly producing stage-dependent predation rates. In ducks, nests may appear with openly visible eggs, eggs covered with nest material and covered by an incubating female. To test how nest appearance may affect nest survival, I simulated such duck nest appearances, and used direct observations to record responses of marsh harriers Circus aeruginosus, the dominant duck nest predator at the Lake Engure, Latvia, during the breeding seasons 2000-2002. I recorded 274 harrier flights over all types of artificial nests, 74 nest discoveries and 54 predation events. Logistic regression analyses showed that nest appearance was a significant predictor of the fate of the nest: nests with openly visible eggs were discovered more often than nests covered with nest material. Nests with dummy females had discovery rates similar to the average of all artificial nest types suggesting that they best reflect the predation risk of artificial nests and could be used in future studies. After discovering nests covered with dummy females, harriers never attacked but tried to scare them off to get access to the eggs. In 52% of cases of nest discovery, harriers gave up before touching the dummy. This shows that duck passive nest defence may prevent clutch predation.
3677373|In altricial birds, asynchronous hatching often results in a size hierarchy among nestlings. However, laying order and hatching order may affect components of offspring condition differentially. Since parasites can have a heavy impact on their hosts, strategies may have evolved that allow parents and offspring to allocate critical resources to immunity depending on hatching order. In this study of the Barn Swallow Hirundo rustica we (1) analyse the relationship between laying and hatching order of eggs, (2) compare morphological, serological and immunological traits between early- and late-hatched siblings, and (3) compare the begging behaviour of early- and late-hatched nestlings. Hatching order strictly reflected laying order. Late-hatched chicks begged more for food but had smaller body mass throughout the nestling period. Immunoglobulin concentration and intensity of T cell-mediated immunity were larger in late-hatched nestlings. Large concentration of immunoglobulins in late-hatched nestlings may reflect transfer of immunity from the mother via the egg. Alternatively, in association with larger T cell-mediated immunity, immunoglobulin production may indicate larger investment in immunity by late-hatched nestlings. Laying order and hatching order may therefore affect components of nestling condition differentially.
3677439|Cooperatively breeding groups may be constrained in size by the territory available to them, or territories may be expanded to accommodate extra group members. Here, we show that there was no relationship between the number of adult green woodhoopoes Phoeniculus purpureus in a group and the size of its territory. Furthermore, territories were remarkably stable between seasons, with no significant changes in area, despite fluctuating group sizes. These results suggest that food was not limiting at the group sizes found in this study: sufficient resources were available within existing territories for groups that were expanding in size. Following an increase in group membership, a larger proportion of the available area was utilised. Groups also used a larger area in the non-breeding season compared to when breeding: in the latter instance, foraging was concentrated in the vicinity of the nest.
3677764|The single young of shearwaters grows slowly and is fed at long, often highly variable, intervals. We monitored the growth patterns of nestling Short-tailed Shear-waters Puffinus tenuirostris exchanged between nests in order to assess whether the patterns of parental visits or the demands of their young determined the rate of food provisioning in this species. These cross-fostering trials indicate a strong parental influence upon the rate of food delivery, but did not exclude the possibility of a minor influence from chicks.
10.2307/3677289|We analyzed the effects of weather during prelaying, incubation, and early chick periods on the reproductive success of Hazel Grouse Bonasa bonasia in southwestern Finland (14 years) and southern Poland (6 years). Reproductive success was most clearly correlated with weather during the prelaying period in both areas, with days of precipitation correlating negatively and temperature positively. We suggest that the availability of nutritionally rich food and the ability of the females to obtain it during the prelaying period, when the females are rapidly gaining mass and forming eggs, determine in large part the reproductive success of Hazel Grouse. A literature review suggested that this is generally true for small grouse species. The larger species, which have greater endogenous reserves and invest relatively less in their clutches, are less affected by prelaying weather conditions. Chicks of larger species have higher growth rates and energy requirements, however, which is probably the reason why the reproductive success of the larger species is more affected by weather during the early chick period.
10.2307/3676941|A long-term colour-ringing and resighting programme on the Isle of May, Scotland which involved 734 adult Puffins Fratercula arctica was used to estimate annual survival rates over the period 1973-94 and to investigate some of the factors which influenced survival. Except in 1990 when survival was extremely low, estimated annual survival always exceeded 0.89. There was, however, evidence of a temporal change with survival rates being consistently lower during the second half of the study. This pattern was best described by a stepped model with survival rates of 0.975 (SE 0.004) between 1973 and 1980, 0.924 (0.006) between 1981 and 1994 and a separate value of 0.806 (0.026) for 1990. The decline in survival after 1980 was apparent in all age classes and could not be attributed to a slight change in the study area covered shortly afterwards. There was no evidence that survival rates differed between the sexes but we did find a significant age effect with birds estimated to be 20-25 or more years old either surviving or reproducing much less well than younger individuals.
30244416|Large numbers of passerine migrants cross the Sahara desert every year on their way to-and-from wintering areas in tropical Africa. In the desert, hardly any fuelling opportunities exist and most migrants have to prepare in advance. A central question is how inexperienced birds know where to fuel. Inexperienced garden warblers Sylvia borin were studied in Greece just before the desert crossing in autumn. Body mass data collected at two sites indicate that most birds do not fuel for the desert crossing further north. For the first time, detailed information about stopover duration close to the Sahara desert was studied by using light weight radio-transmitters. Results from Crete show that most first-year garden warblers arrive with relatively small fuel loads in relation to lean body mass (< 30%), stay for 13-20 d and depart with an average fuel load of about 100%. Radio-tagged birds performed small scale movements initially and took advantage of fig fruits. Birds trapped at fig trees were heavier than birds trapped with tape lures, showing that tape lures can bias the sample of migrants trapped. The precise fuelling pattern found indicates that first-year migrants must also include external spatial cues to make the preparation for crossing the desert in the right area.
3677510|Projected body frontal area is used when estimating the parasite drag of bird flight. We investigated the relationship between projected frontal area and body mass among passerine birds, and compared it with an equation based on waterfowl and raptors, which is used as default procedure in a widespread software package for flight performance calculations. The allometric equation based on waterfowl/raptors underestimates the frontal area compared to the passerine equation presented here. Consequently, revising the actual frontal areas of small birds will concomitantly change the values of the parasite drag coefficient. We suggest that the new equation
30243839|We used the stable isotope composition of body feathers to show the extraordinarily varying regional provenance of an irruptive conifer seed specialist, the common crossbill Loxia curvirostra. In the boreal region of the western Palearctic, this species specialises on the seeds of Norway spruce Picea abies. The patterns of deuterium in the feathers of migrant common crossbills collected in Britain suggested that irruptions in different years originated in widely separated regions of the Palearctic boreal forest. The birds from some irruptions were relatively narrow-billed compared with those from others, but bill width was not correlated with deuterium values. However, deuterium values did co-vary with the dates that the irruptions reached Britain, with the lowest deuterium levels in years with the latest arrivals. This finding was consistent with the idea that birds with low values came further, from regions far to the northeast. This pattern was very different from that found in irruptive northern bullfinches Pyrrhula p. pyrrhula which had larger variation in deuterium values within an irruption, suggestive of a much more widespread provenance. It is argued that the difference between species is the result of their differing foraging ecology. Bullfinches have a varied summer diet and, unlike common crossbills, do not concentrate regionally to breed where a single type of food is available that year.
10.2307/3677312|In a two-year study of an area in central Sweden a population of Black Grouse Tetrao tetrix was found in which displaying males were not clustered on leks. The study area which covered approximately
3677576|Egg rejection behaviour towards parasitic eggs was studied in a great reed warbler Acrocephalus arundinaceus population in central Hungary, which was heavily (about 65%) parasitised by the common cuckoo Cuculus canorus. Clutches were experimentally parasitised during the egg-laying period with artificial, moderately mimetic cuckoo eggs or with conspecific eggs that were good mimics of the hosts' eggs. Great reed warblers rejected 76.2% of the artificial cuckoo eggs, mainly by ejection, but accepted most of the conspecific eggs (87.5%). Cuckoo eggs in naturally parasitised clutches were rejected at a lower rate (32%). When, in addition to the egg mimicry experiments, a stuffed cuckoo was placed near the nest, accompanied by the recording of a female cuckoo call, hosts' rejection rate of the artificial cuckoo egg increased from 76% to 96%. The sight of the cuckoo, on the other hand, did not influence host's rejection behaviour when a conspecific egg was used in the experiment. A stuffed collared dove Streptopelia decaocto, accompanied by its call, was used as a control, and did not cause any increased rejection. Great reed warblers were more aggressive towards the cuckoo than to the dove dummy. When the cuckoo eggs in naturally parasitised clutches were exchanged with artificial cuckoo eggs, we observed no increase in the rejection rate. We conclude that great reed warblers in our heavily parasitised population are capable of detecting brood parasitism in their clutch by identifying the parasitic egg. The efficiency of this identification depends mainly on the mimicry of the foreign egg. The sight of the cuckoo at the nest may increase rejection rate by stimulus summation, and this conditional effect is mainly affected by the degree of mimicry of the parasitic egg.
30243295|I studied the breeding biology of pied avocets Recurvirostra avosetta in natural habitats (alkaline lakes), and in semi-natural sites (dry fishpond, reconstructed wetlands) in Hungary to relate habitat selection patterns to spatial and temporal variation in breeding success. Colonies were initiated earlier in semi-natural sites than in natural habitats, and earlier on islands than on the mainland. Hatching success was higher on islands than on the mainland, in semi-natural sites than in natural habitats, in colonies of at least 15 pairs than in smaller colonies, and for nests initiated earlier than later within a colony. Fledging success was higher in the wet years (1999-2000) than in the dry year (1998), decreased strongly by season in both habitats and increased with average daily temperature in the first week post-hatch in 1999-2000. Most pairs hatching young in semi-natural sites attempted to lead their chicks to feeding areas in natural habitats, whereas no such movement occurred in the opposite direction. Chick mortality due to predation was high during brood movements and only 23% of the pairs moving their young produced fledglings, compared to 43% for pairs remaining in semi-natural sites and 68% for pairs hatching and rearing young in natural habitats (total n = 192 broods). These results suggest that semi-natural sites were more suitable for nesting, whereas natural habitats were more suitable for chick-rearing. The opposing trends in habitat-related breeding success between nesting and chickrearing suggest sub-optimal habitat selection by Pied Avocets due to an incorrect assessment of the potential for successful reproduction of semi-natural sites, which may thus function as ecological traps.
3677754|The Madagascar Paradise Flycatcher Terpsiphone mutata and Common Newtonia Newtonia brunneicauda frequently form two-species flocks in the deciduous dry forest of western Madagascar. In T. mutata, some males have long tails, while other males and females have short tails. When foraging in mixed flocks, each type of bird captured prey more rapidly than otherwise, but the degree of increase in feeding rate was smaller in long-tailed males. When in mixed flocks, all T. mutata caught prey on leaves in the canopy where N. brunneicauda foraged. Long-tailed males changed feeding habits from sallying when not in mixed flocks, whereas short-tailed birds showed no change of feeding habit. The elongated tails of long-tailed males may have made their foraging less efficient owing to decreased agility in the canopy. N. brunneicauda is monomorphic and often formed groups of three to five individuals. In monospecific flocks, subordinates fed at low rates on branches owing to frequent hostile encounters. When foraging in mixed flocks, however, subordinates foraged among leaves, and their feeding rates increased because the frequency of intraspecific interference decreased greatly. Dominants did not show any difference in feeding pattern with social situation. Thus, heterospecific flocking was more advantageous for subordinates.
30243856|Conflicts among siblings are widespread and their resolution involves complex physical and communication tools. Observations in the barn owl Tyto alba showed that siblings vocally communicate in the absence of parents to negotiate priority of access to the impending food resources that parents will bring. In the present paper, we hypothesize and provide correlative evidence that after a parent brought a food item to their progeny, sibling competition involves vocal sib-sib communication. A food item takes a long time to be entirely consumed, and hence siblings continue to compete over prey monopolization even after parents gave a food item to a single offspring. When physical competition is pronounced and thereby the risk of prey theft is high, the individual that received a prey item consumes it in a concealed place. Concomitantly, nestlings vocalize intensely probably to indicate their motivation to siblings to not share their food item, since this vocal behaviour was particularly frequent in younger individuals for which the risk of being robbed is higher than in their older siblings. Furthermore, nestlings consumed more rapidly a food item when their siblings vocalized intensely presumably because the intensity of siblings' vocalizations is associated with a risk of prey theft. Our correlative study suggests that sibling competition favoured the evolution of sib-sib communication under a wide range of situations.
30245191|Individuals of some species differentiate each other on the basis of the acoustic features of their vocalizations, and this can be used in individual-based population monitoring studies. No research has tested for the effectiveness of individual marking through voice recognition as compared to traditional monitoring methods relying on physical marks. We compared voice recognition and physical marking using the Dupont's lark Chersophilus duponti as a study species. This bird needs to be attracted with playback in order to be seen (or captured). We first demonstrated that the territorial calls from a sample of banded males were individually distinctive and constant over time by means of discriminant function analysis, which correctly classified 100% of marked males. Then, we applied similarity techniques on call spectrotemporal features to define a threshold value of similarity within banded individuals, to be combined with qualitative spectrogram inspection for the classification of all recorded birds. Eventually, we compared the voice and the capture samples, to test for differences in relation to re-location rate, territory fidelity and dispersal movements both within and between years. Voice recognition was less time-consuming than capture-recapture method in the field, but it was useless for monitoring yearlings in call development stage. The two methods provided the same results in terms of territory fidelity and dispersal movements, but differed in re-location rates, which were significantly greater in the case of voice recognition method. By means of physical captures we possibly trapped a large sample of young and silent floaters, with low probability of recapture or recording. This mismatch between methods could bias the estimates of annual survival, which strongly depend on re-location rates. We suggest considering the two methods as complementary rather than alternatives for monitoring populations. Each technique offers unique information, and the two sources should be combined to provide correction factors that would eventually sharpen our knowledge on bird population ecology.
30243848|Between 1970 and 2006 reed warblers Acrocephalus scirpaceus started breeding progressively earlier; both the initiation of breeding (the earliest first egg dates) and peak of breeding (median first egg dates) advanced. Median first egg dates correlated significantly with increasing May-July mean temperatures. However, in contrast to other studies showing the advancement in laying dates, the end of the season did not shift. As a result, the breeding season is now longer increasing re-nesting opportunities. Individuals are able to re-nest 4-5 times, which might have important implications for the species. It was also found that in warmer seasons the population suffered fewer nest losses. Both factors, higher re-nesting potential and a trend toward fewer losses, should lead to increased fitness of individuals in the studied population.
30244428|Trading-off food and safety is considered a predominant component of foraging behavior. We examined whether predators' response to potential prey is state-dependent, and suggest that risk of injury while pursuing the prey affects the predators' foraging behavior in a similar manner as predation risk affects prey foraging behavior. We examined how the daring of steppe buzzards Buteo buteo vulpinus in pursuing their prey varied with body condition. We measured the time it took juvenile buzzards to attack a mouse placed in a Bal-Chatri cage trap and related it to their body condition. We found that buzzards in poorer body condition tended to hesitate less before pursuing their prey than did buzzards in better body condition. We suggest that behavioral decisions of buzzards are state-dependant and are influenced by the risk of injury involved in pursuing their prey.
3677755|The sexes' share in parental care and the social mating system in a marked population of the single-brooded Lesser Spotted Woodpecker Dendrocopos minor were studied in 17 woodpecker territories in southern Sweden during 10 years. The birds showed a very strong mate fidelity between years; the divorce rate was 3.4%. In monogamous pairs, the male provided more parental care than the female. The male did most of the nest building and all incubation and brooding at night. Daytime incubation and brooding were shared equally by the sexes, and biparental care at these early breeding stages is probably necessary for successful breeding. In 42% of the nests, however, though still alive the female deserted the brood the last week of the nestling period, whereas the male invariably fed until fledging and fully compensated for the absent female. Post-fledging care could not be quantified, but was likely shared by both parents. Females who ceased feeding at the late nestling stage resumed care after fledging. We argue that the high premium on breeding with the same mate for consecutive years and the overall lower survival of females have shaped this male-biased organisation of parental care. In the six years with best data, most social matings were monogamous, but 8.5% of the females (N = 59) exhibited simultaneous multi-nest (classical) polyandry and 2.9% of the males (N = 68) exhibited multi-nest polygyny. Polyandrous females raised 39% more young than monogamous pairs. These females invested equal amounts of parental care at all their nests, but their investment at each nest was lower than that of monogamous females. The polyandrously mated males fully compensated for this lower female investment. Polygynous males invested mainly in their primary nest and appeared to be less successful than polyandrous females. Polyandry and polygyny occurred only when the population sex ratio was biased, and due to strong intra-sexual competition this is likely a prerequisite for polygamous mating in Lesser Spotted Woodpeckers.
10.2307/3677243| Migratory birds can use celestial and magnetic cues to locate their migratory direction. The relative importance of the two cue systems was analyzed by testing Australian Silvereyes for their orientation behavior in a cue-conflict situation during spring at dusk. Control birds tested under the natural sky in the local geomagnetic field headed in their southerly migratory direction. The experimental birds, tested under the natural sky in a magnetic field with magnetic North turned to 240 WSW, followed the shift in magnetic North and preferred ENE directions that corresponded to magnetic South. Subsequently, all birds were tested under the sky in the absence of magnetic information. Both groups continued in their previous direction, control birds south and experimental birds northeast, by celestial cues alone. Tested indoors with the magnetic field as the only cue, both groups headed southward. These findings indicate a dominant role of magnetic cues: in case of conflicting cues, the birds maintained their magnetic heading and recalibrated the celestial cues on the basis of the altered magnetic field. This is in contrast to recent findings with Savannah Sparrows Passerculus sandwichensis; one possible reason for these differences may be that the Savannah Sparrows were tested in their breeding area at high latitudes where celestial cues might generally be of greater importance, whereas our Silvereyes were tested at lower latitudes where the magnetic field appears to play a more important role. 
10.2307/3677178|Current models of bird migration consider the optimal decision making of individuals irrespective of the behaviour of conspecifics. We observed the foraging behaviour of Bewick's Swans Cygnus columbianus during their stop-over in the Dvina Bay in the White Sea in spring 1995 and 1996. Here the swans could only feed on their main food, tubers of fennel pondweed Potamogeton pectinatus, during low tide. In the course of the staging period, the swans tended to forage at progressively lower water levels, indicating that they depleted their main food and exploited increasingly deeper parts of the tuber-bank. This reduced the swans' main foraging period from 6.0 h/tide on 20 May to 3.3 h/tide on 28 May 1996. We calculated that this must have greatly decreased the rate of refuelling during the staging period. In accordance with this, swans arriving early stayed shorter than those arriving late. It seems of paramount importance to the swans to arrive as early as possible at the stop-over site. We conclude that when food depletion occurs, a game theoretical approach is needed to improve our understanding of the birds' adaptive behaviour during their migration.
10.2307/3677274|I propose that if laying interval varies depending on daily energy intake, then laying interval should also play a basic role in the determination of clutch size. A supplemental feeding experiment with European Kestrels Falco tinnunculus was performed to test this hypothesis. Supplemented females laid larger clutches with shorter intervals between eggs than control females, but did not take longer to complete their clutches. Clutch size was negatively correlated with mean laying interval. Clutch size also declined seasonally, but the effect of laying date disappeared when laying interval was controlled for statistically. Therefore, food supply affected clutch size through laying interval, not through laying date.
3677384|The present study was aimed at testing a novel idea, that rather than maximizing their distance from a predator during close-distance encounters, prey species are better off moving directly or diagonally toward the predator in order to increase the relative speed and confine the attack to a single available clashing point. We used two tamed barn owls Tyto alba to measure the rate of attack success in relation to the direction of prey movement. A dead mouse or chick was used to simulate the prey, pulled to various directions by means of a transparent string during the owl's attack. Both owls showed a high success rate in catching stationary compared with moving food items (90% and 21%, respectively). Success was higher when the prey moved directly away, rather than towards the owls (50% and 18%, respectively). Strikingly, these owls had 0% success in catching food items that were pulled sideways. This failure to catch prey that move sideways may reflect constraints in postural head movements in aerial raptors that cannot move the eyes but rather move the entire head in tracking prey. So far there is no evidence that defensive behavior in terrestrial prey species takes advantage of the above escape directions to lower rates of predator success. However, birds seem to adjust their defensive tactics in the vertical domain by taking-off at a steep angle, thus moving diagonally toward the direction of an approaching aerial predator. These preliminary findings warrant further studies in barn owls and other predators, in both field and laboratory settings, to uncover fine predator head movements during hunting, the corresponding defensive behavior of the prey, and the adaptive significance of these behaviors.
10.2307/3677189|Two hypotheses have been suggested to explain why individual variation in breeding time persists. The constraint hypothesis posits that the optimal laying date will be the same for every pair of a population. However, because egg formation is proximately constrained by the food supply, laying occurs after the ecologically optimal time. Females in poor condition cannot lay as early as females in better condition. By contrast, the individual optimization hypothesis proposes that individual variation in timing of breeding is adaptive since the optimal laying date depends on parental quality. To test these hypotheses I manipulated hatching date in a European Kestrel Falco tinnunculus population by cross-fostering clutches of equal size but differing in laying dates. Experimentally advanced clutches produced fewer fledglings and fledglings of worse quality than control clutches. Moreover, control clutches were also more productive than experimentally delayed clutches despite young being of similar quality. These results are consistent with the individual optimization hypothesis.
10.2307/3676978|When mating between members of differentiated populations results in the production of unfit hybrids, selection may favour mechanisms that reduce the probability of interbreeding. One such mechanism is a mate preference for own type. Hybridisation between sympatric Pied Flycatchers Ficedula hypoleuca and Collared Flycatchers Ficedula albicollis, occurs less frequently than expected from random mating and hybrids have very low fertility. In two aviary experiments we tested the hypothesis that males and females prefer to mate conspecifically. First, females had a simultaneous choice between one male of each species. The female showed the strongest sexual response to the conspecific male. Second, males had a simultaneous choice between a conspecific and a heterospecific female. The males showed no preference for conspecific or heterospecific female flycatchers. We discuss possible factors behind this sexual difference in species recognition.
3677382|We measured basal metabolic rate (BMR), body mass, lean mass, and gizzard mass of captive red knots Calidris canutus islandica maintained on a trout chow diet (soft-texture, low ash and water content) for several years and then shifted to small mussels Mytilus edulis (hard-texture, high ash and water content). During a 3-week period of feeding on mussels, body mass, lean mass, and gizzard mass increased 7.3 g (+7%), 10.5 g (+12%), and 4.9 g (+213%), respectively, yet BMR decreased from 0.96 to 0.89 W (-8%). Under the new mussel regime, red knots must have reduced the metabolic intensity of some of the tissues. This suggests that the experimental red knots experienced the transition to a mussel diet as stressful and energy limiting, resulting in an energy-saving strategy by reducing BMR in spite of hypertrophy of the gizzard and other organs.
3677571|The babblers (Timaliidae) form a large songbird family, which achieves its highest diversity in South-East Asia. As part of an ongoing phylogenetic investigation of this group, we focus here on the systematic position of two Asian genera, Yuhina and Stachyris, using cytochrome b, 16S and 12S sequence data. The analysis suggests that the two genera, as defined by morphological characters, are not monophyletic. The white-bellied yuhina Yuhina zantholeuca, which has been placed among the typical yuhinas by most authors, is not a babbler. The other yuhinas studied, six continental species and a species endemic to Taiwan, form a clade that includes also three species of Stachyris endemic to the Philippines. The other Stachyris are not related to this clade, and can be divided into two groups that correspond to morphological and geographical differences among the species.
10.2307/3677113| Hummingbirds foraging for nectar in mountains of the western USA encounter spatially-variable rewards under energetically-demanding environmental conditions. Previous workers have found that hummingbirds respond quickly to the average quantity and quality of reward; in addition, one might expect a response to reward variance. To explore this possibility we observed free-flying hummingbirds visiting two arrays of the native plant Ipomopsis aggregata. All flowers in one array received a 1 l aliquot of artificial nectar whereas every fifth flower in the other array received 5 l. This yielded a mean nectar standing crop similar to that found in nature, and variances in standing crop that were only slightly more extreme than those in nature. Over 12 days we recorded 362 foraging bouts by male and female Broad-tailed Selasphorus platycercus and Rufous S. rufus Hummingbirds. The "high-variance" (HV) array received 8.9% fewer foraging bouts than the "low-variance" (LV) array, and this difference was significant statistically at the  = 5.4% level. Bout frequency varied among periods of the day, but not differentially by nectar treatment. Foraging bouts tended to be longer in the LV array, though not significantly so, and hummingbirds visiting both arrays in sequence were significantly more likely to visit the LV array first. These results suggest weak risk-aversion under natural conditions. Lack of a stronger response may derive from the fact that hummingbirds sample thousands of flowers a day, so that the total profit realized over a day is not strongly influenced by flower-to-flower variation. 
3677491| Western sandpipers Calidris mauri on southward migration fly over the Gulf of Alaska to the Strait of Georgia, British Columbia, where they stop for a few days to replenish reserves before continuing. In the Strait, individuals captured on the extensive tidal mudflats of the Fraser estuary ( 25000 ha) are significantly heavier (2.71 g, or > 10% of lean body mass) than those captured on the small (< 100 ha) mudflat of nearby Sidney Island. Previous work has shown that the difference cannot be attributed to seasonal timing, size, age or gender effects, and here we compare predictions made by six hypotheses about a diverse set of data to explain why, partway through a migratory journey of  10000 km, birds have such different body masses at two stopover sites within 40 km of each other. The 'trade-off' hypothesis - that the large Fraser estuary offers safety from predators, but a lower fattening rate, while the small Sidney Island site is more dangerous, but offers a higher fattening rate - made six successful predictions, all of which were upheld by the data. All other hypotheses failed at least one prediction. We infer that calidrid sandpipers arriving in the Strait of Georgia with little fat remaining (and therefore low body mass) choose to take advantage of the high feeding rate at small sites like Sidney Island because they are less vulnerable to avian predators than are individuals with higher fat reserves, who instead elect to feed at large open sites like the Fraser estuary mudflats. 
10.2307/3677258|We recorded the population growth of two mite species, Dermanyssus hirundinis and Androlaelaps casalis, during the nesting cycle of an Illinois population of House Wrens in 1993-94. We tested two hypotheses concerning mite population growth which explain why these two mite species do not usually reach numbers detrimental to House Wren reproductive success. Since mite populations seem to grow slowly during the early stages of the nesting period, we tested the hypothesis that this is due to difficulties the mites have feeding during the early stages of the nesting cycle. This was done by determining the proportion of mites with blood in their gut throughout the nesting cycle. We also tested the hypothesis that mite populations are reduced when male House Wrens remove old nests prior to nest-building by comparing numbers of mites in nestboxes before and after nest-removal. Populations of D. hirundinis increased exponentially during the nesting cycle, but populations of A. casalis did not. The proportion of mites with blood in their gut did not change during the nesting cycle, suggesting that mites feed throughout the House Wren's nesting cycle. There was a significant decrease in mite numbers after males removed old nest material and initiated construction of the stick base of a new nest. We propose that this initial reduction in mite numbers at the beginning of nest-building usually slows mite population growth enough to allow the nestlings time to leave the nest before mite populations reach detrimental levels.
3677400|Phylogenetic relationships were studied based on DNA sequences obtained from all recognized genera of the family Corvidae sensu stricto. The aligned data set consists 2589 bp obtained from one mitochondrial and two nuclear genes. Maximum parsimony, maximum-likelihood, and Bayesian inference analyses were used to estimate phylogenetic relationships. The analyses were done for each gene separately, as well as for all genes combined. An analysis of a taxonomically expanded data set of cytochrome b sequences was performed in order to infer the phylogenetic positions of six genera for which nuclear genes could not be obtained. Monophyly of the Corvidae is supported by all analyses, as well as by the occurrence of a deletion of 16 bp in the -fibrinogen intron in all ingroup taxa. Temnurus and Pyrrhocorax are placed as the sister group to all other corvids, while Cissa and Urocissa appear as the next clade inside them. Further up in the tree, two larger and well-supported clades of genera were recovered by the analyses. One has an entirely New World distribution (the New World jays), while the other includes mostly Eurasian (and one African) taxa. Outside these two major clades are Cyanopica and Perisoreus whose phylogenetic positions could not be determined by the present data. A biogeographic analysis of our data suggests that the Corvidae underwent an initial radiation in Southeast Asia. This is consistent with the observation that almost all basal clades in the phylogenetic tree consist of species adapted to tropical and subtropical forest habitats.
3677780|In general, Arctic-breeding waders leave non-breeding grounds in Australasia from March (New Zealand) to mid-April (Northwest Australia). Here we provide evidence from radio-tracking and visual observations that many red knots Calidris canutus do not leave Roebuck Bay, Northwest Australia, until early or mid-May. Late-departing red knots probably belong to the subspecies piersmai, which breeds on the New Siberian Islands, 10,400 km from Northwest Australia. Based on comparisons of temperatures on the breeding grounds of different knot subspecies, we predict that piersmai knots would not arrive on the breeding grounds until early June, leaving at most 3-4 weeks refuelling in Asia. Using a model of fuelling capacity in relation to prey quality and gizzard mass, we show that these knots must fuel very differently in Australia and Asia. In Australia, knots have seemingly suboptimal gizzard sizes and deposit fuel slowly. In the Yellow Sea, birds could only fuel up within the available time if they either enlarged their gizzards substantially or encountered prey qualities much higher than in Australia, for which we provide quantitative predictions.
30244439|Wild bird feeding is one of the most common forms of human-wildlife interactions in the Western world. Originally a practice providing nutritional assistance to over-wintering birds, especially in more northern latitudes, birds throughout the cities of the world are now provided with considerable amounts and a variety of foods year-round. Despite the global nature of the practice, remarkably little is known about the outcomes and implications of what may be seen as a supplementary feeding experiment on a massive scale. Although many claims are made about the benefits of feeding, there are growing concerns about the spread of disease, poor nutrition, risk of dependency and many other important issues. Constructive debate among increasingly vigorous proponents and opponents is currently constrained by a lack of reliable information. Here we argue that bird feeding provides an important, if challenging, opportunity for fundamental research in urban ecology.
10.2307/3677122|Attaching radio-tags to highly dynamic organisms can bias the data collected. The nature and extent of any bias should be understood and quantified. This is vital with an untested attachment method or when tagging a new species or age-class. The suitability of a new back-pack harness design was field tested on 39 adult thrushes (33 Blackbird Turdus merula and 6 Song Thrush T. philomelos) at a study site in England. Direct chronic effects were assessed by examination of recovered corpses and recaptured birds. The harness caused the development of a small subcutaneous lipid mass on the patagium but no epidermal abrasion or inter-scapular blistering or bruising. Indirect measures of possible chronic effects came from behavioural observation and breeding performance measures. For female birds, the attachment of a back-pack tag did not significantly reduce clutch size or egg volume compared with untagged females. Nest survival rates were also unaffected. The number and quality of young fledged by tagged females were as high as those for untagged females. Video data showed that provisioning rates of the nestlings did not differ significantly between tagged and untagged parents. The proportion of time spent brooding by tagged female Blackbirds was non-significantly higher than for untagged birds.
10.2307/3677044| We examined how microhabitate features surrounding nest-sites influence probability of nest predation by testing unique predictions generated from the "distance to human activity," the "habitat complexity," and the "multiple nest-site" hypotheses. During spring and summer 1990, we quantified nine features of nest-sites and 11 features of 0.1 ha nest-patches surrounding 42 nests of suburban Blue Jays Cyanocitta cristata in Fayetteville, Arkansas, to determine differences associated with depredated and successful nests. Overall nesting success was 52% and mean daily survival rate of nests was 0.983 ( 0.004 SE). Twenty-four nests fledged at least one young, and 18 failed as a result of nest predation. Features of the nest-site, including nest height, size of the nest tree, and nest concealment, were not related to nest predation, although distance from a nest to the nearest building was inversely related to duration of nest survival. The latter relationship suggests human activity may decrease nest predation in suburban areas. Density of vegetation surrounding nests did not influence nest fate, thus providing no support for the habitat complexity hypothesis. Instead, failed nests occurred in patches containing fewer trees of the same species, size class and vine cover as the nest tree. Because this pattern was not an effect of size or species of either the nest tree or neighboring trees, nor an effect of vines in the nest tree or neighboring trees, it provides support for the multiple nest-site hypothesis. 
30244795|Complexity in bird song is often argued to be advantageous in processes of sexual selection, and numerous studies show that characteristics of song are associated with increased success in territory defence or mate attraction. Less evidence exists on the relationship between bird song characteristics and patterns of extra-pair paternity. We tested whether males that suffered from extra-pair paternity differed in song characteristics from males with no extra pair paternity in the willow warbler Phylloscopus trochilus. In the Scottish population that we studied, we found that 23.5% of young were not related to the social father, and that 47% of nests contained at least one extra pair young. Older males were less likely to suffer paternity loss. While song repertoire size was not related to loss of paternity, males with short songs suffered higher paternity loss than males with long songs. Although arrival date is a good correlate of social mate choice in this population, it was not related to extra-pair paternity. These results suggest that females use song length, or a trait correlated with this song characteristic, as a cue for choosing extra-pair partners in this species, or alternatively that variance in the success of mate guarding or female coercion is related to this song variable.
3677450|Although it is well established that brown-headed cowbirds Molothrus ater are host generalists, the parasitism strategies of individual females are not well documented. Here we use microsatellite genotyping to characterize host use by individual female cowbirds. Of 205 offspring sampled at a site in northeastern Illinois during one breeding season, we identified or inferred 33 mothers of 141 offspring, with up to 13 (mean 4.72) offspring assigned to individual females. Most (83%) females were host generalists and parasitized up to five host species, indicating that community-wide patterns of parasitism do not result from different individuals specializing on different host species. However, some females (17%) parasitized a single species, suggesting that alternative host-use strategies may exist within a single population. For host generalist females, individuals often parasitized host species that differed in body mass, nest-site placement, and quality, indicating that female cowbirds exhibit extremely flexible host ranges. However, female cowbirds consistently discriminated among potential hosts, for example, by completely avoiding some common, but unsuitable species.
10.2307/3677336|I examined the feeding rates and foraging niches of seven species regularly participating in heterospecific avian flocks in a deciduous dry forest of western Madagascar in two different social situations, viz. when the species was foraging alone or with conspecifics, and in heterospecific flocks, respectively. The species responded differently to mixed-flocking. A change in feeding sites and/or techniques was found in six species, five of which increased their feeding rates when foraging in heterospecific flocks. In mixed flocks, they tended to use similar substrates. That such interspecific convergence enhanced feeding rate might be explained by social learning, kleptoparasitism or a beating effect. Benefits gained through these effects were greatest in two species consistently acting as followers, Crested Drongo Dicrurus forficatus and Paradise Flycatcher Tersiphone mutata. Although as leaders, Newtonia Newtonia brunneicauda and Long-billed Greenbul Phyllastrephus madagascariensis often attracted other species, they also increased their feeding rates through some mutualistic effects. Another leader, Rufous Vanga Shetba rufa was the only species that neither changed foraging niche nor feeding efficiency in different social situations. Its participation in heterospecific associations probably resulted from other species exploiting the vanga's ability to detect predators. Therefore, the organization of multispecies flocks in Madagascar was mainly based on mutualism and commensalism which increased feeding efficiency.
3677365|In many passerines, juveniles have shorter and more rounded wings than adults. Given that (1) long and pointed wings improve endurance in migratory flights, (2) shorter and rounded wings improve manoeuvrability, and (3) juvenile birds are more vulnerable to predators than adults, it has been hypothesised that ontogenetic variation in wing shape results from a greater importance of predation avoidance relative to migration performance during the first year of life. If so, wing shape should not change with age in the absence of migration-related selection for longer and more pointed wings. We test this by studying the variation with respect to age in wing length and wing pointedness of migratory and sedentary Blackcaps wintering in southern Spain. Migratory Blackcaps had longer and more pointed wings than sedentary Blackcaps. Juveniles had shorter wings than adults in migratory populations, but not in sedentary populations. The variation with age in wing pointedness was less pronounced, and was found in migratory females only. These differences between the two traits could be related to a stronger selection for pointed wings than for longer wings with increasing distance of migration, and to an increased migratoriness of females in partially migratory Blackcap populations. We hypothesise that, in migratory Blackcaps, a shorter and more rounded wing in juveniles could be selected for if the decrease in predation rate compensated for the somewhat greater costs of the first migration attempt. On the other hand, there are no costs of migration in sedentary Blackcaps, which hence maintain a similar wing shape, giving high manoeuvrability, both as juveniles and as adults.
30243286|Summaries of recent rapid range expansions shown by the house crow Corvus splendens have provided insights into the global nature of this invasion process, but its long-term potential has not yet been evaluated. To explore the potential dimensions of this geographic expansion, we used ecological niche modeling based on known occurrences of the species on its native distributional area, in the context of GIS data sets describing climatic variables, topographic information, and human presence. Our models provided predictions of areas already invaded that were statistically significantly more coincident than expected under random (null) models. The predicted potential range of the species includes areas already affected, as well as potentially suitable areas in Central America, the Caribbean, equatorial and West Africa, and mainland and insular Southeast Asia, not yet colonized.
10.2307/3677015|For many species, distribution across different habitats may be a dynamic process affected by population size and the position of individual habitats on the continuum of habitat quality from most preferred to least preferred. Species that exhibit density-dependent habitat preferences should show a negative relationship between the proportion of a population in a particular habitat and total population size over time in those habitats that are relatively preferred, and positive relationships in habitats that are relatively less preferred. Such relationships were analysed within 13 farmland study areas for 12 bird species. At least one significant relationship was detected per species, but no species showed consistent significant relationships in any habitat across plots. Furthermore, both negative (relatively preferred habitat) and positive (relatively less preferred habitat) relationships were detected in different study areas for a particular species in a given habitat. When habitat variation across study areas was controlled in a combined analysis, only four species showed strong evidence of density-dependent habitat use. The lack of stronger relationships between population size and habitat use is likely to be a consequence of defining habitat at too crude a scale. Density-dependent habitat processes may be more usefully examined when specific micro-habitat features that contribute to territory quality can be identified. Inability to detect consistent patterns of habitat preference may be caused by spatial variation in habitat availability, habitat quality and inter-specific competition.
3677436|Reproductive success in many avian populations declines throughout the breeding season. Two hypotheses have gained attention to explain such a decline: the "timing" hypothesis proposes that deteriorating food availability causes the decline in reproductive success (causal effect of breeding time), whereas the "quality" hypothesis proposes that individuals of lower phenotypic quality reproduce at the end of the breeding season, causing the correlation between breeding time and breeding success. We tested both of these hypotheses in a monogamous single breeder, the magpie Pica pica, by experimentally inducing some pairs to lay a replacement clutch, after removal of the first clutch. The first clutch was left in the nest of another magpie pair (matched by laying date and clutch size), and incubated and raised by these foster parents. In this way we obtained two clutches from the same magpie pair with full siblings raised in conditions of the first and second reproductive attempts. High quality pairs (with laying dates in the first half of the breeding season) reached similar breeding success in replacement clutches as compared to first clutches of the same female. In addition, experimental pairs reared significantly more offspring of similar quality in their replacement clutches as compared to late-season first clutches, thereby suggesting that late season first clutches were produced by pairs of lower phenotypic quality. Results indicate that high quality pairs trade-off clutch size for larger eggs in replacement clutches, which could help magpie pairs to partly compensate for poorer environmental conditions associated with a delayed breeding attempt.
30245190|The red-billed quelea Quelea quelea, one of the most abundant birds in the world, presents two fundamental conundrums that we investigate here with a novel approach using blood parasite assemblages at two spatial scales, landscape and individual. The quelea of southern Africa Q. q. lathamii are split by a hypothesized migratory divide, where birds follow rain fronts in one of two directions (NW or SE). This divide is not detectable in the host population using microsatellite data, and here we show that it is also not apparent from our large-scale phylogeographical analyses of the haematozoan parasite. At a finer scale, the colourful and variable breeding plumage of male red-billed quelea has not previously shown a correlation with predictors of quality, as it does in many other bird species. The male's breeding plumage is partially based on carotenoid colouration, the quality of which has been correlated with haematozoan infection in other bird species. However, we found no correlation between intensity of male carotenoid colouration and haematozoan infection. Our results do not contradict the hypothesis that male breeding plumage in this species serves to identify individuals rather than to indicate quality. Finally, we recovered the greatest number of haematozoan lineages from any phylogenetic survey of a single host species to date. Understanding the reasons for the extreme diversity of parasite lineages in this species may assist in explaining the success of the red-billed quelea in anthropogenic landscapes.
10.2307/3677060|Evidence of the pathogenicity of haematozoa in wild bird populations is limited, possibly because infected birds alter their behavior to avoid the costs of being parasitized. We tested this hypothesis by examining dominance relationships relative to parasite status in captive Red-winged Blackbirds Agelaius phoeniceus, and Brown-headed Cowbirds Molothrus ater. There was some evidence that uninfected individuals tended to be dominant to infected individuals, but the pattern was variable, even within two studies involving male Red-winged Blackbirds. Dominant parasitized individuals were not consistently larger than the uninfected individuals they dominated, although other, untested asymmetries might have allowed the infected birds to overcome any cost associated with being parasitized.
3677574|Several bird species breeding in acidified habitats face serious problems caused by lowered availability of calcium-rich foods. Moreover, recent studies have revealed that calcium shortage causes phenotypic variation in certain reproductive parameters of passerines even in non-acidified habitats. However, to date, no clear evidence has been found of the limiting effect of calcium deficiency on the reproductive output of birds breeding in such habitats. In this paper, we present experimental evidence from a long-term study that calcium shortage may indeed limit reproductive output of passerines that breed in non-acidified habitats. We carried out calcium-supplementation experiments with great tits Parus major breeding in coniferous and deciduous woodlands in Estonia. Calcium-supplemented birds laid more eggs, tended larger broods and raised more fledglings with longer tarsi compared with control birds. Calcium shortage constrained reproduction of tits not only in spring, but also in mid-summer, during second breeding attempts. Moreover, no significant differences were detected between deciduous and coniferous habitats with respect to the effect of calcium supplements on reproductive success.
3677550|For decades, carotenoids have attracted attention for their roles as vitamin-A precursors, antioxidants, and immunostimulants, but we still understand very little about the metabolic processes that accompany these compounds. Animals like birds use carotenoids to color their feathers and bare parts to become sexually attractive. They commonly metabolically derive their body colorants from dietary sources of carotenoids, but the sites of pigment metabolism remain unidentified. Here I test the hypothesis that songbirds manufacture their colorful feather and beak carotenoids directly at these tissues. I offer two lines of evidence to support this idea: (1) in a study of 11 colorful species from three passerine families, metabolically derived feather and beak carotenoids were found neither in the liver (a purported site of carotenoid metabolism), nor in the bloodstream (the means by which metabolites would be transported to colorful tissues from anywhere else in the body) at the time when pigments were being deposited into keratinized tissue, and (2) in a more detailed study of pigmentation in the American goldfinch Carduelis tristis, carotenoids sampled from the lipid fractions of maturing feather follicles yielded a mix of dietary and synthetic carotenoids, suggesting that this is the metabolically active site for feather-pigment production. This fresh perspective on carotenoid metabolism in animals should aid our efforts to characterize the responsible enzymes and to better understand the localized biological functions of these pigments.
30243826|Evaluating consequences of habitat selection is an important step in understanding life history strategies and behavioural decisions of animals. Kilpi and Lindstrm (1997) found that incubating common eiders Somateria mollissima on exposed, treeless islands lost weight faster than females nesting on wooded islands and proposed that this difference was due to adverse incubation conditions at exposed nests. Therefore, we tested whether common eiders gained an advantage when nesting in sheltered habitats by placing artificial shelters over randomly-selected females after the onset of incubation within an eider colony in arctic Canada. We predicted that sheltered females would be heavier on completion of incubation than control hens lacking shelters. Females nesting in artificial shelters experienced a more moderate thermal environment at both cold and warm temperature extremes. Eiders nesting in shelters were heavier than control females during mid incubation, consistent with habitat-specific rates of weight loss reported by Kilpi and Lindstrim (1997). Natural overhead cover was available at potential nests but few eiders used those sites. We suspect that microclimatic advantages offered by sheltered sites may be offset by costs of increased female vulnerability to predators. Further work is needed to test this hypothesis, and to determine mechanisms responsible for lower weight loss in eiders attending well concealed nests.
3677445|Birds often exhibit greater reproductive tract development on the left side than right side. Behavioral evidence from the three species for which data has been published indicates that these species copulate more frequently on the left side of females than on the right side. Missing from the literature are studies that compare asymmetry in copulation behavior to asymmetry in reproductive tract morphology of the same individuals of both sexes within a single species. To better understand the potential for cryptic sexual selection to influence avian copulation, we measured asymmetries in chukar Alectoris chukar copulation using 24 male and 29 female chukar brought into captivity from the wild. Chukar copulated (n = 37) more from the left side (n = 30) of females than the right side (n = 7). The left testis of males was consistently greater in size, mass and volume than the right testis. The left ovary and oviduct of females was consistently functional with no observable development of the right ovary or oviduct. Left-side bias in direction of copulation, larger left testes, and functional left vaginal openings may act in concert to deliver spermatozoa to the oviduct, promoting fertilization.
10.2307/3677123|Different populations of kiwi Apteryx spp. live in very different habitats and climatic conditions, and they vary greatly with regard to population densities and sex ratios. Populations also differ remarkably in their social and mating patterns. By comparing four populations, we asked whether kiwi mating systems are primarily shaped by the availability of mates as caused by different operational sex ratios ("environmental polygamy potential"), or whether they depend on the costs and benefits of desertion by either sex from parental care, especially on the limitations to desertion due to high precopulatory investment ("parental limitation"). Most kiwi have long-term partnerships and very high partner fidelity, but in one population half of all pairs split each year. This is a relatively dense population with a strongly female-biased sex ratio and a complete lack of territorial behaviour. We argue that pair stability and territoriality are related in kiwi, and that the loss of territoriality and the high divorce rate in this divergent population result from the female-biased sex ratio. Data analyses did not reveal any reproductive advantage from divorce and re-mating with a different partner in kiwi. We suggest that divorce results from the interaction of surplus females with paired males and is hence "forced" upon the pair. Our analyses of social systems of the four populations of kiwi suggest that both territory defence and the degree of polygamy depend primarily on parental demands and not on the distribution of resources and mates. Hence, we regard the "parental limitation hypothesis" as being the more adequate one to explain mating patterns in kiwi.
30244463|Breeding populations of southern dunlin Calidris alpina schinzii in South Fennoscandia and the Baltic are severely fragmented and declining dramatically. Information on the genetic structure and diversity is therefore of importance for the conservation and management of these populations. Here we present the results of comparative genetic analyses of these populations with other populations of the schinzii, alpina and arctica subspecies in northern Europe. We sequenced the mitochondrial DNA control region and the Z-chromosome intron VLDLR-9, and analyzed microsatellites and AFLPs, for analyses of within-population genetic diversity. We also extended previous analyses of the phylogeographic structure of dunlins in northern Europe with a larger sample of individuals and populations. Our results revealed no evidence of reduced genetic diversity or increased levels of inbreeding in the small and fragmented populations around the Baltic Sea as compared to the more vital and larger populations elsewhere. Nevertheless, their small population sizes and presumably high degree of isolation may lead to local extinctions, indicating that demographic and ecological factors may pose a greater threat to the survival of these populations than purely genetic factors. Phylogeographically, the schinzii populations in Scandinavia and the Baltic do not form a separate genetic clade, but are part of larger cline of genetic variation encompassing several recognized subspecies of dunlins in the western Palearctic region. Only the Icelandic population showed some distinctiveness in genetic structure and might therefore be considered a separate management unit. Our study highlights the general problem of lack of genetic support for subspecies in avian taxonomy and conservation genetics.
3677636|We tested the importance of nest cleaning in egg rejection behaviour of the great reed warbler Acrocephalus arundinaceus in a highly parasitised population in which about 64% of nests are parasitised by the common cuckoo Cuculus canorus. Three types of objects of the same weight, texture and colour but with different shapes (dummy cuckoo eggs, sticks and disks) were placed into great reed warbler nests. We investigated the response of hosts in two stages of breeding: pre-incubation when the risk of brood parasitism is high, and during incubation when the risk of parasitism is low. The dummy cuckoo eggs were rejected less often than the other objects in both breeding stages, although we did not find any difference in the frequency of rejection between pre-incubation and incubation. We integrate these results into current views on the evolution of host-parasite interactions, and propose a hierarchical concept to understand egg rejection behaviour: (1) hosts reject all non-egg shaped objects as a general cleaning mechanism; (2) adaptations for the hosts' ability to recognise their own eggs allows them to distinguish these eggs from similar objects and parasitic eggs.
3677710|Extra-pair paternity (EPP) is common in many socially monogamous birds, but large variations in frequency of EPP are found both between and within species. Local ecological factors can affect the costs and benefits of extra-pair mating behaviour, and may therefore influence the chance that individuals engage in extra-pair copulations (EPCs). We investigated the effect of weather conditions during the peak fertile period of the female on the levels of EPP in reed buntings Emberiza schoeniclus. The reed bunting is a socially monogamous passerine, with extremely high levels of EPP (50% of offspring in 80% of broods). We found that higher daily minimum temperatures and more rainfall during the peak fertile period were associated with lower proportions of EPP. As during adverse weather conditions individuals have to invest more in self maintenance, we suggest that during long periods of rain the extra-pair mating behaviour of all individuals will be restricted, leading to lower proportions of EPP. During cold mornings, time-consuming activities such as mate guarding are likely to be more strongly affected than less time-consuming activities such as EPCs, leading to higher proportions of EPP.
30243906|Birds moult to maintain plumage function through life, but the factors that determine moult duration are poorly understood. In temperate areas, variation in moult duration could be largely associated with between-species differences in migratory behaviour (migrants have less time for moulting after breeding), and body mass (because the aerodynamic cost of rapid moult increases allometrically with body size). Moreover, if the energetic cost of transport favours a smaller body size in migratory species, then the effects of migratory behaviour and body mass on moult duration could be confounded. We conducted a comparative study of the duration of adult complete moult in 48 European passerine species, in relation to body mass and migratory behaviour (sedentary, short-distance migrants and long-distance migrants). Lighter and more migratory species moulted faster than heavier and more sedentary species, but migration was not associated with body mass. If accelerated moult compromises the success of migration, changes in the physiology or phenology of moult in migratory birds are better interpreted as adaptive responses to compensate for such costs.
30243817|We present compelling evidence of the continued existence of the large-billed reed warbler Acrocephalus orinus, hitherto known only from the unique type specimen collected in NW India 139 years ago. Morphological and genetic analyses of an unusual Acrocephalus warbler mist-netted south-west of Bangkok, Thailand, on 27 March 2006, confirmed its identity as A. orinus, and revealed that it was heterozygous at four out of eight microsatellite markers, indicating the continued existence of a viable population whose breeding and wintering areas are still unknown.
25662900|The New Guinean songbird fauna contains numerous enigmatic species and genera whose phylogenetic affinities have been difficult to resolve. Two such genera are ditypic Amalocichla and monotypic Pachycare. Here we obtained DNA sequences of two nuclear gene regions and a mitochondrial gene to ascertain the phylogenetic positions of these genera. Amalocichla was identified as the sister of the Australasian robins (Petroicidae) contrary to most recent classifications, which align it with the New Guinean mouse-warblers Crateroscelis in the family Acanthizidae. The morphological characters used to place Amalocichla in the Acanthizidae appear to be convergent and linked to ground-living adaptations. Pachycare was found to be most closely related to the Acanthizidae and not to the Pachycephalidae, corvine assemblage, or Petroicidae, as most commonly assumed. Morphological and behavioural characters support the molecular data in this conclusion. Previous taxonomic placements appear to have been based on superficial similarities in plumage coloration and vocal characterizations.
10.2307/3677214| One aim of studies in evolutionary biology is to estimate the fitness of a phenotype within a population. One of the most natural estimates of fitness is , the multiplication rate, or finit rate of increase, which results from the demographic parameters of that particular phenotype. Even though ad hoc computations of  may be strongly biased, they are still widely used, in particular in bird population biology. We compare ad hoc computation of the multiplication rate and exact ones using demographic models. The magnitude of the discrepancy increases sharply with the departure of  from unity. This may alter our perception of population functioning. Other outputs of demographic models, which play prominent roles in bird evolutionary biology and population management, are briefly discussed. As a whole, demographic models provide a link between empirical and theoretical approaches. 
30244793|Biparental care in birds is less common during incubation than in other nesting stages. Males share in incubating eggs in a minority of bird species, and male effort is generally thought to be lower than females when sharing does occur. However, male assistance and incubation efficacy is poorly studied in such species. We examined sex differences in incubation effort in 12 pairs of a species with biparental incubation, the chestnut-vented tit-babbler Parisoma subcaeruleum. Males and females did not differ in the amount of time spent incubating during the day, time of day spent incubating, nor in their ability to rewarm eggs. Yet, males consistently maintained eggs at higher temperatures than their female partners, despite the absence of a brood patch.
30243880|Central-place foraging seabirds alter the availability of their prey around colonies, forming a "halo" of reduced prey access that ultimately constrains population size. This has been indicated indirectly by an inverse correlation between colony size and reproductive success, numbers of conspecifics at other colonies within foraging range, foraging effort (i.e. trip duration), diet quality and colony growth rate. Although ultimately mediated by density dependence relative to food through intraspecific exploitative or interference competition, the proximate mechanism involved has yet to be elucidated. Herein, we show that Adlie penguin Pygoscelis adeliae colony size positively correlates to foraging trip duration and metabolic rate, that the metabolic rate while foraging may be approaching an energetic ceiling for birds at the largest colonies, and that total energy expended increases with trip duration although uncompensated by increased mass gain. We propose that a competition-induced reduction in prey availability results in higher energy expenditure for birds foraging in the halo around large colonies, and that to escape the halo a bird must increase its foraging distance. Ultimately, the total energetic cost of a trip determines the maximum successful trip distance, as on longer trips food acquired is used more for self maintenance than for chick provisioning. When the net cost of foraging trips becomes too high, with chicks receiving insufficient food, chick survival suffers and subsequent colony growth is limited. Though the existence of energetic studies of the same species at multiple colonies is rare, because foraging metabolic rate increases with colony size in at least two other seabird species, we suggest that an energetic constraint to colony size may generally apply to other seabirds.
3677513| To test whether wing shape affects the kinematics of wing motion during bird flight, we recorded high-speed video (250 Hz) of four species flying in a variable-speed wind tunnel. The birds flew at intervals of 2 m s
25161523|In fasting-incubating seabirds, it has been proposed that egg abandonment and refeeding should be induced when a low body mass (BM) threshold is attained, thus ensuring adult survival at the expense of immediate breeding. In the context of life-history trade-offs in long-lived birds, we have tested this hypothesis by comparing short-term survival and restoration of BM in King Penguins Aptenodytes patagonicus that abandoned their egg to those that were relieved normally by their mate at the end of the first incubation shift. Since King Penguins have an extended laying period, the possible influence of seasonal factors was also examined by comparing early and late breeders. Forty incubating males were experimentally forced to fast until egg abandonment by preventing relief by the female. At egg abandonment of both early and late breeding males, BM was below the BM threshold, fasting duration was eight days (about 30%) longer than for relieved birds, and plasma uric acid level was elevated (signature of increased body protein catabolism, phase III of fasting). All abandoning birds survived and came back from sea at a BM similar to that of relieved penguins. The duration of the foraging trip of abandoning early breeders was the same as that of relieved birds, and some abandoning birds engaged in a new breeding attempt. Abandoning late breeders, however, made foraging trips twice as long as those of relieved males. This difference can be explained by time constraints rather than nutritional constraints, abandoning early breeders having enough time left in the breeding season to engage in a new breeding attempt in contrast to abandoning late breeders. These observations lend support to the suggestion that not only BM but also an internal clock intervene in the decision to engage in breeding or not. By preventing a lethal energy depletion ashore and by acting at a fasting stage where the capacity to restore BM at sea is unaffected, abandonment at a low body condition threshold plays a major role in the trade-off between adult penguin survival and reproduction.
3677553|Nest predation often is reported to be the major cause of nest failure in birds and by extension the predominant influence on annual fecundity. However, other factors such as the ability of some individuals to renest after a failed nest or to lay additional clutches after successful ones, both of which may in turn be influenced by food availability, can also contribute to individual fecundity. We evaluated the relative importance of nest predation, multiple brooding, renesting, and food availability on mean annual fecundity of a migratory songbird population, using
25161534|Although not previously emphasized, colonization of habitat patches by cognitive animals involves both decisions bringing an animal to a particular patch and decisions causing the animal to remain in the patch. We focus on the latter form of decision by examining the habitat and landscape correlates of persistence in chickadees (Poecile spp.) that we introduced into small woodlots previously cleared of conspecifics. The birds' decisions to remain were associated importantly with the presence of a canopy layer of large trees, and less so with area of the woodland patch and distance they had been transported from the capture site. The decision to persist was little related to landscape features near the focal habitat patch. The future holds promise for application of principles of cognition to landscape biology.
3677588|Body mass loss is frequently observed in breeding birds: whether this is an adaptive response to a change in the relative value of body stores and locomotion performance or a consequence of energetic constraint is still in debate. The male alone cares for most nests of the Eurasian dotterel Charadrius morinellus, although females assist at a proportion of nests. Energetic costs are probably high in the dotterel's arctic-alpine environment and uniparental care restricts the foraging time available to meet these costs, so that incubating dotterel may have to fuel themselves partly using body stores. Nesting male dotterel lost 7.8% of their mass through the incubation period but were 6.8% heavier during periods of high food abundance. Males that were assisted in incubation by a female were 6.7% heavier than uniparental males. We conclude that, since dotterel were heavier when energetic constraints were lifted, mass loss through incubation was principally a consequence of energetic constraint, rather than adaptive mass optimisation.
3677419|Seabirds' behavioural activity budgets have been proposed as an indicator of changes in marine food supplies. Reduced recruitment and a low biomass of sandeels Ammodytes spp. around Shetland in the late 1980s were associated with a dramatic increase in the foraging effort of breeding skuas. We present data on the territorial attendance patterns of breeding Great Skuas Catharacta skua and Arctic Skuas Stercorarius parasiticus in Shetland in 1987 and examine three aspects of the recorded increase in foraging effort. Time budget studies indicate that recording territorial attendance by infrequent, daily spot observations provides an accurate measure of the time spent off-territory by both skua species. None of the pairs of Arctic Skua studied ever left their chicks unattended in 1987. The same was true of 10 out of 27 pairs of Great Skuas. Although the remaining pairs of Great Skuas frequently left their chicks unprotected, evidence of pair co-ordination to minimise this suggests that their foraging schedules were still constrained by the need to protect their offspring. During periods of high chick-demand, variation between pairs' foraging efforts largely reflected variation in those of the females. Thus, we suggest that increased chick neglect in years of food shortage arises as females abandon their role of guardian for that of provider. By the end of the breeding season in 1987, both male and female Great Skuas foraged from 65 to 89% of daylight hours. The lack of any further increase in the foraging effort of Great Skuas in subsequent years of poorer reproductive success was almost certainly because time and energy constraints prevented either sex from doing so. We suggest that the comparatively short amount of time spent foraging by Arctic Skuas in 1987 may reflect an advantage conferred by their role as specialist kleptoparasites.
30245325|The avian family Accipitridae has historically been divided into subfamilies or tribes based on features such as general resemblance, feeding ecology, and behavior. Consequently, the monophyly of those groups has been questionable. Recently, three phylogenetic analyses of a majority of the genera have appeared, one based on osteology, one on DNA sequences from a single mitochondrial gene, and the third on mitochondrial plus nuclear DNA sequences, and the resulting phylogenies were in substantial disagreement concerning the composition and basal branching patterns of the clades and hence require further analysis and confirmation. Here we use DNA sequences from the large nuclear RAG-1 exon to investigate the phylogenetic relationships of these birds. Our results largely corroborated the prior study that included nuclear genes. We found strong support for a monophyletic clade comprising the secretarybird Sagittarius serpentarius, the osprey Pandion haliaetus, and the traditional accipitrids. However, every one of the traditionally recognized subfamilies of accipitrids was found to be polyphyletic. The most basal nodes in the phylogeny separate small clades of insectivorous and scavenger species, such as kites and Old World vultures, from the rest of the family. The speciose genera of bird and mammal predators are all relatively derived (terminal) in the phylogeny. Many of the basal clades are cosmopolitan in their distributions, consistent with the great mobility of these raptors. A new classification is proposed that eliminates the problem of polyphyletic intrafamilial taxa.
10.2307/3677150|We manipulated clutches of Chinstrap Penguins to examine the effects of brood size and offspring age on brood defence levels. Nest defence intensity increased with increasing offspring age. Experimental birds reduced nest defence intensity after losing one egg. These results support predictions derived from life-history theory which assumes changes in nest defence intensity to be related to changes in the reproductive value of the brood.
30244440|In vertebrates, males are often more parasitised than conspecific females. This bias in parasitism might result from sex differences in parasite exposure and/or susceptibility to infection. Such information is important for testing hypotheses about allocation of resources to life histories of males and females and for testing hypotheses about factors thought to influence parasite fitness and parasite dynamics. We tested whether double-crested cormorants Phalacrocorax auritus exhibit male-biased parasitism by gut helminths. The prevalence of nematode Contracaecum spp. and trematode Drepanocaphalus spathans infections was ~90% and 39%, respectively. Cestode, primarily Paradilepis caballeroi and acanthocephalan Andracantha gravida infections were less common (<10%). Male and female cormorants did not differ in prevalence of infection by any helminth species. However, males had twice the abundance and intensity of Contracaecum spp. infections and twice the intensity of D. spathans infections than found in females. For common parasites showing male-biased parasitism, degree of parasitism was also unrelated to body size or mass in either sex. Males and females did not differ in spleen mass and spleen mass was unrelated to abundance of common parasites. Furthermore, abundance of trematodes and nematodes was not correlated. At present, male biases in parasitism by nematodes and trematodes in cormorants are independent patterns that remain unexplained, but are most likely attributable to sex differences in exposure and/or immunological differences not yet assessed.
30244839|Sexual differences in food provisioning rates of monomorphic seabirds are well known but poorly understood. Here, we address three hypotheses that attempt to explain female-biased food provisioning in common guillemots Uria aalge: (1) males spend more time in nest defence, (2) females have greater foraging efficiency, and (3) males allocate a greater proportion of foraging effort to self-maintenance. We found that males spent no more time with chicks than females but made longer trips and travelled further from the colony. There was extensive overlap between sexes in core foraging areas, indicating that females were not excluding males from feeding opportunities close to the colony. However, as a result of their longer trips, the total foraging areas of males were much greater than those of females. There was no difference between sexes in overall dive rate per hour at sea, in behaviour during individual dives or in a number of other measures of foraging efficiency including the frequency, depth and duration of dives and the dive: pause ratio during the final dive bout of each trip, which was presumably used by both sexes to obtain prey for the chick. These data strongly suggest that sexes did not differ in their ability to locate and capture prey. Yet males made almost twice as many dives per trip as females, suggesting that males made more dives than females for their own benefit. These results support the hypothesis that female-biased food provisioning arose from a difference between sexes in the allocation of foraging effort between parents and offspring, in anticipation of a prolonged period of male-only post-fledging care of the chick, and not from differences in foraging efficiency or time spent in nest defence.
30243919|The rate at which a young bird grows is highly diverse across taxa. We investigated the influences of ecological variables on growth rates of shorebirds, gulls and their allies (order Charadriiformes) using comparative analyses of 68 species. We investigated three hypotheses: (1) exposure to cold temperatures results in reduced growth rate due to the increased energy expenditure required for thermoregulation, (2) fast growth rates allow offspring to complete development in habitats with short periods of fair ecological conditions, and (3) parental feeding allows the offspring to grow faster than self-feeding offspring. Charadriiform species are suitable for testing these hypotheses, because they breed in diverse environmental conditions that include Arctic and Antarctic habitats, temperate zones and tropics, and in some species the offspring feed themselves (precocial) whereas in others they are fed by the parents (semi-precocial). First, we tested the influence of ambient temperature on growth rate and we found that species breeding in cold habitats had faster growth rates than species breeding in warm temperatures. The relationship between growth rate and ambient temperature was not significantly different between precocial and semi-precocial offspring. Second, we tested the influence of the length of the breeding season on growth rate, and we found that species with shorter breeding seasons had faster growth rates than species with longer breeding seasons. Finally, we show that precocial offspring grew slower than semi-precocial offspring, and this relationship remains significant when the influences of ambient temperature and breeding season length are statistically controlled. In conclusion, our work, using phylogenetically corrected models, confirms that ambient environment and developmental mode of young together influence the growth of Charadriiform chicks, and their effects are additive.
10.2307/3677133|We evaluated the relationship between the intensity of parasites (the chewing lice Columbicola columbae and Campanulotes bidentatus, and the haematozoon Haemoproteus columbae) and the magnitude of fluctuating asymmetry (FA) of their Rock Pigeon Columba livia hosts. We measured the length of four morphological traits of 91 Rock Pigeons (both left and right sides) in Singapore between June and September 1996: wing, tail, tarsus and third digit. FA was either detected or assumed, after statistical correction, in the tail, tarsi and third digits of both sexes and in the wings of males. Correlations between parasite intensity (either ectoparasite or blood parasite) and FA in each measured trait were not significant (P > 0.15). We suggest that one of the possible reasons for the lack of a relationship between parasitism and FA in the Rock Pigeon is that the parasites studied may have little effect on the four host traits examined.
3677461|Much previous research has focussed on the role of food supply in determining the growth and the survival of avian offspring. More recently, acid deposition in some ecosystems has demonstrated that in addition to energy, birds also need to acquire sufficient nutrients such as calcium to be successful. Whether procurement of adequate levels of calcium can limit reproductive success in areas that have not been impacted by acid rain remains equivocal. We tested whether calcium affected reproductive success of tree swallows Tachycineta bicolor by feeding extra calcium to nestlings during the brood-rearing period. Our manipulation did not enhance the survival of offspring, however, provisioning of extra calcium resulted in nestlings showing enhanced rates of growth of mass (all nests) and of ninth primary flight feathers (nests with after-second year female parents), compared to control nestlings. Calcium supplementation also resulted in nestlings having longer feathers and tarsi at age 16 days, and there was evidence that some nestlings receiving extra calcium were heavier at 16 days old. As offspring that have faster growth, or that are in good condition at fledging, often survive better after leaving the nest, these results suggest that calcium availability can limit fitness. Our results are noteworthy because our experiment was conducted in an area with abundant soil calcium where acid deposition has not occurred. The role of calcium in limiting the reproductive performance of avian species may therefore be more pervasive than previously thought.
30243291|In many species of passerine birds yearlings display a less elaborate version of the adult secondary sexual traits, but the causes of such differences in ornamentation are not always well understood. We studied age-related changes in blue tit Parus caeruleus UV/blue structural crown coloration, a sexually selected trait. In our Austrian study population, older blue tits, irrespective of sex, displayed on average a more ultraviolet (lower hue, higher UV chroma), more chromatic and brighter crown coloration than yearlings. This age dichromatism was caused by within-individual changes in the expression of crown coloration between years since males and females became more UV, more chromatic and brighter as they aged. Colour biased survival did not contribute to the observed pattern of age dichromatism since crown coloration was largely unrelated to overwinter survival. Between-year repeatability of crown colour was significant for most colour variables but low in general, and lower for females than for males. In the blue tit, yearling males might benefit from being less ornamented by avoiding adult aggression but at the expense of sexual attractiveness. Adaptive explanations of blue tit age dichromatism should however take into account that age effects were of similar magnitude in males and females. This suggests that both male and female yearlings could benefit from being less ornamented and hence that sexual selection might be acting on both sexes simultaneously in this species.
30244451|The Chatham Island taiko Pterodroma magentae (tchaik) is one of the World's most endangered seabirds with a population size of between 120-150 individuals that includes only 8-15 breeding pairs. Molecular techniques were used to identify the sex of taiko, which is difficult to assign morphologically. Blood samples were obtained from almost the entire known living population and from some birds now thought to be dead. We report an approximately even sex ratio in taiko chicks and adults associated with breeding burrows, but a large male-biased ratio in non-breeding adult birds caught on the ground. This finding suggests that unpaired males may be having difficulty in attracting females to burrows and that this situation may be an example of the Allee effect, that reduced density of potential mates acts to decrease population productivity. Identification of the sex of taiko using a molecular technique has important implications for the conservation management of this critically endangered species, including the future transfer of taiko chicks to a predatorexcluded breeding site.
3677767| Carotenoid pigments are used by many bird species as feather colorants, creating brilliant yellow, orange, and red plumage displays. Such carotenoid-based plumage coloration has been shown to function as an honest signal that is used in female mate choice. Despite recent interest in carotenoid-based ornamental traits, the basis for individual variation in expression of carotenoid-based plumage coloration remains incompletely understood. I tested the hypothesis that, independent of carotenoid access, food stress during molt would cause reduced expression of carotenoid pigmentation. I fed molting male House Finches Carpodacus mexicanus seed diets supplemented with either the red carotenoid pigment canthaxanthin or the yellow/orange carotenoid pigment -cryptoxanthin (in the form of tangerine juice). Within each diet treatment, one group of males was given restricted food access and the other group was given unrestricted food access. Carotenoid supplements were placed in water so carotenoid access was controlled independent of food access. The results indicated a strong effect of both carotenoid access and food access on color display. Some males in the -cryptoxanthin-supplemented group grew red plumage, suggesting that they can metabolically modify yellow pigments into red pigments, but no bird supplemented with -cryptoxanthin grew plumage as red as birds supplemented with canthaxanthin. Males in the unrestricted food groups grew redder and more intensely pigmented plumage than males in the restricted food groups. These observations provide the best evidence to date of an energetic cost of carotenoid utilization in the generation of colorful plumage. 
25161524|Inca Terns Larosterna inca are medium-size seabirds that breed along the Peruvian and Chilean coast. They are monogamous and both sexes incubate and contribute to chick provisioning. The sexes are similar in appearance and have elaborate ornaments, including a long white moustache of feathers and fleshy yellow wattles. In this paper we report the differences in ornamentation between sexes and examine whether the trait predicts body condition, reproductive performance or chick quality in either sex. The ornaments were similar in size and coloration between the sexes, except for the wattle length, the difference in which can be due to greater head length in males. Moustache length was the most reliable signal of body condition in both sexes. Moreover, there was a significant relationship between the moustache length and reproductive category of adults (non-breeder, unsuccessful breeder, or one or two chicks fledged). Both asymptotic chick body mass and the T-cell mediated response of chicks (a measure of immunocompetence) were related to the moustache length of male and female adults. These results provide support for the role of ornaments in mutual signalling of condition in this species. Female and male ornaments predict body condition, reproductive performance and chick quality, as predicted by sexual selection models.
25161522|Recent studies have shown that the Antarctic Circumpolar Wave and the related sea-ice cover around the Antarctic continent may have a profound effect on the lower trophic levels of the marine environment. In particular, extensive sea-ice cover enhances the survival of krill. However, the effects of sea-ice cover on top predators remain poorly understood. Using time series from 1973 to 1999, we examine the influence of regional sea-ice extent on a number of indices of breeding performance of an avian predator, the Snow Petrel, in Antarctica. The percentage of breeding pairs was highly variable and there were fewer birds breeding when sea-ice cover was extensive during July. By contrast, overall breeding success and fledgling body condition were improved during years with extensive sea-ice cover during the preceding November and July-September. These results indicate that the same sea-ice conditions may have different effects on the breeding performance of a species. The overall increase in winter sea-ice extent during the last decade appears to have resulted in an overall improvement of the quality of fledglings produced, and thus probably of future recruitment.
3677477| Flight and diving activity of rhinoceros auklets Cerorhinca monocerata breeding on Teuri Island, Japan, were monitored during the summers 1999 and 2000 using miniaturized time-depth and acceleration recorders. Birds made 14.5 dive bouts per day of on average 15.4 min duration, which consisted of on average 16.2 dives of 12.1 m depth and 42.7 s duration. Birds made 13.8  7.3 flight bouts per day, which lasted on average 11.5  4.5 min. Daily total flight duration was 2.7  1.7 h (range 54 s-5.1 h) and the mean potential foraging range was estimated to be 87 km (maximum 164 km). Most birds stayed at the colony or rested on the water surface during the night. Rhinoceros auklets dived more actively in early morning and in late afternoon than during mid-day. Compared to results from studies of time allocation in other alcids species, rhinoceros auklets spent longer time flying
3677641|We examine the provisioning constraints of a pursuit-diving seabird in a cold ocean regime by comparing the behaviour of common murres Uria aalge rearing chicks at two colonies in the Northwest Atlantic during 1998-2000. Funk Island is the largest (340,000-400,000 breeding pairs) and most offshore (60 km) colony of common murres in eastern Canada. Seventy-five percent of the Northwest Atlantic population of common murres breeds on this island. Great Island is one island within the Witless Bay Ecological Reserve, which is the second largest breeding aggregation (100 000 breeding pairs) and is located near-shore (2 km). The primary forage fish species in Newfoundland waters is capelin Mallotus villosus, which spawns on or near coastal beaches during summer. Therefore, the two study colonies differ in their distance to food resources and colony size. It is within this natural context that we compare: (1) prey types and frequency of delivery (amount of prey), (2) parental time budgets, and (3) the mass and condition (mass/wing length) of fledglings at both colonies. Similarly sized female capelin (100-150 mm) were delivered to chicks at both colonies. Foraging time per day per parent, a proxy of foraging effort, was similar at both colonies (Great Island: 5.1 h; Funk Island: 5.5 h), as was the percentage of time spent with mates (Great Island: 12.3%; Funk Island: 10.9%). Foraging trips, however, were longer at Funk Island (4.1 h) than at Great Island (2.9 h). This resulted in lower feeding rates of chicks (0.17 feeds per h) and poorer condition of fledglings (2.9 g/mm) at Funk Island compared to those at Great Island (0.22 feeds per h; 3.9 g/mm). We hypothesize that provisioning efforts are constrained at Funk Island by (1) distant food resources and increased competitor density, resulting in longer foraging trip durations and (2) the time spent paired with mates at the colony, which may reflect a minimum time required to maintain breeding sites due to higher breeding densities at Funk Island compared to Great Island. Demographic consequences of this poor fledgling condition at Funk Island are unknown, but fledglings may sufficiently accelerate growth at sea due to their closer proximity to an important nursery area. If fledgling survival is compromised, however, the lower potential for growth at Funk Island will impact the entire Northwest Atlantic population of common murres.
10.2307/3677223|Theoretical studies have suggested that birds in winter should carry higher energy reserves when food supply is lower, or less predictable, in order to maximize their probability of survival until the end of winter. In the Willow Tit Parus montanus, a passerine wintering in dominance-structured flocks, subdominant birds were found to carry higher energy reserves than dominant birds (Ekman and Lilliendahl 1993, Behav. Ecol. 4: 232-238). Since food supply is probably lower (and less predictable), for subdominant birds, this seemed in agreement with theoretical results. However, we analysed the effect of social dominance on energy reserves using data from another Willow Tit study (Hogstad 1987, Auk 104: 333-336), and found that in this study dominant birds carried the highest energy reserves. In Willow Tits, social dominance is known to affect predation risk during foraging. Using a simple analytical model, we show that when social dominance affects predation risk while foraging, but not food acquisition rate, the optimal level of energy reserves is higher for dominant than for subdominant birds. When social dominance affects both food acquisition rate and predation risk, its effect on the optimal level of energy reserves depends on the relative importance of these two factors. Thus variation in the effect of social dominance on food acquisition rate and predation risk may explain the difference between the two studies compared.
10.2307/3677342|Distress vocalisations were recorded from 65 species of Australian birds, including passerines, parrots and raptors while held in the hand or entangled in mistnets. Distress vocalisations were shown to have similar structural properties in many species: a noisy and/or harmonic structure with a wide frequency range. The finding that distress calls from a range of Australian species have similar physical characteristics that appear to be convergent fits well with Marler's (1955, 1957) classic analyses of mobbing and aerial alarm calls in a variety of European passerines. The spectral structure and high amplitude of distress vacalisations also demonstrate that they are designed for ease of location and effective transmission over long distances. Incidence and rate of calling showed both intraspecific and interspecific variation, with a higher proportion of larger species calling more often. There were significant relationships found between mass and various distress call parameters; larger birds produced louder distress calls which were longer in duration with lower minimum and dominant frequencies.
30243914|We describe the migration performance of three long-distance migrating raptors, osprey Pandion haliaetus, honey buzzard Pernis apivorus and marsh harrier Circus aeruginosus, and one short-distance migrating raptor, common buzzard Buteo buteo based on Swedish ringing recoveries and satellite telemetry, respectively. Tracking by satellite can provide detailed information about the exact timing of migration, migration speed, migration directions, stopover sites, and detours, thereby overcoming many of the potential biases found in ring recoveries. Comparison of the results from these two methods revealed agreement in the geographical distribution of the studied Swedish raptor populations during autumn migration and the winter period. Satellite tracking, nevertheless, provided much more detailed information in Africa and revealed significantly faster migration progress than indicated by ring recoveries. The implications of our findings for interpretation of migratory connectivity and the understanding of migration are discussed.
10.2307/3677141|The ARGOS satellite system was used to follow seven migratory flights of six Whooper Swans, comprising five autumn flights from Iceland to Scotland in 1994 and 1995, and two spring flights in the opposite direction in 1995. We monitored the wind and weather in detail at migration times. The transmitters were type PTT-100 from Microwave Telemetry, equipped with air pressure and temperature sensors for altitude telemetry, and were attached by a harness made from neoprene tape. None of the swans flew any higher than necessary for terrain clearance when crossing land. Two swans migrating on 27 October 1995 flew at heights between 500 and 1700 m ASL when crossing the ocean, with evidence of small climbs in lee waves downwind of Iceland. Otherwise, the swans flew very low, with frequent, and sometimes prolonged stops on the water. The swans flew by day, or at night when there was moonlight or clear sky without moon, but landed in conditions of low cloud and poor visibility, and also in darkness when there was heavy cloud cover and no moon. The southbound swans flew straight tracks across the ocean, three making landfall in the Outer Hebrides, one on the north coast of Scotland, and one in Donegal Bay after a direct crossing from northeastern Iceland. The two northbound swans were both forced away from the direct track by contrary gales, but eventually made their landfalls near their respective staging areas on the south coast of Iceland. One was four days at sea, and the other over 30 hours. Flight performance calculations indicated that an amount of fat equivalent to 25% of the lean mass should suffice for the crossing with adequate reserves. A medium-sized female should have sufficient muscle power to fly with 25% of her lean mass as added fat, whereas this would be marginal for a large male. Females, being smaller, would be able to arrive in Iceland in spring with more reserve fat. Little or no excess power would be available for climbing, even at sea level. It is not credible that these swans could climb by muscle power alone to the great heights previously reported, although this might be possible if they can indeed soar in lee waves.
10.2307/3677080|Sexual behaviour of colonial House Martins was studied to reveal any behavioural strategies of males to protect their paternity. House Martins copulated inside their nests and resident males frequently intruded at their neighbours' nests. Intrusions were frequent, especially during the morning hours of the resident female's fertile period, when intrusions occurred on average every 10 min per nest. A limited data set on copulations indicated a rather low copulation rate, which contrasts with the general pattern for colonial birds. Evidence from the pre-fertile and fertile periods suggested that males tried to minimize the time the female was alone in the nest: males spent approximately 80% of their time in the nest, pair mates spent significantly more time together in the nests than would be expected from a random model, and males did not leave the nest when the female was inside. These observations suggest that staying together with the female in the nest is more important to the male than guarding the nest per se. Hence, male House Martins seem to perform mate guarding restricted to the nest. However, the time budget data are also consistent with the hypothesis that males stay with the female all the time in order to be present when she is ready to copulate. This idea and the mate-guarding hypothesis are not mutually exclusive, but the fact that resident males fought forcefully to evict intruders supports the mate-guarding hypothesis. The selective value of a male mate guarding strategy restricted to the nest is discussed.
10.2307/3677216|The feeding habits of an alpine passerine bird community was studied during the breeding season in the Pyrenees (Northeastern Spain). Five of the six species often fed on arthropods found on snow, and their use of this resource increased with elevation. Two high alpine birds, Montifringilla nivalis and Prunella collaris, mainly used snow patches. Two species that primarily forage at lower elevations, Oenanthe oenanthe and Anthus spinoletta, preferred alpine tundra despite the fact that all species had higher foraging rates (both per unit distance and unit time) on snow. High foraging rates on snowfields can be explained by greater prey detectability and accessibility. A smaller size and thus lower profitability of snow arthropods compared with those of alpine tundra may be the reason why alpine birds preferred snow patches only at the highest elevations, where arthropod abundance in other habitats is very low.
10.2307/3677142|The sex of Great Tit Parus major nestlings was determined using PCR RAPDs. Because this technique requires minute amounts of DNA, chicks could be sampled soon (0-2d) after hatching, before any nestling mortality occurred. The proportion of males among 752 chicks hatching in 102 broods (98.9% of those that hatched) increased with hatching date from 42.4% male in first broods (n = 585 chicks) to 50.9% male in second broods (n = 167). The proportion of males among hatchlings also decreased with increasing clutch size and increased with increasing hatching asynchrony. These three variables are intercorrelated and it was not possible to separate them statistically. Hatchling sex ratio was not correlated with the age, weight or wing-length of either of the parents, brood size at hatching or fledging, hatching or fledging success, mean chick weight, or position in the hatching sequence. The functional significance of the sex ratio variation found is unknown.
10.2307/3677090|Neonate Shags Phalacrocorax aristotelis do not respond metabolically to cold surroundings and depend completely for thermal protection on heat provided by the brooding parent. We examined whether neonate Shags have developed an ability to sense cold, even though a metabolic response to cold surroundings is completely absent. Such information is important in order to identify the sequence by which the different mechanisms needed to maintain a stable body temperature are developed. During cold exposure, 1-9 day old Shag nestlings were unable to produce heat by physiological means and responded to body cooling by vocalization. Nestlings 12 days old were able to maintain a stable body temperature during cold exposure and did not call. These results strongly suggest that neonate Shags have developed an ability to sense cold, which can trigger a behavioural thermoregulatory response well before they are capable of facultative thermogenesis. The lack of a metabolic cold response may be due to either the immature state of the skeletal muscles, or to an underdevelopment of neuromuscular connections. Vocalization is probably mediated by dynamic activity of thermoreceptors, as the body temperature per se seems to be of minor importance in terms of controlling the response. It is suggested that vocalization is mediated by fast-acting cutaneous thermoreceptors.
10.2307/3677225|To examine whether variability in the basal metabolic rate (BMR) of migrant shorebirds is a function of a variably sized metabolic machinery or of temporal changes in metabolic intensities at the tissue level, BMR, body composition and activity of cytochrome-c oxidase (CCO, a marker for maximum tissure respiration) were measured in 14 captive Knots Calidris canutus islandica in late spring, during the period of mass loss after the migratory body mass peak. Although the body mass cycle of captive birds closely followed the changes of free-living conspecifics, their fat-free mass of muscles and organs was somewhat lower and their fat content higher. BMR significantly declined during mass loss, as did the fat-free dry mass. BMR was an allometric function of both body mass (exponent = 0.687) and lean dry mass (exponent = 1.132). Fat-free dry mass of heart and flight muscle decreased with the loss of fat. CCO-activity was determined in heart, flight muscle, leg muscle, liver and kidney. It was highest in heart and flight muscle and low in the other tissues. CCO-activity was not correlated with total fat mass. Intraspecific migration-related variation in BMR seems better explained by variation in the mass of organs with a high metabolic scope (as indicated by high CCO-activity), than by variation in the intensity of tissue metabolism.
3677696|This study was designed to determine the spring, summer, autumn, and early winter distribution, migration routes, and timing of migration of the Atlantic population of Steller's eiders Polysticta stelleri. Satellite transmitters were implanted in 20 eiders captured in April 2001 at Vads, Norway, and their locations were determined from 5 May 2001 to 6 February 2002. Regions where birds concentrated from spring until returning to wintering areas included coastal waters from western Finnmark, Norway, to the eastern Taymyr Peninsula, Russia. Novaya Zemlya, Russia, particularly the Mollera Bay region, was used extensively during spring staging, moult, and autumn staging; regions of the Kola, Kanin, and Gydanskiy peninsulas, Russia, were used extensively during spring and moult migrations. Steller's eiders migrated across the Barents and Kara seas and along the Kara Sea and Kola Peninsula coastal waters to nesting, moulting, and wintering areas. The majority of marked eiders (9 of 15) were flightless in near-shore waters along the west side of Novaya Zemlya. Eiders were also flightless in northern Norway and along the Kanin and at Kola Peninsula coasts. We compare and contrast natural history characteristics of the Atlantic and Pacific populations and discuss evolutionary and ecological factors influencing their distribution.
3677630|Microsatellite analysis was used to analyse the level of extra-pair paternity (EPP) in the semi-colonially breeding linnet Carduelis cannabina in Denmark. During the breeding seasons of 1998 and 1999 EPP accounted for only 3.8% of young (4/106, 95% CL = 1-13%). These extra-pair young were found in 9.1% of the broods (2/22, 95% CL = 1-29%). We hypothesize that this low level of EPP is due to an efficient use of both mate guarding and frequent copulations as paternity guards. However, experimental tests with temporary detainment of males would be needed to establish whether there is a causal relationship between the low EPP level and the double paternity guard.
3677425| Calcium availability might limit reproductive output in birds either by effects on eggshell formation or on skeletal growth of nestlings. Quantitative data on calcium intake by nestlings of free-living passerines are needed to test the second hypothesis. In an acidified area of the Jesenky Mountains (Czech Republic), estimates were made of calcium requirements and intake in Meadow Pipit Anthus pratensis nestlings during the nestling period. Analyses of nestling diet, determined by neck ligatures, showed that only snail shells were an important source of calcium. During the whole nestling period dry matter intake per nestling was 31.1 g, of which snail shells contributed 0.626 g. The total calcium necessary for successful development of each nestling was estimated as 139.8 mg. Arthropods in the diet provided only 16% of the calcium requirement. However, sufficient calcium was ensured by intake of snails (mainly Arianta arbustorum), despite their low abundance in the area. 
30244431|Females of the obligate brood parasitic common cuckoo Cuculus canorus are assumed to lay eggs of consistent colour and pattern and egg characteristics have been used to separate between different individuals. We tested the "constant egg-type hypothesis" in blind tests using test persons who grouped cuckoo eggs into "potential clutches" based on similarity in appearance. A correct classification of eggs laid by known (radiotagged) females supported the hypothesis. However, comparisons between maternity based on visual assessments and DNA-based parentage analyses revealed rather poor concordance between the two methods. Our findings indicate that egg characteristics cannot be used to separate between cuckoo females, even if they lay eggs with constant appearance. The reason is probably that there are only small or negligible variations in egg appearance between some females like mothers and daughters or other closely related individuals.
25662899|Substantial amounts of maternal androgens are found in birds' eggs and have been shown to benefit offspring development. Within-clutch patterns of increasing androgen concentrations over the laying sequence are often hypothesized to compensate for the negative effects of hatching asynchrony. However, detrimental effects to offspring fitness of exposure to high yolk androgen levels have also been demonstrated. This suggests that mothers should forego these costs to their offspring when the need for compensation for hatching asynchrony is low or when alternative compensatory strategies, e.g. in terms of increasing egg mass, are available. Here we show that in the south-temperate lesser double-collared sunbird Nectarinia chalybea, a species with hatching asynchrony but also with high survival of last-hatched chicks, mothers do not deposit resources differentially in terms of either yolk androgen concentration or egg mass across the laying sequence. We discuss to what extend this challenges the original explanation of within-clutch variation in these egg parameters and offer some explanation for their between-clutch variation which was related to female body mass.
25161510|Breeding Ospreys were studied in southern Sweden and 13 birds were tracked by satellite telemetry on autumn migration to the African wintering grounds. This was supplemented with studies of migrating birds at Falsterbo and radar trackings from southern Sweden. Females generally left the nest site 2-3 weeks ahead of males and juveniles. Among males, failed breeders migrated significantly earlier than successful breeders. At Falsterbo, Ospreys passed in the order adult females (median 22 Aug), adult males (26 Aug) and juveniles (30 Aug). Birds tracked by radar achieved cross-country speeds of 18-47 km/h. Most of our birds wintered in an area from The Gambia to the Ivory Coast, with one juvenile in Cameroon and one female in Mozambique. Ospreys spent on average 45 days travelling an average distance of 6742 km with no significant differences between sex and age categories. Between 0 and 44 days were used for stopovers en route. Females generally made more stopovers at northerly latitudes than males. Average speed on migration was 174 km/d, which is similar to speeds reported for other large raptors followed by satellite. Speed on travelling days was on average 257 km/d with males generally moving fastest. There was a clear tendency for lower speeds and more stopovers in Europe than during the crossing of the Sahara. Migratory activity generally took place between 8 a. m. and 5 p. m. local time and we have no indications of birds flying at night. With 9 hours travelling time the expected cross-country speed, derived from the theory of thermal soaring flight and assuming thermal climb rates of 1-2 m/s, varies from 251 to 360 km/d, which is similar to the observed mean speed on travelling days. Even so, one male travelled 746 km/d between Sweden and Spain. Some Ospreys need a much larger fraction of travelling days than expected from theory, suggesting that they deposit fuel on the breeding grounds before departure. This is supported by a correlation between the observed fraction of days spent travelling and departure date. In late departing Ospreys, especially males and juveniles, a major part of the energy for migration is probably deposited on the breeding grounds.
30243820|There are three breeding taxa of crossbills in highland Scotland, the common crossbill Loxia curvirostra, parrot crossbill L. pytyopsittacus and endemic Scottish crossbill L. scotica. These taxa show no genetic differentiation in neutral DNA (microsatellites and mitochondrial DNA), but do show some differentiation in morphology and have distinct calls. Mating patterns and bill size inheritance were examined to test four different hypotheses for their genetic similarity: (1) the three taxa belong to the same species and differences in bill sizes are caused by phenotypic plasticity, (2) the taxa are a result of genetic polymorphism at a single locus, (3) the taxa largely act as species but occasionally cross-breed, such that gene flow results in genetic homogenisation of part of the genome, and (4) the taxa are fully reproductively isolated species but diverged only recently, such that insufficient time has passed for neutral DNA to differentiate by genetic drift. Hypotheses 1 and 2 could be excluded because wild crossbills mated assortatively with respect to bill depth (a measure of bill size) and bill depth was highly heritable; narrow-sense heritabilities of 0.58 for female and 0.71 for male Scottish crossbills. Only two of 46 pairs (4.3%) were not assortative by bill size. Pairing was strongly assortative by flight calls (50 out of 52 pairs, 96.2%) and excitement calls (88 out of 93 pairs, 94.6%). Therefore, the three crossbill taxa do not cross-mate freely, nor do they seem totally reproductively isolated (excluding hypothesis 4). Thus, the results mostly favour hypothesis 3. The small amount of gene flow among crossbill taxa may contribute to the lack of genetic differentiation in neutral DNA. However, this appears to be insufficient not to classify them as species, as long as the calls can be regarded as diagnostic.
25161533|Marine animals equipped with data recording devices sometimes show changes in their foraging behaviour, which can indicate an adverse effect of the instrument. We attached time-depth recorders (TDRs) and radio-transmitters to study foraging behaviour in Humboldt Penguins Spheniscus humboldti and observed an increase in the duration of foraging trips. We suggest that further tagging of this endangered species be approached with caution since this increase in trip duration may negatively affect reproductive and foraging success.
30244743|Animals should invest in the immune system to protect themselves from parasites, but the cost of immune responses may limit investment depending on resource availability. In birds' broods, senior and junior chicks in size hierarchies face different rearing conditions, and thus we predicted that factors affecting immune response should differ between them. In asynchronously hatched hoopoe Upupa epops broods, we found that the immune response of senior nestlings was not related to their body condition, but positively related to risk of parasitism (which was indirectly estimated by laying date). This suggests that their immunocompetence is not limited by access to resources, and they can differentially invest in immune response with increasing risk of parasitism. On the other hand, immune response of junior nestlings was related to their body condition, but secondarily also to risk of parasitism. Our results agree with previous studies that have found significant influence of nutritional status and risk of parasitism on nestlings immune defence, but show that the effects of these environmental factors on nestling immunocompetence differ between nestlings occupying high and low rank positions in size hierarchies. The possible influence of maternal effects on the results found is also discussed.
30244748|Parasite infections are often more common in male vertebrates than in females. Sexual selection leading to dimorphism can cause sexual differences in immune defence, behaviour or body size. Possible proximate explanations for male bias in parasitism are the immunosuppressive effect of male sex hormones and the large body size of males which increases the likelihood of being parasitized. To evaluate these hypotheses, we studied the prevalence and abundance of intestinal helminth parasites in three boreal grouse species, the capercaillie Tetrao urogallus, the black grouse Tetrao tetrix, and the hazel grouse Bonasa bonasia. The first two are sexually dimorphic polygynous species while the latter species is sexually monomorphic and monogamous. We found a male-bias in the prevalence and abundance of the nematode Ascaridia compar. The bias was most pronounced in the polygynous black grouse and capercaillie. In the monogamous hazel grouse, there was a slight male-bias in occurrence of ascarids, but no bias in abundance. In juvenile grouse, the male-bias was larger than in adult grouse. No sexual bias was found in regard to the cestodes (Skrjabinia cesticillus, Paroniella urogalli and Hymenolepis spp.). However, age was a factor in cestode prevalence: juvenile grouse were more commonly infected than adults. Differences in growth rates and body size are potential factors that may lead to male-biased parasitism in these grouse species, and their impact requires further studies.
3677700|Geographic variation in male bird songs has been studied extensively, but there have been few investigations of geographic variation in female songs or sex differences in patterns of geographic variation. We compared patterns of variation in male and female songs of eastern whipbirds Psophodes olivaceus by analyzing recordings from 16 populations across the species' geographic range in eastern Australia. We found remarkably different patterns of geographic variation between the sexes. Female eastern whipbird songs are easily categorized into discrete song types. Song types are shared between nearby females, but female songs show pronounced differences at a continental scale. In contrast, male eastern whipbird songs show high consistency throughout the species' geographic range. All recorded males share the ability to transpose the frequency of the introductory whistle and most recorded males share the ability to vary the direction of the slope of the terminal whip crack. For eight of nine measured variables, female songs show significantly higher levels of variation than male songs. We discuss whether sex differences in dispersal, song learning strategies, and song function may explain these sex differences in patterns of song variation. We suggest that eastern whipbirds have experienced a decoupling of male and female song learning strategies and that the songs of each sex have responded to different selective pressures in the context of countersinging interactions. We speculate that consistency in male songs throughout the geographic range of eastern whipbirds may arise through female preference for males that perform large bandwidth whip cracks.
30243904|Eadie (1989) developed a method based on variation between females in egg length, width and weight to detect conspecific brood parasitism in the field: using these three egg measures, Euclidean distance between all pairs of eggs within a clutch is calculated, and if maximum Euclidean distance (MED) between any two eggs exceeds a threshold value the nest is considered parasitized. The MED method has been tested in Finnish and Scottish common goldeneye Bucephala clangula populations but the results have been contradicting. Here we use protein fingerprinting to assess the validity of the MED method. Data comprised 35 clutches of which we knew, based on protein fingerprinting, how many different females laid the clutch (range 1-5 females). The mean MED of non-parasitized clutches (laid by 1 female only) was 1.470 (95% CI: lower 1.169, upper 1.771; n = 21) and that of parasitized clutches (laid by 2 or more females) was 3.654 (95% CL: lower 3.083, upper 4.225; n = 14). Using a MED > 3.0 as a criterion to identify parasitized clutches 89% of all clutches were classified correctly either parasitized or non-parasitized when compared to the identification based on protein fingerprinting. Clutch size and the number of females (beyond 2 females) did not affect the clutch MED, whereas the status of parasitism did. Repeatability of egg length, width and weight were: 0.63, 0.76 and 0.80, respectively, implying that, variation in these egg measures occurs among rather than within females. Our new results confirm that the MED method is reliable enough to detect parasitism in common goldeneye.
30243886|A recent study reported the incidence of intraspecific brood parasitism (IBP) in the blue tit, based on differences in pigmentation between eggs within clutches and the appearance of multiple eggs within a nest in a single day. Here we present data from another population of blue tits Cyanistes caeruleus in which we show that such evidence is not necessarily indicative of IBP. As in many other studies of birds, we found that the patterning and degree of pigmentation on eggs is individually highly characteristic of a female. As in the previous study of blue tits, a minority of clutches (about 3% of 904 clutches) contained one, two or three eggs that were distinctly different from the other eggs in the clutch, either in size or patterning, but not both. Molecular genetic analyses of parentage in a sample of these clutches with suspected IBP demonstrated unequivocally that all eggs within each clutch had in fact been laid by a single female, in all cases the social parent. We also found no evidence of IBP from paternity analyses of a sample of 3,529 offspring from 427 broods in this population, adding to previous evidence of the absence of IBP in this species. These findings cast doubt on the utility of purely observational approaches to provide evidence of intraspecific brood parasitism; our study suggests that egg morphology and records of laying patterns are inadequate to enable the identification of IBP.
30244485|Experiments on captive animals, in which conditions can be controlled, are useful for examining complex biological phenomena such as immune function. Such experiments have increased our understanding of immune responses in the context of trade-offs and pathogen pressure. However, few studies have examined how captivity itself affects immune function. We used microbial killing, leukocyte concentrations and complement-natural antibody assays to examine non-induced (constitutive) immunity in captive and free-living red knots Calidris canutus. Univariate and multivariate analyses indicated that captive and free-living birds differed in their immune strategies. Captive birds showed reduced S. aureus killing, C. albicans killing, heterophils, and eosinophils. In a principal component analysis, the affected variables fell onto a single axis, that reflected phagocytosis and inflammation based immunity. We discuss possible reasons for this result in an immune cost and protective benefit framework.
3677424|We present a new type of equation to describe the growth patterns of procellariiform seabirds and other species whose chicks characteristically lose mass towards the end of the rearing period. Our equation is based on the Gompertz curve; our principles are also applicable to logistic and von Bertalanffy curves. From our model, five coefficients can be derived to characterise the patterns of growth. These are: growth rate, peak mass and age at which it is attained, loss rate and an index describing the overall shape of the curve. We illustrate the use of this new equation with data collected, using automated weighing platforms, on six years of chick growth of Black-browed Diomedea melanophris and Grey-headed D. chrysostoma albatrosses at Bird Island, South Georgia. In comparison with Grey-headed Albatross, Black-browed Albatross chicks grow at a faster rate and to a higher peak mass; they also reach their peak mass at an earlier age, and lose mass at a faster rate in the mass recession period. However, in both species, chicks reached peak mass when 72% of the rearing period had elapsed; within species, only this did not vary between years. This new equation not only enables the period of mass recession to be incorporated into growth analysis, but, because it does not require assumptions about asymptotic mass, greatly facilitates inter-species comparisons.
3677728|Several studies have found that the peak in bird density in the atmosphere during nocturnal migration occurs before midnight, while the peak in vocalizations from migrating birds occurs after midnight, in the hours just before dawn. In a recent study, the patterns of calling from a single species of migrating birds correlated well with the patterns of density estimates of migrating birds. We test the null hypothesis that the patterns of reflectivity measurements and number of vocalizations during nocturnal migration are not related. We sampled radar data and nocturnal flight calls during spring and fall 2000 in northwestern South Carolina and southeastern New York. We analyzed changes in the hour-to-hour patterns of bird density and vocalizations for 556 hours on 58 nights. We also analyzed the night-to-night changes in the patterns of peak hour bird density and peak hour of vocalizations on 32 nights. We found that most of the hour-to-hour and night-to-night patterns of density and vocalization counts are significantly related and reject the null hypothesis. However, despite significant relationships between reflectivity measurements and vocalization counts, a great deal of variation in vocalization counts remains unexplained. These results suggest that factors other than bird density are responsible for the variation in vocalizing by migrating birds.
25161526|The Yellow-legged Gull Larus cachinnans is monogamous with bi-parental incubation. In this study, the effects of high levels of plasma testosterone in male Yellow-legged Gulls during the incubation period were analysed. Free-living male gulls were implanted with testosterone (T-males), and their sexual behaviour within the pair was observed and compared with that of control pairs. Egg temperatures, length of incubation and hatching success were also analysed. T-males and their mates displayed more sexual behaviour than the controls. T-males engaged in mounting behaviour with their mates, whereas control males did not. Proportionally less time was spent incubating (in relation to time present in the colony) by T-males than control males. However, the mates of T-males did not spend more time incubating than control females to compensate for male neglect, although they did spend more time on the territory. Egg temperature in T-male nests was significantly lower than in control nests, but no significant difference in the length of incubation or hatching success between the two groups was found. In birds, the effects of high testosterone levels on male behaviour during incubation have only been analysed in a polyandrous species whose females usually do not contribute to incubation. The present results thus suggest that those males of a monogamous species with biparental incubation that sustain high testosterone levels after laying, thus reducing their contributions to incubation, will be confronted with a lack of compensation from their mates during incubation. Finally, this lack of female compensation seems to be mediated by behavioural interactions with the male rather than by her absence from the colony.
3677470|When birds are attacked by aerial predators they should benefit by adjusting their escape to the prevailing attack situation. One important factor likely to affect escape decisions of prey, to our knowledge not previously studied, is the distance at which the attacking predator is detected. We investigated if great tits Parus major and blue tits P. caeruleus alter their escape behaviour to two different detection distances (2.3 m and 1m) by simulating surprise attacks using a predator model. Both species used the information about detection distance when escaping by increasing the escape angle at the shorter detection distance. In addition, blue tits adjusted to the shorter detection distance by dodging sideways more frequently. Great tits escaped initially steeper and faster than blue tits, whereas blue tits increased escape angle and speed more than great tits along the measured distance after taking wing.
3677794|An increasing number of studies have demonstrated that brood sex ratios are frequently unequal, but the proximate mechanisms underlying this deviation are largely unknown. In the current study we analysed deviation from expected 1:1 sex ratio among dead embryos from unhatched eggs collected from partially unhatched clutches of three passerine bird species. We showed that male embryos were significantly overrepresented among unhatched eggs of great tit Parus major, blue tit P. caeruleus and collared flycatcher Ficedula albicollis. Moreover, the bias in sex ratio differed among species and tended to differ among study years. We discuss several hypotheses to explain the observed male bias among unhatched eggs. We conclude that sex specific embryo mortality may contribute to explain the observed variation in sex ratios in several species of wild birds and that sexing unhatched eggs is important in studies of sex ratio allocation.
3677769|Importance of within-species (population) variation in trait values to correlations of traits among species has received very little attention in comparative analyses. We use randomization and bootstrapping techniques to provide a sensitivity analysis of the influence of population variation on correlations between clutch size and propensity to excavate. These traits are predicted to be negatively correlated under the limited breeding opportunities hypothesis, but opposing results have been found by two studies using different population estimates for western Palearctic Paridae. Our analyses support the limited breeding opportunities hypothesis and suggest low sensitivity to within-species variation in trait values. Yet, a small proportion of population data provide non-significant results. Checking for the effects of this variation on the postulated association between traits is necessary in comparative studies if one wishes to avoid type I and type II errors.
3677623|I examined the growth of surviving nestlings in broods of the cooperatively breeding laughing kookaburra Dacelo novaeguineae, which has complex patterns of brood reduction. Laughing kookaburras usually lay three eggs that hatch asynchronously. Brood reduction occurs in nearly half of all broods and always affects the youngest nestling. In most cases, the youngest nestling is killed within a few days of hatching by aggressive attacks from its older siblings. In a smaller proportion of nests, the youngest nestling dies from starvation, rather than physical attack, much later in the nestling period when nestling growth rates and adult feeding rates peak (about 20 days post-hatching). These mechanistically and temporally distinct episodes of brood reduction were associated with very different patterns of growth in the senior nestlings. Seniors that killed their youngest sibling reached higher asymptotic weights than seniors that did not commit siblicide. In contrast, if the youngest nestling was not killed by its older siblings, but later starved to death, the surviving seniors were skeletally smaller and had retarded feather development compared to seniors from other broods. These differences in nestling growth may have longer-term fitness consequences, because kookaburra fledging weight is positively associated with both juvenile survival and successful recruitment into the breeding population. Therefore, although parents of broods without mortality produce the highest number of fledglings and also the highest number of independent juveniles, if parents are unable to raise a full brood, early siblicide may represent the best brood reduction option. Early siblicide is at least associated with high quality young that have enhanced survival and recruitment prospects. In contrast, the poor growth of seniors in broods where the youngest nestling starved suggests that parents overestimated the size of the brood they could provision.
3677493|The influence of climate, age and egg-laying experience on reproductive performance (propensity, fecundity, timing) of a flock of captive houbara bustards was determined. The flock, established in Saudi Arabia for reintroduction purposes, was housed in outdoor pens, and fed food and water ad libitum. Birds were artificially inseminated when they came into breeding condition and eggs were removed soon after laying. Winter temperatures, rather than rainfall, synchronized reproduction in the captive flock. Cooler winter temperatures led to higher proportions of females laying, an earlier start to laying, and greater numbers of eggs laid per season. The first significant rainfall of the season stimulated some females to lay their last egg. Age per se had little effect on breeding performance independent of egg-laying experience. Females with no previous egg-laying experience laid fewer eggs than similarly aged females with previous experience. This difference, in combination with a pattern of increasing recruitment into the breeding population between 1 and 5 years of age, led to improved breeding performance in the population with age. The inferior performance of first-time egg-layers, despite ad libitum food, indicates restraint in the onset of breeding, which may be an adaptation for optimizing life-time fitness.
10.2307/3677221|Interactive playback experiments to singing male Great Tits Parus major were used to compare the effects of overlapping their songs with alternating playback which avoided such overlapping. The results showed that the means of measures of approach response and amount of song sung did not differ significantly between the two treatments. However, the variation in song length (phrases/song) differed significantly, being largest during overlapping. The lack of overall differences in average response between the two treatments is evidence against the idea that males may escalate threat by changing from an alternating to an overlapping pattern of singing. On the other hand, the difference in variation in song length supports the idea and is in accordance with classical ethological theory that an escalation of threat will not necessary result in an increased counter threat, but rather in an increased variation of the counter threat. The variation in song length during overlapping may have resulted from test males using a number of different ways of responding to the escalated threat of overlapping.
30244760|Multi-factor analyses of territory quality in relation to fitness components of adults are rare, especially in non-migratory species. I studied the influence of multiple attributes of territory quality (habitat type and the abundance of food and predators) on the reproductive success and survival of a threatened Australian passerine, the southern emu-wren Stipiturus malachurus. The abundance of frequently-selected prey types (lepidoptera, diptera, hemiptera and larvae) varied significantly across territories according to habitat type. Reproductive success (number of offspring fledged) was highest in territories containing a greater proportion of tall shrubland, which had the highest insect abundance of any habitat. Closed heathland and sedge/rushland also had high food abundance compared to other habitat types, but higher fledging success occurred only within closed heathland, possibly because predator density was lower in this habitat type. High snake density was associated with reduced adult survival during the breeding season and a lower probability of nest success. In sedge/rushland, any benefits of prey abundance may therefore be offset by a high density of predators. Emu-wren age and size were unrelated to breeding output of pairs, suggesting that ecological factors may swamp effects of individual quality on emu-wren fitness components. Preservation of tall shrubland and closed heathland habitats appear to be of key conservation priority for emu-wrens.
10.2307/3677106|We studied how variation in different reproductive traits (hatching date, clutch number and clutch size) in addition to mass, size and condition of the fledgling influenced its probability of survival until recruitment in a House Sparrow population living on islands off the coast of northern Norway in 1993 and 1994. Twenty-three and 21% of the fledglings were recorded alive in the population the year after hatching, respectively. Most mortality occurred just after fledging. In both years larger-sized fledglings survived better than smaller ones. Juvenile survival was independent of clutch size. Multiple logistic regression analyses showed that in both years juvenile survival increased with body size (expressed as tarsus length). In addition, in 1993 fledglings in high body condition survived better, whereas in 1994 hatching day explained a significant proportion of the variation in juvenile survival. However, this last year both body condition and size increased significantly with hatching date, suggesting that juvenile survival rate may have been dependent on body condition also in this year. These results demonstrate that losses of juveniles during the non-breeding season are strongly influenced by factors during the breeding season that affect the size and condition of the fledglings.
10.2307/3677099|The plumage colour of Pied Flycatcher Ficedula hypoleuca males varies geographically, with darker-coloured populations occurring in Fennoscandia and lighter-coloured populations in central Europe and Russia. Our data show that males, regardless of age, were darker in northern than in southern Finland. There are two potential explanations for this. First, higher predation pressure in the south compared to the north may favour more cryptic individuals. Second, there may be more extensive gene flow to southern than to northern Finland from adjacent Pied Flycatcher populations living in sympatry with the Collared Flycatcher F. albicollis on Gotland (Sweden) and in central Europe. The later assumption agrees with the idea that gene flow from areas of sympatry might maintain high colour variation of males in nearby areas of allopatry.
10.2307/3676962|Sex ratios of 368 fledglings from 145 broods of Montagu's Harrier over the period 1987-93 are analysed. The sex ratio of fledglings was biased toward males, and this bias was close to statistical significance (203 males and 165 females, P = 0.052). Published data confirm this bias (N = 591, P = 0.003). The effects of several parameters on the sex ratio are then examined: food abundance, egg laying date, egg rank order, harrier density, breeding success and harrier colony size. We found significant effects of egg rank order, the first eggs being female biased, the others male biased, and to a lesser extent, colony size. The other factors did not affect sex ratios significantly. We discuss these results, compare them with other published harrier and raptor sex ratios, and show that there is no congruence amongst them.
30244465|Age-related differences in plumage characteristics of birds can be the result of differential survival of more ornamented individuals, within-individual changes in plumage attributes with age, or a combination of both. In this study, we investigated age-class related differences in plumage attributes of male tree swallows Tachycineta bicolor by performing both cross-sectional and longitudinal analyses. Male tree swallows in their first breeding season do not display delayed plumage maturation, and possess, like experienced breeders, metallic green to metallic blue iridescent plumage on their dorsal surface. Our results showed that, at the population level, older males were brighter and reflected light maximally at shorter wavelengths (i.e. were more blue). Differences in plumage brightness were most likely caused by changes within individuals as males increased in brightness between the first time they were captured and the subsequent year. Differences in hue, however, were not due to within-individual changes, but rather appear to be the result of greener individuals having lower survival and/or nest site fidelity. Indeed, relatively dull, greener birds had a lower probability of being recaptured the subsequent year. In contrast, we found that if birds captured in their first year as breeding adults were relatively bright, hue was not related to the probability of recapture. These results suggest that plumage attributes in male tree swallows have the potential of being honest signals of quality. Furthermore, plumage brightness and plumage hue might signal different aspects of male quality in this species.
10.2307/3677309|To study parental responses during the incubation and nestling periods, nestling growth and adult moult, two eggs were either removed from or added to Pied Flycatcher Ficedula hypoleuca clutches shortly after clutch completion. Incubation period and hatching success did not differ between experimental groups. In the enlarged group the rate of male incubation feeding of the female was higher than in the other groups. Fledgling mass and tarsus length were negatively related to the experimental change in clutch size, and this effect arose entirely in the first four days after hatching. The results suggest that the embryo development during the incubation period and nestling growth during the first days after hatching are important for the subsequent nestling growth and should be taken into account when analysing the results of brood size manipulations. Fledging and breeding success, fledgling mass and tarsus length differed between experimental groups with lower values in the enlarged group. There was an effect of experimental treatment on female and male feeding rates, with higher number of feeding visits in the enlarged group. The onset of adult moult was related to calendar date and there was no effect of the experiment on the proportion of birds moulting at any given time. At least in this population, moult may not be a mechanism mediating costs of reproduction.
3677655|Sequence variation was examined in domain I of the mitochondrial control region in three Queensland populations of Hall's Babbler Pomatostomus halli, a geographically restricted, monotypic songbird in eastern Australia. Surprisingly, we found that domain I sequences were strongly differentiated into two major clades differing by 3.29%. These two clades exhibited nearly complete geographic concordance with northern and southern populations, except for two haplotypes which were sampled in the north of the range but were phylogenetically allied to the southern clade. We also found a seven-fold higher level of genetic diversity in the northern than in the southern populations. Neutrality and molecular clock tests suggested that selection or differences in substitution rates were not responsible for this difference in diversity. However, a maximum likelihood analysis of gene flow between the north and south suggested that the difference in diversity could be due to both greater population size in the north and asymmetric gene flow dominated by south to north dispersal events. A likelihood ratio test rejected a model in which population sizes were equal and rates of gene flow symmetric, and came close to rejecting a model in which only population sizes were constrained to be equal. These results suggest that different population sizes and asymmetric gene flow could be a major source of differences in genetic variation between populations of Hall's Babbler, although ecological and biogeographic causes for these differences are obscure.
3677501| Sex ratio and age structure of Tengmalm's owls Aegolius funereus crossing the Gulf of Bothnia between Sweden and Finland were investigated by catching owls on the island of Stora Fjdergg during autumn 1999. Using a molecular sexing technique, we investigated the assertions of previous studies that only adult female and juvenile Tengmalm's owls undertake nomadic movements. Juveniles were generally more frequent than adults, and the sex ratio of juvenile owls was significantly female-biased. However, contrary to expectation, adult males as well as females were caught. Additionally, among juveniles, males migrated earlier than females. Thus we infer that adult males as well as females are nomadic to some extent, and that the difference between the sexes in migratory habits is not as clear as previously thought. 
30245215|Investment in signalling is subject to multiple trade-offs that vary with life-stage, leading to a complex relationship between survival and trait expression. We show a negative relationship between survival and song rate in response to simulated territorial intrusion in male banded wrens Thryophilus pleurostictus, and test several explanations for this association. (1) Male age failed to explain the association: though age affected song rate in a cross-sectional analysis, longitudinal analysis showed that individuals did not increase their song rate as they got older. Reconciling these results suggests differential selection against young males that respond to intrusion with low song rates. (2) Mortality costs of high song rates did not appear to explain the negative relationship between song rate and survival because, though song rate in response to playback was condition-dependent, high song rates in a different context did not appear to impose mortality costs. (3) High levels of territorial pressure may have increased mortality, but were not associated with high song rates in response to playback. (4) Since song rates did not increase with age, but tended to increase only in the last year of life, we tentatively suggest that the negative relationship between song rate and survival could represent a terminal investment in territorial defence by males in their final breeding season, though further work is needed to confirm this conclusion.
25161515|The behaviour of Magellanic Penguins Spheniscus magellanicus commuting between their foraging areas and breeding areas in San Julian Bay, Argentina was studied to examine whether tidal rip currents affected travelling patterns. Although there was no apparent relationship between departure and arrival patterns and the state of the tidal cycle, birds travelling against the current dived for longer periods and had shorter rests on the surface than birds travelling with the current. In addition, birds swimming against the current hugged the banks of tidal rivers much more closely than did birds swimming with the current, thus reducing the magnitude of the current against which they had to swim. In cases of extremely high current speeds, birds travelling upstream walked. Models regarding the energetics of movement indicate that the strategies adopted by Magellanic Penguins can result in substantial energy savings.
10.2307/3677164|Understanding bird flight and migration depends on field observations, theory and laboratory experiments. Like the legs of a tripod, these three elements depend on each other for support. No one leg can be extended too far beyond the others, without destabilising the structure. At the lowest level of theory is the physics of flight, which predicts the mechanical power required from the flight muscles. The purpose of the second level is to convert the primary power requirement of the flight muscles into a rate of fuel consumption, and to predict secondary power requirements from the heart and lungs, and basal metabolism. The third level, strategic theory, uses predictions from the lower levels to investigate migration strategies, which are supposedly optimal in the ecological and evolutionary contexts. A number of questions require attention to bridge existing gaps in the lower levels of theory, especially (1) the direct measurement of mechanical power output (not oxygen consumption), (2) the measurement of two "biological constants", the isometric force exerted by one myosin filament, and the inverse power density of mitochondria, (3) the prediction of the mass and secondary power requirements of the heart and lungs, from the primary power requirement of the flight muscles, and (4) the nature of basal metabolism, and the manner in which it combines with other demands for power in the active animal. A complete theory at the physical and physiological levels can be used to construct computer simulations of migratory flight by particular birds. Such simulations can be used to approach the third (strategic) level of theory if values for input variables are obtained from field observations of real birds. The results can then be used to infer what the underlying strategy is, rather than postulating that the bird is selecting from a limited choice of possible strategies, derived analytically. The traditional emphasis on measurements of oxygen consumption, with little or no reference to the physics of the bird or the conditions of flight, does not help in building up a comprehensive body of theory, but this type of experiment could still be useful, to check the predictions of theory at the physical and physiological levels.
30243836|Migration speed in passerines is generally assumed to be higher in spring than in autumn. So far this has been only shown for the western Palaearctic-Afrotropic migration system. I compiled published records of the movements of Siberian stonechats Saxicola torquata maura in Central and northern Asia to reconstruct their spatiotemporal movement patterns in this region and to estimate migration speed in spring and autumn. My estimate of spring migration speed in the Siberian stonechats does not differ from that in autumn and is lower than the reported spring migration speeds in European passerines. Northward progression of Siberian stonechats seems to be constrained by the prevailing environmental conditions, as indicated by low temperatures and vegetation indices. Low food availability at stopover and the obstruction of the migration route by steep environmental gradients may apply also to other migratory species in the area.
30245318|I explored the fitness implications of individual and sex differences in foraging strategy in the Eurasian oystercatcher Haematopus ostralegus by monitoring the survival of individually colour-ringed birds of known sex and known feeding specialisation. Over the period of this study, adult female annual and overwinter survival was significantly lower than adult male survival. However, contrary to previous findings, no differences in survival were found between birds of different feeding specialisations. Lower female survival was not due to sex differences in feeding specialisation. Possible mechanisms for sex differences in survival and the survival implications of different feeding specialisations are discussed. I conclude that sex differences in survival may be due to differences in social status. I also suggest that worm/clam feeders and mussel-stabbers, feeding specialisations previously associated with lower survival rates, may have benefited more than mussel-hammerers from milder winter temperatures in recent years.
10.2307/3677354|The composition and frequency of occurrence of mixed flocks among foraging insectivorous birds were compared between several tropical forests from South America to the Indian Ocean and Southeast Asia, and related to forest structure, foraging behaviour and abundance of predators (diurnal raptors), to investigate relationships between flocking behaviour and antipredator defence. Foliage gleaners, the most conspicuous and least vigilant foragers, were usually the most abundant flock members and the birds with the highest flocking propensity. In contrast, species foraging low above ground or in dense vegetation were the least likely to join flocks. Flocking propensity of all insectivores pooled, or of gleaners alone, generally declined from primary lowland forest to open (semi-deciduous), disturbed (logging gaps), managed or montane forest (broken canopy), i.e. when predator detectability was likely to increase. There was also a significant positive correlation between bird-hunting raptor diversity or abundance and flocking rates of foliage gleaners or all insectivores. The results supported the hypothesis that foraging birds most vulnerable to predators were most likely to form mixed species flocks and that flocking tendency decreased when vegetation structure became more protective and/or when predator pressure became lower.
10.2307/3677073|To examine the relationship between social dominance and exposure to predation risk, we allowed natural groups of Willow Tits Parus montanus to choose between two nearby feeding sites differing in safety. The birds preferred to feed at the safe site. Socially dominant individuals used safe sites more than did subordinates. However, adult females mated with alpha males, used safe sites more than expected from their rank, possibly as a result of protection offered by their mates. Subordinates increased their use of safe sites after experimental removal of dominants, implying that the greater risk-taking of subordinates in natural flocks is due to interference from dominants. The observed pattern of risk-taking at feeders may influence survival also in natural conditions, because dominants survive better than subordinates, as documented earlier for this population.
10.2307/3677324|Natal and breeding dispersal of yearling and adult Superb Fairy-wrens Malurus cyaneus were studied for five years in Canberra, Australia. Superb Fairy-wrens are co-operative breeders and exhibit male philopatry and female-biased dispersal. Dispersal by yearling males was prompted mainly by breeding vacancies in nearby territories, and most males acquired a social mate without leaving their natal territory. All females dispersed in their first year, in two discrete phases. Early dispersal by females appears to be volitional, whereas late dispersal is forced by aggression by mothers. Early-dispersing females fledged earlier and dispersed further than late-dispersing females. Females travelled further than males, and either gained a breeding position at age one year, or disappeared. Obligate dispersal by young females appears to be costly, contradicting predictions of philopatry by co-operative breeding theory. Dispersal by established breeders was uncommon, and was female-biased. The role of the unusual mating system of the species is discussed, and dispersal patterns in this species are compared and contrasted with those of its congener M. splendens.
30244824|For many bird species, growth is negative or equivocal during development. Traditional, parametric growth curves assume growth follows a sigmoidal form with prescribed inflection points and is positive until asymptotic size. Accordingly, these curves will not accurately capture the variable, sometimes considerable, fluctuations in avian growth over the course of the trajectory. We evaluated the fit of three traditional growth curves (logistic, Gompertz, and von Bertalanffy) and a nonparametric spline estimator to simulated growth data of six different specified forms over a range of sample sizes. For all sample sizes, the spline best fit the simulated model that exhibited negative growth during a portion of the trajectory. The Gompertz curve was the most flexible for fitting simulated models that were strictly sigmoidal in form, yet the fit of the spline was comparable to that of the Gompertz curve as sample size increased. Importantly, confidence intervals for all of the fitted, traditional growth curves were wholly inaccurate, negating the apparent robustness of the Gompertz curve, while confidence intervals of the spline were acceptable. We further evaluated the fit of traditional growth curves and the spline to a large data set of wood thrush Hylocichla mustelina mass and wing chord observations. The spline fit the wood thrush data better than the traditional growth curves, produced estimates that did not differ from known observations, and described negative growth rates at relevant life history stages that were not detected by the growth curves. The common rationale for using parametric growth curves, which compress growth information into a few parameters, is to predict an expected size or growth rate at some age or to compare estimated growth with other published estimates. The suitability of these traditional growth curves may be compromised by several factors, however, including variability in the true growth trajectory. Nonparametric methods, such as the spline, provide a precise description of empirical growth yet do not produce such parameter estimates. Selection of a growth descriptor is best determined by the question being asked but may be constrained by inherent patterns in the growth data.
3677643|Using daily counts of birds seen at six coastal bird observatories in southern and eastern England, we explored the migration phenology of turtle doves during the period 1963 to 2000. Annual totals increased threefold up to the late 1970s then decreased again, in accordance with the BTO Common Birds Census (CBC) index of abundance. Median annual spring arrival and autumn departure dates of turtle doves were not related to abundance (CBC index) or mean temperature in spring or summer respectively. Although median annual spring arrival date has not altered over the 38-year period, median annual autumn departure date has become earlier by 8 days. This has resulted in a shortening of the breeding season by 12 days, which ties in with a reduction in average number of nesting attempts per pair observed by a recent autecological study. It is possible that breeding turtle doves are now out of phase with peaks in food availability. This may have resulted in reduced breeding performance and earlier termination of the breeding season, and may have partly contributed to the decline of the species.
3676985|We investigated patterns of variation of feather and bill ornaments of Crested Auklets Aethia cristatella, a monogamous seabird, based on 963 individuals measured in the years 1990 to 1998. Three prominent ornaments were displayed: a forehead crest, composed of 11-31 curved feathers averaging about 40 mm in length, bilaterally symmetrical white auricular plumes on the sides of the head behind the eyes, averaging about 30 mm in length, and brightly coloured semi-circular rictal plates at the corners of the bill. As in other putative sexually selected traits, auklet ornaments were more variable across individuals than non-ornamental traits. Crest length and auricular plume length were positively correlated within individuals but not across years. Among the traits measured there was evidence for slight sexual dimorphism for the auricular plume and rictal plate ornaments and for culmen length and tarsus (males were slightly larger than females) but not for the crest ornament. Breeding adult females and males had greater crest and plume ornament expression than non-breeding adults. Paradoxically, females' crests and rictal plates were more variable than males' crests and rictal plates. Based on independent samples, the expression of feather ornaments and rictal plate varied among years between 1990 and 1998. Crested Auklet ornaments did not vary in concert with the ornaments of Whiskered Aethia pygmaea and Least Auklets Aethia pusilla during this period. Crested Auklet subadults had smaller ornaments than adults. Based on adults remeasured after an interval of one to seven years, the size of individuals' feather ornaments increased with age. We found no relationship between auricular plume length and asymmetry. Male auricular plumes and female crests were weakly correlated with body condition.
30243920|Understanding why males of many species exhibit two or more sexual ornaments depends upon identifying both the information conveyed and the intended receiver(s) for each signal. Here we focus on identifying the intended receivers for two sexual signals exhibited by male red-backed fairy-wrens Malurus melanocephalus, extent of nuptial plumage and tail length. In doing so we test the multiple receiver hypothesis, which predicts that each trait is directed toward a different type of receiver (e.g., males vs females). Male red-backed fairy-wrens in nuptial plumage exhibit reversed sexual dimorphism for tail length in the breeding season, when their tails are significantly shorter than those of females or males in eclipse plumage. Using both aviary-based experiments and indices of mate choice and social dominance from a natural population, we found that extent of nuptial plumage and age primarily affected female mate choice and that shorter tails were primarily associated with male:male dominance signaling. The field and aviary studies combined are consistent with the multiple receiver hypothesis, in that each trait appears to be directed primarily to a different set of receivers (plumage for females and tail length for males), though each trait may also signal information to the other set of receivers as well. We propose that sexual selection may favor shorter tail lengths in male red-backed fairy-wrens through social competition mechanisms.
3677618|In contrast to the high productivity of black-legged kittiwakes in Britain, kittiwakes at many colonies in Alaska have failed chronically to reproduce since the mid 1970s. To determine if food is limiting productivity and, if so, at what stages of nesting food shortages are most severe, in 1996 and 1997 we supplementally fed kittiwakes nesting on an abandoned building. The effects of feeding were stronger in 1997 than in 1996, possibly because naturally occurring prey were of poorer quality in 1997. Consumption of supplemental herring declined as egg laying approached then increased slowly during incubation and more rapidly after hatching. All of the six components of productivity we studied were improved by supplemental feeding to some degree. Supplemental food did not significantly alter laying success in either year, although fed pairs bred at slightly higher rates than unfed pairs in 1997, the poorer food year. In 1996 and 1997, extra food noticeably increased clutch size and hatching success, but significantly so only in 1997. Fledging success and productivity were substantially augmented by feeding in both years. Fed pairs fledged twice as many chicks per nest as did unfed pairs in 1996 and three times as many in 1997. Fed and unfed pairs lost most of their potential productivity through the inability to hatch eggs, and secondarily because of their poor success at raising chicks. The benefits of supplemental feeding did not carry over from one stage of breeding to another. Pairs cut off from supplemental food after laying or hatching performed similarly to pairs that had not been previously fed. This study provides benchmark values of breeding performance attainable by kittiwakes in Alaska under optimal conditions. These values are comparable to highly productive colonies in Britain and suggest that differences in life-history characteristics between Pacific and Atlantic breeding populations are primarily controlled by food supply.
10.2307/3677057|Bird species distributions in 151 woods (0.02-30 ha) in a lowland arable landscape in eastern England were investigated using logistic regression analysis. Of 31 species included in the study, only Marsh Tit Parus palustris, Nightingale Luscinia mega-rhynchos and Chiffchaff Phylloscopus collybita failed to breed in woods of <0.5 ha. For many woodland species, the probability of breeding was positively related to woodland area and other variables decribing the woods themselves. For other species, including Blackbird Turdus merula and Sparrowhawk Accipiter nisus, woodland perimeter, rather than area, was significant. Variables describing the landscape surrounding the woods were important for both woodland species and those more typical of open country. The length of hedgerow in the surrounding landscape was positively related to the breeding presence in particular woods of Long-tailed Tit Aegithalos caudatus, Robin Erithacus rubecula, Bullfinch Pyrrhula pyrrhula, Garden Warbler Sylvia borin and Blackcap Sylvia atricapilla, and the area of surrounding woodland was important for Long-tailed Tit, Great-spotted Woodpecker Dendrocopos major and Chaffinch Fringilla coelebs. The presence of Treecreeper Certhia familiaris was negatively related to the distance to the nearest wood, whereas that of Tree Sparrow Passer montanus was negatively related to the amount of woodland in the surrounding landscape. Thus species breeding distributions were influenced by factors associated with the wider landscape, on a scale larger than that of their immediate habitats.
30243867|We measured plasma concentrations of variables associated with lipid metabolism (free fatty acids, glycerol, triglyceride, and -hydroxybutyrate), protein metabolism (uric acid), and baseline corticosterone to characterize the nutritional state of incubating king eiders Somateria spectabilis and relate this to incubation constancy at two sites, Kuparuk and Teshekpuk, in northern Alaska. King eiders at both sites appeared to employ a partial-income incubation strategy, relying on both endogenous and exogenous energy resources. Females maintained high invariant levels of free fatty acids, -hydroxybutyrate, and glycerol throughout incubation, indicating that fat reserves were a major energy source, and not completely depleted during incubation. Similarly, uric acid did not increase, suggesting effective protein sparing or protein ingestion and adequate lipid reserves throughout incubation. Baseline corticosterone and triglyceride levels increased during incubation, indicative of an increase in foraging during late stages of incubation. Incubating females at Kuparuk had higher triglyceride concentrations but also had higher -hydroxybutyrate concentrations than females at Teshekpuk. This dichotomy may reflect a short-term signal of feeding overlaying the longer-term signal of reliance on endogenous lipid reserves due to higher food intake yet higher metabolic costs at Kuparuk because of its colder environment. Incubation constancy was not correlated with plasma concentrations of lipid or protein metabolites.
10.2307/3677299|Data are provided on the density and distribution of an oceanic island population of Ravens (El Hierro, Canary Islands). The density of both the breeding population (
3676934| Changes in tissue masses associated with egg production were investigated in female Zebra Finches Taeniopygia gutatta using dietary and hormonal manipulations. We tested three hypotheses: that changes in organ masses, (a) reflect utilisation of endogenous nutrient stores due to inadequate daily dietary intake, (b) involve changes in organ structure or 'functional capacity', and (c) are initiated by onset of reproductive development (e.g. elevated plasma estrogen or yolk precursor levels, oviduct growth). Pectoral muscle lean dry mass was 18-22% lower in breeding females at the 1-egg stage compared to non-breeders, and this was independent of nutritional plane, i.e. similar changes occurred in birds provided with supplemental protein or egg food. Heart lean dry mass was also lower (16%) in breeding females, but only in birds on a low-quality seed diet, not in birds on supplemented diets. Decreases in total liver mass (14%) were due to changes in lipid content not lean dry mass, and were diet-dependent. These results demonstrate that changes in organ masses associated with egg production are complex, and do not simply reflect a general mobilisation of stored protein. We discuss why there is no hypertrophy of biosynthetic or metabolic 'machinery' associated with egg production in birds (cf. reproducing mammals). Exogenous 17-estradiol induced plasma levels of yolk precursors typical of breeding birds, and initiated oviduct growth (to 31% of mature size). However, estradiol treatment caused no change in mass of pectoral muscle, heart or liver, demonstrating that there is no simple relationship between onset of reproductive development and associated tissue mass changes. 
10.2307/3677174|Prior to migration, many migratory birds accumulate large stores of lipids as the prime energy for their migratory flights. Although this phenomenon is well known, comparatively little is known about the mechanisms of fat accumulation, and the nutritional demands and nutritional adaptations of fattening migrants. This paper shows recent findings on the role of nutrients in fattening, and how migrants are likely to achieve optimal rates of fattening by diet selection. Dietary energy and nutrient composition of foods clearly influenced the rate of daily body mass gain during migratory fattening. However, it was neither energy nor a single nutrient alone which accounted for migratory fattening. Most of the variation in body mass gain was explained by the combined effects of high energy intake, where the energy was provided by fat, and by protein intake, whereas the role of carbohydrates is less clear. The data are discussed with respect to the adaptive role of seasonal shifts in diet selection during fattening periods known for many species, and the consequences of diet for fat deposition time, fat deposition rates, and fat loads at departure as major predictors in optimal migration models.
10.2307/3677035| We tested the effects of unpredictable temperatures on fat reserves in Great Tits Parus major. During one treatment, the temperature was constant at 8.5C. In the other, temperatures fluctuated between 1.5 and 15.5 on a 24-h basis, with changes occurring just after lights-out. Residual evening weights were higher during the period of unpredictable temperatures. At the end of the period with unpredictable temperatures, more weight was gained on cold than on warm days. During the unpredictable temperature treatment, birds defecated less while eating the same amount. Nightly weight loss depended upon evening weight level, but not upon overnight temperature. Our results suggest that Great Tits use daily temperatures to predict conditions for the following night and that they regulate overnight expenditures to match reserve levels. 
10.2307/3677082|Sperm competition is a potential source of variance in male mating success. Therefore the evolutionary interpretation of sperm competition should be made within the framework of sexual selection theory and should include both male-male competition and female choice mechanisms. Previous sperm competition theory has suffered because it has generally focussed on just the conflict between males. Here we argue that sperm competition and its impact on sexual selection cannot be fully understood without considering female choice and the associated conflicts between females and their mates. For example, male mate guarding and other paternity guarding behaviours have generally been interpreted as an outcome of male-male competition because they prevent other males from fertilizing passive or resisting females. However, they could also arise out of a conflict between mates in which paternity guards prevent females from seeking fertilizations with other males. We show that a balanced approach of contrasting the two mechanisms of sexual selection yields new and testable predictions about traits associated with sperm competition.
10.2307/3677036|The reproductive success of female Tengmalm's Owls Aegolius funereus mating with already-mated males is poor: only 55% to 70% of the number of fledglings raised by simultaneously mating monogamous females. This "bad" mating decision may be best explained by a "non-compensation" model, the "deception" model, in which high-quality males exhibit high provisioning rates during courtship and conceal their marital status. A "compensation" model, the polygyny threshold model, states that secondary females can compensate for lowered success due to sharing a territory and mate by getting territories or males of higher quality. In addition, two recent models suggest that nest predation may lower the polygyny threshold and explain territorial polygyny in birds. Based on the data collected during 1985-92 in western Finland, I here demonstrate that high nest predation rate during the evolution of mate choice is not likely to explain the poor breeding success of secondary female Tengmalm's Owls. The two predation models would only work when nest losses are "unnaturally" high (>90%).
3677448|The development and the continual expansion of urban areas have not only destroyed natural habitats, but also have drastically changed the environmental and ecological conditions of these areas. Consequently, species that have settled in these new man-made ecosystems are exposed to considerable alternations in environmental conditions compared to their 'wild' conspecifics. To understand the impact of human-induced environmental changes on life history events such as reproduction, we compared the timing of the reproductive season and its underlying endocrine control in free-living European blackbirds Turdus merula inhabiting urban and nearby forest areas. Body mass, fat score, gonadal size, luteinizing hormone (LH), testosterone (T), and estradiol ( E<sub>2</sub>) were measured. Urban blackbirds developed their gonads approximately three weeks earlier than forest birds, whereas the timing of gonadal regression did not differ. There are several factors (e.g. artificial light, temperature, food availability, and social cues) which may have caused the differences in the temporal organization of gonadal growth between the urban and forest-living populations. The advanced gonadal development of urban blackbirds did not coincide with an earlier secretion of reproductive hormones. In contrast, urban males had lower plasma LH and T levels during testicular growth than forest males. Differences in social interactions and environmental conditions may explain the contrast of gonadal development and the timing of hormone secretion between urban and forest blackbirds.
3677748|The amount of time a bird allocates to incubation is likely to be limited by energetic constraints. If food is abundant, energetic constraints may be reduced and the time spent incubating (incubation attendance) may increase. Moreover, the onset of incubation in relation to clutch completion may be advanced, resulting in a higher degree of hatching asynchrony. We measured the effect of experimentally increased food availability on incubation attendance and an estimate of hatching asynchrony in the Australian reed warbler Acrocephalus australis. Supplementary food was provided every other day, from a few days before the start of egg laying until just prior to hatching. Incubation attendance was measured with temperature loggers at nests receiving supplementary food and control nests. Hatching asynchrony was inferred from mass and size differences between siblings shortly after hatching. We found that 1) food supplementation resulted in an increase in incubation attendance, when comparing both nests receiving supplementary food to control nests as well as feeding to non-feeding days in nests receiving supplementary food, and 2) food supplementation resulted in a greater hatching asynchrony, without affecting clutch size, average egg volume or the likelihood of eggs hatching. This suggests that food availability acts in a proximate way to modify the extent of incubation attendance and hatching asynchrony. We discuss the adaptive significance of increased incubation attendance and a shift in the degree of hatching asynchrony in relation to food availability.
30243895|Self-feeding precocial development is associated with high energy requirements and potentially vulnerable to short-term reductions in food availability, yet few studies have investigated development of foraging in precocial chicks and its sensitivity to environmental conditions. We studied time budgets and foraging behaviour during the 25-d prefledging period in the insectivorous chicks of a grassland shorebird, the black-tailed godwit Limosa limosa. Until 8-10 d old, parental brooding was the main determinant of chicks' daily foraging time. Brooding decreased with age and temperature and increased during rainfall. Foraging time increased to 70-90% of the daylight period in chicks older than a week, during which distances of 3-12 km d were covered. Chicks took 98% of their arthropod prey from the grassland vegetation. Prey ingestion rates increased in the first week and slowly declined thereafter, modified by wind speed, temperature and time of day. Chicks in poor body condition were brooded more than chicks growing normally and hence had less feeding time, potentially leading to a negative condition spiral under adverse conditions. However, we found no effect of condition on prey ingestion rate that would preclude recovery when conditions improve. Combining behavioural observations with data on energy expenditure revealed that mean prey size was small (1-4.5 mg), necessitating a high feeding rate, but increased notably after 7-10 d of age. This coincided with a decrease in walking speed, suggesting that chicks fed more selectively. Prey of older chicks approached the upper limit of sizes available in exploitable densities in the grassland vegetation, and this enhances the chicks' sensitivity to variation in prey availability due to weather and agricultural practice.
3677694|Where there is seasonal disparity among opportunities, the season with those in shortest supply is most likely to limit populations. Among migrant birds that travel between different breeding and winter ranges, any of breeding, migratory or winter conditions could exclusively constitute such population-limiting factors. In both the New and Old Worlds, landmass is disproportionately concentrated in temperate latitudes. In the Americas, most passerine bird species that breed in the USA and Canada spend the winter further south, commonly in parts of the tropics where landmass is significantly less. Using a sample of 89 migratory species (eight passerine families) that breed in eastern North America, I considered patterns of geographic breeding range size, winter range size and winter distribution. Winter range size is usually smaller than breeding range size (84 of 89 species), often substantially so (minimum 8%, mean 52%). Wintering latitude explains significant variation in both breeding range size and winter range size, as well as in winter range size relative to breeding range size. In particular, all three measures vary latitudinally in patterns similar to latitudinal variation in landmass. These patterns collectively suggest that the reduction in landmass in the latitudes of Central America and the Caribbean is a limiting factor for migrant bird populations, adding to other research concluding that winter conditions sometimes prevail over breeding conditions in the limitation of populations. Hectare for hectare, habitat destruction in the tropics is likely to have the greater impact on the welfare of passerine populations breeding in North America.
30243900|Condition-dependent resource allocation to eggs can affect offspring growth and survival, with potentially different effects on male and female offspring, particularly in sexually dimorphic species. We investigated the influence of maternal body condition (i.e., mass-tarsus residuals) and two measures of female resource allocation (i.e., egg mass, yolk carotenoid concentrations) on nestling mass and growth rates in the polygynous and highly size dimorphic yellow-headed blackbird Xanthocephalus xanthocephalus. Egg characteristics and carotenoid concentrations were obtained from the third-laid egg of each clutch and were correlated with the mass and growth rates of the first two asynchronously hatched nestlings. Maternal body condition was associated with the growth of first-hatched, but not second-hatched nestlings. Specifically, females in better body condition produced larger and faster growing first-hatched nestlings than females in poorer body condition. As predicted for a polygynous, size-dimorphic species, females that fledged first-hatched sons were in better body condition than females that fledged first-hatched daughters. Associations between egg mass, yolk carotenoid content, and nestling growth were also specific to hatching-order. Egg mass was positively correlated with the mass and growth rates of second-hatched nestlings, and yolk concentrations of -carotene were positively correlated with second-hatched nestling mass. Surprisingly, the relationship between yolk lutein and hatchling growth differed between the sexes. Females with high concentrations of yolk lutein produced larger and faster growing first-hatched sons, but smaller first-hatched daughters than females with lower lutein concentrations. Mass and growth rates did not differ between first- and second-hatched nestlings of the same sex, despite asynchronous hatching in the species. Results from this study suggest that maternal body condition and the allocation of resources to eggs have carotenoid-, sex-, and/or hatch-order-specific effects on yellow-headed blackbird nestlings.
10.2307/3677173| Few studies of flight physiology have used birds that are in the migratory state. Thus, we obtained behavioural and physiological data from a group of Svalbard Barnacle Geese before and during the autumn migration from their breeding area around Ny-lesund (79N) to their wintering grounds around the Solway Firth, Scotland (55N). We attached lightweight (33 g) satellite transmitters (PTTs) to some birds in order to determine their behaviour, and implanted small (20 g) data loggers into the abdominal cavity of other birds to obtain some indication of their energy expenditure during migration. The maximum single non-stop flight duration was approximately 14 h and all the geese flew along the Norwegian coast, with a number of stops en route. All birds showed impressively long bouts of flight with little opportunity for significant refuelling, with one bird flying for 49 h out of a possible total time of 59 h. Thus, from the perspective of taking on fuel, these periods of flight could be considered as being "physiologically" non-stop. Average heart rate at the beginning of migration was 317 beats min
10.2307/3677076|Many bird species begin incubation before the clutch is complete, which leads to asynchronous hatching of the young. Several hypotheses have been proposed to explain this hatching pattern, most of them assuming that asynchronous hatching is of adaptive value. Pied Flycatcher broods were induced to hatch either synchronously or asynchronously in order to compare the breeding success resulting from these two hatching patterns. Experimental maximization of hatching synchrony led to an increase in the production of young. Synchronously hatched young also had longer tarsi and higher fledging weights than young from asynchronous broods. Synchronous hatching was favourable in both years of study, even though one was cold and rainy and the other warm and dry. Survivors in asynchronous broods in which some mortality had occurred were not in better condition than young in synchronous and unreduced broods, in contrast to what the brood reduction hypothesis predicts. Thus, this study does not support Lack's (1947, 1954) original presentation of this hypothesis as an explanation for the presence of the semi-asynchronous hatching pattern occurring naturally in Pied Flycatchers. However, the raising of experimentally synchronous broods might induce a larger parental effort perhaps affecting parental survival probability or subsequent fecundity. It is not possible to decide whether the absence of complete synchrony in the Pied Flycatcher is due to hormonal constraints, or whether some factor, such as predation on the nest contents (eggs, young or adults), may also make hatching asynchrony adaptive.
3676983|Actuarial senescence in captive populations of 28 species of bird was quantified by estimating the parameters of Weibull models fitted to survival curves constructed from data obtained from zoos. Samples of natural and captive populations were compared using phylogenetically independent contrasts, which revealed that extrinsic mortality rates in captive populations are, on average, less than 30% of those of natural populations but that the component of mortality related to aging does not differ significantly between natural and captive birds. This result supports the hypothesis that aging-related mortality is associated with intrinsic causes of death that kill independently of the external environment. A logical implication of this result is that birds in natural populations maintain a high level of physical fitness into old age and do not become more vulnerable to extrinsic mortality factors with increasing age. Additional comparisons showed that the rate of aging in this sample of birds is correlated with body mass, but not with embryonic or postnatal growth rate. These analyses suggest that studies of aging in captive populations can provide powerful tools to help us understand senescence in natural populations.
30244462|The blue-green eggshell pigment biliverdin is an efficient antioxidant, the deposition of which may be costly and act as a handicap to the female's antioxidant capacity. Thus, it is hypothesized that there exists a positive correlation between the degree of eggshell coloration and the condition and health state of the mother. In this study, we measured the blue-green chroma of collared flycatcher Ficedula albicollis eggs, and investigated the associations between egg colour and parental characteristics, laying date, clutch size and laying order. We also analysed the possible correlations between egg size, yolk carotenoid and antibody levels and eggshell pigmentation. Our results revealed no significant relationships between egg colour and female age, morphological and serological variables. Blue-green colour intensity of eggs increased throughout the breeding season, which could be the result of either a proximate constraint or an adaptive strategy. We found a positive association between egg colour saturation and yolk lutein concentration. This relationship could be the result of the seasonal improvement of caterpillar supply, which could influence the deposition of both components into the egg. Furthermore, we found that females mated to lower-quality males produced eggs with higher biliverdin pigmentation. It is possible that deposition of biliverdin is correlated to some unmeasured aspect of egg quality that could enhance the viability of offspring of lower-quality fathers. We found that intensity of blue-green coloration increased with laying order between the first and fifth eggs.
3677389| The metabolic rate of moulting macaroni penguins Eudyptes chrysolophus was investigated using three techniques in order to test two hypotheses concerning the energetic cost of the moult fast in penguins. First, that energy expenditure during the moult is greater than that while penguins are onshore during the breeding season. Second, techniques that do not measure energy expenditure throughout the moult fast do not accurately determine the true cost of the moult. Mass loss calculations, measurement of the rate of oxygen consumption and estimation of the rate of oxygen consumption from heart rate in the field were used with captive and free-ranging penguins. Comparison of the results from these techniques suggest that metabolic rate is higher in the field than in a respirometer due to an increase in thermoregulatory costs. Furthermore the average metabolic rate of female penguins during the moult at 5.04  0.85 W kg
30245327|Traditionally, studies of sexually size-dimorphic birds and mammals report that the larger sex is more sensitive to adverse environmental conditions during ontogeny. However, recent studies in avian species that exhibit moderate size-dimorphism indicate that the smaller sex may be more sensitive to poor rearing conditions. To better understand sex-specific sensitivity in a passerine exhibiting moderate size-dimorphism, we examined growth, cell-mediated immunity (CMI) and survival of European starling Sturnus vulgaris nestlings following an experimental reduction of maternal rearing ability (via a feather-clipping manipulation). Contrary to conventional theory, daughters showed reduced growth in both body mass and measures of structural size in response to the maternal treatment. In contrast, sons showed no reductions in any of these traits in relation to the treatment. No sex-specific differences in nestling CMI were found for either group, although CMI of nestlings raised by manipulated mothers were higher than those of control nestlings. Finally, fledging sex ratios did not change from those at hatching indicating that neither sex appeared differentially sensitive to the maternal treatment in terms of mortality. These results reveal that variation in the quality of the rearing environment can have significant effects on the smaller sex of a passerine exhibiting moderate dimorphism and as such support recent studies of species with small-moderate sexual size-dimorphism. Combined results suggest that sex-specific effects of environmental variation on nestling development may be both context- (i.e., brood size, resource level, hatching order) and temporally- (when during development they occur) specific. Furthermore, more studies are needed that examine multiple traits at several developmental stages and then follow the sexes over the longer-term to examine potential effects on fitness.
3677512|Global warming is expected to increase the frequency and intensity of inter-annual variation in Sea-Surface Temperatures (SST) associated with a latitudinal shift of frontal structures in the Southern Ocean. However, the long-term consequences of these major climatic events on the biotic environment remain poorly understood. We studied the effect of SST anomalies in the southern Indian Ocean on the breeding success of eight seabird species, and found these temperature anomalies to have different effects depending on the foraging habitat of the species. The breeding success of four seabird species foraging mainly south of the Polar Front in Antarctic waters was significantly depressed by warm SST occurring mainly in winter and spring, prior to breeding. Conversely, warm SST anomalies were associated with a higher breeding success for species foraging mainly north of the Polar Front, while no significant effect was found for two species that forage on the Kerguelen plateau. These different responses to changes in the SST were also observed for two closely related species (sooty albatross Phoebetria fusca and light-mantled sooty albatross P. palpebrata) breeding at Kerguelen. These observations highlight the importance of multi-species long-term monitoring programs for understanding the ecological consequences of environmental variability. Our results suggest that the predicted southward shift of the Polar Front caused by oceanic warming could lead to an important decrease in the breeding performance of top predator seabirds depending on the location and changes of their foraging habitat in relation the Polar Front.
30245196|The immune system has a crucial importance determining animal health and survival. Its maintenance and activation are costly and usually trade with other physiologically costly functions. In birds, number and size of siblings in a nest are likely to determine the development of immunity. Indeed lower immunocompetence is expected in large than in small broods. Moreover, in asynchronous breeders, siblings are expected to differ in immunocompetence because asynchrony produces marked size hierarchy within-broods. Here we studied the effect of environmental conditions at the nest, chick sex and size, and natural mass differences among siblings due to hatching asynchrony on the development of the innate and acquired immune systems in the threatened non-size dimorphic asynchronous breeder European roller Coracias garrulus. Constitutive innate immune function was estimated by using a new technique proposed by Matson et al. (2005). Natural Antibody (NAb) and Complement levels, innate immunity, varied with the mass difference between each chick and its heaviest sibling. NAb levels were higher in late-hatched siblings compared to early-hatched ones, indicating that the smallest offspring in each brood has the most developed innate immune system. This relationship was independent of the nest environment. The heterophil/lymphocyte (H/L) ratio, which may indicate the level of stress, was higher in the heaviest siblings of each brood. In addition, the H/L ratio and white blood cell count (WBC) of nestlings, measures belonging to both the innate and acquired arms of the immune system, were related to conditions suffered in the nest. Our results may be explained by differential allocation of resources by female rollers as a way to improve the survival of the whole brood.
3677721|We analysed five data sets of flight directions of migrating arctic waders in relation to winds, recorded by tracking radar and optical range finder, in order to find out if these birds compensate for wind drift, or allow themselves to be drifted by winds. Our purpose was to investigate whether arctic waders use adaptive wind drift strategies or not. The data sets were collected in Siberia (two sets) and Canada during post-breeding (autumn) migration, and in Mauritania and South Sweden during pre-breeding (spring) migration. Both significant drift and compensation effects were found in three of the data sets, Canada, Mauritania and South Sweden. Almost no compensation was found in birds departing in easterly directions from the Siberian tundra (complete drift), while no drift effect was found in birds departing in westerly directions (complete compensation). There were indications that at least some populations of waders may use an adaptive drift strategy consisting of drift at high altitude and/or in high wind speed combined with compensation at low altitude and/or in lower wind speeds, but support for this idea was rather weak and not consistent. Our results were instead more in accordance with the adaptive drift theory that predicts initial drift during the migratory journey, followed by compensation during later stages as the birds are approaching their destinations. Such a strategy implies that arctic waders, at least adult birds, have the capacity of true navigation. A comparison with earlier studies of migrating arctic waders from different parts of the world show that all results so far may be interpreted in accordance with this general adaptive drift strategy. An element of non-adaptive drift can, however, not be completely ruled out.
10.2307/3677252|Molecular sexing is an attractive means to determine the sex of sexually monomorphic birds, e.g. chicks of most species. A universal approach for molecular sexing of birds would require that a conserved W chromosome-linked sequence could be analysed, but no single gene has previously been known from any avian W chromosome. The recent discovery of the CHD1W gene, apparently W-linked in all non-ratite birds, has opened new possibilities in this direction, although there is a problem in that the gene also exists in a very similar copy on the Z chromosome (CHD1Z). Here we describe a universal method for molecular sexing of non-ratite birds which is based on the detection of a constant size difference between CHD1W and CHD1Z introns. Using highly conserved primers flanking the intron, PCR amplification and agarose electrophoresis, females are characterised by displaying one (CHD1W) or two fragments (CHD1W and CHD1Z), while males only show one fragment (CHD1Z) clearly different in size from the female-specific CHD1W fragment. With one particular pair of primers (2550F and 2718R) we applied this test to 50 bird species from 11 orders throughout the avian phylogeny, successfully sexing 47 of the species. Using an alternative pair of primers, the three failing species could be reliably sexed. This means that a simple, rapid and cheap universal system for molecular sexing of non-ratite birds is now available.
10.2307/3677176|Tracking radar measurements of winds at the flight levels of bird migration during several migratory seasons in central Europe, southern Israel and the western Mediterranean are analysed with regard to optimal migratory behaviour in relation to wind. Birds migrating through central Europe and the Mediterranean area have to cope with windspeeds commonly ranging from 50 to 100% of their normal airspeed. Opposing winds prevail in central Europe, while at the western and eastern edge of the Mediterranean head- and tailwinds occur in similar frequencies. Winds are highly variable in time and altitude. A bird migrating selectively during nights with favourable wind conditions speeds up its flight by 30% (on average) compared to an individual disregarding the wind situation. Selecting the most profitable flight altitude may result in an additional gain of 40% in flight speed. Therefore, taking into account the wind situation carefully, a bird can almost double its flight speed and save about half of the energy required for its migratory journey through central Europe and the Mediterranean. The time needed for refuelling decreases accordingly or the safety margins provided by fat reserves can be increased. For birds flying long distances in one step, the selection of favourable winds should be more important than adjusting departure to local fat accumulation rates.
25662892|Innate immunity plays an important role in protecting birds early in development. The strength of innate immunity in nestlings appears to be affected by heritable and early maternal effects, as well as later environmental effects. To explore factors affecting innate immunity, we conducted a partial cross-fostering experiment in nestling tree swallows Tachycineta bicolor. The ability of nestling blood plasma to kill Escherichia coli in vitro was influenced by heritable or early maternal effects and was unrelated to body condition of nestlings or brood size of the foster nest. The relative importance of heritable and early maternal effects versus environmental effects on nestling hematocrit (packed volume of red blood cells) and body condition were also examined. Hematocrit was significantly influenced by the nest in which nestlings were reared, though it was not related to nestling body condition. Body condition was significantly influenced by the nest in which nestlings were reared, though it was also weakly influenced by heritable or early maternal effects. In summary, heritable and early maternal effects are stronger predictors than rearing conditions of innate immunity in nestling tree swallows. Furthermore, hematocrit is largely environmentally determined but is not related to body condition or innate immunity, as measured in this study.
25161514|We used data from three Common Goldeneye Bucephala clangula populations in Finland to study if the variation between females in egg morphology, as measured using a method developed by Eadie (1989), can be used to identify parasitized clutches. Eadie's method is based on z-score standardized measures of length, width, and weight of eggs. Using these measures, Euclidean distance for each pair of eggs within a clutch was calculated. Euclidean distance between the two most dissimilar eggs (maximum Euclidean distance, MED) was used as the criterion to identify parasitized clutches. Test clutches of 3 eggs that included one egg from each of three different females had a higher MED (2.80) than 3-egg clutches that included eggs from one female only (2.05), proving that there is statistically significant variation in egg morphology between females. Test clutches that included three eggs from each of three different females (9 eggs in all) had a mean MED of 4.51. The mean MED of naturally parasitized clutches (4.83) was higher than that of nonparasitized clutches (2.12). Further analyses suggested that MED > 3.0 can be used as a conservative and reliable criterion to identify parasitized clutches. Our results confirm that Eadie's method is reliable enough to identify parasitized clutches in Common Goldeneyes.
10.2307/3677311|The large-scale dynamics of bird communities in central Victoria, Australia, were studied in relation to eucalypt flowering by recording community changes throughout the annual cycle in sites north and south of the Great Dividing Range (GDR). Two kinds of forest habitat were considered, one of which flowers profusely in winter ('ironbark') while the other flowers little but over the warmer months ('stringybark'). There were eight sites, two of each habitat in both the northern and southern regions. In the absence of flowering in ironbark sites during summer, the avian communities of both kinds of habitat are virtually the same in each region. However, the sets of communities in each region differ significantly from one another at this time. With the onset of winter flowering, avian community composition in ironbark habitats in each region diverges greatly from the non-flowering ironbark and stringybark communities, but converges back to those communities as flowering declines. Most of these changes are due to the influx of high densities of nectarivores, especially honeyeaters and lorikeets. Such influxes in stringybark habitats did not occur, probably because the flowering intensity was at most an order of magnitude less than that in ironbark sites. The results show the dramatic impact that eucalypt flowering has on avian communities in south-eastern Australia, and the influence of habitat differences. Thus, although nectarivores move into the northern region of the study area to capitalize on winter flowering, they show high habitat specificity and virtually avoid the non-flowering stringybark habitats. The results are discussed in terms of landscape and regional dynamics of birds and the possible interactions among avian sub-communities (the 'nectarivores' and 'non-nectarivores').
10.2307/3677169|Numerous reports on homogeneous streams of nocturnal migrants over land and water, crossing coastlines without taking any notice of the habitat change underneath, seem to contradict recent infrared observations along the French and Spanish Mediterranean coasts in autumn, suggesting important deviations from the standard SSW or SW flow of migrants associated with the geographical situation and the course of the coastlines. In order to look for potential reactions of nocturnal migrants to the sea/land transition, the flight paths of night-migrating birds were recorded by tracking radar in autumn 1996 at the southern tip of Mallorca and at the E-W leading coast near Malaga. Within the tracking time of 40 s per individual there was no short-term adjustment of direction when crossing the coastline, neither were there differences in the average vertical speeds of birds approaching and leaving the coast. The mean altitudes of tracked birds, however, were about 9% higher above land than over water at both sites. Between-site comparison revealed higher average flight speeds of birds above the island than when leaving the mainland. At both sites important variation in flight behaviour was observed in the course of the night: near Malaga a continuous shift towards the E-W leading coast, simultaneously over water and land, suggests diminishing motivation to continue flights across the sea at times when decreasing fat reserves and/or an endogenous rhythm dissuade from crossing an obstacle of unknown dimensions. Increasing proportions of reverse migration in the course of the night at both sites, with birds flying at low levels and low speeds, are additional indications of motivational conflicts between continuing migration and landing. Optimal migratory behaviour therefore does not necessarily imply that birds should follow the shortest route, but appears to be an adjustable compromise between risk avoidance and straight flight depending on endogenous and environmental conditions.
3677677|The distribution of feather mites (Astigmata) along the wing of passerine birds could change dramatically within minutes because of the rapid movement of mites between feathers. However, no rigorous study has answered how fine-tuned is the pattern of distribution of feather mites at a given time. Here we present a multiscale study of the distribution of feather mites on the wing of non-moulting blackcaps Sylvia atricapilla in a short time period and at a single locality. We found that the number and distribution of mites differed among birds, but it was extremely similar between the wings of each bird. Moreover, mites consistently avoided the first secondary feather, despite that it is placed at the centre of the feathers most used by them. Thus, our results suggest that feather mites do precise, feather-level decisions on where to live, contradicting the current view that mites perform "mass", or "blind" movements across wing feathers. Moreover, our findings indicate that "rare" distributions are not spurious data or sampling errors, but each distribution of mites on the wing of each bird is the outcome of the particular conditions operating on each ambient-bird-feather mite system at a given time. This study indicates that we need to focus on the distribution of feather mites at the level of the individual bird and at the feather level to improve our understanding of the spatial ecology of mites on the wings of birds.
10.2307/3677246|Habitat edges affect several ecological phenomena, usually known as the edge-effect concept. One of its basic principles is the ecological trap hypothesis which assumes that birds are attracted to nest near habitat edges where food supplies may be greater but nest predation is higher. We studied nest-site selection in relation to the lake shore/forest habitat edge in the Common Goldeneye Bucephala clangula, a hole-nesting duck, using two types of experiment. First, we examined nest-site prospecting by erecting nest boxes with traps at the shoreline and inside the forest at varying distances from the shoreline. Secondly, we examined nest-site selection in three study areas by erecting nest boxes in pairs: at the shoreline and at varying distances inside the forest. In addition we experimentally measured nest predation rate in shore and forest boxes using artificial nests. Goldeneye females prospected shore and forest boxes equally. However, the final decision was in favour of shore boxes: within a box pair, the shore box was occupied first in all three study areas. There was no difference in nest predation rate between shore and forest boxes, except in one study area where predation rate was lower, not higher, in shore boxes. Thus, while Goldeneye females clearly exhibit a pattern of nest-site selection in relation to habitat edge, the ecological trap hypothesis is not supported so far as the risk of predation is considered. Increased predation risk associated with the period of getting hatched young out of the nest to a brood-rearing lake may be the reason for the rejection of forest boxes.
10.2307/3677135|The proportion of extrapair paternity is known to vary greatly among species, but differences between populations of the same species have rarely been considered. We used microsatellite DNA markers to assess parentage of offspring in a subarctic population of the socially monogamous Yellow Warbler Dendroica petechia nesting near Churchill, Manitoba. We found a significantly lower proportion of extrapair young in the Churchill population than in a temperate population nesting approximately 1500 km to the south near the Queen's University Biological Station (QUBS) in Ontario. We show that the Churchill population also had significantly lower nesting density and significantly higher breeding synchrony; both are factors that have been hypothesized to affect extrapair paternity negatively. We suggest that inter-population comparisons can be used to test proximate mechanisms affecting extrapair paternity and in some cases may be better than interspecific or inter-individual comparisons. Towards this end we list eight other species that have had extrapair paternity measured in different populations.
10.2307/3677209|We studied the fattening strategies of two insectivorous passerines, the Robin Erithacus rubecula and the Wren Troglodytes troglodytes, during their wintering stage in a study area of the eastern Po valley (Northern Italy). We analysed the relationship between some environmental (temperature, photoperiod, rainfall) and social factors (density of migrant competitors, territoriality, home range size) on the one hand, and levels of fat reserve on the other. Although average body fat depots differed between the two species, both increased their daily fat stores as the photoperiod shortened with the progress of winter. The amount of fat accumulated by day was more than that required for overnight consumption. Both species also responded to short-term variations in weather conditions: fat depots were inversely related to the maximum temperature on the day of capture. The use of space and the social structure of the wintering populations seem to affect fattening strategies: fat reserves of resident Robins were negatively related to the density of conspecific migrants, early in the season. The same relationship was not observed for Wrens, which were dispersed in extensively overlapping home-ranges. In this species, the home-range size was positively, and fat reserves negatively, correlated with the body size of the bird.
3677597|I propose that the existence of imperfect adaptations (e.g. egg mimicry) in brood parasites and their hosts (e.g. discrimination abilities) could reflect age-dependent territory and nest-site selection patterns of the host. Studies of various passerines indicate that (1) older breeders tend to occupy nest sites of higher quality than do young birds (ideal despotic distribution resulting from interference competition), (2) nest-site selection affects the risk of parasitism in various habitats, (3) egg recognition in passerines has a strong learning component (therefore naive breeders tend to accept whereas older birds tend to reject parasitic eggs). Because young naive birds, who tend to accept parasitic eggs, usually breed in low-quality areas where they are frequently parasitised, while old experienced birds, who tend to reject parasitic eggs, breed in high-quality areas where they are rarely parasitised, the distribution of acceptors and rejecters with respect to the risk of parasitism is non-random, i.e. populations of some host species may consist of heavily parasitised acceptors and weakly parasitised rejecters. Therefore, the selection pressure exerted by the host on the parasite should be weaker than if brood parasitism was randomly distributed among naive and experienced breeders and affect adaptations such as egg mimicry. This could explain the existence of imperfect adaptations in some brood parasite-host systems.
3677688|Carotenoids are a large group of biochemicals, with similar properties, synthesised by bacteria, fungi, algae and plants. Vertebrates obtain these biologically active pigments through the diet, and they are a disproportionately common component of animal colour signals and play important roles in immune functions and as antioxidants. Carotenoids are believed to be a limited resource and because of the trade-off between allocation of carotenoids to signals and to other functions, carotenoid based signals are often thought to be handicap signals. The purpose of this study was to investigate the signalling potential of carotenoid-based tissue coloration in the great black-backed gull Larus marinus. The intensity of carotenoid-based coloration in bill, gape and eye-ring coloration was investigated in relation to body condition, reproductive parameters, levels of immune activity, and sexual dimorphism. In males there was a positive relationship between colour intensity and body condition, but in females no such relationship was found. However, females with high colour intensity had larger eggs and clutches. Additionally, females with high red scores tended to have high density of circulating lymphocytes. There was no sexual dimorphism in coloration and there was a negative relationship between colour intensity and sampling time, which indicates that this coloration is most intensely expressed early in the breeding season. The results in this study suggest that carotenoid-based coloration in great black-backed gull are partly condition dependent and reveal information about individual quality in both males an females. Hence, it might have evolved as an important signal for assessing the quality of potential mates.
10.2307/3677129|Many birds perceive, and some seem to communicate, in the UV-A waveband (320-400 nm) invisible to humans, but the morphological mechanism and thereby scope for ultraviolet plumage signalling remain largely unstudied. No avian pigments or iridescence that reduce or enhance primarily UV reflectance are known, but a UV version of the common Tyndall "spongy structure" has been found in a parrot. A similar UV structure is here described for the first time in a passerine, the Blue Whistling-thrush Myiophonus caeruleus. Among patches of its plumage, and across other investigated species, a correlation between spongy structure dimensions and "hue" (spectral location of the reflectance peak) is consistent with current models of the optical mechanism, in particular the "hollow cylinder model" by Dyck (1971). Variations in "brightness" (intensity) and "chroma" (spectral purity) seem due mainly to modifications of ramus shape (flattening and a unique type of lateral flanges) and spongy layer thickness, here quantified by light paths laid out on the cross sections. The results suggest a wide potential for UV signals in passerines, but pure ("hidden") UV ornaments might be rare for other reasons. Keratin absorbance and declining ambient light in this spectral range, and perhaps also the 370 nm sensitivity maximum of the avian UV receptor, might constrain UV signals to the 400 nm region where they will be perceived as conspicuously violet also by humans. Finally, some possible "honesty-maintaining" ontogenetic costs of UV/violet plumage colours are discussed.
3677535|Experimental synchronization of onset of incubation was employed in laboratory held zebra finches Taeniopygia guttata to study whether differential resource allocation and possible bias of offspring sex in subsequent eggs in the laying order could mitigate the effects of hatching asynchrony. We found that egg mass increased with laying order, but offspring sex was not related to laying order. Among synchronized clutches, eggs hatched more synchronously than eggs from control nests. Survival probability was related to egg mass, and as expected, this effect differed between experimental groups: it was positive among synchronized broods and not significantly related among asynchronous broods. This suggests that increase in egg mass with the laying order might reduce disparities between early and late hatching chicks. Female nestlings survived better than male nestlings. However their growth was impaired in synchronized broods, whilst growth of males was not affected by hatching synchronization.
10.2307/3677011|In long-lived birds, reproductive performance is considered to increase with breeding experience, influencing site and mate retention. However, breeding success also depends on external factors. We therefore increased experimentally the breeding success of a population of White-chinned Petrels Procellaria aequinoctialis that had been suffering from black rat Rattus rattus predation. Thus, we were able to control for intrinsic and extrinsic factors when studying relationships between reproduction and fidelity in this long-lived and faithful species. Rat poisoning led to a significant increase of breeding success, site and mate fidelity. Breeding success increased with individual experience and breeding failure affected burrow fidelity significantly, but only during the period when rats were not poisoned. After rat poisoning had started, birds were more likely to retain their burrows as they became more experienced, but breeding success and experience had no effect on mate fidelity in either period. Although White-chinned Petrels seemed to change burrow or mate in order to improve their breeding success, the major factor causing changes was disturbance caused by rats rather than breeding failure per se. Variations in mate fidelity appeared to be merely a consequence of variation in burrow fidelity. Our results disagree with most studies on long-lived and faithful species. Therefore, controlling for both intrinsic and extrinsic factors is desirable, and comparisons within and between populations should be combined whenever possible when studying life-history traits.
3677785|Several hypotheses have been proposed to explain the adaptiveness of hatching asynchrony for the parents, but delayed hatching is generally detrimental for the late hatched young. These offspring often experience competitive disadvantage and delayed development. If hatching asynchrony has a reason other than producing competitive differences among offspring, it would be advantageous, not only for the offspring but even for the parents, to compensate for its detrimental effects. In some species, increasing investment into later laid eggs has been reported and discussed as a compensation mechanism, but its effect on nestling growth and fledging size has not been examined in details. In this study we investigated nestling growth and size at fledging in terms of body mass and length of primaries in relation to the accurate laying and hatching order in collared flycatcher Ficedula albicollis broods. We found that females laid larger eggs at the end of the laying sequence, and this helped to decrease the disadvantages for the last offspring. The last offspring had lower body mass growth rate and fledged with shorter feathers, but in both cases the larger the last egg was, the smaller the lag of the offspring was. We conclude, that even if females were not able to fully compensate for the detrimental effects of hatching asynchrony, larger eggs may improve the survival prospects of late hatched nestlings.
3677702|The application of modern spectrometry to the study of avian colour variability has revealed ignored patterns of colour variation such as male-biased sexual dichromatism and seasonal variability in the plumage. However, the variation in the achromatic property of such traits, that is in the total light reflectance of the spectrum (i.e., brightness), has commonly been overlooked. The evolution of signals based on brightness should be favoured in those species that are active when light is scarce, i.e. at dawn and dusk. The eagle owl Bubo bubo is monogamous and apparently monomorphic in plumage-coloration. In this species, sexual and territorial call behaviour is mainly performed at dawn and dusk, during which a white patch on the throat is repeatedly exposed at each call. We measured the total light reflectance of the feathers of this badge in 39 eagle owl specimens from museum collections. We found seasonal variability and sexual dichromatism in the brightness of the plumage badge. The total reflectance of this trait peaked during the territorial-mating period. Moreover, females showed higher values of brightness than males, in agreement with the reversed body size dimorphism present in this and many other raptor species. Finally, female but not male body size was positively correlated with white badge reflectance.
3676987|We investigated the distributional dynamics of piscivorous seabirds in relation to the distribution of young fish outside the breeding season in the Skagerrak and Kattegat, using synoptic bottom trawl and seabird surveys. Kittiwake Rissa tridactyla, Common Guillemot Uria aalge and Razorbill Alca torda were significantly correlated with herring Clupea harengus abundance at coarse spatial scales (> 20 km). The association between the three seabird species and other abundant fish species like sprat Sprattus sprattus, whiting Merlangius merlangus and Norway pout Trisopterus esmarki was considerably weaker. In the Skagerrak and Kattegat, the location of aggregations of immature herring during winter is relatively stable and predictable. The correlation with herring and the lack of correlation with the abundant, but less stable occurrence of sprat of similar caloric value suggest that the tendency among piscivorous seabirds to depend on predictable concentrations of prey during the breeding season is a common feature during the non-breeding season as well. The results are discussed in relation to ecological and winter habitat characteristics of wintering piscivorous seabirds in the eastern North Atlantic, and in relation to the management and conservation of nursering herring in the Skagerrak and Kattegat.
3677706|Waders (Charadriiformes) undergo particularly long migratory flights, making them ideal vectors for long-distance dispersal. We present a study of dispersal of plant seeds by migratory waders in the Odiel saltworks in south-west Spain. This is the first field study to demonstrate excretion of viable seeds by waders. Viable seeds of Mesembryanthemum nodiflorum (Aizoaceae), Sonchus oleraceus (Asteraceae) and Arthrocnemum macrostachyum (Chenopodiaceae) were frequent in pellets and faeces of redshank Tringa totanus, spotted redshank Tringa erythropus, and black-tailed godwit Limosa limosa during spring and autumn migrations, but less frequent during winter. Another 11 seed types were recorded at low density. More intact M. nodiflorum seeds were present in redshank faeces than in their pellets, but seeds extracted from pellets were more likely to germinate. More S. oleraceus seeds were transported per redshank pellet in spring, but more redshank migrated through the area in autumn. The distributions of the plants transported are consistent with an important role for long-distance dispersal by waders. M. nodiflorum and S. oleraceus are introduced weeds in the Americas and Australasia, and dispersal by birds may contribute to their rapid spread. Although S. oleraceus is generally thought to be wind-dispersed, birds may be responsible for longer distance dispersal events.
3677420| Unlike most seabird families, the vast majority of small petrel species are nocturnal on their breeding grounds. Further, they reduce markedly their activity when the light level increases. Moonlight avoidance might be a consequence of reduction in foraging profitability, as bioluminescent prey do not come to the sea surface on bright nights. Alternatively, petrels may avoid colonies during moonlit nights because of increased predation risk. We studied predation on petrels by Brown Skuas Catharacta antarctica lnnbergi at Kerguelen, and the influence of moonlight on behaviour of both skuas and petrels, to test the 'predation risk' hypothesis. On the study area, Brown Skuas hunt at night and prey heavily upon the Blue Petrel Halobaena caerulea and the Thin-billed Prion Pachyptila belcheri. Predation risk was higher on moonlit nights, as skuas caught more prey, and particularly more Blue Petrels when the light level increased. Nightly intakes of Blue Petrel and Thin-billed Prion by skuas was related to colony attendance of non-breeders rather than that of breeders. Biometry of prey also suggested that skuas caught a higher proportion of non-breeding birds than was present at the colonies. Predation risk was thus greater in non-breeders and on moonlit nights. Colony attendance by non-breeding Blue Petrels and Thin-billed Prions was also reduced during moonlit nights. Vocal activity, which is mainly by non-breeders, was also drastically reduced when the light level increased in the species suffering the highest predation rate. Our results supported the 'predation risk' hypothesis, although the 'foraging efficiency' and the 'predation risk' hypotheses are not mutually exclusive: the former might explain the moonlight avoidance behaviour of breeding, and the latter that of non-breeding individuals. 
30244449|When females mate multiply, sperm competition can generate strong selection for traits that provide males with a fertilisation advantage. This study examined the cloacal tip, a unique morphological structure of males that appears to be associated with sperm competition in Australian Maluridae. Species in this group appear to experience a range of sperm competition intensities and exhibit a diversity of associated reproductive adaptations and behaviours. A prominent cloacal tip was present in the striated grasswren Amytornis striatus striatus, and superb Malurus cyaneus cyanochlamys, splendid M. splendens melanotus, red-backed M. melanocephalus and white-winged fairy-wrens M. leucopterus leuconotus, while variegated M. lamberti assimilis and blue-breasted M. pulcherrimus fairy-wrens possessed a rudimentary tip, and the southern emu-wren Stipiturus malachurus malachurus lacked a tip. The tip was a muscular hydrostatic appendage of the cloacal protuberance comprised of longitudinal striated muscle, a two-dimensional matrix of connective tissue and a keratinised epithelium. After controlling for phylogenetic relationships, cloacal tip length was positively related to combined testes mass but not body mass. Therefore, species inferred to experience more intense sperm competition exhibited a longer cloacal tip. We discuss the potential function of the cloacal tip and suggest that it may increase a male's likelihood of paternity success and represents a novel adaptation to sperm competition.
3677736|Male-male mountings appear to be very common in polyandrous bearded vulture Gypaetus barbatus trios. We observed sexual activity in two trios that occupied the same territory in different years. We recorded a total of 167 copulation attempts. The percentage of male-male mountings recorded was 26.1 and 11.4%, in the period of 1991-1992 and 2000-2001, respectively, with respect to total, homo- and heterosexual matings. We conclude that homosexual interactions do not appear to be directly associated with intrasexual competition (i.e. hierarchical dominance, sperm competition). Rather, our results are more consistent with the idea that this behaviour can regulate the aggression of the males in these groups.
25161504|I examined age effects on reproduction in the Brown Thornbill Acanthiza pusilla in Canberra, Australia. I found that the reproductive performance of both males and females improved with age, although only age-related improvement in male performance had a significant effect on annual reproductive success. Reproductive success improved with male age as a result of improved performance during two stages of the breeding cycle: first-year males were less likely to fledge young than those aged two or more, while both first and second-year males were less successful at raising fledglings to independence than males of three or more. Male performance appears to improve over three years as they gain experience at provisioning nestlings and caring for fledglings without attracting predators, rather than as a direct result of improved foraging skills. In contrast, reproductive success only improved slightly with female age, although females of two or more years initiated their first clutch earlier in the season than one-year-old females, and tended to be more likely to re-nest if a breeding attempt failed. The poor performance of young females appears unlikely to be related to their foraging ability but may be associated with costs imposed by dispersing to a breeding vacancy earlier in the year. Although the reproductive performance of Brown Thornbills improves considerably with age I found no evidence that performance improved as a result of repeated breeding attempts with the same partner.
3677590|Hatching asynchrony in altricial birds may result in a competitive disadvantage for the youngest nestlings compared to older siblings. We studied the effects of a size hierarchy on the growth rate of Eurasian kestrels Falco tinnunculus chicks in nests with and without access to supplemented food in western Finland. Body mass stopped increasing on the 19th day after hatching while body size, estimated by a combination of bone and feather lengths continued to increase at least until fledging at 26 days. Body condition, reflecting muscle and fat, did not change markedly during the growth period from the 12th day to fledging. Body temperature and resting metabolism were usually lower in nestlings 12 days old than in nestlings at fledging. Growth of body mass, size and condition, and resting metabolism were delayed in last-hatched nestlings aged 19 days. Just before fledging, last-hatched nestlings attained a similar body mass and size, and had a similar resting metabolism to those of older siblings. At fledging, only in nests without access to supplemented food was the body condition of last-hatched chicks lower than that of its siblings, but in nests with access to supplemented food no such difference was detected. Our results highlight that the level of lipids in the last-hatched nestling can be affected by the food restriction imposed by hatching order.
3677611|Sexual ornaments may enable females to discriminate amongst potential mates and choose those having either fewer parasites, or those which are more immunocompetent, or better able to cope with parasites. Tetraonid birds exhibit supra-orbital combs that function in both intra-sexual competition and mate choice. Through a correlative and experimental approach we investigated whether comb size of male red grouse Lagopus lagopus scoticus was related to infection intensity by their main parasite, the gastro intestinal nematode Trichostrongylus tenuis, and to immune function. We first looked at the relationships between immune function, parasite infection and condition. We found that spleen mass, an indirect measure of immune response, correlated positively with T. tenuis load, and negatively with condition. Cell-mediated immunity, a measure of immune defence, correlated positively with condition, and although not significantly related to T. tenuis load, increased when nematode parasites were experimentally reduced. Secondly, we investigated whether comb size was related to condition, T. tenuis load or immune function. Comb size was not significantly related to T. tenuis infection and did not change significantly after nematode parasite removal. However, males with bigger combs were in better condition, had a lighter spleen, a lighter spleen than expected from their T. tenuis load and had greater cell-mediated immunity. The findings suggest that comb size relates to immune function rather than T. tenuis parasite infection intensity. Males with bigger combs are likely to be of higher phenotypic quality because they are more immunocompetent and might be better able to cope with the detrimental effects of parasites.
3677687|Hybridization in birds is a widely acknowledged phenomenon. It often occurs when one species is absent or rare which leads to mixed pairings between different species (Hubb's principle). However, Hubb's principle cannot explain hybridization in one of the most common Passeriform hybrids, barn swallow Hirundo rustica house martin Delichon urbica, since these hybrids usually occurred in areas where both species were common. Such hybrids were often found as singletons between true barn swallows siblings suggesting that extrapair copulations, and not mixed breeding pairs, might be the reason for the existence of these hybrids. Extrapair copulations are common in both these species. Here, I tested the idea, that EPP and hybridization may be linked on a macro-evolutionary scale across species. I used data on EPP from review studies and assigned each species a dichotomous variable whether it has produced hybrids or not. Hybridizing species did not show a higher percentage of extrapair copulations compared to non-hybridizing species. However, while these data did not show any influence on the macro-ecological scale, these factors could, nevertheless, facilitate hybridization in some species pairs as in the example of the swallows.
3677642|We use data on pigeon guillemots Cepphus columba to test the hypothesis that discretionary time in breeding seabirds is correlated with variance in prey abundance. We measured the amount of time that guillemots spent at the colony before delivering fish to chicks ("resting time") in relation to fish abundance as measured by beach seines and bottom trawls. Radio telemetry showed that resting time was inversely correlated with time spent diving for fish during foraging trips (r = -0.95). Pigeon guillemots fed their chicks either Pacific sand lance Ammodytes hexapterus, a schooling midwater fish, which exhibited high interannual variance in abundance (CV = 181%), or a variety of non-schooling demersal fishes, which were less variable in abundance (average CV = 111%). Average resting times were 46% higher at colonies where schooling prey dominated the diet. Individuals at these colonies reduced resting times 32% during years of low food abundance, but did not reduce meal delivery rates. In contrast, individuals feeding on non-schooling fishes did not reduce resting times during low food years, but did reduce meal delivery rates by 27%. Interannual variance in resting times was greater for the schooling group than for the non-schooling group. We conclude from these differences that time allocation in pigeon guillemots is more flexible when variable schooling prey dominate diets. Resting times were also 27% lower for individuals feeding two-chick rather than one-chick broods. The combined effects of diet and brood size on adult time budgets may help to explain higher rates of brood reduction for pigeon guillemot chicks fed non-schooling fishes.
10.2307/3677222|The osteological basis for the proposed close phylogenetical relationship of anseriform and galliform birds is evaluated and found to be very weak. Out of eleven postulated synapomorphies in cranial morphology (Cracraft 1988), three must be excluded since they express variation that is already covered by any of the other eleven characters. Another six of the postulated synapomorhies either cannot be verified to occur in most anseriforms and galliforms, or have a wide distribution outside this group. A re-analysis of the combined morphological and biochemical data set of Cracraft and Mindell (1989) with the questionable osteological characters excluded, does not corroborate an anseriform-galliform sister-group relationship, but leaves the Neognathae unresolved.
30243844|We used controlled aviary experiments to study the role of male ornaments in male-male competition and female choice in the common yellowthroat Geothlypis trichas, a sexually dichromatic warbler. Previous aviary studies in Wisconsin, USA, indicated that males with larger black facial masks were dominant over males with smaller masks and preferred by females in mate choice experiments. In this study, we replicated those experiments in a population in New York, USA, where male mating success was related more consistently to the size of the yellow bib (throat, breast, and belly) than to the size of the mask. Similar to the study in Wisconsin, we found that males with larger masks were more likely to be dominant in New York, however, we found that males with larger bibs were preferred by females in New York, and there was no significant preference for males with larger masks. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that carotenoid-based ornaments are selected by female choice and melanin-based ornaments are selected by male-male competition. However, the pattern of female choice appears to vary between New York and Wisconsin. This geographic difference could be related to a variety of environmental factors (habitat, carotenoid and parasite abundance) that affect the costs and benefits of choosing males with particular ornaments in each location.
3677645|Although trogons (Aves, Trogonidae) are well characterized by the possession of heterodactyl feet, their phylogenetic relationships to other extant birds still are only poorly understood. Molecular studies did not show conclusive results and there are amazingly few comparative studies of the anatomy of trogons. Virtually the only hypothesis on trogon relationships that was supported with derived morphological characters is a sister group relationship to alcediniform birds (bee-eaters, kingfishers, and allies), which share a derived morphology of the columella (ear-ossicle) with trogons. However, in this study a very similar columella is reported for the oilbird (Steatornithidae) and additional previously unrecognized derived osteological characters are presented, which are shared by trogons and oilbirds. A numerical cladistic analysis of 28 morphological characters also resulted in monophyly of Trogonidae and Steatornithidae, although the corresponding node was not retained in a boot-strap analysis.
3677456|Cormorants are assumed to have a "partially wettable" plumage as a mechanism to reduce buoyancy while swimming underwater. This assumption is mainly based on 3 observations: 1) the volume of air in the plumage of submerged carcasses is small compared to other water birds, 2) cormorants assume a "wing drying" posture when they exit the water, and 3) the feather structure of the plumage. An alternative mechanism to reduce buoyancy is to release air out of the plumage by ptilomotion without allowing water to penetrate. How wet cormorants actually get is an open issue that has important implications for the energy budget of these warm blooded aquatic predators. Here we report empirical measurements on the amount of water retained in the plumage of live great cormorant Phlacrocorax carbo sinensis during voluntary swimming and diving in an experimental design that simulates a foraging diving bout. The amount of water retained in the plumage increased as a function of time spent in water. However the birds limited their dive bouts to less than 18 minutes so that the added mass of retained water did not exceed 6% of their body mass. This maximal level of water retention is estimated to reduce the buoyancy of the dry bird by 18%. This maximal level is also similar to measurements of water retention of carcasses and suggests that measurements preformed on carcasses yield only the upper level of water absorption while live birds slow down water penetration, allowing longer periods of foraging.
3677627|It is widely known that many upland-breeding shorebirds tend to nest on plateaus but to date no studies have put forward explanations for this phenomenon. We examined the effect of slope and habitat on the distribution of ground-nesting golden plover Pluvialis apricaria at two study sites in County Durham, U.K. Golden plovers showed strong selection for nesting on flat ground. Habitat significantly affected nest-site location on one study site (heather burnt within the past 2 years was favoured and older stands of heather were avoided) but not on the other. Fifty-nine per cent of all nests failed. We attributed 95% of all losses to predation. Seventy-five per cent of nests, in which the predator was identified, were taken by ground predators, mainly stoats Mustela erminea. Nests on flat ground had significantly higher rates of survival than those on slopes. Nest survival did not vary significantly with habitat type nor with vegetation height or density around the nest. Neither habitat type, vegetation height nor vegetation density around nests differed between nests on slopes and on flat ground. In addition, individuals that nested on flat ground tended to have less black on their underparts (a suggested indicator of dominance). We suggest that birds nesting on slopes are less efficient at avoiding nest predation than those nesting on the flat. The nature or degree of a bird's response to a predator may be related to the efficiency of individual anti-predator responses and/or to visibility from the nest. This study cannot differentiate between these two explanations. We encourage further work to investigate differences in behaviour between individuals nesting on slopes and those on flat ground.
10.2307/3677182| The possibility that albatrosses use a geomagnetic bi-coordinate map for long-distance navigation at sea was investigated by evaluating how five different geomagnetic parameters (i.e. total field intensity, horizontal and vertical field intensity, inclination and declination) vary in areas where foraging albatrosses have been recorded by satellite telemetry in the Southern Ocean. Our objective was to investigate if any combination of these magnetic gradients was feasible as a geomagnetic bi-coordinate map. In particular we were interested in testing whether the bi-coordinate magnetic map hypothesis (i.e. gradient map based on total field intensity and angle of inclination; Lohmann and Lohmann 1996a) could explain the albatrosses' navigation system at these latitudes. Three satellite tracks were selected for Wandering Alba-trosses breeding in South Georgia in the south-western Atlantic and eight from the Crozet Islands in the south-western Indian Ocean. From the South American continent in the west (70W) eastwards to the Kergulean Islands in the east (70E), there is a considerable variation in the geomagnetic gradients. On the basis of our analyses we conclude: (1) There is no particular combination of two geomagnetic gradients that assigns every geographic location a unique set of co-ordinates in the South Atlantic Ocean. Hence, a gradient map could not explain the albatrosses' ability to navigate during their foraging excursions in the two breeding areas nor during their circumpolar non-breeding travels. (2) In subregions of the area under investigation, in particular around South Georgia, a useful grid was formed with a combination of two of the five magnetic gradients. In contrast, no such useful geomagnetic grid exists in the subregion around the Crozet Islands. (3) Because of irregular and weak gradients a bi-coordinate magnetic map seems highly unlikely to explain the albatrosses' navigation across major parts of the Southern Ocean. However, since we do not know the sensitivity of birds' magneto-receptors we cannot exclude the possibility that geomagnetic gradients in some way, perhaps in combination with other cues, are incorporated in the navigation system of albatrosses. 
10.2307/3677292|Several falcons were trained to fly along a 500 m course to a lure. The air speeds of the more consistent performers averaged about 1.5 times their calculated minimum power speeds, and occasionally reached 2.1 times the minimum power speed. Wing beat frequencies of all the falcons were above those estimated from earlier field observations, and the same was true of wild Sage Grouse Centrocercus urophasianus, a regular falconer's quarry in the study area. Measurements of grouse killed by falcons showed that their wings were short, with broad slotted tips, whereas the falcons' wings were longer in relation to their body mass, and tapered. The short wings of grouse result in fast flight, high power requirements, and reduced capacity for aerobic flight. Calculations indicated that the grouse should fly faster than the falcons, and had the large amount of flight muscle needed to do so, but that the falcons would be capable of prolonged aerobic flight, whereas the grouse probably would not. We surmise that Sage Grouse cannot fly continuously without incurring an oxygen debt, and are therefore not long-distance migrants, although this limitation is partly due to their large size, and would not apply to smaller galliform birds such as ptarmigan Lagopus spp. The wing action seen in video recordings of the falcons was not consistent with the maintenance of constant circulation. We call it "chase mode" because it appears to be associated with a high level of muscular exertion, without special regard to fuel economy. It shows features in common with the "bounding" flight of passerines.
30244742|We examined which egg parameters warbling vireos Vireo gilvus use to discriminate brown-headed cowbird Molothrus ater eggs and, by comparing our results to other studies, tested the prediction that ejecter species with eggs more similar in appearance to cowbird eggs will be less tolerant of foreign eggs. In addition, we tested the hypothesis that egg characteristics influence the cost of ejection and probability of committing ejection errors. Warbling vireos ejected 100% of eggs with a cowbird spot pattern and only spot pattern significantly influenced the probability of ejecting a foreign egg, whereas size and nest stage did not. Foreign eggs that differed in two parameters were not ejected significantly more than those that differed in one parameter. Thus, warbling vireos appear to be less tolerant of foreign eggs than species with eggs more divergent from cowbird eggs. There was no significant difference in the number of vireo eggs that were damaged when foreign eggs of different sizes and spot patterns were ejected, which is counter to the assumptions of the evolutionary equilibrium hypothesis. Similarly, foreign egg characteristics did not significantly influence the probability of ejection errors. Finally, egg discrimination in warbling vireos appears to have evolved directly to counter cowbird parasitism because all conspecific eggs switched into their nests were accepted.
3677522|The onset of incubation varies in birds, with many species beginning incubation prior to clutch completion. Here we examine whether early onset is more likely to occur during high temperatures, a critical prediction of the egg-viability hypothesis, which suggest that birds begin incubation prior to clutch completion in order to maintain egg-viability. We examined onset of incubation in tree swallows Tachycineta bicolor at two locations at the extremes of their breeding range, Alaska and Tennessee. A majority of individuals (68%) began incubation prior to clutch completion. While females in Tennessee were more likely to begin incubation early, there was no difference between sites when differences in temperatures inside nestboxes were controlled in analyses. Rather, early onset of incubation was predicted by the proportion of daily temperatures above physiological zero during laying, a critical prediction of the egg viability hypothesis. Both warm weather and early onset led to shorter incubation periods and increased levels of hatching asynchrony. We found no effect of timing of nesting, female body condition index or clutch size on the probability of beginning incubation prior to clutch completion. Our results are consistent with the egg viability hypothesis, not consistent with a threshold clutch size rule, and do not support the hurry-up hypothesis, that individuals breeding later in the season would begin incubation early to reduce the time spent nesting. Overall, our results suggest that broad scale geographic differences in incubation behaviour may be explained by individual-level responses to environmental conditions.
30244798|The pygmy kingfishers of the Old World tropics (Alcedininae) display a range of feeding behaviors, plumage types, and morphologies that have caused much taxonomic confusion in the group. We sequenced mitochondrial and nuclear genes to reconstruct a phylogenetic hypothesis for the subfamily, which was then used to examine the utility of common taxonomic characters. The phylogenetic hypothesis reveals multiple shifts between insectivory and piscivory, as well as homoplasy in bill color and plumage color. Piscivores and insectivores are interspersed across the tree, as are blue and rufous plumage types. It is apparent that reliance on these characters to delineate genera has resulted in classifications that do not describe natural groups. The sole taxonomic character examined that defines a natural division in the subfamily, toe count, is also the one generally dismissed as non-informative in the alcedinines, yet all species with a reduction in the number of toes form a clade. It is recommended that four genera be retained to describe the variation within pygmy kingfishers.
10.2307/3677328|In many tropical habitats, the number of birds can more than double with the arrival of migratory birds in the autumn. This influx often occurs at a time when the total biomass of potential food resources is at an annual low. Previous food-related hypotheses have usually focused on migratory species that consume fruit or other plant products, and are more difficult to extend to insectivorous birds, which make up the bulk of tropical migrants. I hypothesize that inter-habitat and inter-seasonal variation in the size distribution of arthropods may underlie the use of habitats by migratory birds. Most habitats have a few taxa of large arthropods that serve as "breeding" currency. The abundance of these arthropods may not be coupled with the abundance of small arthropods during the non-breeding season. Where small arthropods are abundant during the non-breeding season and large arthropods rare during the breeding season, the surplus non-breeding food is available to the large number of small insectivorous birds that comprise most of the migratory species.
30244745|The subfamily Picumninae (piculets) includes 3 genera and 30 species of tiny and short-tailed woodpeckers with a pantropical distribution. Within the Picumninae, two cases of intercontinentally disrupted distributions at the genus level occur. The first one concerns the genus Sasia (one species in Africa and two in southeast Asia) while the second concerns Picumnus (one species in southeast Asia and 25 in South America). These disrupted distributions, as well as several morphological differences, have lead some authors to place the African representative of Sasia and the southeast Asian representative of Picumnus in their own monotypic genera (Verreauxia and Vivia, respectively). To address the taxonomic status and biogeographic history of the piculets, we sequenced 2676 bp of DNA from one mitochondrial (ND2) and two nuclear markers (myoglobin intron 2 and P-fibrinogen intron 7). Monophyly of Picumninae could not be recovered with confidence, while monophyly of Sasia and Picumnus were always strongly supported. Molecular dating analyses revealed that the splits both between the African and Indo-Malayan Sasia and between the New World and Old World Picumnus occurred at ca 7.9 Myr BP. This time corresponds to the beginning of the formation of the northern Hemisphere ice sheets and the accompanying expansion of grasslands throughout the world. The spread of open areas in the northern parts of Eurasia and America prevented gene flow between tropical forest birds, such as the piculets, in Africa, southeast Asia and South America, respectively.
30243298|In this paper we report the observation of a rapidly developed vertebrate symbiosis involving ectoparasite cleaning by a native corvid of northern Australia, the Torresian crow Corvus orru, on a recently introduced bovid ungulate, the banteng Bos javanicus. Facultative symbioses benefiting both participants (mutualisms) between birds and mammals appear to be rare, despite the apparent advantages obtained by the participants (ecto-parasite removal from the host and food provision to the cleaner). On three separate dates we observed a total of four C. orru individuals eliciting facilitation behaviours by a total of ten female banteng to assist in the removal of ectoparasites. Our observations document the first-known incidence of facultative cleaning behaviour by a native bird species on a non-native, wild vertebrate that has developed in approximately 150 years since the banteng's introduction to Australia.
3676986|Variation of brood sex ratio was studied in a Finnish population of Eurasian Kestrels Falco tinnunculus breeding in an unpredictably variable environment. From those young that survived until 2-4 weeks of age, blood was collected and their sex determined from polymorphic DNA profiles produced by hybridisation with a human minisatellite probe. The sex ratio was male-biased during a year of food (vole) scarcity. Furthermore, in broods without mortality, contrasting seasonal trends in sex ratios emerged. In this subsample, the proportion of males increased with later laying date during years of low and moderate food supply, whereas the opposite was true in a year of relatively high food supply. These trends may indicate circumstances that favour the raising of different sex. The proportion of males in the brood was also negatively correlated with body condition of both male and female parents, reflecting an adaptive condition-dependent sex-ratio adjustment, or alternatively the inability of the parents to meet the requirements of the more energetically expensive female offspring. We discuss the limitations that unpredictable conditions during brood raising can impose on adaptive sex-ratio manipulation, particularly in species with sexual size dimorphism and consequent differences in the cost of raising the two sexes.
30244446|In passerine species with frequent extrapair mating, young (second calendar year) males often have a lower fertilization success than older (after second calendar year) males. This pattern might be explained by male- or female-driven mechanisms, such as female preference for older males or higher competitive ability of older males. In this study we measured the size of the testes, the seminal glomera and the cloacal protuberance as well as the size and motility of the sperm, in individual bluethroats Luscinia svecica. In this species, nearly all extrapair fertilizations (EPFs) are obtained by older males. We found that the mass of the testes and the seminal glomera were highly positively correlated and that older males had significantly larger testes (38%), seminal glomera (15%) and cloacal protuberance (23%) than young males. In contrast, there was no difference between age groups in average sperm size or sperm motility. Our results are consistent with the idea that higher fertilization success by older males in this species is due to their higher rate of sperm production, allowing larger ejaculates and/or more frequent copulations. Unequal sperm production capacities by young and older males have important implications for the interpretation of paternity patterns in extrapair mating systems.
3677712|Variation in egg size and composition can have important consequences for the quality of offspring. We investigated the factors influencing the yolk mass and egg mass of tree swallows breeding in Ithaca, NY. Using a nondestructive technique to estimate yolk mass via standardized digital-candler photographs, we compared yolk size and egg size of tree swallows Tachycineta bicolor in response to variation in food availability and individual quality. Insect availability one to three days prior to laying, but not four to six days, predicted yolk mass, while insect availability two to three days prior to laying predicted total egg mass. This suggests that, while eggs are formed over longer periods, food availability closer to time of laying has the greatest influence on egg size. These results were supported by collected eggs, as yolk rings revealed that tree swallow eggs are formed over 5-6 days. There was an influence of female quality as well, with early laying birds, independent of food availability, laying larger eggs. Eggs laid later in the laying sequence had larger yolks and greater egg mass. Overall, variation in egg quality appears to be due to a combination of environmental conditions, reflected in food resources, individual quality, and allocation tradeoffs during the laying period.
25161530|Natural selection theory suggests that there should be fitness consequences for animals that possess morphological abnormalities such as missing or deformed appendages and other structures. As these characters are expected to be detrimental, morphological abnormalities could be considered "handicaps". However, little information exists about the nature, prevalence or consequences of naturally occurring handicaps in birds, even though experimental handicapping has been used in some behavioural studies. Here, we document and describe the frequency of natural handicaps in American Kestrels Falco sparverius, and investigate their influence on condition and survival. We considered three different categories of handicap that should negatively impact falcons: missing remiges and rectrices, broken remiges and rectrices, and foot handicaps. Broken feathers, followed by missing feathers, were the most common handicaps detected in kestrels and their prevalence increased throughout the breeding season. Foot handicaps were relatively rare and showed no seasonal trends. There was no effect of any handicap type on body condition or return rates of male kestrels. In contrast, females with either foot handicaps or broken feathers were in significantly poorer condition than control females, and females with broken feathers were less likely than control females to return to the study area in years following initial capture. Given that female kestrels with broken feathers have more fault bars than those without broken feathers, and fault bar formation is related to stresses in a bird's past, we suggest that female kestrels that had broken feathers were of poorer quality than those without broken feathers or those with missing feathers. Females with broken feathers may therefore have been in poorer condition initially than other birds, or if broken feathers are indicative of poor quality, then females with broken feathers may have been less able to cope with the negative impacts of feather loss on flight performance compared to birds with missing feathers.
30244796|Seabirds are important predators in marine ecosystems and are commonly used to monitor the productivity of their marine environments. However, different measures of seabird breeding success differ in their sensitivity to environmental conditions. Here, we present an analysis of provisioning rates and chick growth as well as hatching and fledging success, in thin-billed prions Pachyptila belcheri at New Island, Falkland Islands between 2003 and 2005 and relate these patterns to ocean climate. During the study period, SST were rising within and between breeding seasons and were negatively correlated with provisioning frequencies of thinbilled prions. Chick mass was reduced and begging intensities increased at low feeding frequencies, but overall breeding success and fledging success were not affected, because most chicks in survived to fledging despite poor provisioning rates. Chick numbers and survival therefore may not be sensitive indicators of environmental conditions in all seabird species and ranges of food abundance. Monitoring behavioural buffering mechanisms, such as feeding rates, may be more effective in some ranges of food abundance and time scales and provide an earlier warning of ecological change. As a novel technique, the use of begging intensities as indicator of chick body condition is proposed in species where repeated handling causes disturbance. The present data suggest that begging rates can serve as a non-invasive method to monitor chick condition.
3677536|Unlike the majority birds that replace their primaries once each year, most Sterna terns practice an unusual repeated wing molt, wherein a variable number of inner primaries are replaced twice or even three times in a single year. This seemingly redundant replacement of the primaries may serve as a sexually selected indicator of quality in that terns may evaluate potential mates based on the number of primaries they were able to replace twice or three times prior to the breeding season. To evaluate the potential of repeated molt as a social signal, we compared light-reflectance curves and photon catches for new (twice-molted) and old (once-molted) primaries in three species of terns. We observed that old feathers reflected considerably less light across all wavelengths and found that in two of the three species examined the ultraviolet reflectance was disproportionably reduced in old feathers relative to the reduction in visible reflectance. Thus, the UV component of coloration in tern wing feathers may accentuate the difference between the new feathers generated by repeated wing molt and older, more worn feathers, thereby reinforcing a sexually selected signal of quality.
10.2307/3677016|We examined the influence of hatching date, nestling condition (body mass), size and sex on the age at the onset, and on the duration and extent of postjuvenile moult in a Great Tit population in southern Finland. Date of hatching explained most of the variation in moult parameters. Onset of moult was closely connected with hatching date: Great Tits from first broods started moulting in July and birds from second broods started in mid-August. The age at the start of moult decreased from 56 to 42 days from first to repeat and second broods and the duration of moult decreased from 67 to 59 days. Variation of moult parameters with date of hatching and the timing of moult are in concordance with experimental data on photoperiodic control of moult. Females started to moult older and moulted less extensively than males, especially in first broods. Residual body mass during moult reflected the state and intensity of moult, but did not correlate with the final extent of moult. This contradicts the recent protein stress and condition hypotheses.
3677735|The generation of artificial light by human activity can have far-reaching detrimental impacts upon a wide variety of organisms. A great deal of attention has been paid to well-lit buildings, television towers, and communication towers as sources of mortality for nocturnally migrating songbirds. However, despite being among the first human structures known to generate migratory bird kills, little is known about the current impact of lighthouses on birds, or the impact of light design. We examined the impact of a lighthouse on nocturnal avian migrants at Long Point, Lake Erie, Ontario, Canada. From 1960-1989, mean annual kills were 200 birds in spring, and 393 in autumn, with kills of up to 2000 birds in a single night. In 1989, the Long Point lighthouse was automated, with a simultaneous change in beam characteristics - the new beam is narrower and less powerful. This change brought about a drastic reduction in avian mortality at the lighthouse to a mean of only 18.5 birds per year in spring, and 9.6 in autumn from 1990-2002. Our results highlight the effectiveness of simple changes in light signatures in reducing avian light attraction and mortality during migration.
30245216|Hormone-mediated maternal effects may be an important mechanism for adjusting offspring phenotype to particular requirements of the environment. We manipulated the levels of testosterone and androstenedione in the yolk of collared flycatcher Ficedula albicollis eggs to investigate the effects of pre-natal exposure to androgens on growth and immune function. Androgen treatment tended to reduce the growth of males, and enhance the growth of females, as indicated by significant interaction between sex and androgen treatment. Cellular immune function was not affected by androgen treatment or sex. Survival of nestlings until fledging was not related to androgen treatment. Our results indicate that in the collared flycatcher yolk androgens do not involve clear overall benefits during the nestling stage, and that growth-enhancing effects of increased yolk androgen levels on female nestlings are counterbalanced by detrimental effects on male nestlings.
10.2307/3677197|The balance between investment in current reproduction and future survival or reproduction may be particularly important to long-lived species. Many of these species are single-egg layers for which incubation costs cannot be realistically measured by manipulation of clutch size. Here I report an experiment in which I manipulated the costs of incubation in the British Storm-petrel Hydrobates pelagicus by prolonging and shortening the incubation period by exchanging eggs between clutches with an average difference in laying dates of 9 days. Hatching success was higher in nests in which the incubation period was shortened than in nests in which it was prolonged. However, neither fledging success nor chick growth differed between treatments. Experimental manipulation of the incubation period affected laying date in the subsequent year. This finding suggests that incubation is costly in Storm-petrels and that the reproductive effort in one breeding attempt may influence reproductive decisions in subsequent breeding attemps in long-lived seabirds.
30244835|Diversity of the gut bacterial community is of prime importance for optimal food digestion and, therefore, for nutritional condition of avian nestlings. Consequently, bacterial community should be considered as a predictor of the future survival and recruitment of young birds. To explore this hypothesis, we studied the cloacal microbiota, by using RISA procedure, in two avian species sharing environmental conditions during growth, the avian brood parasitic great spotted cuckoo Clamator glandarius, and their main host in Europe, the magpie Pica pica. As estimates of phenotypic condition of nestlings we studied two nutrition-dependent traits, the immune response to an innocuous antigen (phytohemagglutinin), and the residuals of body mass on tarsus and wing length of nestlings. According to the hypothesis, we found significant relationships between microbial diversity and nestling phenotypic traits related to probability of recruitment. Briefly, both magpie and cuckoo nestlings having more similar microbial diversity were also those with similar immune response and body condition index respectively. Our results show a possible association between bacterial communities and variables related to the probability of post-fledging survival and recruitment of birds, as well as possible reasons explaining magpie-cuckoo differences in the nutritionally conditioned variables better associated with their bacterial diversity.
3677659|Extra-pair paternity (EPP) in monogamous birds may result from either extra-pair copulations (EPCs) or mate switching. In this study of King Penguins in South Georgia, we observed no EPCs at all, an effect of very efficient mate guarding. Onshore males fast and need not divert attention to foraging or to defending nest or territory, as this species has neither. However, we found that mate switching was common. On average 38% (range: 29%-56%; three years pooled) of the birds established pair bonds with at least one initial partner before switching to the partner they bred with (i.e. the "pair mate"). Of the observed copulations of 44 studied females, 22% were with initial partners and 78% with the pair mate. This and the high proportion of mate switching suggest that roughly 10% of the females could have received sperm from males other than the pair mate. The average copulation frequency was 0.026 h
25161535|Feather wear is the natural degradation and breakage of feather structure during the interval between moults. Different rates of feather wear have been observed for primaries of free-living populations of several species of passerines and waders, and this variability has been linked to different concentrations of melanins. In this study primary moult duration explained 59% of the variation in annual rates of primary abrasion (percentage wing length loss) of seven Grey Plover wintering populations, while migration distance explained 14%. The analysis suggests that primary moult duration plays a key role in determining primary durability and hence primary quality. Long distance migrants might evolve more durable primaries, despite the higher predation risks and energetic costs of a prolonged moult. Partial or complete pre-breeding primary moults of first-year waders and complete biannual moults of some passerines might have evolved under selective forces favouring migration with unabraded primaries.
10.2307/3676955|There was a seasonal biomodality in the distribution of breeding activities of King Penguins Aptenodytes patagonicus, studied from 1991 to 1994 at South Georgia, with peaks of courtship and egg-laying 2-3 months apart. The late peak was of birds that bred successfully the previous year, whereas the early peak was of birds that had failed. Successful birds were delayed because the median time for a complete breeding cycle, including moult, was > 14 month. Although most birds made a breeding attempt each year, none bred successfully in two consecutive seasons. Hence, in practice the cycle was biennial. The egg-laying period spanned four months but only pairs that laid within the first quarter of this period were successful. Parental quality, rather than laying date, strongly influenced the outcome of first quarter breeding attempts. No late breeding attempt was successful and why they are undertaken is unclear. At least they posed no measurable cost, either by delaying subsequent breeding or by increasing mortality; this may be important for balancing the low benefit. After the over-wintering fast the chick could be fledged by a single parent; but no sex-specific difference in invested time in the chick near to fledge was observed.
30244447|Decline of migrant wader populations worldwide implies that their demography may be affected by phenomena occurring in a large geographical scale. Knowledge about vital rates affecting population growth and viability helps in finding the processes behind the declines. We estimated the rate of population growth () of a dramatically declined population of Temminck's stints Calidris temminckii using a ten year capture-recapture data. We assessed the viability of the population by projections based on  and its variation. We also studied sensitivity of  to changes in vital rates (breeding success, recruitment and adult survival). Both adult and juvenile survival and breeding success were lower than c. 30 years earlier. Adult survival seemed to have dropped during the study period. Population growth appeared strongly negative and viability analyses predicted an almost certain extinction within a few decades. Adult survival formed the main component of the growth rate suggesting that population crash is mainly caused by a drop in adult survival. Still, sensitivity analyses showed that a moderate rise in adult survival or any other single vital rate would not make the population viable. Most probably, survival has dropped due to factors operating along migration routes and wintering areas, at sites shared by birds from other parts of the breeding range. Therefore, the observed population crash and decline in adult survival may indicate parallel changes in poorly monitored arctic populations. Migration habits (continental wide flyways and scattered wintering areas) imply that factors responsible for the drop in survival have a wide geographical range.
3677416|Current theory and empirical evidence suggests that, if a character is sexually dimorphic as a result of sexual selection, it should be positively allometric (i.e. relatively larger in larger individuals), whereas if the dimorphism is the result of natural selection (e.g. niche divergence), it should be isometric. I show how this can be used to study the selective forces responsible for dimorphic morphological characters, using the monochromatic Marbled Teal Marmaronetta angustirostris as an example. In absolute terms, first-year male teals have a higher body mass, wing length, head length and bill length than females. In relative terms (controlling for body size), males still have longer wings, heads and bills. The scaling in Marbled Teal suggests that bill and head dimorphisms are due to sexual selection, whereas wing dimorphism is due to natural selection. Tail length is sexually monomorphic but positively allometric, possibly because of a display function. Such scaling studies are easy to carry out, and provide a useful complement to direct investigation of the influence of variation in the size of dimorphic characters on mating success, foraging efficiency etc.
3676997|The importance that the density of breeders has on the opportunity for extra-pair fertilisations (EPFs) is controversial. Some evidence supports the idea that population density and frequency of extra-pair paternity are positively associated, whereas other work does not. In the present paper we estimate EPF frequency in a dense House Sparrow Passer domesticus colony. We detected extra-pair nestlings in 9.3% of 54 broods studied, and 7% of 171 nestlings were sired by extra-pair fathers. The number of clutches laid per female, the change of male or female between two consecutive breeding attempts and the age of the partners showed no association with the presence or absence of extra-pair fertilisations. Morphometric variables of paired males and females did not discriminate broods with EPFs from those without. We detected a single case of a female laying a "parasitic" egg in the nest of a male that in a previous breeding attempt was the extra-pair genetic father of her entire brood. The frequency of extra-pair fertilisation recorded in this study was low compared with that in other House Sparrow populations breeding at lower densities, or other species that breed in colonies. This result does not support the claim that EPF frequency is associated with population density. We propose, as an explanation for this result, that under high intra-sexual competition for nest sites (1) males may have limited opportunities to search for females for extra-pair copulations and (2) the high quality of male nest-owners may reduce female propensity to search for additional sexual partners.
30243879|Although evidence is accumulating that mothers can transfer antibodies to their offspring, little is known about the consequences of such a transfer to the offspring immune system. Because maternal antibodies are effective only during a short period of time after their transfer to offspring, one hypothesis is that maternal antibodies provides a transitory antigen-specific protection to offspring, thus lessening the need for offspring to mount their own humoral immune response towards these specific antigens. In birds, this scenario predicts that offspring immune response towards a specific antigen is inhibited to a larger extent in hatchlings than in older nestlings. We tested this hypothesis in tawny owls Strix aluco by cross-fostering clutches between nests and then challenging siblings with a vaccine either two times (at 4- and 11d-old) or only one time at 11-d-old to compare the strength of the humoral response between nestlings born from mothers with naturally high and low levels of antibodies against this vaccine. Because maternal antibodies are expected to be effective only during a short period of time after hatching, we predict that maternal antibodies should inhibit the immune response of nestlings vaccinated from the fourth day after hatching more than in nestlings vaccinated only at a later age. As expected, the inhibitory effect of maternal antibodies was stronger in nestlings vaccinated soon after hatching than in siblings injected at a later age. Therefore, in wild avian populations pre-hatching maternal effects may confer offspring with a transitory immune protection in the first days following hatching.
10.2307/3677277|Most male Willow Warblers at a site in southern England established territories during April or early May, shortly after their arrival. A smaller number of territorial males arrived from late May to early July, but none attempted breeding. There was no evidence of non-territorial 'floating' males during the breeding season, and observations of previously ringed birds indicated that some of the late arrivals had already held territories elsewhere in the same year. Most of these birds were thought to be from poorer quality habitats; their occupation of a 'late territory' in a high quality habitat may help them to establish a breeding territory there in the following year. The site fidelity of late territorial males did not differ significantly from that of males holding primary territories at the same site.
3677800|The New Zealand stitchbird or hihi Notiomystis cincta is unique in that it has two distinct mating positions, in addition to the male standing on the female's back, as is seen in all other birds, it also copulates face-to-face. In this study, 43 male stitchbirds first attracted a female to their territory and supplemented their within-pair matings by intruding into other territories and attempting forced copulations - often resulting in high levels of female harassment. I recorded the temporal variation of both attempted and successful copulations relative to the female's fertile period in order to understand the function of copulation variation in this species. Each of 105 observed copulations were classified according to whether they were: (1) within-pair or extra-pair, (2) forced or unforced, and (3) face-to-face or standing. Two copulation categories 'within-pair unforced standing' (50%) and 'extra-pair forced face-to-face' (27%) accounted for the majority of all observed copulations, and this supported the previous categorisation of face-to-face copulation being forced by extra-pair males in this species. However, in 10% of copulations the female conceded to copulate with an extra-pair male in a standing position while displaying only subtle signs of resistance, thus, female stitchbirds may show convenience polyandry when the costs of resistance are high. The peak in copulation frequency centred on two days prior to the laying of the first egg and occurred within a period of six days before and seven days after the first egg was laid. Unsuccessful extra-pair forced copulation attempts closely followed the distribution of all copulations. Male age and morphometrics did not predict whether a female would resist or accept extra-pair copulation attempts, and female resistance did not appear to depend on male quality. Despite the current trend focussing on female fitness benefits associated with EPCs, it appears that male stitchbirds gain EPCs through forced copulation and females gain no apparent benefit.
30243864|The bright colours of parrots are caused by psittacofulvin pigments, which appear unique to this Order, and by structural colours. We measured red (psittacofulvin), green (mixed) and blue (structural) colours of wild burrowing parrots Cyanoliseus patagonus of northeastern Patagonia, Argentina, and measured nestlings regularly to obtain data on breeding success and nestling growth. As adult feathers are moulted outside the breeding season, adult body condition could not be measured directly during feather growth, and climatic conditions were used as an indirect parameter. The colony of burrowing parrots is surrounded by Monte steppe habitat, the breeding success has been shown to depend strongly on the climatic patterns. The area experienced a drought with very poor breeding success as well as a year of above-average precipitation during the study period, serving as a natural experiment. We thus analysed the variability of colouration within the population among and within breeding seasons. We observed strong inter-annual differences in nestling and adult colouration. Nestlings grew blue feathers with lower achromatic brightness during better conditions, and when controlling for year effects, nestlings with higher mass and from more successful families also had blue feathers with lower achromatic brightness. Adult blue feathers showed the same trend, with lower achromatic brightness in the moult following breeding seasons of better conditions. In contrast, during better conditions, adults grew red feathers with higher achromatic brightness and the colour hue was also affected, and the hue of the red region of nestlings varied with the hatching order. The colour of all three regions of nestlings varied between nests, and the colour of the red region of adult males positively correlated with breeding success (clutch size, brood size). In summary, the present data suggest that environmental conditions contribute to variability in both structural and the psittacofulvin-based colours of wild burrowing parrots.
3677472|To transmit aerodynamic forces to the body, tail feathers should be stiff to resist lift forces with minimum deformation. Because aerodynamic theory predicts that such feathers do not produce lift forces beyond the point of the maximum continuum width of the tail, species with deeply forked tails should not require stiff outer rectrices distal to that point. I tested this prediction by comparing the relative thickness of the outer rectrix rachis between species with deeply forked tails to those with triangular or shallowly forked tails. Eleven pairs of closely related species belonging to families Fregatidae, Phalacrocoracidae, Accipitridae, Sternidae, Caprimulgidae, Trochilidae, Coraciidae, Tyrannidae, Cotingidae, and Hirundinidae were compared. All but one of the phylogenetically independent comparisons showed that the species with triangular or shallowly forked tails have higher relative rachis thickness than their deeply forked relatives. In addition, nine out of eleven of the species with deeply forked tails showed a proportionately greater increase in relative rachis thickness from distal to proximal parts of the feather. In contrast, triangular and shallowly forked tails showed an approximately linear relation between relative rachis thickness and relative rachis length. These results considered together are consistent with the idea that the distal part of outer rectrix rachis in species with deeply forked tails has not been selected to resist lift forces and may be adaptively reduced to attenuate the costs of a hypertrophied ornament.
30244456|Blood sampling is often critical for answering a variety of questions about wild birds. However, it is important to assess the impacts, if any, of blood collection on wild birds. Here, we examined the effects of blood sampling on adults or nestlings in three species of free-living birds. First, we examined the effects of blood collection on annual survival and reproductive success in adult buff-breasted wrens Thryothorus leucotis in Panama. In adult wrens, blood collection from the brachial vein during the breeding season had no effect on annual survival or reproductive success. Second, we examined whether blood collection influenced mass gain in developing smooth-billed anis Crotophaga ani in Puerto Rico. In developing anis, blood collection from the femoral or jugular veins had no effect on mass gain of nestlings. Third, in developing European starlings Sturnus vulgaris in British Columbia, Canada, blood collection from the brachial vein had no effect of body condition. Blood collection from the jugular vein had a transient effect on body condition during the first week post-hatch, but this effect disappeared by the second week of age. Lastly, we present an extensive up-to-date review of the literature on the effects of blood collection on free-living avian species. Taken together, these data show that blood collection has no major negative effects on developing or adult birds in the wild.
10.2307/3677228|We made daily visits to 47 Eared Grebe Podiceps nigricollis nests in two colonies to determine the frequency of conspecific brood parasitism. Three criteria were used to detect parasitism: the appearance of two or more new eggs in a 24 hour period, new eggs after the host had ceased laying, and the disappearance of a marked egg with the simultaneous appearance of a new unmarked egg. We detected parasitism at 68% of nests in one colony, 14% of nests in the second colony, and 38% of nests in both colonies combined. The spatial dispersion of parasitic eggs among host nests within one colony did not differ from random expectation but, with respect to temporal dispersion, parasites were more likely to lay in host nests in the laying stage than expected by chance. Egg loss was more common at parasitized nests than unparasitized nests, but further studies are needed to confirm whether this is due to egg rejection by hosts. A comparison of clutch sizes in parasitized and unparasitized nests indicated that unparasitized nests never contained more that four eggs - supernormal clutches of five or more eggs thus indicate that parasitism has taken place and, if used as an assay for parasitism, would have identified two thirds of the cases of parasitism in our study. Applying this assay to clutch size information collected 40 years ago at a site close to our study area indicates that parasitism may be a regular feature of Eared Grebe reproduction.
10.2307/3677127|To test the evolutionary arms race hypothesis (Dawkins and Krebs 1979) on the Red-backed Shrike-Cuckoo host-parasite relationship, a field test was carried out by placing artificial Cuckoo Cuculus canorus eggs into 52 Red-backed Shrike Lanius collurio clutches in Hungary. Two types of plastic eggs were introduced into shrike nests: (1) mimetic spotted eggs, and (2) blue eggs. Both types of eggs were placed into the nests either during the egg-laying period or at the beginning of the incubation period. The hosts ejected the foreign egg (71.2%), deserted the nest (19.2%), or accepted the foreign egg (9.6%). The blue egg was ejected more frequently than the mimetic egg. Desertion of nests in which the spotted egg was introduced was most frequent during the laying period, but after incubation started, females usually responded to the foreign egg by ejecting it. When ejection and desertion were treated together as rejection of the parasitic egg, no significant differences were found between the egg types and nest stages. Our results support the idea that Red-backed Shrikes are able to recognize their own eggs and reject parasitic eggs. This species could have been a host of the Cuckoo in the past, but when it learned to identify the parasitic eggs, the Cuckoo switched host species rather than evolving perfectly mimetic eggs to counteract the host's recognition ability.
30245321|The little stint Calidris minuta is one of the smallest shorebird species breeding in the Arctic (weighing 4.3 g on hatching). Their chicks are small and have a high surface area-to-volume ratio. We determined prefledging growth, energy expenditure and time budgets for little stint chicks in northwestern Taimyr, Siberia. A modified power curve was introduced to model the relationship between daily energy expenditure and body mass. Total metabolisable energy, TME, over the 15-d prefledging period was 107% greater than the allometric prediction for a bird the size of a little stint. Their growth rate coefficient was 14% greater than the prediction for a bird their size. The growth of young chicks was reduced in cool weather, possibly due to a reduction in foraging time in order to be brooded and reduced food availability which impact foraging efficiency. We did not detect weather effects on energy expenditure of chicks, but lack of temperature variation during energy expenditure measurements may have prevented this. In sum, both growth rate coefficient and energy expenditure of little stint chicks were greater than predicted and this is similar to that observed in other arctic shorebird species.
10.2307/3677282|Fern feeding is rare amongst birds. I describe the fern frond feeding behaviour of the Azores Bullfinch Pyrrhula murina. This bird takes fern fronds when other foods, seeds and sporangia, are scarce and is highly selective within and between species. It is suggested that variations in chemistry within fern species, involving nutrients and secondary compounds, may cause this behaviour.
10.2307/3677264|This paper analyzes the change in feeding behaviour of frugivorous birds (from swallowing the whole fruit to pecking the pulp) in olive orchards. The frequency of olive consumption by pecking was indirectly assessed by comparing the appearance of seeds in diet samples of frugivorous birds captured in olive orchards and in a wild olive shrubland. Although cultivated and wild olives are varieties of the same species, the size of cultivated olives is twice that of wild olives. The proportion of olives of a size adequate for swallowing by Blackcap Sylvia atricapilla was very low in olive orchards (0-2.0%, four plots and two years) and much higher in a wild olive shrubland (58 and 88% in two different years). For a larger frugivorous bird, the Song Thrush Turdus philomelos, more olives fitted its gape width (2-74% in olive orchards, 100% in the shrubland). Seeds appeared in 58.1% of the diet samples of Blackcaps in wild olive shrubland, but in only 4.9% of diet samples in olive orchards; however, in both habitats olives were the most important component in the diet and appeared in most of the analyzed samples. This suggests that fruit swallowing is typical in the shrubland and that fruit pecking, which implies that the single large seed is not swallowed, is a common behaviour of this species in olive orchards. For Song Thrushes seeds appeared in 49.4% of the diet samples in olive orchards and in all of the samples in the shrubland, suggesting a lower frequency of pecking behaviour than in Blackcaps. Therefore, pecking behaviour was caused by the large size of the cultivated olives. In laboratory trials, olive pecking was much less profitable than swallowing the whole fruit. For Blackcaps the benefit/handling time ratio for pecking was approximately four times lower than for swallowing and for Song Thrushes it was 12 times lower. The high energy content of olives allowed the ingestion of sufficient energy by fruit pecking to make this feeding behaviour cost-effective, despite long handling time. Due to the scarcity of fruits that fit the gape of small frugivorous birds in olive orchards, pecking of olives seems necessary for the establishment of these birds in this habitat. In a broader context, this study shows that some frugivorous birds are able to overcome gape limitation by changing their feeding behaviour from swallowing to pecking the fruit. This is possible because, although pecking is more costly than swallowing in terms of handling time, it may still be cost-effective, in particular with large fruits.
30245197|The heritability of the hematocrit in adult, breeding pied flycatchers Ficedula hypoleuca is examined in a southern European population across seven years to see the consistency, or lack thereof, of patterns found with the trait at fledgling age where no significant heritability could be detected. While the across-years repeatability of the trait in adult, breeding birds was low but significant, heritabilities based on adult parent-adult offspring regressions controlling for assortative mating and full-sibling comparisons did not differ significantly from zero. Neither were heritability estimates affected by selection on fledgling hematocrit, as it was unrelated to local recruitment. There was no relationship between fledgling and adult hematocrit, suggesting that both behave as phenotypically plastic, different traits. This is the first study testing for the heritability of a physiological trait in birds with data from adult, free-ranging individuals.
30243883|Each spring, millions of songbirds migrate across the Gulf of Mexico on their way to breeding sites in North America. Data from radar and migration monitoring stations have revealed broad patterns in the spatial and temporal course of trans-Gulf migration. Unfortunately, we have limited information on where these birds have previously spent the winter and where they are migrating to breed. Here we measure stable-hydrogen isotopes in feathers $\deltaD_{f}$ to infer the breeding latitude of five species of songbirds-hooded warblers Wilsonia citrina, American redstarts Setophaga ruticilla, black-andwhite warblers Mniotilta varia, ovenbirds Seiurus aurocapilla, and northern waterthrushes S. noveboracensis-that were captured at a stopover site along the coast of southwestern Louisiana in spring 2004. Values of $\deltaD_{f}$ across all species ranged from-163 to-35 (n = 212), and within most species the range was consistent with the latitudinal extent of known breeding sites in central and eastern North America. Individuals that arrived first along the northern Gulf coast had $\deltaD_{f}$ values indicative of southerly breeding sites in hooded warblers, American redstarts, black-and-white warblers, and ovenbirds, but no relationship was found between passage timing and $\deltaD_{f}$ for northern waterthrushes. Our findings suggest that spring passage is often timed to coincide with the emergence of suitable conditions on breeding areas, with southern breeding birds migrating first.
10.2307/3677042|While many studies have reported extra-pair paternity in birds, few studies have actually been able to assign paternity to extra-pair young or to determine correlates of male extra-pair fertilization success. Such information is crucial when trying to evaluate the factors that influence male reproductive success and female mate choice. In this two year study we used DNA fingerprinting to assign paternity to all young in a small colony (9-11 nests) of socially monogamous and monomorphic House Martins Delichon urbica. Overall, extra-pair paternity accounted for 19% of young and occurred in 35% of broods. All extra-pair young were sired by just four males in the colony, in some cases these males lost paternity to each other. The variance in total fertilization success was larger than the variance in apparent success (i.e. brood size) indicating that extra-pair fertilizations increased the opportunity for sexual selection. Males with higher total fertilization success (within-pair and extra-pair) were heavier and survived better to the next breeding season than males with lower total fertilization success. These results indicate that male quality is correlated with fertilization success, although we do not know if this is due to female choice, male-male competition, or both.
10.2307/3677175|Despite evidence that wind conditions are an important factor in determining stopover decisions, models of time-minimizing bird migration have up to now emphasized the optimal response of the migrants to variations in fuel acquisition rates. We present a simple model of a time-minimizing migrant faced with two potential wind conditions on each day, which occur with a fixed probability. Wind assistance is modelled as a multiplicative factor in the flight range equation. We identify conditions under which birds leave the stopover site even with no tailwinds and conditions where the birds leave only with tailwinds in cases with global and local variation of the fuel deposition rate. The optimal policy depends on the probability and amount of wind assistance. In all cases there is an initial period at a stopover site when the bird should stay and build up its initially small fuel reserves irrespective of wind. After this initial time, there is a period when the optimal departure decision is to leave when tailwinds occur but stay and continue fuel deposition in other winds. If the probability of tailwinds is low the bird should at some later time change its policy to leave even in unfavourable winds. However, if a certain threshold value of the probability of favourable winds is reached the birds should never leave without wind assistance. These patterns lead to a complex relationship between departure load and fuel deposition rate. We compare our predictions with a null-model where the birds simply leave as soon as favourable winds occur. We further show that the inclusion of wind assistance cannot explain the discrepancy between observed and predicted values of departure loads under local variation in fuelling rates.
3677691|Many large marine vertebrates are today threatened by human activities and it is therefore crucial to obtain information on their distribution and behaviour at sea. In particular little is known about the time necessary for juveniles to acquire the foraging skills of adults. We tracked 13 juvenile wandering albatrosses Diomedea exulans by satellite telemetry during their first year at sea. They covered an average distance of 184 000 km during the first year and restricted their dispersal to the unproductive waters of the subtropical Indian Ocean and Tasman Sea. This region of low wind velocities does not overlap with the foraging areas used by adults. After an innate phase of rapid dispersal with a fixed flight direction, young birds progressively increased their daily flight distances and attained adult flight efficiency within their first six months at sea. The complete overlap of the juveniles' foraging ranges with major long-line fisheries in the subtropical waters constitutes a major threat that could jeopardize the long term recovery ability of populations of the endangered wandering albatross in the Indian Ocean.
30244819|Annual survival rate and other demographic parameters of whiskered auklets Aethia pygmaea, a small planktivorous seabird, were measured at Buldir Island Alaska during 1992-2003 to provide comparative information for auk life history studies and to test for links among climate, age, productivity and survival. Using two 9 m mistnets, we captured and recaptured 384 adult and 193 sub-adult (one year old, a known-age component of our sample) birds as they arrived at the colony after dark during May and June (1,730 capture events). The best fitting model indicated a lower initial survival rate over the first year following marking (0.708  0.036 SE), and subsequent survival (mean 0.835  0.029) covarying with the Aleutian Low Pressure climate Index, with higher auklet survival in years with weak low pressure over the Aleutian Islands. Annual survival rate varied from 0.726  0.127 in 1998-99 to 0.994  0.077 in 1994-95, rates similar to those previously reported for least A. pusilla and crested auklets A. cristatella. A model based only on recaptures of known-age birds indicated a lower local survival estimate over the first year following marking (age one to two years), with no other age-effects on survival. Breeding propensity by age inferred from recaptures of birds with fully-developed brood patches that were originally marked as sub-adults (one year olds) indicated 53% breeding at age two, 94% breeding at age 3, 97% breeding at age 4 and 100% breeding thereafter. The sex ratio of the sampled birds was significantly male biased (60/40), likely due to differences in behaviour between males and females during the incubation stage. Taken together, our data indicate that whiskered auklet survival and productivity covaried with continuous variation in large-scale climatic conditions, the mechanism being either negative effects of stormy North Pacific weather or indirect effects on food supplies.
3677663|We analysed clutch size versus nest size in 153 broods of the Northern Flicker Colaptes auratus, a woodpecker using natural cavities in British Columbia, Canada. Larger volume cavities were less susceptible to predation and cavity size was positively associated with the age and body size of males and with the body condition of female parents. Although clutches varied between 4 and 11 eggs, and the floor area of cavities varied about 5-fold, we found no relationship between clutch size and floor area or cavity volume. To see if there were fitness consequences to clutch size relative to nest size, we examined hatching success and nestling mortality in flicker broods. Hatching success was not related to cavity size, but crowding slightly reduced nestling survival even when clutch size was controlled statistically. However, there was no effect of cavity size on the total number of nestlings fledged. Newly excavated flicker cavities were smaller than reused cavities suggesting a cost to excavation. This cost, coupled with the minimal fitness consequences of overcrowding, may explain why flickers do not adjust clutch size to cavity size.
10.2307/3677313|Between 1970 and 1995, Great and Blue Tits in northern Germany started breeding progressively earlier. Also Pied Flycatchers showed a significant trend towards earlier breeding, and in this species clutch size and number of fledged young increased significantly from 1970 to 1995. In all three species the fluctuations in annual mean hatching dates were significantly correlated with the mean average spring temperatures. The recorded time trends in breeding correspond with increasing March and April temperatures from 1970 to 1995.
10.2307/3677097|Unlike most animals with internal fertilisation, few extant bird species have a male intromittent organ (IO). Although two previously published hypotheses have attempted to account for the rare presence of IOs in birds, phylogenetic evidence suggests that it is the absence of an IO in the majority of bird species that requires explanation. Previous hypotheses suggested that IOs help minimise water damage to sperm when copulation occurs on the water (Water Damage Prevention Hypothesis) or that IOs help the sexes stay in genital contact when males have difficulty balancing during copulation (Maintaining Genital Contact Hypothesis). We find some limited support for these two ideas but there are so many exceptions that neither is particularly compelling. Because IOs are found in several flightless birds, it has also been suggested that IOs were lost to decrease the costs of flight (Minimising Flight Costs Hypothesis), however the cost of transporting an IO is expected to be minimal. We suggest, instead, that IOs may have been lost to minimise the risk of contracting pathogens and parasites during intromission (Avoidance of Sexually Transmitted Disease Hypothesis). Unlike most other homeotherms, birds have a cloaca that is common to both the urogenital and gastrointestinal systems, which may make birds more susceptible to sexually transmitted diseases. Unfortunately, the lack of comparative information on sexually transmitted pathogens in birds prevents a convincing analysis of this idea. We also present two new hypotheses based on the costs and benefits of IOs as a result of sexual selection. On the one hand, IOs may be favoured when paternal investment is high - an IO can increase a male's confidence of paternity by ensuring that sperm are deposited well up into the female's reproductive tract (Sperm Competition Hypothesis). This idea is supported by an association between IOs and male parental care during incubation. Alternatively, we suggest that male IOs may have largely disappeared in birds because of female preference for males without IOs (Female Choice Hypothesis), thereby allowing females more control over fertilisation. We argue that such a mechanism is plausible when females can afford to abandon eggs fertilised by males with IOs. This hypothesis is supported by the fact that species without IOs generally have relatively smaller, and presumably less costly, eggs than species with an IO. Preliminary data from other tetrapod vertebrates are also largely consistent with the Female Choice Hypothesis. Although the small number of independent evolutionary losses of IOs in birds precludes rigorous statistical tests of these hypotheses, the recent discovery of secondary modifications in male genitalia that function as IOs may help us understand the conditions under which the avian IO has been retained or lost over evolutionary time.
25161529|A major assumption in most models of foraging is that feeding and vigilance are mutually exclusive. A recent experimental study challenged this hypothesis and demonstrated that birds are able to detect predators while pecking seeds on the ground (head-down vigilance). Experimental obstruction of head-down vigilance makes birds increase head-up vigilance (i.e. the classical overt vigilance posture). For many foragers in the wild, visibility varies between habitats and foraging methods. We compared the vigilance of Teal Anas crecca and Shoveler Anas clypeata when foraging with their eyes above the water surface (shallow feeding, only the bill submerged) and when foraging with their eyes underwater (deep feeding, head and neck underwater, or upending), at three wintering sites in western France. Birds of both species spent less time in head-up vigilance during shallow foraging than during deep foraging, with no significant difference between sites, which suggests that they are capable of some vigilance during shallow foraging. During deep foraging, the time spent vigilant increased because the frequency of scans was much higher, while scan length decreased. However, these differences could have resulted from variations in the availability of food at different depths. In an experiment where the food availability was constant, we observed the same pattern, with a higher frequency of scans during deep foraging. This study therefore provides strong support for the idea that vigilance and foraging are not always mutually exclusive and shows that switching between searching methods can cause vigilance time - and, as a consequence, loss of feeding time - to vary. This should be taken into account in future field and experimental studies of the trade-off animals make between vigilance and feeding.
3677713|The Neotropical ovenbirds (Furnariidae) form an extraordinary morphologically and ecologically diverse passerine radiation, which includes many examples of species that are superficially similar to other passerine birds as a resulting from their adaptations to similar lifestyles. The ovenbirds further exhibits a truly remarkable variation in nest types, arguably approaching that found in the entire passerine clade. Herein we present a genus-level phylogeny of ovenbirds based on both mitochondrial and nuclear DNA including a more complete taxon sampling than in previous molecular studies of the group. The phylogenetic results are in good agreement with earlier molecular studies of ovenbirds, and supports the suggestion that Geositta and Sclerurus form the sister clade to both core-ovenbirds and woodcreepers. Within the core-ovenbirds several relationships that are incongruent with traditional classifications are suggested. Among other things, the philydorine ovenbirds are found to be non-monophyletic. The mapping of principal nesting strategies onto the molecular phylogeny suggests cavity nesting to be plesiomorphic within the ovenbird-woodcreeper radiation. It is also suggested that the shift from cavity nesting to building vegetative nests is likely to have happened at least three times during the evolution of the group. We suggest that the shifts in nest architecture within the furnariine and synallaxine ovenbirds have served as an ecological release that has facilitated diversification into new habitats and new morphological specializations.
3677593|Offspring sex ratios were examined at the population and family level in the sexually monomorphic, socially monogamous fairy martin Petrochelidon ariel at five colony sites over a 4-year period (1993-1996). The sex of 465 nestlings from 169 broods was determined using sex-specific PCR at the CHD locus. In accordance with predicted sex allocation patterns, population sex ratios at hatching and fledging did not differ from parity in any year and the variance in brood sex ratios did not deviate from the binomial distribution. Further, brood sex ratio did not vary with hatching date during the season, brood number, brood size or colony size. The sex ratio of broods with extra-pair young did not differ from those without, while the sex ratio of broods fathered by males that gained extra-pair fertilizations did not differ from broods fathered by other males. Extra-pair chicks were as likely to be male as female. Neither the total number of feeding visits to the brood nor the relative feeding contribution by the sexes varied significantly with brood sex ratio. Brood sex ratios were also unrelated to paternal size, condition and breeding experience or maternal condition and breeding experience. However, contrary to our prediction, brood sex ratio was negatively correlated with maternal size. Generally, these results were consistent with our expectations that brood sex ratios would not vary with environmental factors or parental characteristics, and would not influence the level of parental provisioning. However, the finding that females with longer tarsi produced an excess of daughters is difficult to reconcile with our current understanding of fairy martin life history and breeding ecology.
30243893|Because they are ubiquitous and typically reduce the fitness of hosts, parasites may play important roles in hybrid zone dynamics. Despite much work on herbivores and hybrid plants, the effect of parasites on the fitness of animal hybrids is poorly known. In an attempt to partly fill this gap, we examined the prevalence of avian haemosporidians Haemoproteus in a hybrid zone between collared Ficedula albicollis and pied flycatchers F. hypoleuca. 40 species-informative genetic markers allowed us to identify F1 hybrids, thus avoiding problems inherent in many studies that group hybrid genotypes. Furthermore, naturally occurring extra-pair paternity allowed us to test the immune responses of pure and hybrid nestlings to a novel antigen (phytohaemagglutinin) in a shared environment. In contrast to previous suggestions that animal hybrids may more often display resistance against parasites than plant hybrids, F1 hybrids exhibited prevalence of parasitism and immune responses that were intermediate between the two parental species. We also detected differences between the two parental species in their prevalence of infection, with the competitively dominant species (collared flycatcher) being less often infected by Haemoproteus. Overall, our results contribute to other recent data supporting the idea that the resistance of animals to parasites is variously and unpredictably affected by hybridization, and that there is a concordance in the general patterns observed in plants and animals. Haemosporidians in avian hybrids provide a useful system for investigating the interactions between hosts and parasites that characterize host contact zones.
3677718|In the tropics female birds sing much more frequently than in the temperate north, and sometimes even join their mates to form duets. Why might this be? We discuss how this phenomenon may relate to differences in life history that have been proposed between these regions, highlight likely hypotheses and point to areas of ignorance where studies are needed. The two reasons that appear at present most likely to explain the greater prevalence of female song in the tropics are: (1) the need for mutual stimulation to achieve breeding synchrony in a relatively aseasonal environment and, (2) sex role convergence arising from more long-term relationships and greater fidelity than is usual among north temperate species.
10.2307/3677361|I studied costs of nest defense in Azure-winged Magpies Cyanopica cyana in Tokyo, Japan in 1994 and 1995. I compared time devoted to nest defense, frequency of nestling feeding, and number of fledglings of magpies breeding near nests of Japanese Lesser Sparrowhawk Accipiter gularis and magpies breeding far from such nests. Because the hawks attack potential predators, magpies near a hawk's nest did not defend their nest, whereas magpies breeding far from a hawk's nest defended their nest. Feeding frequencies and number of fledglings were greater near a hawk's nest than far from it. Because nest defense incurs a cost in the form of decreased feeding time, Azure-winged Magpies far from a hawk's nest probably provided less food to their chicks and therefore raised fewer fledglings than those breeding close to a hawk.
3677539|We examined variability in yolk hormone levels among songbird species and the role of yolk steroids as a mechanism for enhanced exploitation of hosts by the parasitic brown-headed cowbird Molothrus ater. Within-clutch variation in yolk steroids has been found in several avian species in single species studies, but few comparisons have been made among species. We found a large range of differences in yolk testosterone among the seven passerine species examined, with significant differences between those at the high end (song sparrow Melospiza melodia, red-winged blackbird Agelaius phoeniceus, and house sparrow, Passer domesticus) and those at the low end (eastern phoebe Sayornis phoebe, and house finch Carpodacus mexicanus). We also found that the testosterone level in cowbird eggs was intermediate in relation to host species levels and was significantly lower than that in three common cowbird hosts (song sparrow, redwinged blackbird, and house sparrow), but not significantly different from three others. Geographical comparisons of yolk testosterone levels in all cowbird subspecies and populations from several regions showed no significant differences, though a trend that deserves further exploration was the pattern of lowest level in the ancestral population of cowbirds in the central prairies and of highest level in the northwestern population where range invasion occurred approximately 40 years ago. The levels of 17 betaestradiol were similar in the seven songbird species examined, which is consistent with current hypotheses that this hormone plays a role in embryonic sexual differentiation. Further investigation is needed to determine whether the large differences observed among species in absolute level of yolk testosterone are the relevant focal point or whether target tissue sensitivity differences mediate the effects of this yolk steroid, particularly between parasitic and non-parasitic species.
10.2307/3677143|We investigated how territory quality, settlement date and morphometry affected several components of yearly breeding success of a Swiss population of Savi's Warblers Locustella luscinioides. Territories occupied by males differed from unoccupied sites of similar size and location by having higher and denser reeds, a more extensive straw litter, and a thicker cover of dead sedge leaves. Territories with these characteristics were the ones first chosen by males upon spring arrival. These males, however, did not differ in morphometry from those that arrived later. Availability of suitable nesting sites, rather than food availability, appears to be an important choice criterion for territories. Early arriving males had higher breeding success than late males because of a higher mating success and more successful clutches. The positive correlation between male breeding success and territory quality was thus mediated through their common dependence on occupancy date. Female breeding success decreased with the date of first-clutch laying, mainly because late-nesting females fledged fewer broods. Breeding success in either sex did not correlate with morphometry. Our results provide clear support for territory choice by males, but not for mate or territory choice by females, and show the crucial role played by individual settlement date on many aspects of the breeding cycle of both sexes. We propose a lottery model of mate choice: arriving females obtain the best available territories even without choosing mates or territories; since males occupy territories sequentially and in order of decreasing quality, the few unpaired males available at any moment also occupy the best available territories.
3677390|We examined microhabitat preferences and their adaptiveness for the kelp gull Larus dominicanus in one of its largest colonies in Patagonia. We quantified 13 habitat variables at 104 and 92 nest-sites and at 70 and 60 random points in 1998 and 1999, respectively. We recorded egg laying dates, hatching success, number of chicks fledged and breeding success at 92 of these nests in each of the study seasons. Compared to random points, nest sites had more vegetation cover and were closer to the nearest available bush, but they were located further from the nearest clearing for flight take-off, all variables included in the "vegetation" principal component. Nests were built on substrates with lower slopes and higher percentages of silt-clay, but with lower percentages of rock. In both years, hatching success, number of chicks fledged and breeding success were related positively to the vegetation principal component. Substrate slope and composition contributed to explain the variation in hatching and breeding success in 1998 and 1999, respectively. Our study shows that some kelp gull breeding parameters are affected by nest-site habitat characteristics. These associations were in most cases influenced by the timing of breeding, with earlier breeders being more successful. Vegetation effects and substrate characteristics were important variables in distinguishing random sites from nest sites, and in explaining variation in breeding performance, showing that their habitat preferences are adaptive and allowing us to detect both the pattern and process in kelp gull habitat selection.
3677552|We tested the fertility announcement hypothesis, whereby male song during a female's fertile period functions as both a paternity guard and an advertisement for extra-pair copulations, in an eastern population of song sparrows Melospiza melodia over two broods within a breeding season. Our results did not support one of its main predictions: male song rate was not significantly higher in the female's fertile period than in her post-fertile period. Song rate peaked prior to pairing, when males were establishing territories and trying to attract females. Once paired, song rate dropped by a factor of about ten, and was consistently low through all stages of the nesting cycle. Males who failed to pair continued singing at high rates throughout the breeding season. Our results do not support the fertility announcement hypothesis, therefore song rate is not used primarily as a paternity assurance strategy by song sparrows.
30245206|Based on phenology, passage and median dates gathered from large number of study sites, we measured autumn and spring migration speeds of eleven long distance migratory passerines in four different ecogeographic sectors: Europe, desert, north-eastern and eastern Africa. Results demonstrate that, during the southward autumn migration, latedeparting species, such as lesser whitethroat Sylvia curruca, garden warbler S. borin, spotted flycatcher Muscicapa striata, whitethroat S. borin, and willow warbler Phylloscopus trochilus cover their migration route with a slower average migration speed across Europe than do early migrating species. During spring migration, late-departing species (marsh warbler Acrocephalus palustris, garden warbler, spotted flycatcher, red-backed shrike Lanius collurio) across north-eastern Africa showed a higher speed than early migrating species. Our results show overall shorter migration duration estimates in spring than autumn. Sector-wise seasonal comparisons of duration indicate that migration journey in the African and desert sectors are covered in a relatively shorter time in spring than in autumn. Periods required to cover the distance between northern latitude breeding grounds and desert during both seasons were equivalent.
3677738|Anti-microbial activity is a commonly suggested but rarely tested property of avian uropygial oil. Birds may defend themselves against feather-degrading and other potentially harmful bacteria using this oil. We preliminarily identified 13 bacterial isolates taken from the plumage of wild house finches Carpodacus mexicanus, measured bacterial production of the enzyme keratinase as an index of feather-degrading activity, and used the disc-diffusion method to test bacterial response to uropygial oil of house finches. For comparison, we performed the same tests on a type strain of the known feather-degrading bacterium Bacillus licheniformis. Uropygial oil inhibited the growth of three strongly feather-degrading isolates (including Bacillus licheniformis), as well as one weakly feather-degrading isolate and one non-feather-degrading isolate. Uropygial oil appeared to enhance the growth of one weakly feather-degrading isolate. Growth of the remaining isolates was unaffected by uropygial oil. These results suggest that birds may defend themselves against some feather-degrading bacteria using uropygial oil.
10.2307/3677192|The extent of variation in the frequency of extra-pair matings among and within avian species could result from differences in breeding density, where breeding density is predicted to be positively correlated with extra-pair paternity. We combined paternity data and behavioural observations to evaluate this prediction using correlational data in relation to observed densities of Hooded Warblers Wilsonia citrina by comparing populations differing in (1) nearest neighbour distance which varied by more than an order of magnitude (range 50-600 m) and (2) the number of adjacent neighbours within 300 m (range 0-8). Spearman rank correlations demonstrated no relationship between extra-pair paternity and either inter-territory distance or the number of adjacent neighbours within 300 m. The rate of extra-territorial forays, female chip rates, the number of chipping bouts, time spent chipping, male song rates, the number of song bouts and time spent singing were similar among pairs breeding at different densities. Our results suggest that a simple linear relationship between density and extra-pair paternity may not exist in some avian species, possibly because the costs of inter-territory travel may be much lower than the benefits gained through extra-pair fertilizations, and also because of the conflicting mating tactics used by males and females.
30243818|The racket-tipped tail of the motmots is uniquely shaped and its formation has attracted much attention. Barbs that grow along the wire of the motmot's two central tail feathers are weakly attached and shed soon after development. The cause of the weak attachment of these barbs is unclear. I induced feather growth by plucking the central tail feathers from seven turquoise-browed motmots Eumomota superciliosa and then collected the regrown feathers before the barbs along the wire had fully shed. I compared the barb-rachis junction (petiole of the ramus) along the distal flag (the racket-tip of the tail) where barbs are not shed, to the barb-rachis junction along the wire where barbs would later be shed. In these two regions, I examined the size and structure of the attachment of the barb to the rachis with a scanning electron microscope (SEM). I also used a light microscope to score the grayness of the proximal rami of these two regions to estimate the amount of melanized keratin. SEM imaging showed that the barbs are attached to the rachis with a larger supporting flange along the distal flag compared to along the wire. Images from a light microscope showed that the rami along the distal flag were black, whereas rami along the wire were translucent or gray. The lower gray-scale color score of the rami along the wire is likely due to reduced melanized keratin. These data suggest that that the barbs along the wire are weakly attached due to a combination of a reduced structural attachment and a lack of structurally enhancing melanin.
10.2307/3677108|Lesser Sheathbills Chionis minor are sedentary and territorial birds which establish their territories and feed in seabird colonies on subantarctic islands. In the Kerguelen Archipelago only, they also live on territories away from seabirds. In this context of contrasting habitats, we examined the determinants and the consequences of territory changes between years. When changing site, Kerguelen sheathbills tended to settle on sites of higher quality; they also chose territories adjacent to their former ones. Moreover, individuals which changed from seabird-free territories moved closer to territories with seabirds, which were the ones of highest quality. Territory switching was not related to poor breeding success the year before changing, compared to individuals which retained their territory. Yet, the sheathbills which changed to an adjacent territory (i) retained their partner more often than those which moved to a more distant site, and (ii) tended to spend less time foraging than the latter during the breeding period following the change. Moreover, adults fledged at least as many chicks as before switching, being more successful if the new territory harboured a seabird colony. The adults which changed from seabird-free sites also enhanced their reproductive outputs on their new territory. Therefore, Lesser Sheathbills changed territory to obtain territories with seabirds, using adjacent territories as "stepping stones" to the latter, which were the most suitable for breeding. Knowledge of food resources on adjacent territories would enable the birds which shifted to these sites to have higher breeding success than those which moved to more distant ones. Moreover, changes towards an adjacent territory might represent a trade-off between improving current breeding status and minimizing the risk of finding oneself without a territory.
25161531|Molecular paternity tests show that extra-pair fertilizations are common in many socially monogamous bird species. However, the question of why females often seek extra-pair copulations is still controversial. Competing alternative explanations differ in their predictions on how extra-pair young should be distributed within and among broods. Analysing these distributions may therefore help to resolve this controversy. In several species broods without extra-pair young and those with total or nearly total extra-pair paternity have been claimed to be over-represented. Consequently, extra-pair nestlings would be distributed non-randomly among nests. To compute expected frequencies (i.e. the patterns of random distribution) the Poisson distribution has frequently been used. However, the Poisson distribution is not appropriate for two reasons. (1) Impossible configurations can receive positive probabilities. (2) The Poisson distribution approaches randomness only if extra-pair fertilizations are events of low probability, which often is not the case. We show how randomness can be computed appropriately by using the multivariate hypergeometric distribution. Re-analysing published data on distributions of extra-pair young, we show that the result that there are more broods containing either none or many extra-pair young than expected by chance is even more pronounced than previously thought.
30244484|Incubation was for a long time considered to be a period of decreased activity and low cost for parents. It was therefore ignored as a potential factor affecting life-history trade-offs in birds. Lately this view has started to change, and studies now show that there might be considerable costs connected to incubation. We experimentally reduced the nest temperature during incubation in blue tits Cyanistes caeruleus, thus increasing the energetic cost of incubation, to test the importance of incubation as a component of reproductive costs and for nestling quality. While most other studies use brood size manipulation to manipulate reproductive costs, we were able to separate treatment effects acting during the incubation period from those acting on later reproductive performance by applying a cross-foster design. We were also able to isolate the effects of decreased incubation temperature on the nestlings from treatment effects acting on incubating females. We found no experimental effect on the length of the incubation period or on hatching success. The lower temperature during incubation, however, caused lower growth rates in nestlings and reduced chick rearing capacity in adults. We conclude that incubation is a costly period, with the potential to affect both the trade-off between current and future reproduction and the one between parental effort and offspring quality within the current breeding attempt.
30244420|Birds such as great skuas Catharacta skua adapted for successful breeding at high latitudes may experience problems of heat dissipation in mild climates. Great skuas spend time bathing at freshwater sites close to breeding territories and here, we examine impacts of heat stress on bathing, foraging and nest attendance of adults during three breeding seasons with marked variation in the availability of prey (1-group sandeels Ammodytes marinus). Adults exhibited diurnal variation in bathing activity that matched heat-stress conditions. Moreover more birds bathed on days of higher average heat stress, suggesting that bathing plays a role in thermoregulation. Bathing numbers were lower in years of poor food availability, when adult attendance at territories was low, probably because lower attendance reduced the opportunity for parents to bathe without leaving chicks unattended. Chicks are normally guarded by female parents and fed by males but under conditions of low food availability territorial attendance of breeding pairs was particularly low on days of high heat stress, with chicks regularly left unattended at air temperatures exceeding 14C. Unattended chicks are at risk of being killed by neighbouring conspecifics and survival of chicks to fledging was low in the two years of low sandeel stocks. Our study indicates that for great skuas, indirect effects of climate change on prey stocks and direct effects on heat stress experienced by adults may be additive.
25662896|Carotenoid-based colors have signaling roles in a range of animal taxa, yet little is known about how carotenoids vary across species or whether overall patterns may vary across genera. The caciques (Cacicus, Clypicterus and Ocyalus; family Icteridae), a group of passerine birds from Central and South America, appear to visually divide into discrete yellow and red color groups. Reflectance spectrometry supported this observation, showing widely separated short and long-wavelength groups corresponding with yellow and red-feathered taxa. Ancestral state reconstructions inferred a yellow ancestral state with two independent changes to red, and no reversals back to yellow. This pattern contrasts with that of another closely related icterid clade, the New World orioles (Icterus), which exhibit a full range of carotenoid colors and have a pattern of evolution that is continuous and extremely labile. To our knowledge, this study is the first to highlight the possibility of different modes of color evolution even among closely related clades. This study also emphasizes the importance of the methods and assumptions of ancestral state reconstruction. In particular, although coloration and other characters can be measured along a continuous scale, they should be reconstructed using discrete methods when data from extant taxa and underlying mechanisms suggest discrete changes.
3677796|We investigated whether exposure to heavy metal pollution affected the immune function of individuals in a free living population of a small insectivorous passerine bird, the pied flycatcher Ficedula hypoleuca. We measured humoral immune responses in two study areas: a polluted area in the vicinity of a copper smelter and a control area far from the smelter. Plasma corticosterone level and blood heterophil/lymphocyte ratio (H/L) were used as more general physiological measures of stress. The immune response of F. hypoleuca was not suppressed by pollution stress. In contrast, we found that F. hypoleuca males showed stronger humoral immune responses to a novel antigen (tetanus toxoid) in the polluted environment than in the unpolluted one. After the immunization of males, numbers of lymphocytes rose significantly more in the polluted area, leading to a smaller H/L ratio than in males from the control area. Females showed no pollution related effects on their immune responses. Corticosterone levels of males and nestlings were not related to pollution levels. Nestlings showed somewhat higher H/L ratios and lower fledging success in the polluted area, both factors indicating increased stress levels in a polluted area. Our results suggest that humoral immune response of male F. hypoleuca may be enhanced under moderate levels of heavy metal pollution. Enhanced immune function may, however, also be costly for birds and the higher humoral immune responses in polluted areas may thus have negative effects on the birds' breeding performance and survival.
10.2307/3676950|We used counts of droppings left by Semipalmated Sandpipers during the day and at night to index their foraging on their major prey item, the small intertidal amphipod, Corophium volutator (Crustacea: Amphipoda). Densities of droppings were not significantly different between day and night after correcting for distance from shore. Densities of droppings also were unrelated to prey densities at sites. Counts of droppings may serve as a useful alternative to peck rate and bird counts when examining nocturnal foraging by sandpipers and other shorebirds. These results suggest that nocturnal foraging is important in meeting the energetic demands of migrating sandpipers.
30244450|Estimates of reproductive success are essential to understand life-history strategies, yet tropical species remain understudied relative to their temperate counterparts. Here, we report nest survival probabilities for two manakin species (Pipridae). We monitored 61 wire-tailed manakin Pipra filicauda and 45 blue-crowned manakin Lepidothrix coronata nests during three breeding seasons. Both species suffered high nest failure (84%). We modeled the effects of year, nest height, nest age (for P. filicauda only), as well as nest manipulation on daily survival rates (DSR) using program MARK. DSR decreased with nest age in P. filicauda whereas a constant survival model was best fitted for L. coronata. Average DSR was 89% for P. filicauda and 85% for L. coronata. This study reports some of the lowest nest survival rates among tropical passerines and poses important questions about population maintenance.
10.2307/3676963|The phylogenetic relationships of titmice and chickadees (Passeriformes: Paridae) were estimated by DNA-DNA hybridization. Fifteen species of parids (representing all six subgenera) and two outgroups, Penduline Tit Remiz pendulinus and White-breasted Nuthatch Sitta carolinensis, were radiolabeled and compared pairwise to produce a complete reciprocal set of distance measures. The resulting phylogeny supported the traditional allocation of species to subgenera, except that Parus wollweberi clustered with the North American crested tits (subgenus Baeolophus) rather than the Old World crested tits (Lophophanes). The interrelationships of most subgenera remained unresolved. Nevertheless, a major subdivision in the family was strongly indicated: i.e., the great tits (subgenus Parus) and the blue tits (subgenus Cyanistes) formed a clade that is the sister taxon of the rest of the family. This bifurcation has important ecological, physiological, and morphological ramifications, as it correlates exactly with seed-caching and flocking habits, hippocampal development, and leg-muscle character distributions. These DNA-hybridization results corroborate or complement the phylogenetic relationships among parids supported by other molecular data sets (viz., allozyme, restriction site, and preliminary DNA hybridization analyses).
3677471|We investigated whether variation in structural plumage coloration in satin bower-birds, Ptilonorhynchus violaceus, could reveal the intensity of infection from parasites, as predicted from models of parasite-mediated sexual selection (PMSS). To do this, we captured adult male, female, and juvenile male satin bowerbirds in Queensland, Australia, and objectively measured individual plumage reflectance from four body regions using a spectrometer. We quantified both ectoparasite load and the intensity of infection from blood parasites. In iridescent blue adult males, plumage reflectance is unimodal, with a single peak in the ultraviolet, while in greenish females and juveniles, plumage reflectance is bimodal, with peaks in both the ultraviolet and green portions of the spectrum. In adult males, the intensity of infection from blood parasites was best predicted by plumage brightness (total reflectance), with brighter males having fewer parasites. Similarly, juvenile males exhibiting greater UV chroma (proportion of reflectance in the UV) had fewer blood parasites. Our findings support a key prediction of PMSS models and provide the first evidence that a structural colour ornament can signal the intensity of infection from blood parasites.
3677474|Reproductive tactics of ringed plovers Charadrius hiaticula were studied at three localities in SW Sweden during five seasons. The usual clutch size is four, but removal experiments showed that females can produce five eggs in succession, with similar intervals between all eggs. High predation made mean breeding success per clutch low, 6.3% of eggs resulting in fledged young. Replacement clutches were common, and many pairs laid again after rearing their first brood to fledging. Egg laying spanned three months, much longer than for other waders in this region. Between years, reproductive success varied unpredictably with time of the season, but averaged over several years, the expected success was low and similar for the different parts of the breeding season. Chicks from late clutches had similar survival and recruitment as others. Because of the long breeding season and high rate of nest failure a female may produce up to five clutches of four eggs per season, containing in total about 3.7 times her own mass. Yearly local survival of adult females and males was estimated to 84.6 and 88.6%, respectively. Ability to produce many clutches with similar expected success throughout the season favours a long reproductive period, sometimes leading to double-brooding. Possible life-history trade-offs are discussed.
10.2307/3677163|The changes in global climate, vegetation zones and sea level must have resulted in changes in the routes taken by migratory species. I consider whether populations are likely to be able to adapt to the accelerating change resulting from modification of the global environment. I summarise 43 cases in which birds have changed their migration routes in historical times. I also summarise 14 cases in which routes seem sub optimal, for example, species have spread from one continent to another but have persisted in using the migration route normally associated with the previous continent. Whether a particular migratory species can respond to global environmental change is likely to depend upon the details of the genetic or cultural system and this may be difficult to predict.
3677543|I studied cavity-nesting birds in an undisturbed site in lowland Peru to determine the relative roles of competition and predation in favoring termitarium nesting over tree cavity nesting. Occupancy rates of both nest boxes and natural tree cavities near 2% suggest that competition for tree cavities is not favoring the use of termitaria. Artificial nests and bird nests in termitaria suffer significantly lower predation rates than similar nests in old tree cavities showing that predation is favoring the use of termitaria over old tree cavities. Bird nests in newly excavated tree cavities also show lower predation rates than older cavities suggesting that cavity age is more important than substrate (tree or termitaria) per se. This study suggests that nest predation has a greater influence than nest competition on life history evolution for many cavity-nesting birds.
3676928|We present data on digestive efficiencies and gut retention times of eight North Atlantic seabird species, fed on two fish species - lesser sandeel Ammodytes marinus and whiting Merlangius merlangus - which commonly occur in the diet of wild seabirds. In an interspecific comparison, there was a positive relationship between retention time and digestive efficiency, which we suggest represents a trade-off between conflicting benefits of efficient digestion and rapid digestion. Analysis of excretion curves revealed that retention time of digesta in the stomach was more important than passage time of digesta through the intestine in determining whole gut retention time. Differences in stomach retention time of lesser sandeel and whiting explained the longer overall retention time of the latter diet. Stomach retention time and whole gut retention time were greater in species with relatively large stomachs, while intestine passage time was correlated with relative intestine length. Species which typically eat a wide range of food types, including low quality items, tended to have slow and efficient digestion and heavy stomachs, whereas species which specialise on readily digestible and energy dense food types had the opposite digestion strategy.
30244422|Within-season variation in life-history parameters is characteristic of long-lived seabirds breeding in dynamic marine environments. Zooplanktivorous Cassin's auklets Ptychoramphus aleuticus breeding in central California feed primarily on euphausiid crustaceans, and switch from provisioning their offspring with Euphausia pacifica early in the nestling period to Thysanoessa spinifera later in the nestling period. I examined the effects of seasonal variation in nestling diet composition and meal mass, and timing of breeding and breeding attempt number (only/first or second breeding attempt) on the growth rate of individual nestlings on Southeast Farallon Island, California. For individual years, there were variable seasonal trends in growth, but no trends were apparent when all years were combined. Along with the predicted seasonal shift in prey use, there was a concurrent decrease in meal mass. In multivariate models, there were significant and positive effects of the mass proportions of E. pacifica and T. spinifera in the diet, meal mass and breeding attempt number on nestling growth, while the effect of hatching date on growth was negative. The relative influence of T. spinifera on growth was stronger than that of E. pacifica, the effects of hatching date on growth were likely dependent on the effects of breeding attempt, and breeding attempt exerted the strongest effect on nestling growth of all parameters examined. These suggest that the seasonal switch in prey use is advantageous (whether intentional or otherwise). Results illustrate the importance of adequate availability of both E. pacifica and T. spinifera to auklets in the Gulf of the Farallones. This study represents a unique approach in the investigation of linkages between individual nestling growth rate and diet and breeding phenology parameters by focusing on a fine temporal scale.
10.2307/3677340|We combined radiotelemetry techniques with an automatic nest balance system to obtain detailed, concurrent data on foraging activity, prey consumption and foraging performance in four pairs of Shags Phalacrocorax aristotelis during chick rearing on the Isle of May, Scotland. During the study period the location of the main feeding area changed abruptly from c. 10 km away from the colony (long-range trips, LRT) with return flight times from the feeding area to the colony of 7-14 min to c. 0.8 km away (short-range trips (SRT), return flight times <3 min). The two feeding areas differed in water depth (LRT dives shallower) and probably also in the size of prey taken. There were significant differences between trip types in almost every aspect of feeding activity recorded. LRT were characterised by high diving efficiency (the proportion of the dive cycle spent foraging) and low feeding rates (mass of prey caught per second foraging). In contrast, diving efficiency was lower and feeding rates were higher for SRT. The gross intake rate (the product of diving efficiency and feeding rate) was significantly higher in SRT than LRT. We suggest that the observed switch in preferred feeding area was caused by the sudden appearance of large numbers of small lesser sandeels Ammodytes marinus in the waters just off the Isle of May. The higher feeding rates attained by birds on SRT could have been due to higher concentrations of prey and/or reduced foraging costs associated with unsuitable habitat for sandeels in this area. Results from this study suggest that the distribution of available resources influences the choice of foraging areas in Shags.
30243915|Sexual selection theory predicts that sexually selected ornaments are costly to maintain and, as condition-dependent signals, are likely to vary in attractiveness with season and age. Mute swans Cygnus olor possess a black, fleshy knob at the base of the bill, which is present in both sexes. Using measures calculated from digital photographs taken over two years we monitored changes in the size of the bill knob in individual swans throughout the breeding season. Our longitudinal data show that bill knob size is highly dynamic. Relative bill knob size was larger in males than females and was consistently greater for breeding males than for non-breeders. For males, relative bill knob size peaked during cygnet hatching, when male protection of the brood is most important, and was smallest during moult. In females, breeders had larger bill knobs than non-breeders at all times apart from immediately after egg-laying and incubation, when the reverse was true, presumably reflecting the costs of reproduction. Body mass was a highly significant predictor of relative bill knob size in both sexes, as was age, with an initial increase and then later a decline in relative ornament size across the lifetime of male birds. The bill knob ornament in mute swans thus appears to be a condition-dependent, highly malleable trait. It accurately reflects the differing pressures experienced by individual birds as they progress through the breeding season, suggesting selection by both intra- and inter-sexual forces.
10.2307/3677067|A miniature foot-attached water temperature logger for deployment on large seabirds is described. This unit was tested on 5 breeding Wandering Albatrosses and indicated flight or resting on water behaviours with a resolution to within a few seconds. Device-fitted birds were also equipped with satellite transmitters for determination of position. Combination of data on water temperature from the logger together with position from the transmitter enabled us to examine sea surface temperatures in the albatross foraging areas.
25662903|Environmental factors may strongly affect avian-biting fly interactions in different ways because insects are heterothermic organisms that depend greatly on environmental variables to activate their metabolism and behaviour. We studied the effects of weather on both blackfly (Simuliidae) and biting midge Culicoides (Ceratopogonidae) abundance in nests of three passerine species: blue tits Cyanistes caeruleus, great tits Parus major and pied flycatchers Ficedula hypoleuca, breeding in the same area. We controlled for different host-related factors (hatching date, brood size and host species). Blackfly abundance was negatively related to minimum temperature. In addition, blackfly and biting midge abundances were negatively affected by wind speed measured at 07.00 h, but blackfly abundance was positively associated to wind speed at 18.00 h. We found higher blackfly and biting midge abundances in nests with larger broods breeding later in the season, and significantly higher biting midge abundance in pied flycatcher nests as compared to tit nests. These results represent, to our knowledge, the first report of both environmental and host-related effects on haematophagous fly abundance in the nests of wild hole-nesting birds.
30244421|Many animals use hoarding as a long-term strategy to ensure a food supply at times of shortage. We suggest that long-term scatter hoarders, whose caches are vulnerable to potentially high pilferage, should hoard in ways to reduce cache loss. This could be achieved by manipulating the density and dispersal patterns of caches to reduce the foraging efficiency of pilferers. This study explores the effect of distribution patterns on cache loss in the laboratory. We recorded the discovery of food items in different dispersal patterns by two bird species: coal tits Periparus ater (a hoarder) and great tits Parus major (a non-hoarder). Hyper-dispersed distributions reduced foraging efficiency because both species used systematic local search patterns. This study shows that hyper-dispersed distributions would be advantageous to hoarding animals to reduce cache loss.
10.2307/3677030|In a population of Pied Flycatchers breeding in nestboxes in a montane pine forest in central Spain, we performed a clutch manipulation experiment by adding or removing one egg in certain nests, while keeping the original number in other nests to serve as controls. No significant effect of clutch manipulations was detected with respect to female mass/condition at the beginning of incubation and mass/condition changes. DEE (daily energy expenditure) of incubating females, measured with doubly-labelled water, was lower for reduced than for control and enlarged clutches. DEE showed a nonlinear increasing relationship with clutch size. For nine females laying clutches of 5 there was a significant positive effect of increased clutch size on DEE, the number of incubated eggs explaining 77% of the variation in DEE. For females laying 6 eggs there was no apparent trend in DEE with clutch size, suggesting that females laying large clutches do not increase DEE further when incubating enlarged clutches.
10.2307/3677007|We investigated the effects of the plumage changes associated with moult on the anti-predator take-off performance of European Starlings Sturnus vulgaris. By altering the plumage to simulate moult, we have isolated the biomechanical consequences of changes in wingform from the underlying physiological and metabolic changes that may occur during natural moult. Previous analyses of avian take-off performance have relied on descriptive observations of wingtip kinematics or dual measures of take-off speed and angle. We have developed a novel method using the energy gain per wingbeat as a measure of overall take-off performance. The advantages of this measure compared with previous approaches are that it summarises the potential trade-off between height gain and speed gain, and can be related directly to lift on the wings. Analysis of high speed (100 Hz) video tapes indicated that birds in simulated moult suffer a reduction in total energy produced during the second wingbeat of take-off, resulting in a slower take-off speed. This reduction in take-off performance is also associated with a marked change to the pattern of movement of the wingtip during flight; moult-manipulated birds appear to reverse the wingtip at the top of the downstroke although there is no associated change in wingbeat amplitude or duration. Birds appeared to be able to regain, in part, their flight performance within 6 days of the manipulations, as take-off speeds returned to pre-manipulation levels. This partial return to pre-manipulation flight performance was associated with an alteration in pattern of movement of the wingtip during take-off. The relevance of this adaptation to birds in natural moult is discussed. Any reduction in take-off performance is likely to influence directly individual behaviour and survival; hence the ability to quantify take-off in different species under a common currency is of general ecological importance and will enable predictions to be generated and tested concerning the effects of natural moult in wild birds.
10.2307/3677190|In response to disturbance young of altricial open-nesting birds may leave the nest several days before the usual age for nest leaving. In Meadow Pipits Anthus pratensis, about 60% of broods attacked in the last quarter of the nestling period survived predation attempts. The probability that some nestlings would escape from nest predators increased with nestling age. The growth rate and number of nestlings did not predict whether or not the brood would be attacked by a predator. However, the probability that the attack would result in destruction of the entire brood decreased with increasing growth rate. Other sources of mortality (e.g. starvation, scramble competition) also affected slowly growing broods. It is concluded that the selection for accelerated nestling growth and earlier functional maturity acts via elimination of poorly nourished broods.
3677498| Swim speed and depth utilization were recorded at a sampling rate of 1 Hz in 14 free-ranging Adlie penguins in Adlie Land, Antarctica during the austral summers of 1996/1997 and 1998/1999. The average swim speeds during the descent, bottom and ascent phases of dives were independent of the maximum depth, while the variability in swim speed decreased with increasing maximum depth, reflecting the physiological constraints of diving. Descent speed, which varied less with maximum depth than speeds measured during other parts of dives, was significantly different among birds. In addition to the speed analysis, a new category of dive profiles with a flat bottom phase and an extremely reduced swim speed is reported. The probable benthic nature of such dives is discussed. 
30244804|We explore the relationship between general eggshell colour (background and spots) and proportion of surface covered by spots on the eggs of blue tits Cyanistes caeruleus and several variables reflecting female health and condition. Females laying more spotted eggs showed a poorer body condition, higher cellular concentration of the stress protein HSP70 and marginally lower total immunoglobulin levels in blood. In addition, these females were paired with males with higher levels of HSP70 and lower concentrations of immunoglobulins. We interpret these results based on the properties of the eggshell pigment protoporphyrin, which is known as an inductor of oxidative stress in females. Although observational, this study presents, for the first time, clear evidence of eggshell spottiness and general colour as indicators of general condition and stress in avian populations.
10.2307/3677250|Zahavi (1995) refutes the logic of kin selection and reciprocity, and proposes an alternative signalling explanation for the evolution of altruism. This paper expands upon Zahavi's promising "altruism as a handicap" argument, in which "altruists" improve their future fitness as a result of honestly signalling their phenotypic quality to prospective mates or allies. It is suggested that cooperative systems may be especially likely to evolve signals using altruism as a handicap, because signalling costs could be recouped within the collaboration (e.g. mate choice based on courtship feeding also increases female reproductive output). However, the claim that the altruism inherent in helping-at-the-nest has evolved to enhance the "social prestige" of helpers within the group seems unlikely on the basis of current evidence. The utility of the concept of social prestige is also questionable, particularly when compared to related and overlapping ideas already in use, concerning dominance, reciprocity and affiliative behaviour. In order to generate a need for the alternative hypothesis, misleading arguments have been presented concerning the similarities between kin selection and group selection, and the evolutionary stability of cooperation and reciprocation. This confusion seems rather unnecessary, because altruism as a signal is compatible with these other well-established theories. Further work is now required in the form of mathematical game theory models to explore the evolutionary stability of altruism as a signal.
30243899|Predation, foraging and mating costs are critical factors shaping life histories. Among colonial seabirds, colony overflights may enhance foraging or mating success, or diminish the risk of predation and kleptoparasitism. The latter possibility is difficult to test because low predation or kleptoparasitism rates could be due either to low danger or to effective counter-tactics by prey. Tufted puffins Fratercula cirrhata breeding at a large colony in British Columbia, Canada, deliver several loads of fish each day to their nestlings and are targets for kleptoparasitism by glaucous-winged gulls Larus glaucescens. In the present study, we documented the ecological conditions under which overflights occurred in order to assess when overflights were made and to statistically isolate the effect of overflights on kleptoparasitism risk at this site. Load-carrying puffins engaged in overflights under ecological conditions associated with relatively high rates of kleptoparasitism. Further, when ecological factors determining risk were statistically controlled, overflights were correlated with marginally lower chances of kleptoparasitism than when the risk factors were ignored. The results suggest that breeding puffins at this site use overflights for kleptoparasite avoidance. This tactic is used sparingly, suggesting it is costly. Costs of overflight behaviour might contribute to the impact of kleptoparasitism on the breeding success of tufted puffins.
10.2307/3677018|The breeding biology of Western and Semipalmated Sandpipers was studied for four years near Nome, Alaska. Despite a short breeding season and a putatively invariant clutch size, there were seasonal declines in the fecundity of both sandpiper species. Most females produced only one clutch (> 98%), but often laid fewer than four eggs (7.6-34.5% of first nests). Clutches of 2-3 eggs were initiated significantly later (6-8 d) and contained smaller eggs (2.9-3.5%) than 4-egg clutches. Small clutches were not renesting attempts, and were not caused by disturbance during laying or partial clutch loss. This is one of the first reports of seasonal declines in egg number among birds considered to have an invariant clutch size. We evaluated four explanations for the seasonal declines in fecundity. The data did not support a clutch size-egg size tradeoff or the nutrient-reallocation hypothesis, but it was not possible to evaluate the cost-of-delay hypothesis. Variation in parent quality was the most likely explanation for the seasonal declines in fecundity. Females that were familiar with the study area bred significantly earlier in Western Sandpipers (4.5 d) but not Semipalmated Sandpipers (3.5 d, p = 0.07). Timing of clutch initiation was not related to female age in Western Sandpipers or to familiarity with a mate in either species. The two sandpiper species adjusted different components of fecundity. Western Sandpipers typically laid four eggs, and in three of four years there were significant seasonal reductions in egg size among 4-egg clutches. In contrast, Semipalmated Sandpipers laid significantly fewer eggs than Western Sandpipers, but females laying 4-egg clutches did not produce smaller eggs if they laid late in the breeding season. Semipalmated Sandpipers may reduce clutch size because their smaller eggs are close to a minimum threshold size necessary to produce viable precocial young in the arctic.
3677500|As ultraviolet wavelengths are used in normal avian colour perception, the maintenance of captive birds under artificial lighting (which is normally UV-deficient) may have welfare implications. European starling Sturnus vulgaris juveniles kept in UV-deficient light environments had significantly higher basal plasma corticosterone concentrations than those kept under full spectrum lighting, in the second of two experimental blocks. UV-deficient conditions also led to significant changes in behaviour indicative of escape (less perching and more hanging on the cage and pecking at it). However, the birds from the first block, where the interval between transfer to the experimental set-up from the wild was short (2 days), showed significantly higher basal and maximum plasma corticosterone concentrations than those in the second block and no additional effect of light environment on either corticosterone or behaviour. We hypothesise that this difference between blocks was due to the overriding initial stress of being in captivity swamping any treatment effects. Capture stress had declined in the second set of birds, which entered the experiment after 7-14 days in captivity. Stress effects of UV-deficient lighting appear small relative to the overall impact of captivity, but may nevertheless become apparent after the initial effects of capture subside.
10.2307/3677295| Studies of birds killed while migrating can provide data on flight energetics that are not subject to the drawbacks of laboratory studies. In a mass downing in Utah in December 1991, extremes of flight costs in fat, migrating Black-necked Grebes Podiceps nigricollis were estimated at 115 and
30244738|To cope with changes in the environment, organisms not only show behavioural but also phenotypic adjustments. This is well established for the digestive tract. Here we present a first case of birds adjusting their flight machinery in response to predation risk. In an indoor experiment, ruddy turnstones Arenaria interpres were subjected to an unpredictable daily appearance of either a raptor or a small gull (as a control). Ruddy turnstones experiencing threat induced by a flying raptor model, longer than after similar passage by the gull model, refrained from feeding after this disturbance. Pectoral muscle mass, but not lean mass, responded in a course of a few days to changes in the perceived threat of predation. Pectoral muscle mass increased after raptor scares. Taking the small increases in body mass into account, pectoral muscle mass was 3.6% higher than aerodynamically predicted for constant flight performance. This demonstrates that perceived risk factors may directly affect organ size.
10.2307/3677128| Diving ducks face the strongly cooling properties of aquatic environments. In experiments with Tufted Ducks Aythya fuligula feeding on zebra mussels Dreissena polymorpha in outdoor cages, we measured changes in food consumption and diving behaviour in relation to water temperature (3-22C). Water efflux and daily energy expenditure (DEE) were measured using doubly-labelled water. Tufted Ducks swallow mussels whole and crush the shells in the gizzard. Due to the low flesh content of mussels, daily mussel consumption was extremely high in winter (up to 3 times the duck body mass of 600 g). Water efflux was 6.5 to 13 times higher than allometrically predicted, with a maximum of
30244778|We analyzed data from two surveys of fall migrating shorebirds in central and eastern North America to estimate annual trends in means per survey and to determine whether trends indicate a change in population size or might have been caused by other factors. The analysis showed a broad decline in means per survey in Atlantic Canada and the northeastern United States (North Atlantic region). For example, 9 of 9 significant trends in this region were <1 (P = 0.004), and the mean, annual rate of change among 30 species was 0.9783, a decline of - 2.17% per year (P <0.001). Trends in the midwestern United States (Midwest region) showed no clear pattern. The mean among 29 species was 1.0090 (P = 0.35). Only 4 of the trends were significant. Several hypotheses were evaluated to identify causes of the declining means per survey in the North Atlantic region. The most likely hypothesis appears to be a decline in the breeding populations that supply migrants to the North Atlantic region, but a change in movements, for example passing through the region more quickly in recent years, cannot be excluded as an explanation. Further surveys of arctic breeding areas coupled with analysis of long-term survey data from western North America would be helpful in determining whether the declines found in this analysis are also occurring in other areas.
30244764|The shape and movement of the vocal tract are known to influence bird song. Current theory predicts that large bill and body size are correlated with low frequency song and slow trill rate. It is also widely accepted that song characteristics are important for mate choice by females. We investigated the relationship between bill morphology, song characteristics, and pairing success in Darwin's small tree finch Camarhynchus parvulus, on the Galapagos Islands. Contrary to predictions from a previous crossspecies study on Darwin's finches, we found that individuals with larger bill size produced songs with slow trill rate, high dominant frequency, and broad frequency bandwidth, indicating that song is a reliable signal of bill morphology. Vocal performance as indicated by the deviation from an upper performance limit was higher in paired than unpaired males. Pairing was not skewed in favour of a particular bill size, and both small and large billed males that sang high performance song had high pairing success. The reliable signalling function of song has implications for female choice and territorial defence, given that both females and conspecific competitors can assess the relative size of males' bills through song, while females may use vocal performance as a signal of male quality.
10.2307/3677362|Voles scent mark their territories with urine and faeces that are visible in ultraviolet (UV) light. Rough-legged Buzzards Buteo lagopus feed mainly on voles. We performed a field experiment in northern Finland to test whether buzzards are attracted to UV-visible vole scent marks. The buzzards hunted more often on plots with vole scent marks than on control plots. Our results indicate that Rough-legged Buzzards may be able to use vole scent marks as a cue when searching for profitable hunting and breeding areas.
10.2307/3677074|Detailed studies of edibility of birds suggest a negative correlation between visibility and edibility; in other words, bright birds may be aposematic (Cott 1947, Cott and Benson 1970). Cott used only females to assess visibility (judged not only from plumage but also behaviour and habitat). Here I reanalyse Cott's data, taking into account also plumage conspicuousness of males and females, variation between persons scoring conspicuousness, and statistical problems. For 30 South European passerine birds, irrespective of sex, visibility and plumage conspicuousness were negatively correlated with edibility, but I could not control for phylogenetic association in this smaller sample. For 87 non-passerine birds from southern Africa, irrespective of sex, visibility and plumage conspicuousness were negatively correlated with edibility, both across species and in a matched pairwise comparison of closely related species. For females of 105 passerines from southern Africa, visibility and plumage conspicuousness were negatively correlated with edibility across species; in a pairwise comparison, the trend was significant only for conspicuousness. However, for breeding males of these 105 species, plumage conspicuousness was not correlated with edibility in any analysis. Thus, the male plumage of passerines from southern Africa does not appear to signal distastefulness; it may be sexually selected, or perhaps signal other aspects of prey unprofitability. Further work is needed to establish whether the most important predators in the wild assess avian prey on the scale of edibility used by Cott.
10.2307/3677096|Foraging behaviour of Parus guilds in Denmark was studied at two study sites on the mainland and on two islands on which Crested Parus cristatus and Marsh Tits P. palustris were absent. In the absence of Crested Tits, island Coal Tits P. ater foraged among twigs and branches, which, on the mainland, were the domain of the Crested Tit. Comparing observations with and without Crested and Great Tits P. major present, I found significant differences in choice of foraging substrate and foraging height of Coal Tits. Generally, Coal Tits foraged higher in the presence of Great and Crested Tits. Consistently, there were no differences between mainland sites, nor between islands with respect to the foraging niches of the Coal Tit. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that interspecific competition has shaped the foraging niches of the Parus guild.
3677432|Birds often show some form of social segregation during winter, both at large geographical scales (a consequence of differential migration) and at the regional or local level, when comparing different habitats or micro-habitats. However, our understanding of the mechanisms underlying such patterns is still poor. These issues have been rarely investigated in migratory Old-World passerines, particularly with respect to differences between the sexes. In this study, we show that female European robins Erithacus rubecula (sexed by molecular techniques) greatly outnumber males in southern Iberia, which confirms that this species is a differential migrant with a strong latitudinal segregation of the sexes. Furthermore, sex, age and body size influence the habitat distribution of robins in winter. Subordinate birds (females, juveniles and small individuals) were generally more common in habitats with a greater shrub development, and comparatively scarce in woodlands with relatively little undergrowth. Birds wintering in woodlands were in better condition (assessed by breast-muscle scoring) than birds wintering in shrubland. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that proposes that social dominance, mediated by differences in size and experience, is important in determining the habitat segregation of sex and age classes. The alternative hypothesis (habitat specialization), although not specifically supported by our findings, cannot be ruled out on the basis of the available evidence.
3677591|How predators locate avian nests is poorly understood and has been subjected to little experimental inquiry. We examined which sensory stimuli were important in the nest-finding behavior of fish crows Corvus ossifragus, a common nest predator in the southeastern United States. Using an array of potted trees in a large enclosure, we presented artificial nests to captive crows and quantified responses to visual, auditory, and olfactory nest cues, and nest position. Partial ranks of nest-treatment preferences were analyzed using log-linear models. Nest visibility significantly increased the likelihood of predation by fish crows and increasing nest height was a marginally significant influence on nest vulnerability; no responses were apparent to auditory or olfactory stimuli. Our findings demonstrate that fish crows are visually-oriented nest predators that may preferentially prey on, or more readily encounter, above-ground nests. Moreover, the experimental design provides a new method for evaluating predator-prey interactions between nests and their predators. This study also illustrates how sensory capabilities of predators can interact with nest types to determine nest predation patterns.
10.2307/3677208|The effects of sexual size dimorphism of parents, diversity of delivered prey items, and laying date on reproductive success were studied in a Great Tit Parus major population near Cracow, Poland: Although males were significantly larger than females, sexual dimorphism among pairs did not correlate with the diversity of prey delivered to young, nor with the number and average body mass of 14 days old young. However, the diversity of delivered food declined during the breeding season, while the average body mass of the young increased. Furthermore, the average body mass of young was higher if parents fed them with prey of lower diversity. Partial correlation analyses showed that this increase in body mass was not only a seasonal effect but was also related to the diversity of delivered prey items. The present findings do not confirm the intersexual niche differentiation hypothesis, even though the possibility for niche extension existed in the investigated population. Possible explanations for the negative relationship between fledgling weight and prey diversity are discussed.
10.2307/3677075|In common with other species of Procellariiformes, Cory's Shearwaters accumulate prodigious amounts of adipose tissue during the nestling period, and attain peak weights considerably in excess of adult weight. We conducted two experiments to determine whether this pattern of development could be related to an absence of regulation of food supply to chicks. In the first experiment, chicks were switched between nests at 29 days of age, approximately three weeks prior to peak mass attainment. Serial correlations were then calculated between each chick's weight before switching and both its own weight during subsequent age intervals and the weight of the foster chick during subsequent age intervals. The results supported a parental-determination model of feeding, indicating that the behaviour of the chick had little or no influence on food supply rate. The second experiment, in which chicks were given a supplementary meal of c. 60 g of fresh sardine daily, indicated that parents reduced neither their rate of provisioning nor meal size in response to a reduction in the nutritional requirements of their chicks. Supplements resulted in a doubling of mass growth rate of chicks for the first eight days of supplementary feeding; this was followed by a period of much slower mass growth, but chicks given supplementary food remained significantly heavier than unmanipulated controls. During the latter period, adults at manipulated and unmanipulated nests visited their chicks at similar rates and with similar amounts of food. Slow mass growth of chicks at manipulated nests probably resulted from their refusing to accept food from their parents, and suggested that the rate at which parents supply food under natural conditions may be close to the maximum assimilatory capacity of the chick's digestive tract. The absence of any regulation of food supply in accordance with the behaviour or nutritional requirements of the chick may reflect a low correlation between the nutritional status of a chick at one feeding and its needs at the end of the parent's succeeding foraging trip. Alternatively, an absence of regulation may result from adults supplying their chicks with food at the maximum attainable rate, regardless of the chick's nutritional status.
3677444|Many birds have been shown to reduce their reproductive investment in response to infestation of nest sites by ectoparasites. Nest-dwelling parasite populations increase throughout the breeding season, and can reduce the condition and future survival of both breeding adults and their offspring. Thus, avian hosts should be capable of assessing early cues that predict future ectoparasitism risk, and should be able to facultatively adjust their primary reproductive investment in response to anticipated future costs of parasites. We tested this hypothesis in the tree swallow Tachycineta bicolor, a cavity nesting passerine, by presenting a visual cue of avian fleas on the outer surface of nest boxes. This treatment manipulated perceived ectoparasitism risk without exposing birds to parasites, thereby allowing us to examine facultative responses in the absence of early physiological effects of parasites on female reproductive investment. During one of the study years, birds preferentially occupied control boxes, however, across both years, birds nesting in treatment boxes produced significantly smaller clutches, resulting in smaller broods at hatching, relative to those in control boxes. This difference in clutch size could not be explained by differences in phenotypic quality of breeding birds, indicating that for cavity nesting birds such as tree swallows, the perception of future ectoparasitism risk may be sufficient to induce a facultative reduction in reproductive investment early in the breeding season, before nest-dwelling parasite populations have grown very large.
10.2307/3677321|Seasonal and daily body mass variation of flock-living Willow Tits Parus montanus was studied in northern Finland during two winters to find out whether or not social dominance affects the size of birds' internal energy reserves. The daily minimum mass increased during autumn, peaked in midwinter and decreased in spring. These changes, however, were small and not rank-dependent. Daily mass fluctuation was much greater than seasonal variation. On average the birds gained 0.82 g (7.1%) in mass during the day. At dawn dominants and subordinates did not have significantly different amounts of reserves either in winter or in spring. In both seasons dominants gained more mass during the day than subordinates. At dusk, dominants were heavier than subordinates in winter but not in spring. When the competitive advantage of dominance was removed by food supplementation, subordinates gained more mass and tended to be heavier in the evening than when only natural food was available. Additional food affected neither daily acquisition nor evening masses of dominants. In intrasexual comparisons, rank-related differences were found neither in fatness nor in seasonal or daily mass acquisition. Nevertheless, relying on the results of the feeding experiment we conclude that dominant, mainly male. Willow Tits take advantage of their priority in resource access and acquire more internal energy reserves than subordinates which are mainly females. Consequently, fasting tolerance may be rank-dependent causing differences in winter survival between dominance categories.
10.2307/3677239|A detailed investigation of the effects of weather conditions on the feeding behaviour of a pursuit diving seabird, the Common Guillemot Uria aalge, was carried out during the chick-rearing period at a colony in southeast Scotland in 1997. There was no evidence that the rate at which adults brought back fish for their chicks was related to weather conditions but the type of prey delivered was affected with birds bringing in smaller sandeels Ammodytes marinus in stormy weather. This resulted in a significant decrease in the mean energy value of a prey load and in the overall rate of energy intake of chicks. The attendance behaviour of adults also varied in response to the prevailing weather conditions. The proportion of sites with chicks which had both adults present was significantly lower in stormy conditions indicating that, although the frequency at which Common Guillemots provisioned their chicks was not affected, birds were spending longer away foraging. Furthermore, information on diving behaviour collected using radio telemetry suggested that birds were working harder when conditions were bad with the number of dives in a bout, and hence the amount of time spent underwater, increasing significantly and the interval between consecutive diving bouts decreasing significantly. Analysis of long-term data on chick provisioning and adult attendance for the study colony indicated that the observed reductions in the mean energy value of loads and the proportion of chicks attended by both adults in stormy weather, which were evident in the 1997 data, were also apparent across years. If the current climate change prediction of an increase in the frequency and/or intensity of storms at mid to high latitudes proves correct, such trends could have marked energetic consequences for Common Guillemots in terms of increased foraging costs of adults and reduced energy intake of chicks.
3677395|Boreal owls Aegolius funereus (referred to as Tengmalm's owls in Europe) breed in boreal forests throughout the Holarctic region and in high-elevation subalpine forests further south. They are currently classified as seven subspecies; six found throughout Eurasia, and one in North America. The geographic distribution of boreal owls in North America and Eurasia is similar, as are their patterns of dispersal and irruption. Because a recent genetic study of boreal owls in North America found very little genetic differentiation among widely disparate locations, we expected that boreal owls in Eurasia similarly would have very little genetic differentiation. Using seven microsatellite markers, we analyzed genetic samples from 275 boreal owls in North America, 36 in Norway, and five in eastern Russia. We found no detectable genetic differentiation between Norwegian and Russian owls, but notable differentiation between North American and Eurasian owls. Low intra-continental genetic differentiation likely results from high rates of long-distance dispersal among subpopulations of boreal owls. In light of these results, we recommend further genetic sampling of boreal owls throughout Eurasia in order to determine whether six separate subspecies here are warranted.
10.2307/3677248|Females of socially monogamous bird species frequently accept or solicit copulations with males other than their social mate. It has been proposed that in so doing females either gain direct benefits such as increased likelihood of fertilization in the event of their social mate being unable to provide sufficient sperm, or indirect (genetic) benefits for their offspring, e.g. 'good genes' from extra-pair partners of higher genetic quality than their own mate. Male ornaments such as elongated feathers and patches of coloured feathers are thought to act as visual cues to male quality. In this study we have used single-locus DNA profiling of two House Sparrow Passer domesticus populations to test the 'good genes' hypothesis prediction that males of low quality will be cuckolded most frequently. Both intra- and extra-pair mate choice is influenced by the size of the male's black bib which may be indicative of male quality. Contrary to the 'good genes' prediction, small-bibbed males were not cuckolded more frequently in either population. Furthermore, none of the measured breeding parameters or female characteristics correlated with the occurrence of cuckoldry.
3677610|Although incubation temperatures have been documented extensively in birds, few studies have followed fluctuations in temperatures throughout the length of the incubation period in natural nests. We recorded incubation temperatures of Nazca boobies Sula granti by replacing real booby eggs with a model egg containing an internal floating data logger for three-day intervals in 47 nests ("experimental group"). We also added the same logger eggs to 14 booby nests at the time of egg-laying, where they remained as the second egg in the clutches for the entire incubation period ("logger egg control group"). Finally, we measured surface temperatures of real eggs with an infrared sensor ("real egg control group"). In both control groups, the average temperature increased after laying, then stabilized for the remainder of the incubation period. The experimental group differed from the controls, because the cool logger egg could have been introduced at any point in the incubation cycle, not just at the beginning. Egg temperature in the experimental group had a parabolic relationship with day of incubation, because parents receiving a logger egg during the third quarter of incubation showed an exaggerated heating response during the subsequent two days. We infer from this that the parents are especially sensitive to egg temperature during this period, and it may thus represent a critical period of unknown nature for the embryo.
3677607| In broods of great egrets Ardea alba and other birds with siblicidal nestlings, the first-hatched brood members generally secure far more food than do their juniors. This feeding advantage could be caused by parental favoritism, or by seniors attacking and thereby dominating their juniors. We investigated these possibilities by comparing how fathers and mothers allocated food among their offspring when chicks were free to fight versus when they were physically separated by a Plexiglas barrier. When free to fight, dominant nestlings received significantly more food than did their subordinates. When nestlings were separated, mothers, but not fathers, delivered significantly more food per meal to the  (second-ranked) chick than to other nestlings. This is the first experimental evidence of differential feeding by parents in a species with aggressive nestlings. 
10.2307/3677020|In contrast to other organisms with internal fertilization, males of the majority of birds do not possess a copulatory organ. Causes of this loss of phallus are not well understood. Copulations in birds are very short, indicating selection for fast transfer of sperm. I propose here that the loss of phallus is mainly a by-product of selection for rapid copulations, and present two hypotheses to explain this loss: (1) Predation Avoidance. During copulation birds temporarily lose ability to fly, which strongly reduces their ability to escape predator attacks. Insemination with the phallus cannot be accomplished in a few seconds. Therefore, the reduction of phallus would result in acceleration of sperm transfer and shortening of the period of exposure to an elevated predation risk. (2) Copulation Efficiency. In most birds, the copulating male stands on the female's back in a very unstable position. A faster sperm transfer because of the loss of a phallus would result in fewer interrupted copulations due to loss of balance as well as in reduced risk of the female being injured if the male loses balance.
3677690|Offspring survival probability usually decreases with hatching order, especially in species with brood reduction. Brood reduction in combination with a sex difference in embryonic period (the time between laying and hatching of an egg) can potentially have a profound effect on sex allocation, with higher investment in chicks of the early hatching sex because they are more likely to survive to fledge. Two recent studies reported sex differences in the embryonic period, but compared embryonic period between, rather than within, clutches, which does not control for possible environmental effects on both clutch sex ratio and embryonic period. We compared the embryonic period of sons and daughters within clutches in jackdaws Corvus monedula and black-headed gulls Larus ridibundus, two species with frequent brood reduction, and found no sexual difference in embryonic period. This suggests that sex allocation is not affected by sex differences in embryonic period in these species, but more studies are required to verify whether this is a general pattern.
10.2307/3677014|We use a dynamic optimization model to assess the consequences of habitat loss at migratory stopover sites. We emphasize costs birds face during stopover (e.g. costs of gaining energy), the timing of site use and the behavioural rules birds might use to implement migratory strategies. Behavioural rules may be flexible enough that birds can still produce optimal behaviour in the changed environment, or the rules may result in suboptimal behaviour. If birds behave optimally in the altered environment, habitat loss on the wintering ground has the highest impact, because this site, unlike the intermediate stopover sites, cannot be skipped if the quality drops below a threshold. If birds continue to use the old behavioural rules that now result in suboptimal behaviour, we can distinguish two cases. Birds can continue to use a constant foraging behaviour that was optimal in the unaltered environment under many circumstances. Then the effects of habitat loss are proportional to the length of stay before habitat loss and the departure fuel load from a site. However, the effects of habitat loss do not depend on the location of the site within the network. In some circumstances birds are expected to forage with intensities that are below maximum. If birds use the foraging behaviour that is appropriate for a given fuel load, time and site but inappropriate for the altered fuel gain, then changes at sites close to the breeding ground have a greater impact than more distant sites. Finally we discuss the importance of sites that are not used before habitat loss. If birds behave optimally these sites may be used in an altered environment and can buffer against habitat loss at other sites.
30245214|The emberizid genera Aimophila and Pipilo represent longstanding taxonomic conundrums. Each is comprised of sub-clades whose members appear to share diagnostic morphological and behavioral characters; however, relationships among sub-clades within each of these genera remain unclear, and numerous authors have suggested that either one or both of these genera may be polyphyletic. We addressed this taxonomic problem by sequencing and analyzing complete mitochondrial cytochrome-b and NADH dehydrogenase subunit 2 genes for all members of Aimophila and Pipilo along with 33 species representing 17 additional emberizid genera. Our maximum likelihood and Bayesian analyses indicate that both Aimophila and Pipilo are polyphyletic. Aimophila is divided into a minimum of three distinct groups. The forms notosticta, ruficeps, and rufescens are part of a well-supported clade that includes all members of Melozone and some members of Pipilo. Aimophila quinquestriata is placed within Amphispiza, and the remaining members of Aimophila are placed within a clade that includes all members of Arremonops and some members of Ammodramus. Within Pipilo, the "rufous-sided" and "brown" towhee groups do not form sister groups. Rather, the former are most closely related to the tropical genus Atlapetes whereas the latter are placed nearest Melozone and some Aimophila. Our analyses reject traditional taxonomic arrangements for both genera, and we present suggestions for a revised taxonomy for all members of Aimophila and Pipilo. These results provide further evidence of discordance among phylogenetic hypotheses based on morphological and molecular characters for groups of birds with generally conserved morphology.
10.2307/3677077|Egg addition and egg removal experiments in Common Eiders Somateria mollissima were carried out during three breeding seasons to examine their effect on final clutch size. When the third egg and all subsequent eggs were removed during the laying cycle, females did not respond by laying more eggs. This result is consistent with the hypothesis that egg-production is limited by body reserves; however the experiment may have been carried out too late in the laying cycle to make further egg-laying possible. When three eggs were added to nests containing two eggs females produced fewer eggs than a normal clutch. This suggests that females respond to egg parasitism by reducing their own clutch size. A reduced host clutch size suggests that availability of body reserves is not the only control of clutch size in Eiders, but that costs to incubate and/or to care for chicks may increase with increasing clutch size.
30244806|Using multiple logistic regression analysis, we investigated the influence of nest site characteristics, laying date and nest size in marsh warblers Acrocephalus palustris on the risk of parasitism by common cuckoos Cuculus canorus. Marsh warblers breed in more diverse and dense herbaceous vegetation than other cuckoo hosts investigated in comparable studies. The "perch proximity" hypothesis was supported as parasitized nests were situated closer to trees than non-parasitized ones. Furthermore, demonstrated for the first time in a cuckoo host, tree height was an important predictor of parasitism, with higher trees increasing the parasitism odds ratio. The "nest exposure" hypothesis was also supported since parasitized nests had a shorter stand of vegetation in the close vicinity than non-parasitized nests. However, visibility of the nest from the nearest potential cuckoo perch (cuckoo view) was not selected by the model, probably because most nests were well concealed. Laying date, height of nest above ground and the distance from the nest to the nearest edge of the vegetation were not important predictors of parasitism. Though smaller nests tended to be parasitized more frequently than larger ones, nest size only approached significance, making its importance unclear.
30245322|Considering the importance of dietary constraints for the widely held view of carotenoid pigmentation as an honest quality indicator, there is surprisingly little data on carotenoid availability in different natural diets or along environmental gradients. Here we investigate the carotenoid availability in the main diet of breeding great tits Parus major, living in urban and rural environments with known differences in carotenoid pigmentation. Carotenoid availability for nestling great tits was investigated in two respects: (1) quantity and quality of diet (i.e., caterpillar abundance and their carotenoid concentration), and (2) parental feeding frequency. First, caterpillars were generally more abundant in the urban environment and the four common Lepidoptera (i.e., caterpillars) genera studied were also heavier here. Second, as determined by HPLC analysis of the caterpillar genera, carotenoid concentration was significantly lower in the urban caterpillars. Furthermore, all except one of the caterpillar genera had higher lutein/zeaxanthin ratio in urban areas, which is in accordance with earlier studies of carotenoid composition in great tit yolk. Third, parental feeding frequency was about twice as high to urban broods compared to rural broods. This result may simply reflect the higher caterpillar abundance (shorter search time) in the urban environment. Poor food quality (low carotenoid concentration) seems therefore to be compensated by quantity in the urban environment. As a consequence the carotenoid availability seems to be similar for nestlings in the two environments.
3676930|To investigate whether song variability or activity could be used as a cue to male quality in the Whitethroat Sylvia communis and whether the song influenced female choice, songs from 18 males were recorded and analysed, and their perch song and flight song activity were registered. Song repertoire was measured as Rep1000 (the average number of different elements within sequences of 1000 elements), Max1000 (the maximum number of different elements in a 1000 element sequence) and number of elements per repertoire. Old males had larger Rep1000, Max1000 and number of different elements per song than 1-yr-old males. 1-yr-old males had higher perch song and flight song activity than old males. A principal component factor analysis on the song variables showed that (1) males with a large principal component factor score on the first component (PCFS1) typically were old males and (2) the PCFS1 was positively related to male wing length. Rep1000 and Max1000 and a low perch and flight song activity contributed to a positive factor score. Males that mated had larger PCFS1 than males that remained unmated, and there was a significant negative correlation between mating date and PCFS1. The study suggests that song variability potentially could act as a cue to male quality. Females may prefer males with elaborate songs. However, arrival date could account for the mating pattern and it cannot be excluded that other factors, such as territory quality, also could have influenced the observed mating pattern.
3677661|The majority of studies examining the role of hormones in the proximate mechanisms of plumage coloration in birds have focused on intersexual differences (plumage dichromatism) and on structural- or melanin-based plumage coloration. The relationship between hormones and carotenoid-based plumage color, and in particular intrasexual plumage color variation, has received little attention. We manipulated testosterone levels of both captive and wild male House Finches to determine whether testosterone influences the expression of male plumage color in this species. We found that in captive male House Finches elevated testosterone delayed molt and resulted in drabber, less red plumage, even when birds were supplemented with dietary carotenoids. Elevated testosterone also resulted in drab plumage color in wild males, and appeared to delay molt in wild birds as well. Wild males implanted with testosterone showed wide variation in expression of plumage coloration. Those implanted early in the year molted plumage similar in color to their pre-treatment plumage, but those implanted later molted substantially duller plumage, possibly because delayed molt resulting from elevated testosterone caused these males to molt when carotenoid pigments were not available in sufficient amounts. These observations have the potential to explain previously reported relationships between plumage color and behavior in male House Finches, and highlight the importance of considering the proximate mechanisms of plumage coloration in avian sexual selection.
3677683|The concept of parasite-mediated sexual selection assumes that females may improve offspring fitness by selecting mates on the basis of sexual ornaments that honestly reveal the health state of a partner. Expression of such signals may be particularly sensitive to oxidative damage caused by excess production of oxidative metabolites and free radicals. To control and neutralise free radicals, animals rely heavily on dietary fat-soluble antioxidants such as vitamin E and A, and carotenoids. However, the organism's need for free radical scavenging may interfere with the opposite need to generate oxidative stress for fighting parasitic infections. We investigated plasma concentrations of carotenoids and vitamin A and E in brood-rearing great tits Parus major in relation to carotenoid-based plumage coloration, sex, habitat, leukocyte hemoconcentrations and infection status with Haemoproteus blood parasites. Rural great tits differed from urban ones and males from females with respect to the hue of the yellow ventral feathers. However, plasma antioxidant concentrations were not related to sex, habitat or plumage coloration. Plasma carotenoid concentration correlated positively with indices of immune system activation as measured by blood counts of lymphocytes and eosinophils. Birds with gametocytes of Haemoproteus in their blood had higher plasma concentrations of carotenoids and vitamin E than unparasitized individuals. These results are consistent with the idea that maintenance of high blood antioxidant levels might conflict with individual needs to rely on oxidative stress for fighting infections.
30244464|Many species in the avian order Galliformes have bare (or "fleshy") regions on their head, ranging from simple featherless regions to specialized structures such as combs or wattles. Sexual selection for these traits has been demonstrated in several species within the largest galliform family, the Phasianidae, though it has also been suggested that such traits are important in heat loss. These fleshy traits exhibit substantial variation in shape, color, location and use in displays, raising the question of whether these traits are homologous. To examine the evolution of fleshy traits, we estimated the phylogeny of galliforms using sequences from four nuclear loci and two mitochondrial regions. The resulting phylogeny suggests multiple gains and/or losses of fleshy traits. However, it also indicated that the ability to erect rapidly the fleshy traits is restricted to a single, well-supported lineage that includes species such as the wild turkey Meleagris gallopavo and ring-necked pheasant Phasianus colchicus. The most parsimonious interpretation of this result is a single evolution of the physiological mechanisms that underlie trait erection despite the variation in color, location, and structure of fleshy traits that suggest other aspects of the traits may not be homologous.
30244771|Several studies have demonstrated that snowy owls Nyctea scandiaca defend an area around their nests against predators, hereby inadvertently creating safe havens for breeding dark-bellied brent geese Branta b. bernicla. However, studies investigating brent goose breeding ecology within the predator-exclusion zones of the snowy owls are absent. In 1999 and 2005, years of high lemming abundance Lemmus sibiricus and Dicrostonyx torquatus, brent geese were primarily breeding in association with snowy owls in the Medusa river catchment on western Taimyr, Russia. Goose nest failure, either as a result of nest abandonment by the adult birds or of nest depredation, increased with increasing distance from the owl nests. Within the brent goose colonies, clutch size as well as egg size increased with decreasing distance from the snowy owl nest, indicating an increasing adult quality closer to owl nests. However, as a result of the abandonment of eggs and goslings, the increasing clutch size did not result in a higher nest success during this study. Apparently brent geese compete for breeding sites close to owl nests, but details of this process remain unknown.
3677433|The timing of arrival of 81 migratory species in response to the North Atlantic Oscillation (NAO) was studied at two Finnish bird observatories (1970-99). Timing was determined for the first migrants and for the peak of migration, as well as for the early, median and late phases of migration, defined as the dates when the seasonal cumulative sum of birds reached 5%, 50% and 95%, respectively. For most species, the timing of arrival correlated negatively with the NAO in all phases of migration: the correlation was significant for 79% of species studied. Thus, most species arrived in Finland early when the NAO was positive and indicative of mild and rainy winters in northern Europe. Although all phases of migration correlated negatively with the NAO, the correlations were more negative for the early than for the late phases of migration. Since the NAO did not show a significant trend during the study period, the correlations indicate that the timing of birds followed stochastic fluctuations in the NAO. This finding suggests that most Finnish migratory birds are able to adjust the timing of spring arrival in response to climatic change without time delay.
30245320|The reproductive success of colonially breeding species depends in part upon a trade-off between the benefit of a dilution effect against nestling predation within larger colonies and colony conspicuousness. However, there may be no net survivorship benefit of dilution if smaller colonies are sufficiently inconspicuous. This raises the question about how the size distribution of breeding colonies on a landscape might change as the predation danger for nestlings changes. In southwest British Columbia, Canada, bald eagle Haliaeetus leucocephalus populations have increased exponentially at 5% per year in recent decades and prey upon nestlings of colonial breeding great blue herons Ardea herodias faninni. Motivated by field data on reproductive success in relation to colony size, modeling is used to ask under which circumstances trading off a dilution benefit against colony conspicuousness can improve population reproductive success. That is, which colonial nesting distribution, dispersed and cryptic versus clumped and conspicuous, best mitigates predation danger on nestlings? When predators are territorial, the modeling predicts a dispersed nesting strategy as attack rate increases, but not as predator numbers increase. When predators are non-territorial, the modeling predicts a dispersed nesting strategy as predator numbers and/or attack rates increase. When predators are both territorial and non-territorial, colonial nesting within a predator's territory improves reproductive success when attack rates are low. This suggests nesting in association with territorial predators may offer decreased levels of predation when compared with nesting amongst non-territorial predators. Thus a change in the colony size distribution of colonially breeding species might be anticipated on a landscape experiencing a change in predation danger.
10.2307/3677131|Most Holarctic waders lay determinant clutches of four eggs, but the adaptive significance of this clutch size remains unresolved. The incubation-limitation hypothesis posits that waders cannot successfully incubate larger clutches, but this hypothesis has not received widespread acceptance. In this review, I show that clutch enlargement invariably leads to greater rates of nest predation, egg damage, and hatching failure, and that these three costs of incubation are sufficient to limit clutch size among most species of waders.
10.2307/3677308|The frequency distributions of 15 species of avian lice among individuals within host populations are described and 12 previously described distributions are reviewed. All of these distributions were aggregated, but some of them do not conform to the negative binomial model (4 at P < 0.05 out of the 25 examined). Distribution measures (prevalence, mean and variance of louse subpopulations, the exponent k of the negative binomial distribution, and the index of discrepancy) of lice of colonial birds are compared to those of territorial ones. Minimum sample size requirement is calculated for each case study. Louse subpopulation size and variance do not correlate with host social system, however, residuals from the log mean-log variance regression do. Lice of territorial hosts tend to form more variable subpopulations than those predicted by the regression curve, while those of colonial birds tend to form less variable subpopulations. Prevalence and k are higher, while the index of discrepancy is lower, for the distributions of lice of colonial hosts, indicating less aggregated louse distributions compared to those of territorial host species.
30244837|Colonial breeding occurs in a wide range of taxa, however the advantages promoting its evolution and maintenance remain poorly understood. In many avian species, breeding colonies vary by several orders of magnitude and one approach to investigating the evolution of coloniality has been to examine how potential costs and benefits vary with colony size. Several hypotheses predict that foraging efficiency may improve with colony size, through benefits associated with social foraging and information exchange. However, it is argued that competition for limited food resources will also increase with colony size, potentially reducing foraging success. Here we use a number of measures (brood feeding rates, chick condition and survival, and adult condition) to estimate foraging efficiency in the fairy martin Petrochelidon ariel, across a range of colony sizes in a single season (17 colonies, size range 28-139 pairs). Brood provisioning rates were collected from multiple colonies simultaneously using an electronic monitoring system, controlling for temporal variation in environmental conditions. Provisioning rate was correlated with nestling condition, though we found no clear relationship between provisioning rate and colony size for either male or female parents. However, chicks were generally in worse condition and broods more likely to fail or experience partial loss in larger colonies. Moreover, the average condition of adults declined with colony size. Overall, these findings suggest that foraging efficiency declines with colony size in fairy martins, supporting the increased competition hypothesis. However, other factors, such as an increased ectoparasitise load in large colonies or change in the composition of phenotypes with colony size may have also contributed to these patterns.
10.2307/3677166|Conventional models of bird flight combine metabolic, mechanical, and aerodynamic components to calculate the rate of fuel consumption and power required for flight, from which we may derive the optimal speeds flying animals should use in different situations. These models contain the implicit assumption that the metabolic and mechanical components of power output are constant and show no systematic variation with speed. This assumption underlies the optimum flight speeds, optimum climb protocol, maximum endurance and maximum flight range predicted by these models. Here we consider alternatives to the assumption that power is independent of speed and show that if the aerodynamic power output from a constant rate of fuel consumption varies with flight speed, then the optima derived from current models of animal flight need to be revised. In some cases (e.g. optimum flight speeds) the current models give answers that are only quantitatively wrong, but in some cases (e.g. optimal cruising altitude) current models give answers that are qualitatively wrong.
10.2307/3677335|The technique used by birds of prey to kill their quarry has rarely been described in detail. Although it is common to watch a raptor hunting, distance and natural obstacles normally prevent the observer from observing what actually happens to the prey after being grasped by the bird. Therefore, we studied the predatory sequence and killing technique displayed by a sample of ten wild Eurasian Kestrels temporarily held in captivity because of various injuries. They were offered individually either a laboratory mouse or young laboratory rat. Direct observation was complemented by necropsy of the prey confirming that bill strikes frequently observed after grasping the prey are not used to kill it but merely to damage its central nervous system thereby minimising escape attempts. Furthermore, talons are not used as weapons at all, but only as tools that elongate the toes to hold the quarry more firmly. In contrast, several signs indicating death by suffocation were regularly found and these were confirmed by inspection of rodents sacrificed by CO
10.2307/3677276|We investigate the way in which the opposing forces of starvation and predation combine to influence daily foraging routines in populations of small, wintering birds. To avoid starvation in an unpredictable foraging environment, feeding should take place early in the day to accrue maximal energy reserves. However, a bird attempting to minimize its risk of predation should delay building up its energy reserves until late in the day. We develop dynamic programming models indicating that the compromise between these opposing forces depends upon the nature of environmental stochasticity in food supply. Foraging may peak early in the day and then decrease steadily if (i) interruptions in foraging are not possible, and (ii) the energetic gain from foraging is relatively poor. With a higher energetic gain, or the possibility of interruptions in foraging, a general "bimodal" foraging routine emerges, with peaks of activity around dawn and dusk. The basic bimodal routine reflects an overt compromise between the avoidance of both predation and starvation, with some feeding taking place during both the early and late portions of the day. Such bimodal routines are observed in many small, wintering birds, but explanations for them have typically focused not on starvation-predation trade-offs, but on daily temporal patterns in food availability or temperature. Our models show not only that bimodal routines emerge in static environments, but also that they are robust to time-dependent environmental variation, and may persist, for instance, even if food is maximally available during the middle of the day. There are currently not enough systematic empirical studies of foraging routines to provide a thorough test of our predictions, but available evidence suggests general agreement between theory and observation.
10.2307/3677304|Small clutches in tropical species of passerine birds may be a response to nest predation. The Skutch hypothesis predicts that nest predation increases with activity at nests, and activity at nests is assumed to increase with clutch size. This suggests that predation should be greatest when activity is greatest, all else being equal. If true, then nest predation should be greatest when adult birds are feeding nestlings rather than incubating eggs. This hypothesis was examined with a neotropical understory passerine bird, the Western Slaty Antshrike Thamnophilus atrinucha. Nest predation was the only important cause of nest failure. Mayfield daily survival rates were compared during the incubation and nestling stages. Activity at nests was observed and compared during those two stages. Anecdotally, we also report results of an attempt to identify predators and whether they fit the Skutch hypothesis. Activity, measured as adult arrival and departure frequency at nests, is greatest during the nestling stage. Nest predation rates, however, are equal during both stages of nesting. Activity is not associated with predation, and Skutch's hypothesis is not supported. Snakes, the predator considered by Skutch to be most important, may not be. Of 12 species of snakes found on or near the study area, one species ate eggs, and several ate young birds. Yet predation on nestlings is not greater than on eggs. On the other hand, small marsupial mammals are common and, as suggested by captures and discoveries in nests, may be the important predators. They are nocturnal so diurnal bird activity should not influence predation. Small arboreal marsupials and rodents are common throughout the neotropics. The research presented here, and the preliminary data describing potential nest predators, do not support Skutch's idea that predators are attracted to activity at nests.
3677431|The description of within-population variation of a signal is an important first step when studying its communicative function. In chaffinches Fringilla coelebs all song types consist of two structurally different parts: the trill (a series of two to five phrases of repeated syllables) followed by a more complex end phrase, the so-called flourish (a shorter sequence of mostly non-repeated syllables). The relative durations of the two song parts have been reported to affect male and female responses in playback studies. While this suggests a communicative function of relative trill and flourish duration, within-population variation of these parameters has not yet been quantified. We recorded 3084 songs of 108 different song types from 79 individuals and measured the song, trill and flourish duration. This revealed substantial variation in duration of the two main song parts. An analysis of the variance components showed that trill duration was more variable within song types and between birds than flourish duration, but less variable between song types. Moreover, the more different phrases there were in the trill, the longer was its duration. There was more variation in trill duration within song types with relatively short flourishes. Possible communicative functions of the observed variation are discussed in the light of previous evidence from playback experiments.
3677371|Brood parasitism represents a unique mode of avian reproduction that requires a number of adaptations. For example, to reduce chances of puncture ejection of their eggs by small hosts, brood parasites may have been selected for laying eggs of unusually great structural strength. However, great structural strength of eggshells should hinder hatching. The goals of our study were to establish if chicks of the Common Cuckoo Cuculus canorus have more difficulty with hatching out of their strong eggs than chicks of species with eggs of similar size, and whether they possess any mechanisms facilitating hatching. To achieve these goals, we compared hatching pattern and selected body characteristics of chicks of the Common Cuckoo with those of another altricial species with eggs of a similar size, the Great Reed Warbler Acrocephalus arundinaceus. Although the rate of pecking was similar in the two species, the Common Cuckoo chicks started pecking earlier in relation to their emergence and consequently required more time and a greater cumulative number of pecks for breaking open their eggs than did young Great Reed Warblers. The two species also differed with respect to the pattern of opening their shells; in contrast to the warbler chicks, which enlarged the original pip circularly, the cuckoo chicks opened the egg by systematically creating a long narrow slit until they emerged. Finally, our study of hatched young revealed several differences; the Cuckoo hatchlings were significantly heavier, had a longer forearm, and their egg tooth was located significantly farther from the tip of the beak. The edge used for cutting through the shell was also significantly longer than that of hatchling Great Reed Warblers. To conclude, our data suggest that hatching is more difficult for a Cuckoo than for a Great Reed Warbler and that Cuckoos possess several mechanisms to overcome the problems of hatching from a structurally strong egg.
10.2307/3677330|In a 8-year study of the facultatively polygynous European Starling Sturnus vulgaris, apparent female mate desertion during the incubation/nestling period occurred in nine (7%) out of 132 breeding attempts. Desertion rates by primary (17%) and secondary (13%) females of polygynous males were significantly higher than those by monogamous females (0%). True female mate desertion (in the sense that the male assumed parental care) occurred in three primary broods only. In all three cases, the primary females had received no male help during the first part of the nestling stage because their mate was attracting or courting an additional female at that time, and they deserted when the nestlings were about 16 days old (about five days before fledging). This is the first report of mate desertion at the end of the nestling cycle by primary females in any polygynous bird species. Mate desertion may be a strategy used by some primary females to force their mate to increase his overall investment in their brood. Female mate desertion in the Starling seems to be linked to the occurrence of polygyny and may be typical for populations where males trade mate attraction against feeding nestlings.
3677529|Intra-specific brood parasitism is widespread among birds. When genetic evidence is not available, criteria like super-normal clutch size, high within-clutch variance in egg morphology, and shorter than normal laying intervals have been used to identify parasitized broods. Here we report genetically determined parentage of a clutch of super-normal size in a species with fixed clutch size, the northern lapwing Vanellus vanellus. Results from multi-locus DNA fingerprinting revealed no loss of parentage in this brood. Furthermore, no loss of parentage was found in another clutch with a high variance in egg size and colouration. These findings add to previous evidence that reliable classification of brood parasitism requires molecular analysis.
3677462|As seabirds are central place foragers during breeding, their provisioning behaviour and their ability to face variable energy demand from the chicks is expected to vary with environmental conditions. The provisioning behaviour of female rockhopper penguins Eudyptes chrysocome filholi was recorded over the chick-rearing period at Kerguelen (KER) and Crozet (CRO) archipelagoes (two very distinct marine environments), using time-depth recorders, or VHF transmitters coupled with an automatic recording station. No influences of the method have been found on the average foraging trip durations. Some previously undescribed short and multiple trips within a day were recorded using the automatic recording system. These multiple trips (6.8 h) were mostly performed with <5 days old chicks, a period during which feeding rates were the highest (1.1 meals per day), at both sites. During the brooding period, both KER and CRO females mainly performed daily trips of increasing duration (2 h longer at CRO) and at decreasing frequency. During the crche compared to the brooding period, females from KER performed slightly fewer daily trips (0.6 per day) and more (<3 days) overnight trips, while females from CRO performed very few daily trips (0.1 per day) and more overnight trips, some of them being long trips lasting 5 to 29 days, mostly initiated during the transition between the brooding and the crche periods. The result fit the hypothesis that long trips permit females to restore and/or maintain their body condition at more distant foraging places. It seemed that chick development during the brooding period and environmental factors during the crche period conditioned trip duration of females. Due to more long trips at CRO, the female feeding frequency was twice as high at KER than at CRO during the crche period, while males participated in the feeding duties. Based on differences in female behaviour, we hypothesize that the male's contribution is likely to differ strongly from one site to another, and may buffer the possible decrease in female feeding frequency by feeding the chicks if food is less abundant.
3677680|Reproductive success declines over the course of the breeding season in many bird species. Two categories of hypothesis have been evoked to explain this decline. The "timing" hypothesis suggests that seasonal declines in breeding success are attributable to the date of laying. The "parental quality" hypothesis suggests that seasonal declines result from the fact that young, inexperienced, or low quality birds breed later in the season. To evaluate the relative importance of timing and parental quality, egg exchanges and removals were used to manipulate hatching dates of common terns Sterna hirundo. Indices of quality, attendance, provisioning rates, and reproductive success of birds in three experimental groups (delayed hatch pairs, advanced hatch pairs, and pairs induced to relay) were compared to those of date-matched controls. Pairs that hatched chicks early raised more chicks than pairs hatching chicks late in the season, regardless of initial laying date. This suggests that hatching chicks early is advantageous in itself. Our results, however, also support the parental quality hypothesis. There was a significant negative relationship between natural laying date and fledging success, independent of hatching date. Differences in chick growth and survival suggest that higher quality adults may be able to compensate for the disadvantages of late hatching dates and achieve similar reproductive success to that of pairs hatching chicks early. We found that pairs hatching chicks late in the season were subject to more incidents of kleptoparasitism than those hatching chicks early. This may be a proximate factor contributing to seasonal declines in reproductive success for common terns, although such a mechanism would not be likely in non-colonial species. Failure to control for egg quality may have biased the results of some prior egg exchange experiments. Additionally, altered cost of incubation may be an unavoidable confounding factor in studies designed to manipulate timing of breeding.
30243887|We present the application of a real-time quantitative PCR assay, previously developed to measure relative telomere length in humans and mice, to two bird species, the zebra finch Taeniopygia guttata and the Alpine swift Apus melba. This technique is based on the PCR amplification of telomeric (TTAGGG)n sequences using specific oligonucleotide primers. Relative telomere length is expressed as the ratio (T/S) of telomere repeat copy number (T) to control single gene copy number (S). This method is particularly useful for comparisons of individuals within species, or where the same individuals are followed longitudinally. We used glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH) as a single control gene. In both species, we validated our PCR measurements of relative telomere length against absolute measurements of telomere length determined by the conventional method of quantifying telomere terminal restriction fragment (TRF) lengths using both the traditional Southern blot analysis (Alpine swifts) and in gel hybridization (zebra finches). As found in humans and mice, telomere lengths in the same sample measured by TRF and PCR were well correlated in both the Alpine swift and the zebra finch.. Hence, this PCR assay for measurement of bird telomeres, which is fast and requires only small amounts of genomic DNA, should open new avenues in the study of environmental factors influencing variation in telomere length, and how this variation translates into variation in cellular and whole organism senescence.
30243873|Traditionally it was thought that the arms race between brood parasites and their hosts was confined to the egg stage of the breeding cycle because many host species are able to reject mimetic parasitic eggs but they are unable to reject strongly different parasitic chicks. However, recently, new cases of chick rejection, discrimination, or mimicry, have been published confirming the possibility that an equivalent arms race to that found at the egg stage could ever be played out at the chick stage. Here, I review the evidence for the existence of a co-evolutionary arms race at the nestling stage. Recent findings include new deceiving strategies used by brood parasitic chicks, defensive strategies used by foster parents and adaptive strategies of host nestlings. This review shows that both chick discrimination and relationships between brood parasites and their hosts at the nestling stage are much more complicated than previously believed. At least in some brood parasite-host systems, an arms race at the nestling stage is working.
3677797|The division of labour in parental care between the two sexes varies between and within species. In birds, parents have been shown to invest more into egg production and nestling care when paired with an attractive rather than an unattractive mate, as predicted by the differential allocation hypothesis. Here we investigate variation in the female's and male's share of incubation behaviour, a vital, and costly, period of parental care during which the embryo is vulnerable to perturbations in developmental conditions. We manipulated the attractiveness of male zebra finches Taeniopygia guttata, using red or green leg-rings. To simulate their natural social environment we allowed them to breed in outdoor aviaries. All males within an aviary were given the same coloured ring to avoid ring-colour related assortative mating. Males within a colony, however, were still expected to show some variation in attractiveness with the earliest laying females possibly pairing with the most attractive males. Indeed we found that both factors played a role in explaining female incubation effort. Among females mated to red ringed males, earlier laying females contributed significantly more to incubation than late laying females, but no such pattern was found in females mated to green ringed males. Overall, there were no differences in the level of incubation provided by both parents between treatment groups, suggesting some compensation within the pair. Hatching success was correlated with a pair's total incubation effort. These results suggest that variation in the division of parental care between the sexes is in agreement with both increased effort of females mated with attractive males, and females compensating for the reduced effort of attractive males seeking further mating opportunities. These two factors can act at the same time in natural populations and both should be considered when explaining variation in division of labour between the sexes.
3677556|Large nests may incur fitness cost in terms of conspicuousness to predators, but the effect of nest size on predation risk can be confounded by effects of nest site and parental characteristics. I examined relative effects of nest size and placement by experimentally exchanging subsets of inactive nests baited with artificial clutches, among three open-cup nesting passerine species characterized by different nest size, placement and predation rate. The prediction that increasing nest size (original nest replaced by nest of the larger species) would increase predation, while decreasing nest size (replacement by nest of the smaller species) would decrease predation, relative to control (replacement by conspecific nest) was not supported in any species. The prediction that predation should be higher for large nests compared to small ones, even after exchanging nests among species-specific sites, was not supported. Predation rate differed among species (combined site/nest effect) before manipulation, whereas only the effect of nest site was significant after manipulation. This means that predation differed between species-specific nest sites, irrespective of the nest placed at these sites, but not between large (thrush) and small (warbler) nests, irrespective of their placement. Results do not suggest that nest predation selects directionally for smaller nest size. This conclusion could be specific to the study system characterized by high nest densities and high predation rate.
3677560| Field metabolic rates (FMR) and activity patterns of black-browed albatrosses Thalassarche melanophrys were measured while at sea and on nest during the incubation stage at Kerguelen Island, southwestern Indian Ocean. Activity-specific metabolic rates of five albatrosses at sea
30245207|Variation in early nutrition is often a strong predictor of offspring condition and fitness. In the case of woodland passerine birds, nestling diet is determined by the spatiotemporal distribution of prey items such as caterpillars during the nestling period, and is usually quantified as differences in provisioning behaviour between habitats. However, the habitat level does not account for variation between individual territories, the level at which competition and selection are assumed to operate. Here we use nestbox cameras and Radio Frequency Identification technology (RFID) to simultaneously assess variation in both nestling diet (components) and provisioning rates (quantity) among a sample (n = 22) of different quality great tit Parus major territories selected from a larger breeding population (n = 310 fledged broods) in a single year. Caterpillars were by far the most numerous item provisioned to nestlings (mean =75% of prey items), as expected given the known importance of this food source for this species. Broods raised close to an oak tree, or far from the woodland edge, were provisioned the highest proportion of caterpillars. Provisioning rates declined seasonally and there was a weak association between low provisioning rates and caterpillar rich diets. During the first week of the nestling stage, nestling condition was unrelated to the proportion of caterpillars in the diet, provisioning rates and oak proximity. Condition at fledging was slightly improved in broods fed a higher proportion of caterpillars in the diet and in broods raised close to an oak tree. However, in our data early breeding was the only predictor of recruitment success, although power was low for this test. Analyses of long-term data (41 years) from the same population confirmed a relationship between oak proximity and fledgling mass, but not recruitment success. Our results suggest that territory level environmental variation can affect offspring condition, probably through observed changes in nestling diet, but that such variation does not necessarily produce discernable effects on offspring fitness.
30244427|In many species, females prefer older males as social and genetic mates, and male secondary sexual traits often act as age indictor mechanisms. It has been reported that almost all the extra-pair paternity in one population and recently in another population of house sparrows Passer domesticus, was achieved by males more than one year old. We aimed to determine whether there is a morphological trait that distinguishes yearlings from older males in house sparrows. Here, we report that such a trait-the extent of black around a male's eye, which we term the 'mask' or 'mask of seniority', is a reasonable indicator of male age, being adequate to assign yearlings and older males correctly 81% of the time. It is well known that a male's black throat patch, often called the 'badge' or 'badge of status', signals fighting ability. We speculate that badge size signals dominance, and is therefore often used in male-male competition, whereas mask size may play a key role as an age indicator mechanism, potentially used in female choice. It is surprising that this important trait evaded researchers' attention during 20 years of house sparrows being a model organism for sexual selection.
3677496|We investigated changes in incubation behaviour induced by body fuel depletion in incubating female common eiders, which, in contrast to pelagic seabirds, fast despite being close to marine food sources. In the Svalbard Archipelago, electronic scales were placed under eider nests and the incubation of six birds was prolonged by using wax-filled eggs. Based on changes in the rate of body mass loss in normally incubating females and in ten captive birds that did not incubate, body reserves neared depletion on average four days after hatching. During prolonged incubation, females took more frequent and longer recesses. Nest attentiveness consequently decreased, but was still high. In contrast to recesses during normal incubation, during which body mass of the birds decreased, mass remained constant during the recesses of prolonged incubation. The body stores of female eiders seemed to enable them to complete incubation with a limited safety margin. A further drop in body mass is avoided when a critical body mass is reached, because birds then start feeding enough to maintain mass while continuing incubation. Presumably, a similar mechanism will enable eiders to continue incubation when body reserves are prematurely depleted before hatching.
10.2307/3677259|White-breasted Nuthatches Sitta carolinensis and Downy Woodpeckers Picoides pubescens are permanent residents in areas with cold temperate climates and are ecologically similar, but belong to different taxonomic orders. We measured basal metabolic rate (BMR) and peak metabolic rate (PMR = peak rate of cold-induced thermogenesis) for wild, free-living summer and winter acclimatised White-breasted Nuthatches and Downy Woodpeckers to determine seasonal and interspecific variation in cold tolerance and thermogenic ability. Both species were more cold tolerant and had significantly higher BMR and PMR in winter than in summer. Furthermore, during midsummer (early July to mid-August), nuthatches exhibited a significant decrement in cold tolerance and PMR relative to other seasons. A winter increment of metabolism, coupled with only minor seasonal variation in body mass and fat scores in both species, indicates that both species rely more on metabolic adjustments than gross morphological adjustments for winter acclimatisation. Woodpeckers and nuthatches exhibited roughly similar BMR and PMR at both seasons. The only significant interspecific differences in metabolic rates involved per-bird PMR in winter and midsummer, per-bird BMR in winter and summer (woodpeckers > nuthatches in both cases), and mass-specific PMR in summer (early/ late summer nuthatches > summer woodpeckers). Interspecific differences in cold tolerance and metabolic rates are probably explained, at least in part, by differences in body mass, as woodpeckers were significantly larger than nuthatches at all seasons. These data indicate that White-breasted Nuthatches and Downy Woodpeckers exhibit similar thermogenic performance and major phylogenetic effects on thermoregulation are not apparent.
10.2307/3677013|In order to test whether Common Buzzards Buteo buteo that dispersed early were entrepreneurs or exiles, we determined standardised autumn ranges by radio-tracking 67 juveniles during 1990-94. Of these, 11 had dispersed more than 2 km from their natal nest, and had therefore left the natal territory. Buzzards that dispersed early had more fragmented ranges than those that delayed dispersal until the following spring; otherwise no range characteristic differed between the two groups. When only the dispersers were considered, increase in distance from the natal nest was associated with a decrease in range size (r = -0.74) and an increase in the proportion of arable land within the range (r = 0.77). Further investigation revealed that range size was affected by distance from the nest but not by arable habitat. The smaller range size of distant dispersers, combined with evidence of increased productivity among them, suggests that they were more likely to have been entrepreneurs than exiles.
30243823|Among-individual variation in mean migration directions is the basis of evolution of new migration routes and has important consequences for our understanding of the migratory orientation system. This variation in migration directions is also of interest for modelling of migratory flight paths. In test series with caged migrants, the variation among individuals is generally much smaller than the variation within individuals making the variation among individuals difficult to detect with small sample sizes. No methods exist for estimating amongindividual variance for directional data. We therefore used simulations to estimate the variation among individual mean migration directions. Among-individual variation was found to be present in at least half of the 34 series analysed. In the 21 series with first-time migrants, our estimates of the variation among individuals ranged from r = 0.20 (mean vector length) to > 0.99, with median 0.93 and 86% less than 1. We found slightly more variation among individuals in displaced birds and in experiments with manipulated cues. Test series with experienced migrants, presumably having varying goal areas, showed similar estimates (median 0.94 and 77% less than 1).
3677782|Despite their potential ecological and evolutionary importance, factors shaping the composition of bacterial communities in wild vertebrate populations remain poorly understood. The goal of this study was to examine the relative contributions of environmental factors and genetic factors (e.g. species and common origin) to the variation of cloacal bacterial assemblages in wild bird nestlings. We conducted a partial cross-fostering experiment with two passerine species, the great tit Parus major and the blue tit P. caeruleus, sharing similar habitats and breeding biology. Nestlings of the two species were exchanged four days after hatching and cloacal bacteria were sampled nine days later. The structure of cloacal bacterial communities was determined by Ribosomal Intergenic Spacer Analysis. Our results showed that each nestling displayed a unique bacterial community. Furthermore, nestlings raised in the same nest shared significantly similar bacterial communities. The similarity of bacterial community was higher among heterospecific siblings raised within the same nest than between biological siblings raised in separate nests. Effects of common origin between species could not be detected and, if present, were dominated by nest-based short-term environmental effects. Our results show that growth conditions within nests and individually based endogenous factors have significant effects on cloacal bacteria assemblages and could affect post-fledging condition.
3676923|One often cited but poorly studied cost of multiple mating by female birds is the risk of acquiring sexually transmitted pathogens. We examined the ejaculates of male Red-winged Blackbirds Agelaius phoeniceus to determine if exposure to bacteria from males was a potential consequence of copulation for females. Ejaculates were collected in the field using a model female fitted with a sterile artificial cloaca. We found that 11 of 18 sampled males left ejaculates containing bacteria (compared to 3 of 18 control swabs of a sterile cloaca similarly exposed to the environment). We could identify to species or genus 13 of 26 isolates of bacteria from ejaculates, and found that each male left a unique combination of types. Only three types were found in more than one male (one additional male in each case). We found no qualitative effects of bacterial contamination on male fertility or female reproductive success, but larger sample sizes would be needed for a quantitative analysis. Little information is available on how the strains we identified might affect birds, but several types have known debilitating effects in humans or domesticated mammals. Two bacterial types isolated from blackbird semen are reported to produce chitinase, an enzyme with possibly beneficial consequences if produced by bacteria entering the gut of an insect-eating bird. These results suggest that exposure to new bacterial types is a consequence of extra-pair copulations to females. This exposure could have beneficial and/or detrimental effects on female fitness.
30244800|We explored sex-biased mortality patterns in a species showing the most extreme sexual dimorphism among birds, the great bustard Otis tarda. Between 1991 and 2005 we studied juvenile and immature survival in a sample of 361 great bustards radio-tagged at two different populations in Spain, Villaffila and Madrid. Mortality decreased with age, from high rates during the first year (0.70), to 0.10 in the second year. Using the known-fate model in program MARK we found that monthly survival increased throughout the first year. Offspring showing higher body mass at marking, i.e. those hatched earlier in the season and those with better body condition, survived in higher proportion. This was probably related to the earlier breeding dates of more experienced mothers, as well as to the observed decrease in food availability as the season progresses. Monthly survival estimates were higher in females than in males, which suggests that juvenile males are more vulnerable to reduced food availability and other factors due to their much faster growth rates. The proportion of non-natural deaths increased with age, and was higher in the Madrid population, where illegal hunting and collision with powerlines showed a high incidence. The male-biased mortality found in young birds in this study explains the female-biased population sex ratios observed in great bustard populations. The different degrees of incidence of human-induced causes of mortality found between both populations studied suggest that such differences may contribute to the variation observed in the adult sex ratio among populations.
3677786|The "cost-benefit" hypothesis states that specific body organs show mass changes consistent with a trade-off between the importance of their function and cost of their maintenance. We tested four predictions from this hypothesis using data on non-breeding greylag geese Anser anser during the course of remigial moult: namely that (i) pectoral muscles and heart would atrophy followed by hypertrophy, (ii) leg muscles would hypertrophy followed by atrophy, (iii) that digestive organs and liver would atrophy followed by hypertrophy and (iv) fat depots be depleted. Dissection of geese captured on three different dates during wing moult on the Danish island of Saltholm provided data on locomotory muscles and digestive organ size that confirmed these predictions. Locomotory organs associated with flight showed initial atrophy (a maximum loss of 23% of the initial pectoral muscle mass and 37% heart tissue) followed by hypertrophy as birds regained the powers of flight. Locomotory organs associated with running (leg muscles, since geese habitually run to the safety of water from predator-type stimuli) showed initial hypertrophy (a maximum gain of 37% over initial mass) followed by atrophy. The intestines and liver showed initial atrophy (41% and 37% respectively), consistent with observed reductions in daily time spent feeding during moult, followed by hypertrophy. The majority of the 22% loss in overall body mass (mean 760 g) during the flightless period involved fat utilisation, apparently consumed to meet shortfalls between daily energetic needs and observed rates of exogenous intake. The results support the hypothesis that such phenotypic plasticity in size of fat stores, locomotor and digestive organs can be interpreted as an evolutionary adaptation to meet the conflicting needs of the wing moult.
3677376|For researchers working on the reproductive anatomy of birds, the standard tool has been the scalpel. We demonstrate that magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) allows us to study non-invasively the testes and ovaries of small birds. Thus, repeated measurements of the same individual can be obtained at different life-history stages or before and after experimental treatment with a minimum of harm done to the birds. We present cross-sectional images of male and female Garden Warblers Sylvia borin at different stages of their gonadal maturation cycle to illustrate the high resolution that can be achieved through MRI. Volumetric analyses enabled us to determine the total testicular volume with high accuracy.
30243918|There are many pairs of related western and eastern avian taxa in North America, and for many of these, little is known about their interactions in sympatry. One example is provided by MacGillivray's warblers Oporornis tolmiei and mourning warblers Oporornis philadelphia. There have been occasional reports of range contact and hybridization between these forms, but recent authors have doubted these reports. We show that these two species do in fact come into extensive range contact in the southern Peace Region of British Columbia, just east of the Rocky Mountains. We analyze whether patterns of variation in morphometric traits, eye-arcs, a mitochondrial DNA marker (COI), and a Z-chromosome marker (CHD1Z) are consistent with reproductive isolation or hybridization in this contact zone. Each trait shows strong differences between allopatric MacGillivray's warblers and allopatric mourning warblers, yet in the contact zone there are many birds with a combination of traits typical of both species. This is clearly seen in the molecular markers, for which 18 of 50 birds genotyped in the contact zone have both western and eastern alleles. These patterns strongly indicate the presence of an extensive hybrid zone between MacGillivray's and mourning warblers. Variation in each of the four traits is explained well by a single sigmoidal cline, with a width of roughly 150 km (or 130 km based only on the molecular markers). This is only the fourth hybrid zone known among North American wood-warblers (Parulidae).
10.2307/3677052|The effect of nesting density on predation rate was studied in relation to habitat using artificial Blackbird nests placed at high, medium and low densities in three habitat types: woodland, woodland edge and farm hedgerow. The results showed that predation was lower in woodland than in woodland edge, which in turn had a lower predation rate than farmland. There was evidence of increasing predation rate at higher nesting densities in both woodland edge and farmland. Therefore there appears to be a potential cost to nesting at high densities in farm hedgerows and to a lesser extent woodland edge which is likely to be facilitated by enhanced 'edge effects' in those habitats.
3677758|Classical polyandry in birds is rare and is most frequent in the shorebirds (Charadriiformes). Polyandrous shorebirds lay smaller eggs for their body masses than non-polyandrous shorebirds, indicating that polyandrous female shorebirds may trade egg size off against number of eggs in order to maximize reproductive success. However, this trade-off may be confounded by phylogeny because most polyandrous species belong to a single family, the Jacanidae. I re-analysed this adaptive hypothesis using phylogenetically-independent contrast analyses. These analyses showed that there was no statistically significant difference in egg size between polyandrous and monogamous shorebirds once the effects of phylogeny had been incorporated. This is one of the first studies to show that the results of independent contrasts analyses differ from those where phylogenetic effects have not been taken into account.
10.2307/3677104| The adrenocortical response to acute stress, as measured by increases in plasma levels of corticosterone following capture and handling, has been shown to vary between individuals within a population as well as with season in a variety of species. However, the ecological bases for such endocrine phenomena remain unclear. One hypothesis predicts that populations of birds breeding under extreme conditions such as in sub-arctic habitats where the nesting season is short, decrease the amplitude of the adrenocortical response to acute stress so as to allow non-interrupted breeding under potentially severe conditions such as bad weather conditions and/or food shortage. To test this hypothesis we measured increases in circulating levels of corticosterone following capture and handling in populations of Pied Flycatchers Ficedula hypoleuca breeding in southern (Gteborg) and northern (Ammarns) Sweden. We also sampled breeding females that did not have a male helping them to feed young (only in south Sweden). As predicted by the hypothesis we found male and female Flycatchers breeding in northern Sweden to be adapted to the short breeding season and harsh unpredictable sub-arctic climate by having a reduced adrenocortical response to stress, as indicated by the pattern of corticosterone levels in blood. Maximum corticosterone levels generated by the capture stress protocol were significantly higher in single females than all other groups. Unlike other passerines studied at high latitudes Pied Flycatchers showed no significant relationships between corticosterone levels and body mass or fat score. 
10.2307/3676961|The difference between nest stands of Sparrowhawks Accipiter nisus in southern Norway and randomly sampled control plots was best explained by tree density, being much higher in nest stand plots than in control plots. Other characteristics of Sparrowhawk nest stands, such as forest age, tree species composition, and altitude were less important and implicated only through their correlation between these habitat variables and tree density. The reuse of thinned nest stands was lower than for unthinned nest stands, and only spruce-dominated nest stands were reused after thinning. At unthinned nest stands, both forest age, number of trees and breeding success influenced the frequency of reuse. I suggest that nesting in forests with high tree density may be an adaption to avoid the Goshawk A. gentilis, which is the main predator on juvenile Sparrowhawks.
3676992|We assessed the nutritional importance of mate provisioning to females during egg production and its effects on clutch parameters (egg size, length of the laying period) in Common Terns Sterna hirundo: (1) we estimated the costs of egg production by modeling the daily protein, lipid, and energy requirements of laying females, and (2) compared these costs to both the amount, and the timing, of the male's contribution via mate provisioning. Net lipid, net protein, and gross energy requirements for a three-egg clutch were estimated to be 5.4 g, 8.6 g, and 569 kJ respectively. Peak protein and lipid requirements occurred one (day -1) and two (day -2) days before laying, respectively. Peak energy requirement occurred on day -1; a cost of 127% to 157% above maintenance. Variation in male provisioning effort (in terms of energy and nutrients delivered) paralleled variation in predicted female requirements for egg production at the level of individual pairs. Males delivered protein in excess of the female's requirements on all days investigated. Male lipid delivery accounted for 45% of female net requirement on the day when demand was greatest (day -2), but exceeded requirements on all other days. However, the proportion of the female's total energy budget (egg production, maintenance, and activity costs) that was supplied by her mate rose from an average of 29% on day -2 to 76% during the interval between second and third eggs. Paradoxically, females that were fed at higher rates during the interval between first and second eggs produced clutches with lower total volumes, smaller last-laid eggs, and clutches with a greater egg-size hierarchy than conspecifics receiving less food from their mates. Also, females fed at higher rates during the interval between second and third eggs took longer to produce their clutch. These negative relationships between mate provisioning and clutch parameters contrast with previous studies in this and other species.
3677675|The size of an animal is of utmost importance for its overall success and each species is thought to have its own optimal size. If this is true, size traits ought to be under stabilising selection unless the animal is living in a highly unstable environment. Wing length is a standard measurement of the size of birds, but up to date there have been few indications of stabilising selection on wing length. In this study we analyse recovery data for reed warblers Acrocephalus scirpaceus (n = 771) ringed as juveniles in Sweden from 1981 until 2001. The data showed a significant relationship between juvenile wing length and survival time, with median juvenile wing lengths (66-67 mm) being the most favourable. The estimated stabilising selection differential (C = -0.094) supports that wing length of the reed warblers in our study is under stabilising selection. The reed warbler is a long-distance migratory species and we suggest that opposing selection pressures may act on wing length during different life history stages, and that this might explain the rather broad peak of favourable wing lengths found.
10.2307/3677298|Biparental care of chicks predominated in 28 Lapwing Vanellus vanellus broods in southwestern Sweden. However, male or female uniparental care occurred in about 30% of the broods. Among 36 marked females, two or three laid double clutches. In these cases both mates shared incubation of the first clutch, but chicks were reared by the male alone. Only females tended eggs and chicks of the second clutch. These findings constitute the first records of double clutches in the Lapwing. The results are discussed in relation to possible evolutionary paths leading to double-clutching.
10.2307/3677352|Extensive literature shows that lepidopteran larvae constitute the most important component of the diet of nestling tits (Parus spp.). In Blue Tits Parus caeruleus, breeding is usually timed to match the nestling stage to the period when caterpillars are most abundant. This is true even in places where caterpillars are not very numerous and many alternative prey types have to be used. In a study of a Corsican Blue Tit P. c. ogliastrae population, characterised by the extensive use of non-cater-pillar prey, we compared some aspects of the behaviour of nestlings when fed caterpillars, grasshoppers and spiders. The expectation deduced from ecological and behavioural literature that nestlings should be best able to swallow caterpillars was confirmed. Chick prey handling time could be ranked from caterpillars (the shortest time), through spiders to grasshoppers (the longest time). Handling time increased exponentially with prey size within each prey category and was to some extent subject to variation between broods. Consequently, the behaviour of nestlings provides new support for the idea that Blue Tits are best adapted to eating caterpillars and that mechanical constraints prevent them from using very big prey items, especially non-caterpillar prey, and that this is likely to affect their choice of prey. Such constraints may be less strict in Great Tits Parus major because of their larger body size.
30243869|There is considerable evidence to suggest that an animal's ability to access the appropriate resources at one time of year may profoundly restrict its performance at another. For migrants, wintering and breeding periods are often connected by refuelling or staging periods, critical (particularly for females) in attaining the body reserves required to ensure successful breeding. However in many instances there are differences in the extent to which different individuals gain access to the highest quality resources. Here we demonstrate how body condition in brent geese Branta bernicla hrota during spring staging is related to differences in marine and terrestrial habitat utilisation (inferred from stable isotope analysis). Female birds with high fat scores feed to a greater extent on marine resources. Body mass and condition are also higher in individuals utilising more marine resources. Given that body mass at spring staging is correlated with reproductive success, the extent of marine habitat maybe critical to this population. Combining this with data from previous studies of dark-bellied brent geese Branta bernicla bernicla, we predict the potential impacts of spring staging resource utilisation on future breeding success. Although staging is of short duration compared to the other components of annual cycles of migratory species, our results suggest that the quality of staging grounds may be vitally important to population processes.
10.2307/3677110|In this paper we review the existing methods of quantifying avian wingtip shape, and compare their efficiency at detecting morphological adaptations to migration. We use multivariate methods to derive two novel measures of avian wingtip shape, pointedness C
10.2307/3677005| Timing of offspring desertion is expected to be the outcome of the trade-off between current and future reproductive benefits for deserters. I investigated this idea by analysing the timing of male desertion in the Magnificent Frigatebird Fregata magnificens. I recorded parental attendance, male desertion and chick survival from an average of 39 days old ( 2.7 S.E. days) to fledging (181.2  3.4 days old, n = 24) at 42 nests, and checked the presence and breeding state of marked males (red gular pouch) at the colony the following breeding season. All male parents deserted their nest when their only chick was between 19 and 160 days old (77.1  5.0 days). Male desertion was influenced by settling and deserting dates: settling date correlated negatively with the age of the chick at the time of male desertion. Late-settling males deserted later during the year than males settling early, the condition of their chick (at the time of male desertion) was lower and their chick fledged late during the year. In spite of the obligate and apparently date-constrained desertion, chicks deserted when very young died more frequently than those deserted when older, and successful males deserting late during the year (after the average desertion date) were marginally less likely to be seen in reproductive state the following breeding season than those deserting early. The inter-individual variation is consistent with the idea that male frigatebirds may face a trade-off between current and future reproductive expectations: early-settled individuals began breeding before 16 October, deserted before the average deserting date, stayed with the chick for 92 days, their chicks survived well (84%) and 75% of these males were seen in reproductive state the following breeding season. Late-settled individuals began to breed around 19 December, deserted when their chick was 55 days old, chicks survived well (64%) but still only 50% of males were seen in breeding state the following breeding season. Some early-settled individuals who remained longer attending the chick (120 days) and whose chick survived, deserted after the average desertion date (20 April), but only 50% of them were seen in breeding state the following season. 
3677628|Studies of avian nest defense generally explain only a small proportion of the total variation in defense behavior. We explored two potential methodological sources of variation in nest defense in three species of ducks. One common method of quantifying nest defense rests on the assumption that different components of nest defense (e.g. flushing distance, distraction displays) are highly positively correlated. Defense behaviors we observed in this study were weakly related or unrelated to each other. Thus, the assumption of strong positive covariance between components of nest defense was not supported. We also considered the effect of repeated visits to the same nests on nest defense. Females of all three species took less risk defending their nests with repeated visits, and the effect of visit number on nest defense was greater than the effect of increasing value of nests associated with advancing incubation. Ducks appear to be different from other birds in the consistency with which they alter their nest defense in response to repeated nest visits. We propose that this could be a consequence of having nest predators that return to the vicinity of a nest if they were previously unsuccessful finding the nest, thus making repeated nest visits more dangerous to the ducks. By testing this or other hypotheses it should be possible to go beyond understanding the methodological implications of the effect of repeated visits on nest defense, and use this phenomenon to gain insight into the predator-prey interactions that underlie nest defense.
3677540|Life-history theory predicts that parental effort in nestling provisioning is optimised in relation to the quality of individuals and/or their habitat. We studied the investment of breeding pairs of blue tits Parus caeruleus for their reproduction during three breeding seasons in deciduous (high quality) vs. mixed (low quality) habitats in order to quantify to what extent habitat quality affects parental effort. Parental effort (costs) was related to their feeding rates and flight distances during foraging. In the deciduous habitat flight distances between nest and foraging patch were shorter than in the mixed habitat (22 m and 40 m, respectively), but the feeding rates did not differ between the habitats. The total flight distance per breeding pair from the first day after hatching until the 17th day of the nestling period was about half of the distance observed in the mixed habitat (375 km and 674 km, respectively). As the quality of fledglings did not differ between habitats, the higher number of fledglings per brood reflects better rewards per foraging trip in the deciduous than in the mixed habitat. Considering the parental foraging effort (costs) and, the quality and number of offspring (benefits), the benefit-cost-ratio was 2-3 times higher in the deciduous than in the mixed woodland.
10.2307/3677281|Adaptive brood reduction, as originally proposed by David Lack and as revised by later workers, represents a simple mechanism to counter stochastic variation in ecological conditions: parents lay an optimistic clutch as a hedge against uncertain food, trimming brood size downward if food is short. Hatching asynchrony, which facilitates swift brood reduction, may also bear the unwanted cost of reduced survival of marginal offspring when food is abundant. Strong tests of the brood reduction hypothesis require explicit recognition of the conditional nature of these costs and benefits and must include three steps: (1) exact specification of where the threshold for brood reduction lies; (2) measurement of the costs and benefits of a brood reduction strategy under "good" and "bad" conditions; and (3) estimation of the frequency of "good" and "bad" conditions. Indirect measures of ecological conditions, such as the relative reproductive success of the study population in different years, are unsatisfactory for two reasons: (i) it is unclear when the brood reduction threshold has been crossed, and (ii) nestlings may starve for reasons other than extrinsic food limitation (e.g., sibling despotism). Heretofore, studies of avian brood reduction have routinely failed to provide an independent and explicit measure of food conditions rendering the results ambiguous. An appropriate experimental design that circumvents this problem is outlined here, and allows strong tests of Lack's hypothesis.
10.2307/3677088|During the incubation stage of breeding, male House Wrens periodically move very near nest cavities and sing, and females, who alone incubate in this species, often appear to wait to take a break from incubating until they hear their mate singing nearby. This study tested quantitatively for a non-random association between female nest attentiveness and male song output in two ways. First, 11 pairs of wrens were observed for 2 h during their incubation stages and the time of each male song and each female exit from, and entrance into, the nest cavity was noted. Of the 60 exits observed, 29 (48%) occurred within 30 s of when the male began a song bout near the nest. Overall, female exits followed significantly sooner after the start of male song bouts than expected if exits normally occurred at random with respect to song. Males were also removed temporarily from 12 territories during incubation stages and the nest attentiveness of their females was monitored for 2 h. These experimental females spent, on average, 18% more time in nests than did 11 undisturbed control females (47 vs 40 min/h). This occurred only because experimental females waited longer to exit nests during each attentive period. Experimental females did not take shorter recesses. Females may benefit from waiting to exit nests until their mates are singing nearby because: (1) the male's song indicates to the female that no predators are present, (2) males will be present to guard nests, especially against conspecifics, in the female's absence, and/or (3) males can act as sentinels while females are foraging.
3677715|An abdominal profile index (API) was developed for pink-footed geese Anser brachyrhynchus as a measure of body condition. On basis of carcass analysis of 56 adult geese with known API prior to collection, we found significant linear relationships between API against body mass, abdominal fat and total energy content. Hence, changes in API reflect net energy intake rates. As an example of the applicability of the calibration, we compared APIs of individually marked geese before and after long migration episodes and estimated the cost of flight at 8.9 kJ/km. In addition we estimated gain rates at three major staging sites along the spring flyway indicating an increase in fueling rates with latitude. Calibration of APIs and energy contents offers new opportunities for field studies of waterfowl energetics.
3677412|Recent studies have suggested that the size of avian clutches may be determined in part by the costs of egg production, which are thought to involve the depletion of endogenous nutrient reserves. I tested the hypothesis that producing extra eggs would deplete protein and lipid reserves in a passerine species, the European Starling Sturnus vulgaris. The first three eggs of clutches were removed on the days they were laid to induce females to lay extra eggs. Females responded to this manipulation by laying, on average, 1.3 eggs more than controls. However, based on the distribution of clutch sizes, it appears that some females responded to the removal of three eggs by producing more than one extra egg, whereas others responded by laying no extra eggs or by deserting. In unmanipulated females, the lean dry mass of the flight muscles and total body lipid were found to decline throughout breeding, an observation which is often interpreted as evidence that egg production depletes endogenous reserves. However, females experimentally induced to produce an extra egg did not have reduced stores of protein or lipid at clutch completion. No effect was observed in starlings even though this study had substantial (80%) power to detect a change in protein reserves of the same magnitude as that observed in a previous study of gulls. The decrease in flight muscle mass that has frequently been observed during breeding in passerines may not be due simply to mobilization of endogenous protein reserves.
30243297|In order to apply plasma metabolite profiling to assess the quality of stopover habitat for migrant birds it is crucial to know how quickly metabolite concentrations change in response to variation in energy intake rate. We fed live mealworms to Wilson's warblers Wilsonia pusilla at rates designed to mimic a low quality (0.58 wet g/h) and a high quality (0.75 wet g/h) habitat. Plasma concentrations of triglycerides and B-OH-butyrate were higher and lower, respectively, on the high feeding rate, but plasma glycerol levels did not differ between feeding rates. Birds were then fed at the low rate for five hours, switched to the high rate and blood sampled at various times after the switch. Plasma triglycerides and B-OH-butyrate reflected the increase in feeding rate within 10 and 20 min, respectively. Plasma glycerol did not change significantly following the change in feeding rate. We conclude that plasma metabolite concentrations can change very quickly in response to variation in feeding rate, and thus provide a sensitive index of fueling rates near a capture site.
3677497|Migration patterns in the red-billed quelea Quelea quelea have been the focus of intense research as the species is a major crop pest in Africa. The direction and timing of migration are believed to be controlled by the seasonal passage of rainfronts across Africa. In order to assess the validity of hypothesised migration directions in southern Africa, we tested the migration orientation behaviour of wild-caught red-billed queleas using Emlen orientation funnels. Queleas tested in Zimbabwe showed mean orientation directions to the west-north-west and east-south-east. Both directions are in agreement with current hypotheses explaining quelea migration.
3677385|Egg characteristics have been used to determine egg maternity for birds in situations where two or more females lay eggs in a single nest (as in communal breeders and intraspecific parasites). We assessed the applicability of egg morphometry and eggshell appearance in ascribing egg ownership in communal clutches of guira cuckoos Guira guira, a species where up to seven females may lay eggs in a joint nest. We used both combined variables (including egg mass, length, width, shape and two eggshell variables), and a shape index to test whether eggs laid by each female were similar but different from eggs laid by other females. Also, we conducted discriminant function analyses to verify if eggs could be correctly classified to their mothers based on their characteristics. The correct maternity was determined by yolk protein electrophoresis of freshly-laid eggs. Individual female chutches were separated through egg characteristics or shape alone in 29% and 41% of the groups tested, respectively. Differences were mostly due to a single female that differed from her nest-mates in a unique egg variable. On average, 55% of the eggs analyzed were not assigned to the correct mother using egg dimensions and eggshell speckling pattern. In conclusion, the egg characteristics used do not reliably indicate maternity in guira cuckoo communal clutches. We therefore recommend a protein-based verification of egg appearance characteristics for assigning maternity in other species in which multiple female laying occurs.
30243921|Measurement of phytohaemagglutinin (PHA)-induced skin swelling is the most popular assay of immune function in avian studies. The mechanisms causing swelling have been relatively well studied; however, very little is known about the potential long term physiological effects of PHA. Here we show that injection of PHA into patagium of captive greenfinches Carduelis chloris increases the concentration of heterophils (phagocytic cells of the innate immune response) in the peripheral blood for at least 30 days. Such long-term consequences should be taken into account when using PHA skin test in studies monitoring changes in individual physiological condition and/or immune status.
30243859|According to the environmental cues hypothesis, female birds use information available to them in the early-season environment to fine-tune egg production annually. However, support for the hypothesis derives largely from correlational studies. In each year from 2002 to 2006, which spanned a period of extreme variation in environmental conditions, we removed eggs from early-laying rhinoceros auklets Cerorhinca monocerata, burrow-nesting seabirds that lay a single-egg clutch. We then measured their relaying rates, relaying intervals, and breeding success. We also monitored the timing and success of breeding in control pairs, and control chick diets. If the experimental females base their relaying decision on early-season cues, then we predict that few will relay in years in which early-laying control birds breed unsuccessfully, and in which a preferred prey species, Pacific sandlance Ammodytes hexapterus, is in short supply in nestling diets. Results matched neither prediction. In each year, almost all (88-90%) of the experimental females relaid, despite that the control pairs' breeding success (32-87% fledged chicks), and their chicks' diets (twofold variation in proportion of sandlance), varied markedly. We conclude that female rhinoceros auklets did not modify their relaying decision in response to variation in environmental conditions, although relaying intervals and their own breeding success (0-78%) covaried negatively. Our results may have important implications related to using seabirds as monitors of the marine environment.
3677669|We describe the development of a method to predict percent body fat of killed birds from the percent fat in the most distal wing tissue, which is often left uneaten by aerial predators. When combined with a measure of body structural size, such as tarsus, culmen or keel length, percent wing fat can be used to predict fresh body mass at the time of death. These techniques may prove useful in field studies of mass-dependent predation risk.
10.2307/3677267|The mass-specific activity of citrate synthase (CS) is often used as an indicator of the aerobic capacity of the pectoralis muscle. We investigated whether there is variation in CS activity within the pectoralis muscle of the Barnacle Goose. In general, no significant variation was found except at the anterior site nearest the sternum where a significant difference was found between the peripheral and deep sites. We conclude that for comparisons of CS activity within large migratory species, samples should be taken from the uniform central area of the muscle, but for intraspecies studies on factors affecting aerobic capacity, samples should be taken from the anterior sternal site at differing depths, as this is the most variable area where adaptations to these factors may occur.
3677438|I used data from a 13-year study of eastern kingbirds Tyrannus tyrannus from central New York, USA, to evaluate the relative impact of female age and body size on reproduction. I also calculated repeatabilities of reproductive traits for both females and the sites where they bred in an attempt to evaluate the relative contribution of each to intrapopulation variation in reproduction. Female age had a strong influence on timing of breeding (breeding date advanced by one day for each year of life), but was not a significant source of variation for clutch size, egg mass, number of young to hatch or fledge, or total seasonal production. Repeatabilities of breeding date for females and sites were both significant (0.284 and 0.181, respectively), but the only other significant repeatabilities were for female clutch size (0.282) and female egg mass (0.746). Among-year repeatabilities of breeding date for females who bred at two or more sites over their lifetime were as high as those for females that were site faithful. Thus, breeding date was probably affected independently by the female and site. No measure of productivity exhibited a repeatable pattern in comparisons made among females or sites. All reproductive traits were entered as dependent variables in a series of stepwise multiple regression analyses in an attempt to identify female properties (size, lifespan and condition) that might be linked proximately to differences in breeding statistics. I found that (a) large birds tended to breed the earliest, (b) clutch size was independent of female size, condition and lifespan, (c) female body size and egg size were correlated positively, but (d) production of young was independent of all measured female properties. Reproduction appears to be linked more closely to the female than to the site. Body size accounts for a portion of the repeatable portion of breeding date and egg mass, but most of the intrapopulation variation in these and other traits remained unexplained.
30244476|We studied the relationship among re-mating, site fidelity and breeding performance in the tree swallow Tachycineta bicolor using 16 y of data on reproductive biology in a population breeding in nest boxes near Ithaca, New York. Of 217 pairs for which both members survived the non-breeding season, 76% mated with a new partner and 24% reunited with their previous mate. Pairs did not increase their breeding success by breeding together for more than one breeding season. Males produced fewer fledglings after breeding with a new partner, but females neither increased nor decreased their success when breeding with a new mate. Females who bred with a new partner were younger than females that reunited with their previous mates, and they were more likely to move to a different nest box. Males that bred with a new mate were of similar age to males that reunited, and they did not move more often. The probability of breeding with a new partner was better predicted by female age than by previous breeding success, suggesting that re-mating was not strongly affected by past breeding performance. Because younger females change breeding sites more frequently than do older females and females that mated with a new partner were younger than females that reunited with their previous mates, we suggest that the tendency of tree swallows to change partners between years is a by-product of lower site fidelity of younger females rather than a strategy for increasing breeding success.
3677714|Although there is general consensus about the existence of senescence in vertebrates, empirical evidence of senescence in demographic parameters in wild populations is limited. Data on breeding success and survival of breeding common guillemots Uria aalge were collected over 20 years on the Isle of May (Scotland) using a pool of individuals marked as adults. Because the years of hatching of individuals were not known, we used the time (years) elapsed since first capture (TFC) as a measure of age. The use of this proxy did not create any bias in estimating senescence in the case of a linear decline, nor did it greatly decrease the power of a test for senescence. Breeding success declined significantly from 0.81 (95% CI: 0.77-0.84) to 0.62 (0.54-0.68) over the study period. It also varied in relation to age, initially increasing (from 0.62 (0.54-0.68) at TFC of 0 year to 0.76 (0.73-0.79) at TFC of 9 years) up to a plateau (from TFC of 9 years with 0.76 (0.73-0.79) until TFC of 13 years with 0.77 (0.74-0.79) before declining in later life to 0.70 (0.61-0.78) at TFC of 19 years). Survival was generally high and varied significantly from year to year. It also declined with TFC: survival of birds marked in 1982 decreased from 0.92 (0.85-0.96) at a TFC of 0 year to 0.88 (0.82-0.92) at a TFC of 19 years. Resighting probabilities also declined with TFC suggesting that the oldest birds do not come back to the colony to breed as regularly as younger individuals. These findings indicate that individual common guillemots on the Isle of May showed both actuarial and reproductive senescence.
3677527|Birds might form eggs from stored nutrients, from current food intake or from both. We examined whether stored nutrients were a substantial resource for egg production in an aerial insectivore, which had a variable food supply, but for which there was likely to be a cost for carrying additional mass. The mass changes of female barn swallows Hirundo rustica during the egg formation period were most simply explained by changes in the mass of the eggs and oviduct. Fat score and body mass excluding the eggs and oviduct did not vary systematically during egg formation. Egg production stopped altogether during particularly bad weather. The normal range in environmental conditions before and during laying had little influence on clutch size. Our results suggest that swallows form eggs primarily from current food intake, although our data do not exclude use of micronutrients from reserves.
30244816|The frequency of azure-winged magpies Cyanopica cyana that nest in association with breeding Japanese lesser sparrowhawks Accipiter gularis was compared between the 1990s and 2000s. During 1990-1994 azure-winged magpies nested within 50 m of their nests in all of the hawk nest sites studied. During 2005-2006, however, the magpies nested in only two of nine hawk nest sites. During the 1990s Japanese lesser sparrowhawks chased jungle crows away when they intruded within 50 m of their nest. During the 2000s, on the other hand, the hawks attempted to expel few crows at a distance of more than 10 m from their nest. As a result of it, the predation rate of simulated magpie nests located in the hawk nest sites was significantly higher during the 2000s. This suggests that the magpies have the ability to assess the defending behavior of the hawks and judge whether they can rely on their defense. Most azure-winged magpies may stop nesting in association with breeding Japanese lesser sparrowhawks because of the reduced defending range of their nest sites.
30245208|Museum specimens continue to be an invaluable resource for taxonomic, systematic, and comparative studies, and are increasingly relied upon for novel research purposes. Evaluating variation in the colour of avian study skins forms the basis for a broad range of research questions, yet few studies have investigated whether the plumage colouration of museum specimens accurately reflects colouration in wild birds. In this study, we use reflectance spectrometry to compare the plumage reflectance of avian museum skins and wild birds. We use long-tailed manakins Chiroxiphia linearis, to investigate these potential differences in colour. Long-tailed manakins are ideal for this type of study as their colourful plumage patches result from three primary plumage colouration mechanisms found in birds: melanin pigmentation, carotenoid pigmentation, and structural colouration. These features of their plumage allowed us to independently assess variation in each plumage colouration mechanism. Reflectance spectra obtained from museum specimens were very similar to those obtained from wild birds, and the colouration of specimens was usually well within the range of variation observed in wild birds. As such, museum specimens can accurately represent the colouration of wild birds. Nevertheless, we found significant differences in colouration between museum skins and wild birds. We documented differences in brightness, hue, saturation, and chroma, although the direction and magnitude of these differences varied by mechanism of colouration. Multivariate analyses revealed that the age of museum specimens and the time of year at which they were collected contributed to some of these differences. We discuss potential proximate causes of these changes in colour, many of which apply to both museum specimens and wild birds, and identify the types of studies that are likely to be most sensitive to these changes.
10.2307/3677017|We studied the interactions between weather, social dominance and body condition (fat and protein reserves) in a colour-ringed population of the Great Tit in the Killarney National Park, Rep. of Ireland in two mild winters (1990 and 1992) differing markedly in rainfall. Rainfall, but not temperature, was a strong predictor of mean daily fat levels (birds were fatter on wetter days) but did not predict muscle score. The birds were also fatter in the wet winter than the dry one, and this was a greater difference than predicted by daily rainfall alone. The effects of rainfall are considered in the context of ultimate and proximate cues to fattening. In contrast, muscle scores were greater in the dry year than the wet. On average, birds known to have survived from the 1990 to the 1992 winter had higher muscle scores, irrespective of their age or sex, in 1990 than those not seen again. In the wet winter, muscle score (but not fat) was positively correlated with a measure of individual dominance; in the dry winter fat was negatively related to dominance, and no relation was found between muscle score and dominance. These results indicate that individual differences in condition reflect differences in individual status, and that experienced environmental conditions strongly influence the relationship between social status and body reserves. This is the first field study of Great Tits relating condition and dominance among individuals rather than among status classes. We suggest that, under some circumstances, muscle may be a better indicator of condition than fat.
30244783|Physical constraints on animal signals can have important consequences for communication. For bird songs that include a trill, performance is physically constrained by a trade-off between the rate at which notes are repeated in the trill and the sound frequency range covered, such that a trill cannot exceed a certain frequency range for a given note repetition rate. Producing trills that are closer to this performance limit is presumably more challenging for birds than producing trills that are farther from it. Male red-winged blackbirds Ageliaus phoeniceus have repertoires of two to eight song types containing trills that span a range of performance levels. We determined the approximate trill performance maximum for a population of red-winged blackbirds, then conducted playback experiments to measure the responses of territorial males to song types with either high or low performance levels relative to this limit. Males responded significantly more strongly to songs containing low performance trills. Our results show that male red-winged blackbirds can discriminate between different song performance levels, suggesting that vocal proficiency plays a role in male-male interactions.
3677760|The relationship between host ecology and feather mite prevalence was analysed in birds. Feather mites are small arthropods (fam. Pterolichoidea and Analgoidea) commonly found on birds, although the nature of their interactions with the host (commensalism, mutualism or parasitism), still remains unclear. Host body mass and migratory behaviour were unrelated to feather mite prevalence. Contrary to expectation, there was no differences in mite prevalence between colonial and solitary-breeding species. However, winter sociality was associated with increased prevalence, suggesting that winter and breeding sociality affected the distribution patterns of feather mites in different ways. Plumage dichromatism was negatively correlated with feather mite prevalence, a result that is opposite to that predicted by the Hamilton and Zuk hypothesis for the evolution of host secondary sexual characteristics in relation to parasitism.
25161506|Synchronously and asynchronously hatching clutches of House Wrens Troglodytes aedon usually do not differ in reproductive success. Thus late-hatching nestlings in asynchronously hatching clutches somehow overcome any age- and size-related disadvantages of hatching after their nest-mates. One possible way for them to do this is for female House Wrens to add maternal androgens to the yolk of late-hatching eggs. We tested this hypothesis in a wild population of House Wrens that produces both asynchronously and synchronously hatching clutches. Yolks of eggs from both types of clutches were biopsied and the eggs returned to their nests to hatch. Radioimmunoassays revealed that total androgen levels in the yolk varied within and among clutches. However, total androgen levels in yolks did not vary predictably with egg position in either synchronously or asynchronously hatching clutches. Thus, deposition of androgens in yolk did not follow the expected pattern based on the potential for sibling competition in House Wrens.
10.2307/3676969|Copulation behaviour in the Linnet was investigated by focal observations of breeding pairs near their nest sites. Of 287 observed male copulation attempts only 37% resulted in cloacal contact. These successful copulation attempts were always preceded by female solicitation, indicating that the outcome of copulations was under female control. Relative to the day of first egg (day 0), males attempted copulations from day -8 to +9 with a peak of 2.4 copulation attempts per hour at day -4. However, females solicited copulations only from day -6 to +3, with a peak of 1.7 solicitations per hour on day -3. During the laying period male Linnets showed a significant peak in copulation attempts in the second hour after egg laying. The importance of this peak in copulatory behaviour after laying is discussed in relation to the insemination window hypothesis.
10.2307/3677266|As part of a larger modeling effort to understand the evolution of parental care in birds, we develop a model to predict the masses of developing passerine chicks based on assumptions about the amount of food fed to the chicks and published estimates of their metabolic costs, efficiencies and requirements as functions of chick mass and/or age. The model predicts sigmoid trajectories similar to those observed in nature. The model fails to predict post-peak declines in mass in some species, and we suggest that one reason for this failure is that the model does not account for parent-offspring conflict over food deliveries late in the chick's development.
30243819|The survival of common goldeneye Bucephala clangula ducklings during their first week of life was studied in relation to hatching date, brood size, female condition, and weather (temperature and precipitation) during the first week post-hatch by using data from radio-marked females and their broods. Also, age-specific variation in the survival of the young was determined until fledging (over 50 d of age). Survival was lowest in the first week after hatching. Hatching date, brood size, and first week temperature and precipitation were poor predictors of duckling survival during the first week after nest exodus. Instead, the ducklings of females in a better body condition survived better in their first week of life. The results suggest that weather does not have a direct effect on downy ducklings' survival, but the condition of the female seems to be an important determinant of the survival of common goldeneye ducklings.
10.2307/3676974|Multilocus DNA fingerprinting was used to estimate the frequency of extra-pair fertilizations in a low density, island population of Great Tits Parus major. A total of 69 pairs and 516 offspring from 82 breeding attempts were examined. Only 18 offspring (3.5%) in seven different nests were not fathered by the attending male. The sample included one brood in which all nine chicks were fathered by an extra-pair male. One chick from a nest of eight was the result of intra-specific brood parasitism. Three chicks from a brood of nine could be matched with the male but not with the female. Observations at this nestbox suggested that mate switching had occurred during the laying period. The percentage of extra-pair fertilizations did not differ between first clutches and (experimentally induced) replacement clutches. Females mated to small males were more likely to have extra-pair young in the nest. Because both extra-pair paternity and intraspecific brood parasitism are rare in this population, a reliable measure of reproductive success can be obtained by counting the number of offspring.
10.2307/3677249|One of the potential benefits of extra-pair copulation is an enhanced likelihood of successful fertilization if the pair male is unable to produce sufficient viable sperm to ensure the fertility of an entire clutch. Low male fertility can be a transient phenomenon associated with higher rates of sperm usage than production, leading to a progressive depletion of sperm reserves. Evidence of a correlation between hatching success and the occurrence of extra-pair fertilizations has been reported in House Sparrows. In this study we have used single-locus minisatellite and microsatellite profiling to investigate the distribution of extra-pair fertilizations within House Sparrow broods to determine whether there are changes in the level of hatching failure or extra-pair paternity during the course of producing a clutch. Embryonic material was collected at mid-incubation to minimize loss of data through pre-sampling mortality and to ensure that laying order was known. A significant clustering of both infertile eggs and extra-pair young was noted in the earliest eggs in a clutch. Possible causes of this phenomenon are discussed.
3677697|Island populations harbour a comparatively species-poor pathogen community, often resulting in nave host species that experience compromised immunity when faced with novel diseases. Over 95% of the Galpagos avifauna have survived 400 years of human settlement, yet currently face threats due to introduced diseases such as avian poxvirus. On Hawaii, declining populations of birds and even some extinctions have been attributed to avian poxvirus, and hence, identifying the prevalence and fitness costs of avian poxvirus on the Galpagos is a conservation priority. Surveys of avian poxvirus in Darwin's finches on Santa Cruz Island between 2000 and 2004 found a 33% annual increase in the prevalence of pox lesions in ground finches. Comparisons of pox prevalence on three islands (Santa Cruz, Floreana, and Isabela) were made in 2004, which indicated significant variation in pox prevalence across islands (Isabela > Santa Cruz > Floreana). Darwin's finch species were found to be differentially affected by poxvirus, with a higher prevalence in ground finches than in tree finches. There was a significant effect of habitat, even within species, with higher prevalence in the lowlands than highlands. Pox prevalence was not correlated with sex or body condition. However, male small ground finches Geospiza fuliginosa with evidence of pox were less likely to have a mate (16.6% paired) compared with males without pox (77% paired), indicating fitness costs associated with poxvirus infection.
25662904|The Skutch hypothesis predicts that parental activity around the nest may attract the attention of predators and thus, in the tropics where predation pressure may be high, selection favors reduced parental activity. This hypothesis has been questioned by studies demonstrating that parents can decrease the risk of nest predation through nest defense. The link between parental activity and predation risk may be further confounded by nest site characteristics. We examined the effects of parental behavior and nest site on clutch survival in two sympatric tropical thrushes (Myadestes ralloides and Turdus leucops). We compared survival rates of clutches in three treatments: 1) natural nests at the incubation stage, 2) unattended nests (un-manipulated nests of the same species, with clutches unattended by parents), and 3) exposed clutches (eggs exposed in unconcealed positions, unprotected by the nest). Parental activity had a positive effect on clutch survival, which was revealed by significantly higher survival rate of clutches in attended nests compared to unattended nests. The effect of nest site was less clear: clutches in unattended natural nests survived better than clutches in exposed sites selected by humans, but results were insignificant. We propose that parent birds can exclude a group of opportunistic predators, that are able to destroy unattended clutches. Nest site characteristics may be less important in determining clutch survival in the tropics, where predator guilds are more diverse, making completely safe sites difficult to find. Our results challenge Skutch's hypothesis and point to the need for more data from tropical latitudes.
3677798|Factors determining clutch size of birds have long been the central issue in studies in life histories. It is assumed that the configuration of brood patches could limit the maximum clutch size. To test this hypothesis we manipulated clutch sizes and measured egg temperature as well as reproductive consequences in black-tailed gulls Larus crassirostris, which usually lay two egg clutches and have three brood patches. Mean egg temperature in 4-egg clutches (32.61.0C) was significantly lower than in 2-egg (34.60.4C) and 3-egg clutches (34.10.4C), because egg temperature of the coolest egg within a 4-egg clutch was often substantially lower than the other three eggs. The proportion of eggs hatching from 4-egg clutches (11.6%) was lower than those of 2-egg (49.1%) and 3-egg clutches (52.0%). Four-egg clutches had longer incubation periods (29.61.3 day) than 2-egg (28.11.7 day) and 3-egg clutches (28.01.3 day). The results indicate that incubation capacity, which may be determined by the configuration of brood patches, limits the maximum clutch size in black tailed gulls, but not the actual clutch size typically laid.
10.2307/3677187|The effect of group size on the productivity of communally-breeding bird species has for many years been linked with the various adaptive explanations for helping-at-the-nest. This study examines the effect of group size on group provisioning effort and group productivity in the Arabian Babbler Turdoides squamiceps, a species in which helping behaviour is reported to have limited impact on parental reproduction, and has instead been uniquely proposed to operate as a signal within the group to gain social prestige. Contrary to these earlier reports, the present study showed a strong positive and linear effect of group size upon the total number of provisioning visits to the nest and the number of fledglings produced. Larger groups produced larger numbers of young, although individual fledging mass did not decrease with this increase in brood size. Fewer faecal sacs were removed per visit in nests with larger broods, and this was the only variable for which an initial positive effect of group size could be explained by the potentially confounding effect of brood size. In addition, individual provisioning effort was reduced in larger groups, both in terms of number of nest visits and the size of prey items delivered per visit. Although these data were collected over only three breeding seasons, the group sizes and breeding conditions involved are broadly representative of this population during the previous 25 years of records. These results therefore suggest that, under the majority of circumstances, helping-at-the-nest in Arabian Babblers has a positive and linear effect on the reproductive success of parents, as well as substantially reducing the provisioning effort required of other group members. Groups were nearly always made up of closely related individuals, and so these data are consistent with kin selection. Helpers gain indirect fitness benefits from the increased reproductive success of nests, as well as potentially reducing the survival costs of chick feeding for adult relatives. The possibility of direct fitness benefits from helping, especially regarding pseudoreciprocity and adaptive group augmentation, is also discussed with reference to the evolution of helping behaviour and group-living in the Arabian Babbler.
10.2307/3677265|Leap-frog migration is attributable to variation among populations in the cost of spring migration in relation to the optimal time for the start of breeding. Populations which breed in regions where spring arrives relatively late, and thus leave the wintering quarters later than conspecifics, are frequently able to take advantage of a surge in food availability in the most distant wintering sites in order to fatten quickly and arrive on their breeding grounds at the optimal time. If populations breeding in regions where spring arrives early were to use these wintering sites, they would have to fatten before the surge in food availability occurs, or else delay migration and arrive late on the breeding grounds, to the detriment of breeding success. The high cost of migration to distant sites for these early breeders outweighs the lower survival probability associated with more proximate wintering sites, so migration is truncated. Similarly a late spring surge in food availability south of the breeding range of a species may lead migrant northern breeding populations to leap-frog resident southern populations. A model of the processes involved in leap-frog migration is derived and applied to the migration pattern of the Yellow Wagtail.
30244822|Severe summer weather in Greenland and Arctic Canada in 1972 and 1974 caused very poor breeding success and elevated adult mortality in red knots Calidris canutus islandica. We show that those individual knots that are known to have survived these summers were in better than average nutritional condition shortly before departure from their late spring staging area in west Iceland. The condition index of previously banded or subsequently recovered birds captured in Iceland was positively related to the number of summers they were known to have survived. Body stores carried from the last spring staging area to the breeding grounds appear to offer Arcticbreeding shorebirds significant selective advantages: they are used for physical transformation from migration to breeding condition, and in years when weather is difficult may enable survival after arrival on the breeding grounds.
10.2307/3677093|How females pair with respect to the plumage and provisioning characteristics of males, and its fitness consequences, was studied in the American Kestrel Falco sparverius in east central Pennsylvania, USA. Within a 100 km
30243875|Some studies suggest that offspring might coordinate their begging displays to send a more effective brood signal, which in turn, could increase parental feeding rates. In tree swallows Tachycineta bicolor, when nestlings call together, their calls are more similar in structure than when they call alone. Here, we tested the hypothesis that call convergence enhances the overall brood signal, thus increasing parental provisioning rates. We played back similar and dissimilar calls (as measured by cross-correlation) to parents during a one-h playback period, and filmed the response of parents and nestlings. Contrary to our hypothesis, parental feeding rates did not differ in relation to call similarity. Based on these results, call similarity does not appear to function as a coordinated brood signal in tree swallows.
3677606|We investigated the level of parasitism, egg mimicry and breeding success of cuckoos parasitising four sympatric species of Acrocephalus warblers in southern Moravia, Czech Republic. The parasitism rate was highest in the marsh warbler Acrocephalus palustris (44.8%) followed by great reed warbler. A. arundinaceus (33.8%), sedge warbler A. schoenobaenus (26.5%) and reed warbler A. scirpaceus (11.6%). Although the cuckoo eggs showed a high level of mimicry the eggs of the marsh warbler this host species rejected 72% of the cuckoo eggs, resulting in a cuckoo breeding success of only 4.3%. Cuckoo eggs laid in great reed warbler and reed warbler nests showed a similar hatching success, but the cuckoo chicks survived better in great reed warbler nests, resulting in a breeding success of 30.4%, as compared to 16.4% in nests of the reed warbler. The relationship between the level of parasitism, host rejection of cuckoo eggs, cuckoo chick survival and breeding success is discussed for the four host species.
30243829|Competition for food is widely cited as an important cost of coloniality among birds and much of the evidence in support of this hypothesis comes from studies of colonial piscivorous seabirds. However, for generalist seabirds able to switch between different prey types, the role of food availability in relation to colony size is unclear. Here we investigate patterns of the consumption of seabird prey in relation to colony size in a generalist seabird, the great skua Stercorarius skua, in Shetland, UK. At the population level skuas feed mainly on sandeels Ammodytes marinus and fishery discards, but respond to declines in fish availability to facultatively prey on other seabirds. By comparing the consumption of seabirds among seven different sized colonies, including one colony with artificially reduced numbers of skuas (Fair Isle), we investigate whether consumption of seabird prey is influenced by skua population size, while simultaneously measuring seabird prey availability. Data from five years also enables us to investigate the influence of annual variation in environmental conditions on seabird consumption. Using measures of body condition and reproductive performance we investigate the consequences of living in different sized colonies, which may provide insight into ultimate costs of nesting at high population density. Skua diets varied among colonies and the proportion of seabird prey in the diet was inversely related to skua colony size, despite similar per capita numbers of seabirds across colonies. At the colony where their numbers were artificially suppressed, skuas consumed a greater proportion of seabirds per capita. Highly significant year effects in seabird predation were observed but the pattern among colonies remained consistent over time. Two measures of adult body condition (pectoral muscle index and mean corpuscular volume) revealed that adult great skuas were in poorer condition at the largest colony (Foula), but reproductive performance did not alter significantly among colonies. This study provides evidence that intra-specific competition among skuas may limit opportunities for obtaining seabird prey, which may be particularly important during periods of poor availability of sandeels and fishery discards, and has implications for assessing the impact of skuas on seabird populations.
3677744| Intraspecific migration patterns in birds have both spatial and temporal components. Two commonly reported spatial patterns are leap-frog and chain migration. Temporal migration patterns refer to the timing of migration of populations from different breeding latitudes. We investigated the spatial and temporal migration patterns of hatching-year (HY) sharp-shinned hawks Accipiter striatus of interior North America using stable-hydrogen isotope and band encounter analyses. Feather samples were collected from hawks migrating through New Mexico, USA and measured for their stable-hydrogen isotope ratios (D) to distinguish individuals originating from relatively high and low natal latitudes. We then examined the relationship between feather D values and passage dates through New Mexico, USA. We also gathered band encounter data from the Bird Banding Lab of the United States Geological Survey to determine the wintering latitudes of HY sharp-shinned hawks relative to their passage date through migration banding sites in interior North America. Combining these data, we found that during fall migration HY sharp-shinned hawks used a chain migration pattern, that is, hawks originating from lower latitudes wintered further south than those from higher latitudes. In addition, birds originating from lower latitudes passed through interior North America earlier than those from higher latitudes. We also found that hawks from higher latitudes were significantly larger than those from lower latitudes, and that females from higher latitudes had significantly higher estimated fat levels than females from lower latitudes. 
3677692|Fault bars are common stress-induced feather abnormalities that could produce feather damage thus reducing flight performance. For that reason, it has been hypothesized that birds may have evolved adaptive strategies that reduce the costs of fault bars (the 'fault bar allocation hypothesis'). An untested prediction of this hypothesis is that fault bars in important feathers for flight (wing and tail) should be less abundant where they produce more feather damage. We tested such a prediction using moulted wing and tail feathers of the long-distance migrant Swainson's hawk Buteo swainsoni in its Argentinean wintering quarters. We recorded the occurrence of fault bars of different strengths (light, medium and strong) and the damage (lost of a portion of the vane) produced by them. The occurrence of fault bars was very variable, with strong ones being rare throughout and light and medium fault bars being more frequent in the tail than in the wing. Risk of feather damage was similarly high and low across feather groups for strong and light fault bars, respectively, and higher in the wing than in the tail for medium strength. The occurrence of fault bars of different strengths on different feather groups was negatively correlated with their propensity to produce feather damage. At low damage risk (<5%), the occurrence of fault bars was highly variable depending on the feather group, but above 5% of feather damage the occurrence of fault bars was highly reduced throughout. Our results supports the 'fault bar allocation hypothesis' of natural selection reducing fault bar occurrence where fault bars are more risky, but further suggest that selection pressure could be relaxed in other instances, leaving the way free for other mechanisms to shape fault bar occurrence.
3677608|It has recently been shown that sandpipers (Scolopacidae) abruptly switch the chemical composition of their preen gland secretions from mono- to diester waxes just before the period of courtship. The timing and context of the shift suggested that diesters could provide a visible quality signal during mate choice. We used captive red knots Calidris canutus to test whether mono- and diester preen waxes affect the light reflectance ("colour") of the plumage. We also determined light absorbance spectra of the two wax types. The reflectance of breast feathers of the breeding plumage was measured with spectrophotometry when birds secreted monoesters and six weeks later when they secreted diester preen waxes. Light reflectance was also measured after removing the mono- and diester waxes from the plumage with a solvent. The results show that: (1) diester preen waxes absorb more light, especially ultraviolet (UV), than monoester preen waxes, but that (2) the compositional shift in the preen waxes did not change plumage reflectance and, (3) the removal of preen waxes did not change the reflectance of the plumage within the light spectrum assumed visible to birds (320-700 nm). This is not consistent with the idea that compositional shifts in the preen waxes of red knots have a visual function.
3677654|To help clarify controversial phylogenetic relationships within the family Emberizidae, we sequenced 1238 bp of mitochondrial DNA from the cytochrome b gene and a flanking portion of ND5. Although the longspurs (Calcarius) and the snow buntings (Plectrophenax) have been grouped with the Old World buntings (Emberiza) in traditional classifications, our molecular phylogenies constructed with maximum likelihood and maximum parsimony place these genera basal to a clade in which the Old World buntings and North American sparrows are sister groups. Contrary to the hypothesis that the radiation within Emberiza is recent following a westward expansion of emberizid stock into Eurasia from North America, we found that the level of genetic divergence among Old World buntings approximates those among different genera in North American sparrows. Thus the radiation of the Emberizidae seems to have occurred at roughly the same time in the Palaearctic and Nearctic. Our results are consistent with earlier analyses of allozymes, but sequences from multiple genes and new morphological analyses are required to fully resolve phylogenetic relationships within the Emberizidae.
30244821|Here we investigate the change in feather quality during partial post-juvenile and complete post-breeding moult in great tit Parus major by measuring the change in the number of fault bars and feather holes on wing and tail feathers. Feathers grown during ontogeny usually are of lower quality than feathers grown following subsequent moults at independence. This is reflected by higher number of fault bars and feather holes on juveniles compared to adults. Fault bars are significantly more common on tail and proximal wing feathers than on the distal remiges, indicating a mechanism of adaptive allocation of stress induced abnormalities during ontogeny into the aerodynamically less important flight feathers. On the contrary, feather holes produced probably by chewing lice have a more uniform distribution on wing and tail feathers, which may reflect the inability of birds to control their distribution, or the weak natural selection imposed by them. The adaptive value of the differential allocation of fault bar between groups of feathers seems to be supported by the significantly higher recapture probability of those juvenile great tits which have fewer fault bars at fledging on the aerodynamically most important primaries, but not on other groups of flight feathers. The selection imposed by feather holes seems to be smaller, since except for the positive association between hatching date, brood size and the number of feather holes at fledging, great tits' survival was not affected by the number of feather holes. During post-juvenile moult, the intensity of fault bars drops significantly through the replacement of tail feathers and tertials, resulting in disproportional reduction of the total number of fault bars on flight feathers related to the number of feathers replaced. The reduction in the number of fault bars during post-juvenile moult associated with their adaptive allocation to proximal wing feathers and rectrices may explain the evolution of partial post-juvenile moult in the great tit, since the quality of flight feathers can be increased significantly at a relatively small cost. Our results may explain the widespread phenomenon of partial post-juvenile moult of flight feathers among Palearctic passerines. During the next complete post-breeding moult, the total number of fault bars on flight feathers has remained unchanged, indicating the effectiveness of partial post-juvenile moult in reducing the number of adaptively allocated fault bars. The number of feather holes has also decreased on groups of feathers replaced during partial post-juvenile moult, but the reduction is proportional with the number of feathers moulted. In line with this observation, the number of feather holes is further reduced during post-breeding moult on primaries and secondaries, resulting in an increase in feather quality of adult great tits.
3677526|American dipper Cinclus mexicanus populations are frequently composed of resident individuals that occupy permanent territories year round and migratory individuals that overwinter with residents but migrate to breeding territories on higher elevation creeks each spring. Between 1999 and 2004 we examined how migratory strategy (resident/migratory) and sex differences influence breeding territory fidelity of American dippers occupying the Chilliwack River watershed, British Columbia, Canada. Counter to expectation we found that the migratory strategy of American dippers did not influence whether birds breeding in one year were found on their former breeding territory in the next. Migratory strategy also did not affect the probability that known surviving dippers occupied the same breeding territory in the following year. Males and females were equally likely to be found on their former territory in the following year (females 43%, males 41%) and known survivors had similar levels of breeding territory fidelity (females 74%, males 68%). However, breeding territory fidelity of males and females varied in response to different factors. Surviving female dippers were more likely to be found on their former breeding territory in the subsequent year following a successful breeding attempt than an unsuccessful breeding attempt. Prior reproductive performance did not influence whether surviving male dippers were found on their former breeding territory. Male dippers were more likely to be found on their former territory and, if they survived, have higher breeding territory fidelity when their mate also returned to that same territory. Mate retention also influenced whether females were found on their former territory in the following year but had no effect on the breeding territory fidelity of known survivors. We argue that sex-specific dispersal decision rules in American dippers are driven by sex differences in the predictability of breeding performance between years and sex differences in how mate retention influences subsequent reproductive success.
3677407|In this study, we tested whether conspecific brood parasitism (CBP) has selected for egg rejection behavior in the colonial Great-tailed Grackle Quiscalus mexicanus. No evidence of CBP was recorded at 797 Great-tailed Grackle nests, and we did not induce CBP by experimentally removing nests while grackles were laying. We determined experimentally that Great-tailed Grackles are determinate layers, an attribute opposite to that sometimes associated with CBP. Despite the absence of CBP, Great-tailed Grackles rejected 8% of experimentally introduced conspecific eggs, rarely rejecting or damaging their own eggs. Conspecific eggs added to nests during incubation tended to be rejected more frequently than eggs switched between nests, and eggs that differed the most from the host's eggs tended to be rejected sooner. There was no relationship between rejection and the stage of the nest cycle when experimental parasitism occurred; however, eggs were rejected faster when added during the prelaying and incubation stages than during laying. Evidence suggests, therefore, that egg rejection behavior in Great-tailed Grackles has not evolved in response to CBP.
3677464|Migrant songbirds are vulnerable to changes in climatic conditions on both the breeding and wintering grounds. For North American Neotropical migrants, the El Nio/Southern Oscillation (ENSO), via its effects on global precipitation and temperature, modulates the productivity of their temperate and tropical terrestrial ecosystems used during the course of their annual cycle. We evaluated how a densely nesting population of yellow warblers Dendroica petechia in a riparian forest in southern Manitoba, Canada, responded to the El Nio/Southern Oscillation (ENSO) between 1992 and 2001. Standardized mist netting was used to estimate apparent annual survival of adults and production of young. Both adult survival and the production of young were positively correlated with the Southern Oscillation Index (SOI). More specifically, values of both these demographic parameters were lowest during El Nio years and highest during La Nia years. These findings demonstrate the influence of climate on populations of Neotropical migrants in North America. The more frequent El Nios predicted to result from future global climate change could negatively affect populations of yellow warblers and other Neotropical migrants breeding in this region.
10.2307/3677134|The frequency of extra-pair paternity was studied in a population of Coal Tits Parus ater using DNA fingerprinting technique. High values were obtained: 15 of the 20 broods investigated (75%) contained at least one nestling sired by an extra-pair male and overall 40 of 158 nestlings (25.3%) were extra-pair young. Inter- and intraspecific comparisons revealed that breeding density cannot explain this high frequency of extra-pair paternity in Coal Tits.
3677629|In addition to wavelengths visible to humans (400-700 nm), many birds are able to detect near ultraviolet light (320-400 nm). Most studies of ultraviolet (UV) vision in birds have concentrated on the importance of UV vision in intraspecific signalling, especially in passerine birds. However, birds may also use UV vision for other purposes, e.g. foraging. We performed a laboratory experiment to test whether a tetraonid species, black grouse Tetrao tetrix, could detect the difference between UV-reflecting and non-UV-reflecting food items (two colour morphs of bilberry Vaccinium myrtillus). Black grouse preferred UV-reflecting berries when UV light was used for illumination, but showed no preference in the absence of UV light. This observation establishes a potential UV sensitivity in this species; such a sensitivity should be considered in behavioural experiments with this species.
30244772|Several bird species, including cavity-nesters such as European starlings Sturnus vulgaris, add to their nests green sprigs of plants such as yarrow Achillea millefolium that are rich in volatile compounds. In this field study on another cavity-nester, tree swallows Tachycineta bicolor, we tested whether yarrow reduced ectoparasite loads (the nest protection hypothesis), stimulated nestling immune systems (the drug hypothesis), or had other consequences for nestling growth or parental reproductive success (predicted by both preceding hypotheses). Tree swallows do not naturally add greenery to their nests, and thus offer several advantages in testing for effects of greenery independent of other potentially confounding explanations for the behaviour. We placed fresh yarrow in 23 swallow nests on the day the first egg was laid, replenishing every two days until clutch completion (=three times), and at 44 control nests, nesting material was simply touched. At 12 days of age, we measured nestling body size and mass, and took blood smears to do differential white blood cell counts. We subsequently determined the number and proportion of young fledging from nests and the number of fleas remaining after fledging. Higher humidity was associated with higher flea numbers whereas number of feathers in the nest was not. Our most significant finding was that an average of 773 fleas Ceratophyllus idius was found in control nests, versus 419 in yarrow nests. Possibly, parents compensate for blood that nestlings lose to ectoparasites by increasing food delivery, because we detected no differences between treatments in nestling mass, nestling leukocyte profiles, or proportion of young fledging, or relative to flea numbers. Our results provide no support for the drug hypothesis and strong support for the nest protection hypothesis.
3677581|Although the causes and consequences of social dominance have been examined extensively, avian studies have rarely focused on between-population differences in social dominance. On the island of Corsica, two resident blue tit Parus caeruleus populations 25 km apart differ significantly in body size measures, timing and effort of reproduction, and song structure, and some of these population differences have a genetic basis. Because earlier avian studies have shown that social dominance is influenced by body size or mass, we predicted that individuals from these two blue tit populations would also differ in their ability to dominate other individuals. Consistent with this prediction, we found that male blue tits of these two populations differ in social dominance, and that heavier or larger individuals dominate lighter or smaller ones in aviary experiments. We propose that social dominance may serve to maintain phenotypic population differentiation at a micro-geographic scale by acting as a barrier to dispersal.
10.2307/3676964|The effect of different genera of blood parasites on female Great Tits Parus major was studied in central Sweden. Haemoproteus, Leucocytozoon, Hepatozoon, Plasmodium and Trypanosoma were found, but only the last mentioned had any measurable effect on the birds. Female Great Tits infected with Trypanosoma laid smaller eggs, hatched proportionally fewer eggs, and raised nestlings with shorter tarsi and generally worse body condition, compared to females without trypanosomes. However, females with low body mass and short tarsi laid smaller eggs, independent of parasite status. Low body mass was correlated with low levels of haemoglobin, suggesting that parasitic infection, or some other disease, initially had caused the lower body mass. Haematocrit, another variable reflecting health status, was positively correlated with clutch size. However, neither haemoglobin nor haematocrit was related to occurrence of blood parasites.
10.2307/3677012|Territorial or nest attendance by adult breeding seabirds is often essential to prevent egg or chick mortality. As a result, parent birds, when not engaged in foraging trips, should stay on their territories whenever there is a risk from leaving their eggs and chicks unattended. Differences in territorial attendance and time spent foraging by birds of different ages have been interpreted as resulting from differences in adult foraging ability or in motivation to invest in the current reproductive attempt. However, most studies have failed to take into account seasonal variations in food availability, which could affect these patterns, because timing of breeding is often dependent on adult age. We designed an experiment to investigate the levels of territorial attendance displayed by Great Skuas of known age facing the same environmental conditions and with similar food requirements. This was achieved by manipulating clutches so that all study pairs hatched their chicks at the same time. Pairs with one chick had a higher attendance (mean number of adults per territory) than pairs with two chicks. This suggests that the need to increase the time foraging in response to the nutritional demands of a larger brood overrides any effect due to differential motivations in the amount of parental effort to be invested in brood protection. Pairs with older males had a higher attendance than pairs with younger males. About 61% of the estimated foraging time of the pairs fell on the males. Attendance and adult age were not correlated with chick body condition. We conclude that pairs with two chicks that had high attendance achieved this by being more efficient foragers, and not by provisioning their chicks less well. Therefore, our results suggest that older males are better foragers than younger birds. Female age did not correlate with attendance levels. However, pairs with older females were less likely to leave their chicks unattended, which suggests that those pairs had a better co-ordination of their foraging and guarding activities. Breeding success in Great Skuas improves with adult age. Thus, our study identifies a mechanism by which older birds can achieve better performance than younger individuals. Old birds are less likely to leave their chicks exposed to predation by conspecifics, which is the main cause of pre-fledging mortality in this species.
3677572| Daily variation in circulating levels of the avian yolk precursor, vitellogenin (VTG), throughout the laying cycle was investigated in female zebra finches Taeniopygia guttata and compared with predicted ovarian follicle demand (based on a model of follicular development for this species). In general, the pattern of variation in plasma VTG matched the predicted demand from the developing ovarian follicle hierarchy. Plasma VTG was non-detectable in non-breeders, but increased rapidly with onset of yolk development, remaining high (1.43-1.82 g/ml, zinc) through to the 3-egg stage. Plasma levels then declined at the 5-egg stage (to 0.78  0.32 g/ml) and were undetectable at clutch completion. This result is consistent with the hypothesis that yolk precursor production is costly and that selection has matched supply and demand. While inter-individual variation in plasma VTG was marked (e.g. 0.47-4.26 g/ml at the 1-egg stage), it also exhibited high intra-individual repeatability (r = 0.87-0.93). Finally, we examined the relationship between plasma VTG and primary reproductive effort. While individual variation in plasma VTG was independent of clutch size, laying interval and laying rate, there was a complex, diet-dependent relationship between VTG and egg size, with low plasma VTG levels being associated with both very small (<0.90 g) and very large (>1.15 g) egg sizes. 
3677626|During the breeding season, many female passerine birds increase in body mass before egg laying, maintain a relatively high body mass during incubation, and then drop back to the original level during the chick-rearing period. The post-hatching reduction in body mass, which can be as large as 10-20%, has been suggested to represent an adaptive mass loss to reduce wing loading, thereby increasing parental flight efficiency when chicks have hatched and have to be fed. Here we present the first study of changes in flight ability from incubation to chick rearing in birds. Wild female pied flycatchers Ficedula hypoleuca flew more slowly during incubation than during chick rearing; a 7% reduction in body mass after the chicks had hatched was associated with a 10% increase in vertical take-off speed. Furthermore, the flight muscle size of the females tracked the reduction in wing load, suggesting that muscle size was adaptively reduced when no longer needed. Since incubation-feeding by males reduces the time females have to spend outside the nest foraging, our results suggest that in addition to increasing female nutritional status and reducing incubation time, incubation-feeding will also reduce predation risk during the period when females face impaired flight ability.
3677414|We studied the reproductive biology of a box-nesting population of Tree Swallows Tachycineta bicolor in southeastern Wisconsin, USA. We were interested particularly in the relationship between laying order and hatching order and the extent to which each was a predictor of nestling body mass. We found that laying order was a significant predictor of hatching order. Laying and hatching order were related to nestling mass at 4 days of age and to a lesser extent at 12 days of age. In addition, we investigated the effects of natural variation in hatching asynchrony. Hatching asynchrony was positively related to the range of nestling body masses within a brood at days 4 and 12. The probability that brood reduction occurred was also positively related to the degree of hatching asynchrony, though this effect was significant only at day 4. Our results suggest that laying order and hatching order have their greatest effects on nestling Tree Swallows early in the nestling period.
10.2307/3677183|By computer simulations of different flight routes for spring migrating Knots Calidris canutus, potential orientational 'danger zones' were revealed in the equator area and north of the Arctic circle. An evaluation of the availability of directional information during migratory flights demonstrated the potential hazards of crossing these danger zones. Investigations of the directional consequences of sun compass orientation based upon an internal clock in phase with local time at the departure site showed that such a mechanism would entail serious losses in distance and time. A simple compensating rule based on the rate of change in sun altitude was found to work well both at polar latitudes and in the equator area. The magnetic compass will become inoperative close to the magnetic equator and the poles, thus restricting the availability of directional information. Orientation by stellar cues will become impossible during spring and summer at arctic latitudes. Simulations of potential migratory routes also enabled examination of the required precision of compass systems and it was indicated that necessary orientation accuracy requires more than one directional selection per long-distance flight to ensure survival. It is concluded that computer simulations of flight tracks, based on ringing recoveries, visual observations, radar studies and satellite telemetry may be a powerful tool helping to identify problems which require future experimental attention.
30244809|Harnesses are indispensable for a long-term attachment of instruments to animals, particularly birds. The exact fit is crucial for both the reliability of the tags and the animals' health and natural behaviour. Using data from 19 bird species ranging from 8-400 g, I present an allometric function to calculate the dimension of leg-loop harnesses for birds on the basis of body mass data. The model greatly facilitates determining the correct loop span for new species without time-consuming experiments. More importantly, the equation permits calculation of the excess span that is required for tagging juvenile, still growing birds.
30245217|In many oscines, song repertoire size correlates with male quality and female mate choice, and can vary with age. In a cross-sectional field study in common nightingales Luscinia megarhynchos, one y old birds had substantially smaller repertoires than did older ones. In laboratory experiments males can acquire new song types during this period. This longitudinal field study therefore investigates whether individual nightingales increase their repertoires from the first to the second breeding season. We report a striking repertoire turnover, with an average overall increase of 24% of the first season's repertoire, resulting from added and dropped song types (54% and 30%, respectively). The number of added song types correlated positively with the size of the first season's repertoire. These results are consistent with the notion that repertoire size in nightingales correlates with male quality, although the overlap between repertoire sizes of first and second season birds makes it impossible to discriminate age based solely on repertoire size. Comparing the number of song types an individual sang in both seasons ('permanent song types') revealed a lower overlap than reported for subsequent seasons. The frequencies with which these were sung in the first season were less predictive of how often they were sung in the second season than was the case between later years. This drastic repertoire turnover from the first to the second season may be a selective process in response to the local song types, constrained by genetic makeup and shaped by early experience.
3677599|For most species, it is currently not known whether individual characteristics and population parameters affecting dispersal distances within the local population are also affecting dispersal of individuals emigrating longer distances. We evaluated this in the great reed warbler Acrocephalus arundinaceus by analysing data of natal dispersal distances within (1) the local hatching area in southern Central Sweden and (2) the species' whole breeding range in Sweden. The different scales gave conflicting results. Site of birth was the main predictor of natal dispersal distance in the local census area, whereas in the larger census area the dispersal distance differed significantly between hatching years. Previous studies have shown that the recruitment rate of great reed warblers within the local study area differs between hatching years and also that it declines during the course of the breeding season. It was not known, however, whether these relationships reflected variation in survival or dispersal. The results from the present study suggest that the differences in local recruitment rate between hatching years is partly caused by annual variation in emigration rate, whereas the decline in local recruitment rate with season mainly reflects mortality of late-hatched nestlings. Our study shows a twofold advantage of a large census area when studying dispersal. First, predictors of longer-distance dispersal will be revealed and, second, the variation in local recruitment rate can be separated into two components, survival and dispersal.
10.2307/3677334|In ducks and geese intraclutch egg-size variation shows a consistent pattern. The first egg is generally smaller than the second egg and from then on egg size declines over the laying sequence. Such an intraclutch egg-size pattern has previously been described in the Common Eider Somateria mollissima. In our study area the differences between the largest and the smallest egg in a clutch increased on average from 7.5% among 3-egg clutches to 14.2% among 6-egg clutches. The maximum difference was as much as 25% among 6-egg clutches. In the present study we examine the relationship between egg size, laying position and the growth of ducklings. We have done this by collecting complete clutches of which we knew the exact laying order and the size of all eggs, and transferred them to a standard incubator to hatch. We then fed ducklings ad lib and measured their growth rate in relation to egg size and laying order. There was a close relationship
10.2307/3677357| Cory's Shearwaters, in common with other species of Procellariiformes, accumulat large quantities of body fat after hatching. This pattern of development has been related both to temporal variation in feeding conditions around the colony and to stochastic variation in foraging success and food provisioning by individual parents. Chicks need not necessarily always accept food provided by their parents, yet few studies have examined parental attendance independently of the masses of food fed to chicks overnight. This paper examines variability in provisioning and growth of nestling Cory's Shearwaters over three years between 1991 and 1994, and uses observations of individually marked adults coupled with radio-tracking to examine the nest attendance patterns of individual parents. Chicks were fed on 77% of nights on average, with little temporal variation in food delivery at the level of the colony. Individual chicks were nonetheless fed highly variably, and this to some extent supports the notion that nestling obesity results from chronic overfeeding by the parents to reduce the impact of variable food provisioning at an individual level. Chicks were attended by 1.5 parents overnight on average, and chicks were attended but not fed on 16% of occasions. Parents may have returned on these occasions without any food for the chick, or the chick may have refused to accept food from the parents. A minority of nests accounted for most of the occasions when a chick was attended but not fed, and there was evidence to suggest that these chicks were consistently heavy for their size. A refusal by these chicks to accept food on some occasions is consistent with the notion that lipid stores of chicks should be optimized rather than maximized, and this requires further investigation. 
10.2307/3676976|This study examines the ecological factors expected to determine the abundance of lice on birds. The associations between avian body mass and avian sociality as selected environmental variables and the arithmetic mean of louse abundance per bird individual are evaluated across bird species. Rough data were obtained from the literature. Using host species as statistically independent observations, louse abundance correlates positively with avian body mass. This correlation is not a phylogenetic artefact, being also found after controlling for effects of host phylogeny. Three non-exclusive hypotheses might explain this correlation: (1) larger birds may provide larger 'habitat islands' enabling more lice to coexist; (2) larger birds may provide more topographic refugia for lice to evade host preening and grooming; and (3) larger birds may provide more longevity of 'habitat islands' thus reducing the decimating effects of transmission. Contrary to expectations based on early anecdotal information, avian sociality had no significant effect on louse abundance either with, or without controlling for host-phylogenetic effects.
30245205|African jungle babblers or illadopsises, genus Illadopsis Heine, 1859, are small shy babblers which occupy the undergrowth of African humid forest habitats. The taxonomy of Illadopsis as well as its biogeography are currently poorly known because the morphological differentiation is rather subtle and no phylogenetic analysis has been undertaken. To investigate these issues, we sequenced four loci (mitochondrial ND2 and ND3, and nuclear myoglobin intron 2 and -fibrinogen intron 5) for the seven species of Illadopsis. Our analyses retrieve the monophyly of Illadopsis and suggest that I. albipectus and I. cleaveri, I. puveli and I. rufescens, some individuals of I. rufipennis and I. pyrrhoptera are sister taxa respectively. I. fulvescens appears to be an isolated taxon and our data reveal several cases of "incipient speciation" among its populations. Our dating analyses, using a Bayesian relaxed-clock method, reveal that most splits in Illadopsis occurred synchronously around the Plio-Pleistocene transition, suggesting that some diversification events in African forest taxa took place before the onset of the large-amplitude climatic cycles of the Pleistocene epoch. Thus, the diversification of African taxa in time and space to be more complex than the Pleistocene time frame traditionally associated with the diversification of African forest taxa. Instead we observe a process of differentiation which roughly corresponds to the broadly hypothesised lowland refugia of upper Guinea, eastern and western Guinea-Congolia, although the time frame of this divergence well predates the Pleistocene epoch. Our results also suggest that deep genetic divergences do exist among species complexes of African birds which differ only slightly in morphological characters. As such, molecular analyses are powerful and essential tools if we are to construct the evolutionary history of such lineages in a meaningful manner.
30243905|The amount of fat of a bird is a fundamental metric commonly used by avian biologists in studies of migration, winter energy management and condition. The methods used for estimating fat content range from simply measuring body mass and subtracting the estimated lean mass, visual scoring of subcutaneous fat deposits, to destructive extraction using a Soxhlet apparatus. We used magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) for non-invasive estimation of fat content in willow warblers Phylloscopus trochilus. According to an indirect comparison, made using a standardized fat scoring system as a common measure, the MRI method gave very similar fat amount as Soxhlet extraction and we discuss advantages of using MRI over alternative methods. It was also shown that the commonly used fat scoring system yielded a nonlinear relationship between fat mass and fat score.
10.2307/3677078|A major factor influencing the quality of raptor habitats is food availability, which is determined not only by prey density, but also by various habitat features influencing the accessibility of prey. Many raptors hunt ground-living prey by using the energy-saving pause-travel search tactic. If perches to hunt from are lacking, a habitat may be difficult to exploit even if prey is abundant; hence perches are an important component of prey availability. The boreal forest landscape is drastically changed by very intensive forest management. Clearcuts, where mature forest has been harvested, are rich in prey (rodents) but lack perches. An experiment was performed to test if abundance of perches is a factor limiting the utilization of these habitats by foraging raptors. Eleven clearcuts were provided with man-made perches, and 11 clearcuts served as control. Foraging raptors used clearcuts with perches significantly more than clearcuts lacking perches, and raptor utilization changed accordingly when the control and experimental areas were switched.
10.2307/3677195|Avoiding predation is an important factor in avian life-history strategies and there are many examples of adaptations that appear to decrease predation risk. However, we are not aware of any studies of structural morphological adaptations to reduce predation risk in any avian species. Here, we have compared published indices of relative predation risk for passerine species with two size-constrained measures of wingtip shape and relative hind limb morphology. Our analyses indicate that species with rounded wingtips and those with relatively short femora compared with tarsi are at a lower relative predation risk than those with more pointed wingtips and relatively longer femora. These relations are discussed in terms of the functional morphology of wingtip shape and hind limb morphology and suggestions for further experimental investigations are made.
10.2307/3677051| There is considerable debate over the benefits that female birds obtain from engaging in extra-pair copulations (Westneat et al. 1990, Birkhead and Mller 1992). Two main classes of benefit have been identified: direct benefits, which includes fertility insurance (e.g. Sheldon 1994), and indirect or genetic benefits (see Birkhead and Mller 1992, Mller 1994). In the House Sparrow Passer domesticus, Wetton and Parkin (1991) found that the occurrence of unhatched eggs was associated with extra-pair paternity in the same clutch and suggested that this might occur because females guard against low fertility of their mate by engaging in a relatively small number of extra-pair copulations. Both Birkhead and Mller (1992: 15) and Lifjeld (1994) offered alternative explanations for Wetton and Parkin's (1991) result. Lifjeld (1994) suggested that unhatched eggs may have been the consequence of social interactions. That is, female House Sparrows paired to poor quality males would be more likely to seek extra-pair copulations, and because extra-pair copulations in this species are often forced and occur during 'communal displays' (Mller 1987), these females would be subject to an unusual amount of harassment. As a consequence, not only would these females lay a greater proportion of infertile eggs, they would also produce some eggs fathered by extra-pair males. 
3677614|Habitat quality is an important but insufficiently understood concept in ecology and conservation biology, due to geographic and temporal variation as well as interaction with individual quality. In 1994-2002, we studied the Estonian population of the lesser spotted eagle Aquila pomarina in order to (1) explore the relative contributions of habitat and female size in reproductive success; (2) check for a switch to alternative prey in vole-poor years and the relevant variation in annual habitat quality as confirmed in the common buzzard Buteo buteo in the same area. We measured five landscape variables, the number of neighbouring conspecifics and the relative size of the female according to large moulted feathers in 77 nesting territories, and related this to the eagles' productivity in vole-rich and vole-poor years. Nesting lesser spotted eagles benefited from heterogeneous landscapes and suffered from the neighbourhood of conspecifics. There was no evidence that different-sized females used different habitats. In general, female size was positively related to productivity in vole-poor but not vole-rich years, but in the presence of competitors, large size appeared to be disadvantageous. The mean annual productivity of the eagle was well correlated with that of the buzzard, both having peaks after every three years. In contrast to the buzzard, the share of voles in the eagle's diet and its habitat quality did not differ significantly between good and poor years. We concluded that despite a superficial ecological similarity to the buzzard, the lesser spotted eagle did not behave as predicted by the alternative prey hypothesis, but the study confirmed that annual variation in prey utilization and relative habitat quality are parts of the same functional response. Non-switching to alternative prey may be related to a historical foraging strategy, used by the eagles before they spread to agricultural landscapes, since the current effects of body size strongly suggested food shortage in vole-poor years.
10.2307/3677231|In keeping with a recent and growing body of literature providing evidence for the functional significance of molt patterns in relation to other events in the annual cycle, I present and discuss an hypothesis for the adaptive significance of one aspect of seasonal color change in Sterna terns. After breeding, many adults molt a limited number of head feathers which results in a mottled aspect. I suggest that the post-breeding change in head color is a signal directed by nonbreeding species toward breeding congeners that may be encountered either during migration to winter range, or in the winter range. This advertisement of nonbreeding status should help members of migratory/wintering species to avoid costly courtship chases and aggression from breeding species.
3677551| Birds that nest in cavities may regulate nest microclimate by orienting their nest entrance relative to the sun or prevailing winds. Alternatively, birds may orient their nest entrance relative to conspecific individuals around them, especially if the acoustic properties of cavities permit nesting birds to better hear individuals in front of their nest. We measured the cavity entrance orientation of 132 nests and 234 excavations in a colour-banded population of black-capped chickadees Poecile atricapillus for which the reproductive behaviour of nesting females was known. Most chickadees excavated cavities in rotten birch Betula papyrifera, aspen Populus tremuloides and maple Acer saccharum. Nest cavities showed random compass orientation around 360 demonstrating that chickadees do not orient their cavities relative to the sun or prevailing winds. We also presented chickadees with nest boxes arranged in groups of four, oriented at 90 intervals around the same tree. Nests constructed in these nest box quartets also showed random compass orientation. To test the acoustic properties of nest cavities, we conducted a sound transmission experiment using a microphone mounted inside a chickadee nest. Re-recorded songs demonstrate that chickadee nest cavities have directional acoustic properties; songs recorded with the cavity entrance oriented towards the loudspeaker were louder than songs recorded with the cavity entrance oriented away from the loudspeaker. Thus, female chickadees, who roost inside their nest cavity in the early morning during their fertile period, should be better able to hear males singing the dawn chorus in front of their nest cavity. Using GIS analyses we tested for angular-angular correlation between actual nest cavity orientation and the azimuth from the nest tree to the territories and nest cavities of nearby males. In general, nest cavity entrances showed no angular-angular correlation with neighbourhood territory features. However, among birds who followed a mixed reproductive strategy and nested in the soft wood of birch and aspen trees, nest cavity entrances were oriented towards their extra-pair partners. We conclude that nest cavity orientation in birds may be influenced by both ecological and social factors. 
10.2307/3677207|The aim of the present study was to investigate the question of whether blue Cuckoo Cuculus canorus eggs have evolved as an adaptation for successful parasitism of host species which themselves lay blue eggs. For this purpose we inspected 11 870 Cuckoo eggs, 361 of which (3.04%) were blue, in host species' clutches held in European egg collections. Blue Cuckoo eggs occurred at significantly higher frequencies in the clutches of Redstarts Phoenicurus phoenicurus, Whinchats Saxicola rubetra, Wheatears Oenanthe oenanthe and Pied Flycatchers Ficedula hypoleuca than in host species which do not lay blue eggs, thus supporting our main prediction. Discrimination against non-mimetic Cuckoo eggs by Redstarts has probably been the strongest selective force behind the evolution of blue Cuckoo eggs. The Whinchat may also have played an important role. Cuckoo eggs in nests of both these species show a, statistically significant, better mimicry with host eggs than in the nests of either Pied Flycatcher or Wheatear. Pied Flycatchers and Wheatears usually nest in cavities with entrances too narrow to permit a young Cuckoo to leave. These two hosts show no discriminatory behaviour towards non-mimetic (i.e. other colours than blue) Cuckoo eggs and have therefore probably played a minor role in the evolution of blue Cuckoo eggs. Presumably they have been accidentally parasitized by "Redstart" (or "Whinchat") Cuckoos.
3677489|Failure to recognise own eggs (recognition errors) may be an important selective force behind acceptance of parasitic eggs, leading to a balance between rejecters and acceptors in a host population (the equilibrium hypothesis). We predicted that recognition errors should occur frequently among host species with intermediate rejection rates, whose rejection behaviour shows many conditional responses. The reed warbler Acrocephalus scirpaceus and great reed warbler A. arundinaceus fulfil these requirements. These two species were therefore used in an experiment where host birds were exposed to a common cuckoo Cuculus canorus dummy, either <2 m or 5-10 m from the nest, at fishponds in southern Moravia (Czech Republic). The hosts responded to the cuckoo dummy, great reed warblers being much more aggressive than reed warblers, and both species being more aggressive towards the dummy when it was close to the nest than when it was farther away. We furthermore predicted that there should be more eggs rejected (ejected or nest abandoned) due to recognition errors among hosts exposed to a dummy close to the nest than among both those exposed to a dummy farther away from the nest and towards controls not exposed to cuckoo dummies. When comparing egg loss between groups of birds that were exposed to a cuckoo dummy with those that were not, we found no significant difference. However, partial egg loss was frequent among hosts in the studied population, most probably due to cuckoo depredation. We discuss why there were no detectable recognition errors in the studied population, when other researchers have claimed to have found such errors in host populations elsewhere.
3676932|Although periodic weighing of chicks is used widely as a means to assess meal mass and feeding frequency in seabirds, there have been few critical assessments of its effectiveness. Using established methods, we were able to predict whether feeding had occurred with an accuracy of over 96% at nests where adult attendance was being monitored independently. This was despite the occasional provision of small meals which did not result in positive mass increments of chicks between weighings. However, information from repeat weighing could not be used to distinguish food delivery by both rather than a single parent within the weighing interval according to the relative sizes of mass increments. This may be because chicks are unable to cope with large meals from both adults because of gut capacity constraints. In addition, adults occasionally return from foraging trips with no food for the chick. These results have important implications for studies in which adult foraging trip durations are estimated solely using periodic weighing data, particularly in species with relatively short feeding intervals.
30243862|Videotaping is currently recognized as the most reliable method of predator identification at active bird nests but it is relatively expensive and labour intensive. While the number of published studies has increased over the past 10 years, the mean sample size is not increasing. Thirty-one case studies (n > 5 events) reported 6-70 (median = 22) predation events by 2-14 (6) species of predators. The number of predator species increased with a 0.50  0.09 (SE) power of sample size across studies (0.54  0.06 with the present study included). This relationship was consistent across single- and multispecies studies and corresponded well with that found within the present 5-year study (176 events, 20 species) where neither the annual nor the pooled-sample species accumulation curve reached an obvious asymptote. The species accumulation curve was smooth and fell within the confidence limits of the rarefaction curve over the entire range of sample sizes, suggesting homogeneous sampling. In 31 case studies the dominant predator accounted for 21-96% (38%) of total predation and this proportion did not correlate with the sample size across studies. In this study the observed proportion fluctuated widely until the cumulative sample size reached about 50 records and stabilized thereafter at the final value of 37%. Because the regional pool of potential nest predators is usually high, a complete enumeration of the local predator community is difficult with an acceptable nest monitoring effort. Correct identification of the dominant predators is likely even with small samples, but quantification of their share is uncertain when based on < 50 records. Researchers are encouraged to increase their sampling effort above the current level and to consider contingency of results upon sample size.
10.2307/3677346| Tracking radar studies were carried out during the summer 1996 in the central polar basin (85-90N) to investigate if birds accomplish transpolar migration. We here report the absence of bird migration from this region, in glaring contrast to the situation in more peripheral parts of the Arctic Ocean. Two possible explanations for the absence of regular intercontinental bird migration across the region around the North Pole are considered: (i) transpolar migration is of little evolutionary advantage, and (ii) orientation difficulties prevent migration at the pole. 
30243841|Survival during the first year is one of the most important factors determining fitness in birds. Birds have poor thermoregulatory abilities during the nestling period when the plumage is not fully developed, thus temperature during the nestling period is a serious candidate to affect post-fledging survival, although it has been usually ignored in previous studies. We analysed the relationship between temperatures and post-fledging survival in a great tit Parus major population in Sagunto (Spain) using capture-recapture data from 12 years. Hatching dates, mass at fledging and temperatures during the nestling period (maximum, minimum and mean ambient temperatures as an estimation of the mean and extreme weather conditions that chicks encountered at the nest) were used as individual covariates. Mean post-fledging survival was 0.13  0.01. Adult survival probability was 0.64  0.02. Multi-model inference suggested that post-fledging survival increased with fledging mass, and decreased as temperatures increased. Furthermore, the effect of mass on survival was less important as temperature was higher. We consider that high temperatures affect nestlings' health due to low thermoregulatory abilities of nestlings. Model selection did not support a relationship between hatching dates and survival once mass and temperatures were taken into account. The results suggest the possibility that the effect of date on post-fledging survival found in previous studies was, at least in part, a consequence of the seasonal pattern of temperature variation.
30244805|We studied the eviction behaviour of common cuckoo Cuculus canorus chicks by video recording at nests of great reed warblers Acrocephalus arundinaceus and reed warblers Acrocephalus scirpaceus. There were no significant differences in hatching mass and age at first eviction between cuckoos reared by either host. However, mass at eviction had a significant effect on the timing of first eviction event. No significant difference in time required to evict was found between serial intranest eviction events for cuckoos raised by either host. However, "great reed warbler" cuckoos evicted significantly quicker than "reed warbler" cuckoos during particular eviction events. A majority (70%) of "reed warbler" cuckoos evicted during the day, while most "great reed warbler" cuckoos evicted nocturnally (63%). We did not find any effect of the temperature inside or outside the nest on eviction behaviour. Both "great reed warbler" and "reed warbler" cuckoos evicted regardless the fact whether a parent was absent or present at the nest. Interestingly, individual cuckoos were consistent in their eviction behaviour relative to host presence or absence; particular cuckoo chick evicted only when the parents were present or absent from the nest.
3677459|Alexander Skutch predicted that nest predation will increase with activity at nests, and that predation should be greatest during the nestling stage when parents are feeding young. We tested this hypothesis using three ecologically similar grassland bird species nesting on the high altitude grasslands of Wakkerstroom, South Africa. Parental activity, measured as adult arrival and departure frequency from the nest, was greater during the nestling than incubation stage. Nest predation, however, did not increase with parental activity between these stages in all three study species. However, nest site effects could have confounded this result. We therefore conducted an experiment that controlled for parental activity (by reusing natural nests of the study species with artificial clutches) in order to test for nest site effects. Nests that had a high rate of predation when used by active parents had a correspondingly high rate of depredation when the same nests were reused with artificial clutches (i.e. after controlling for parental activity). This result supports the notion that variation in nest site quality is the primary factor affecting nest predation rate. We also tested whether high predation during incubation is related to nest site effects. Nest predation rates of experimental clutches placed in reused nests that had been originally (when active parents were present) depredated during incubation stage were significantly higher than those that were originally depredated during the nestling stage. Finally, once nest site effects were accounted for, nest predation showed a positive increase with parental activity during the nestling stage across species.
3677398|In many birds, females prefer males with the biggest or brightest sexual ornaments, which might reflect a higher phenotypic quality, such as fewer parasites. Unlike humans, most birds detect near-ultraviolet (UV) light, and UV signals can play an important role in sexual signalling and mate choice. Using a spectrophotometer, we analysed the colour of red grouse Lagopus lagopus scoticus sexual ornaments (their combs). We first show that combs reflect both in the red (600-700 nm) and UV (300-400 nm) part of the spectrum. Second, we investigated whether comb size and colour, and UV reflectance in particular, reflected an aspect of individual quality: the intensity of infection by a main nematode parasite, the caecal threadworm Trichostrongylus tenuis. We first analysed comb size and colour variation, and parasite intensity variation, in relation to sex and age. Males had bigger and redder combs than females, but UV brightness was greater for female than for male combs. Comb colour also differed between age groups, with young birds of both sexes showing brighter UV than old birds. Young grouse also had fewer T. tenuis worms than old grouse. We further tested whether intensity of infection could be predicted from comb characteristics (size and colour) in male and female red grouse. We found that parasite intensity was not significantly related to comb size or red brightness, but fewer worms were predicted from brighter UV in combs, in both males and females. The results indicate that UV reflectance of combs have a quality revealing function and might play an important role in grouse mate choice: UV brightness of combs could enable both male and female red grouse to assess the parasite loads of a potential mate.
10.2307/3677139|Variation in length and asymmetry of wing primary feathers can arise from a breakdown of developmental homeostasis, feather abrasion and incomplete growth during moult. Indirect predictions have been made concerning the impact of primary length and asymmetry on the flight ability of birds, but they have not been explicitly tested. Here we provide evidence from both natural variation in primary feather condition and experimental manipulations of primary feather length and asymmetry to indicate that these factors influence aspects of flight performance in the Common Starling Sturnus vulgaris. Damaged and incompletely grown primary feathers reduce escape flight performance. Experimentally reduced primary lengths reduce take-off speed; increased primary asymmetry decreases aerial manoeuvrability. A comparison of the experimental and natural plumage data indicates that birds may be able to adapt to a change in wing morphology, perhaps reducing the effects of feather loss or damage on flight. The results from this study indicate that primary feathers are under strong stabilising selection to maximise developmental homeostasis and reduce feather asymmetry. These findings are also of ecological importance to the damage-avoidance and moult strategies of these birds. This is the first experimental evidence to indicate a quantitative reduction in flight performance with feather lengths and asymmetries typical of those observed during flight feather moult and feather damage in any species.
30244433|Allocation of carotenoid pigments, either through nutritional provisioning or from endogenous reserves, makes up a form of non-genetic parental investment to progeny that may contribute to fitness. To date, carotenoids derived from endogenous reserves have been acknowledged as important vectors in translating only avian female phenotype and environmental conditions experienced prior to laying. Here, we show that in columbidae, crop milk delivered by both parents may provide chicks with a large amount of endogenous carotenoids at the postzygotic stage. Major carotenoids were xanthophylls and beta-carotene, but their concentrations showed large variation among individuals. Interestingly, a large amount of this variation was explained by brood identity, suggesting either environmental influences and/or phenotypic influences on a parent's ability to transfer these biomolecules. Our study therefore illuminates a potential new route for endogenous carotenoid-mediated parental effects.
3676933| We analysed the foraging behaviour of free-ranging Blue Tits Parus caeruleus in open holm oak Quercus ilex woodlands of western Spain during winter. Such woodlands are patchy for foraging tits because of the scattered distribution of trees and the patterns of abundance of canopy arthropods within and among trees. Results were compared with those obtained in spring of the same year, when we found that the foraging behaviour and spatial distribution of Blue Tits were largely unaffected by food availability (Pulido and Daz 1997). Patch (tree) residence time was highly variable both within and among individual birds, and it was uncorrelated with either previous travel time or patch quality. Contrary to a priori expectations, the behaviour of tits did not conform to short-term energy maximizing rules in winter, in spite of a 2.5-fold decrease in food supply from spring to winter and a likely 2-fold increase in bird requirements. Instead, birds tended to fly towards patches that were further away than locally available. Overall, we conclude that energy intake rate was not the fitness-related currency that birds were trying to maximize while foraging. 
25161521|We estimated nesting success of a breeding bird assemblage in the central Monte Desert in four breeding seasons (1995-1999). We analyzed the effect of year, period within the breeding season, nest type, and nest location on daily survival rates (DSR). Averaged nesting success of passeriforms in natural habitats was very low (<20% on average, n = 12 species). DSR tended to be lower during the egg-laying stage in Furnariidae, Rhinocryptidae, Mimidae, and Emberizidae. Tyrannidae had the highest DSR for all nesting stages and Emberizidae the lowest. Predation was the main cause of nest failure (>90% on average, n = 12 species). DSR differed among years, being higher in the driest year (1995) and lower in the most humid year (1997). Nests initiated in the first half of the breeding season had higher DSR than those initiated in the second half. Closed nests had similar survival rates to open nests. DSR differed according to species of plant that supported the nest. Nest predation in the central Monte Desert may be an important selective pressure in birds' life history, which is in accordance with other results for South American temperate birds.
10.2307/3677188|We use a new method to analyze time allocations influencing average egg temperatures during intermittent incubation. It measures relative investment in parental self-maintenance versus embryo development rate, or the extent to which performance for either is compromised from integration of both functions. Unlike attentiveness (min/hour on the nest), we compare time when eggs cool and heat with the subsequent time when egg temperatures are kept relatively constant
3677488| Reproductive success and the intensity of five separate seasonal sexual characters, expressed similarly in both sexes and likely to be dependent on age and/or individual condition, were documented at a colony of great cormorants at Lake Naivasha, Kenya (0046 S, 3622 E) in 1996. The characters assessed were head filoplumes, thigh patch feathers, colour of cheek, neck and upper breast plumage, colour of gular skin, and colour of suborbital skin. More intensely developed sexual characters at the time of pair formation were associated with significantly earlier breeding. Pairs that bred earlier fledged significantly more chicks than those breeding later. However, correlations between the number of chicks fledged and the intensity of the parents' sexual characters at pair formation were generally weak and not significant. An exception was the colour of the cheek, foreneck and upper breast plumage: males (but not females) with the darkest plumage in these areas fledged significantly more chicks than others. Correlations between paired male and female sexual character intensity were weak, and significant only in the case of suborbital skin colour. Other factors may have been more important than these characters in influencing mate selection. 
30243289|We conducted stable isotope analyses of nitrogen and carbon on feathers obtained from willow warblers in Africa to find an explanation for a previously observed pattern of different $\delta^{15}N$ and $\delta^{13}C$ values across a migratory divide in central Scandinavia. A new data set confirms that north Scandinavian birds of the subspecies P t. acredula have higher $\delta^{15}N$ values than south Scandinavian birds of the subspecies P t. trochilus. In Africa, we found significant differences for both $\delta^{15}N$ and $\delta^{13}C$ values among feathers collected from major geographical regions as well as between countries within regions. Isotope signatures of $\delta^{15}N$ and $\delta^{13}C$ in Scandinavian acredula matched well with those of willow warblers sampled in southern parts of Africa, but differed from samples obtained in East and West Africa. Isotope signatures in Scandinavian trochilus did not agree with the pattern in any of the three African regions (West, East or South). However, a more detailed analysis of the isotopic data in feathers from countries within West Africa, which is the wintering region of Swedish trochilus based on ringing recoveries, revealed a correspondence with samples from Liberia, the Ivory Coast and Nigeria.
10.2307/3677323| Chronically thyroidectomized male American Tree Sparrows were injected with 100 g L-thyroxine ( T
30245203|For migrants, we often lack complete information of their spatial distribution year round. Here, we used stable carbon, nitrogen and hydrogen isotope ratios extracted from feathers grown at the wintering sites of the long-distance migratory collared flycatcher Ficedula albicollis, to study how individuals from different breeding populations are distributed at the wintering sites. A sub-sample of birds was also sampled in two consecutive years to test for the repeatability of isotope ratios. Birds from the same breeding populations had more similar isotope ratios compared to birds from other nearby populations (10-100 km apart). Furthermore, isotope repeatability within individuals was high, implying that the observed pattern of isotope variation is consistent between years. We put forward two hypotheses for these patterns; 1) strong wintering site philopatry and migratory connectivity, suggesting that migratory connectivity may potentially be found on a much smaller spatial scale than previously considered, and 2) consistent interpopulation differentiation of feeding ecology at their wintering site.
30243835|Compared to most other birds, the taxonomy of crossbills (Loxia) is still highly unsettled. However, much progress seems to be achievable when data on vocalisations is included. In a recent paper, Summers et al. (2007) argued that strong assortative mating indicated that parrot crossbill Loxia pytyopsittacus, Scottish crossbill Loxia scotica and common crossbill Loxia curvirostra behave as good species when breeding in sympatry. Here I argue that their data, when placed in the context of other studies, also indicate that three vocally differentiated European populations within the common crossbill are species (following the biological species concept of Mayr (1963): species are groups of interbreeding natural populations that are reproductively isolated from other such groups). If this tentative conclusion remains to be upheld, it might have large repercussions for our understanding of the speciation process as well as for a number of more applied issues such as the discovery and description of biodiversity and the conversation of mobile, cryptic species.
3677753|The responses of male and female Long-eared Owls to a human approaching the nest were examined. Each nest was only tested once. Nest defence increased significantly throughout the breeding season because older chicks were defended more strongly than younger chicks and eggs. No correlations were however found between defence intensity and laying date, clutch- or brood-size. These results generally do not support either the renesting-potential hypothesis or the positive reinforcement hypothesis but are in accordance with both the age-investment hypothesis and the vulnerability hypothesis. Females defended nestlings more often and more vigorously than did males. Given division of labour between sexes and the related reversed sexual dimorphism in size, female Long-eared Owls may be more willing to engage in nest defence simply because they are always nearer eggs and chicks during all breeding stages and are larger/heavier than males; consequently they may allocate more time and energy to this activity. Finally, owls experiencing higher levels of human persecution took smaller risks when defending nests than owls breeding in an undisturbed area.
3677544|Non-invasive sampling is a useful tool for genetic analyses of endangered and/or elusive species, but it is often inapplicable due to the low quality and quantity of the DNA obtained. In this study we show that the blood clot located in the superior umbilicus of the feather shaft is a better source of DNA than the previously used tip samples from moulted feathers. We found that feather clots from museum specimens provided results nearly as good as footpad and better than those from the more commonly used museum skin snips. Feather clots proved to be a good source of DNA for genetic analysis that will significantly facilitate genetic monitoring of wild bird populations.
10.2307/3677124|Icterine Warbler Hippolais icterina and Melodious Warbler H. polyglotta are closely related species with parapatric breeding ranges. Their breeding ranges overlap only in a narrow zone in western Europe, where the Icterine Warbler population is presently declining and the Melodious Warbler population expanding. In eastern Burgundy (France), both species have bred in sympatry for at least forty years, but the Icterine Warbler started to decline in the mid-seventies. The two species differ in wing length and wing formula. Morphological variations of the wing were compared for the Icterine Warbler population in eastern Burgundy between 1965/76 and 1985/96. In the second period, wing length and wing characteristics of the Icterine Warbler approached those of the Melodious Warbler. The number of recorded heterospecific pairs also differed between the two periods. No similar morphological change was observed for the Melodious Warbler between the two periods. We discuss the evidence for unidirectional genetic introgression from the Melodious into the Icterine Warbler population as a likely explanation for this observed situation.
10.2307/3677297|The reasons why female birds engage in extra-pair copulations are largely unknown. A British study on House Sparrows claimed empirical support for a particular benefit to females. That conclusion is challenged in this note and an alternative interpretation of the results is suggested.
30244766|During eight years of study of a population of pied flycatchers Ficedula hypoleuca breeding in central Spain, we observed throughout incubation 22 cases of intact eggs being placed on the nest rim and clearly outside of the nest bowl and remaining there, with consequent embryo mortality. We assume that the removal of eggs had been performed by the incubating female. There is no evidence that pied flycatcher parents can detect embryo mortality and eject unhatchable eggs. Maternal egg ejection constitutes a direct mechanism of clutch size adjustment during incubation and before hatching of any young of the brood. This adjustment of clutch size happened when the mean and minimum temperature of the day before ejection were especially low. Also, clutch-reducing females were significantly more prone to show moult-breeding overlap than other females, suggesting a lower disposition to invest in reproduction. Clutch-reducing females were also frequently older than four years and had indications of a lower immunocompetence than females not ejecting eggs. Our results support the hypothesis that adverse conditions can elicit parental family size adjustment at every stage of reproduction without the need to depend on mechanisms of sibling competition.
30245324|Different populations of a species tend to vary in survival and reproduction, but the extent and scale of such spatial variation are poorly known. We estimated survival and clutch size of kelp gulls Larus dominicanus vetula across their entire African range. At this large geographic scale, we found no evidence for spatial variation in survival, and there was no variation in clutch size. However, there was considerable variation in clutch size among colonies within regions. Over the whole study, mean annual survival of juvenile and adult birds was 0.44 and 0.84, and mean clutch size was 2.2 eggs. A matrix population model showed that population growth was least sensitive to variation in clutch size, and the observed variation in clutch size could not fully account for the observed variation in population growth among colonies and regions. Our results thus suggest that dispersal and/or variation in survival (including egg/nestling survival) at a small spatial scale are also important for the spatial pattern of kelp gull population dynamics. These results are consistent with a metapopulation approach to spatial population dynamics.
30244434|To empirically determine the effects of sample size on commonly used measures of average genetic diversity, we genotyped 200 song sparrows Melospiza melodia from two populations, one genetically depauperate (n = 100) and the other genetically diverse (n = 100), using eight microsatellite loci. These genotypes were used to randomly create 10,000 datasets of differing sizes (5 to 50) for each population to determine what the effects of sample size might be on several estimates of genetic diversity (number of alleles per locus, average observed heterozygosity, and unbiased average expected heterozygosity) in natural populations of conservation concern. We found that at small sample sizes of 5 to 10 individuals, estimates of unbiased heterozygosity outperformed those based on observed heterozygosity or allelic diversity for both low-and high-diversity populations. We also found that when comparing across populations in which different numbers of individuals were sampled, rarefaction provided a useful way to compare estimates of allelic diversity. We recommend that standard errors should be reported for all diversity estimators, especially when sample sizes are small. We also recommend that at least 20 to 30 individuals be sampled in microsatellite studies that assess genetic diversity when working in a population that has an unknown level of diversity. However, research on critically endangered populations (where large sample sizes are impossible or extremely difficult to obtain) should include measures of genetic diversity even if sample sizes are less than ideal. These estimates can be useful in assessing the genetic diversity of the population.
3677776|Hooded warbler Wilsonia citrina males vary greatly in the frequency and duration of their off-territory forays in search of extra-pair copulations. We used radiotracking and microsatellite parentage analysis in high and low density populations to determine if (1) high foray rate or time off-territory reduces within-pair fertilization success, and (2) if a high foray rate onto the territory of a fertile female increases the likelihood of obtaining EPFs with that female. Males who left their territory often, or for longer periods, did not have lower within-pair fertilization success. Some males repeatedly visited a neighboring fertile female, but in only 3 of 19 cases where radiotagged males visited a fertile female did the male actually sire offspring with that female. Male foray rate onto a fertile female's territory was not a good predictor of whether or not he sired extra-pair offspring with that female. We suggest that mate choice and extra-pair behavior by females may explain why male foray behavior does not correspond closely with actual fertilization success.
10.2307/3677043|Starlings leave their winter roosts each morning in a series of exoduses so that the process of departure is prolonged, taking up to 50 min. Assuming that Starlings attempt to maximise the time available for feeding on short winter days, we predicted that: (1) birds that feed far from the roost would leave earlier than birds that feed nearby, and (2) birds that are less efficient at foraging or are competitively inferior should either leave before, or follow, "better" birds, and should feed closer to the roost. We tested these predictions by radio-tracking birds as they left roosts and while feeding at farms to determine when these individuals left and where they fed. We also determined the ages and sexes of Starlings from different exoduses, and assessed the social structure of feeding flocks at farms close to and far from the roost. Starlings that fed further from a roost did not leave earlier than birds that fed nearby, and first-year females left later than adult males but did not follow them. Farms differed significantly in the age structure of their feeding Starlings; some had proportionately more adults whilst others had proportionately more first-year birds. These data failed to support our predictions. In order to reconcile the observed departure pattern with the heterogeneous population structure at feeding sites we propose that dominant, usually adult birds, depart the roost first and attain the best feeding sites, and that when the subordinate younger birds overfly these sites later they can gauge the potential level of competition and decide whether to stop or fly on.
3677719|The Iberian azure-winged magpie Cyanopica cyanus shows a remarkable ability to discriminate against great spotted cuckoo Clamator glandarius eggs. Here, I studied whether egg recognition in this species could be a derived feature resulting from intra-specific brood parasitism. Azure-winged magpies showed a very high level of discrimination and rejection of great spotted cuckoo models (73.7%), and of conspecific eggs (42.8%), even when no evidence of great spotted cuckoo or conspecific brood parasitism has been found in the population. Azure-winged magpie discriminated more readily than magpies, the current favourite host of the great spotted cuckoo. The high rejection rate of conspecific eggs by the azure-winged magpie suggests that it is quite possible that egg discrimination in this species evolved in response to conspecific brood parasitism rather than to cuckoo parasitism.
3677600|Male quality may influence both the outcome of sperm competition and female faithfulness. In male house sparrows Passer domesticus, the size of the black throat patch (badge) signals dominance and perhaps attractiveness. So far, however, no study has reported any significant relationships between badge size, paternity and paternity assurance behaviours in this species. We found that the time mates spent together at the nest was positively correlated with badge size. Furthermore, although paternity losses were influenced by both the time spent at the nest and within-pair copulation frequency, we found no relationship between copulation rate and badge size. It seems therefore that copulation frequency served as a paternity assurance behaviour, whereas the time mates stayed together at the nest may have reflected male attractiveness. Alternatively, females may have decided to stay with large-badged males because they were better able to protect them from harassment by strange males. We also found that paternity losses were related to male badge size; average-badged males were cuckolded more often than males with smaller or larger badges. We suggest that average-badged males suffered higher paternity losses because they had different time allocation strategies than other males.
3677573|In many populations of size dimorphic birds, brood sex ratios change with advancing laying date. The slopes of these trends, however, vary in time and space, both between and within species. We studied brood sex ratios (proportion of males) of northern goshawks Accipiter gentilis in Finland in relation to laying date using ringing data from 1989 to 1998. At the nationwide scale, i.e. the whole of Finland, between-year variation in offspring sex ratio was moderate, and the sex ratio did not change with later laying date. At a regional scale, the sex ratio was seasonally constant in one region but decreased in another, although the laying-date/brood-size relationship was identical. Hence, the size and sex composition of goshawk broods are locally two uncoupled facets of reproduction. Both the national and regional patterns differ drastically from the pattern of a Dutch population, where sex ratio increased seasonally. We suggest that spatial variation in inter-annual seasonal sex-ratio trends might be indicative of the scale at which sex-ratio feedback functions. The sex ratio of breeders is a factor that could add to the understanding of the observed geographical differences in seasonal sex-ratio patterns.
3677413| Population structure and gene flow were inferred from isozyme variation at 26 loci among five populations of Limnothlypis swainsonii (Swainson's Warbler; Parulidae), a Nearctic-Neotropic migrant songbird breeding in the unglaciated southeastern U.S.A. These populations exhibit relatively high levels of heterozygosity
10.2307/3677327|Results from studies of parent-offspring interactions over brood size have been interpreted both as being the result of cooperation and conflict. The key question is if brood reduction is adaptive or non-adaptive from the parents' point of view. This can be linked to hypotheses suggested as explanations of hatching asynchrony. One set of hypotheses states that, by starting to incubate before clutch completion and so creating a size hierarchy in the brood, parents can later trim the brood to the optimal size. Thus, brood reduction is adaptive and parents and surviving offspring cooperative over the size of the brood. Other hypotheses view brood reduction as an unselected side-effect and cost of an early start of incubation within the laying sequence. The cost will be in the form of non-adaptive loss of small nestlings through sibling competition even though freeding conditions may be adequate for raising the whole brood. Thus, parents and offspring disagree over brood size. To test this, the published experimental manipulations of hatching asynchrony were used. Higher fledging success in asynchronous control broods than in experimentally synchronized broods would indicate parent-offspring cooperation, whereas the opposite result would indicate parent-offspring conflict over brood size. The result of the analysis showed that 83% of all species with adequate data had higher fledging success when the broods were made synchronous compared to asynchronous control broods. Even when differences in mass between nestlings in synchronous and asynchronous broods were considered, the majority of studies indicated the existence of a parent-offspring conflict over brood size. The reduction of asynchronous broods is a consequence of the offspring being in a position to exert their will, which is possible due to the presence of one or more easily outcompeted runts in such broods.
3677524|Age-related reproductive performance of great cormorants Phalacrocorax carbo sinensis was studied in a tree nesting colony in Denmark in relation to age-related improvements of competence and progressive disappearance of phenotypes. Within-individual changes in fledgling production were measured, and cross-sectional analyses were applied. The within-individual analyses showed that competence improved with age and/or that individuals showed restraint to optimize their reproductive effort. The within-individual improvements were three to six times higher among individuals that survived and returned to breed beyond the fourth breeding attempt than among individuals disappearing from the breeding population before the fourth breeding attempt. Taking this into account the within-individual improvements explained 70-90% of the age-effect observed in the population over the youngest ages. Effects of breeding experience were significant for females, but only within the group of individuals that were present in the breeding population beyond the age of five years. In males, improvements arose because of unknown factors related to age. Individual great cormorants that bred beyond the age of five years had higher reproductive success, on average, than birds disappearing from the breeding population earlier in life. This supports the differential survival hypothesis. However, the effect on the population mean was partly counterbalanced by late recruitment of other inferior breeders. It is concluded that the enhancement in fledgling production with increasing age was primarily an effect of age-related improvements of competence and secondly an effect of progressive disappearance of phenotypes.
30245330|To test whether competitive and predatory interactions limit larder size we erected pygmy owl Glaucidium passerinum nest-boxes for hoarding with 45 mm entrance diameter near and far (> 2 km) from Tengmalm's owl Aegolius funereus nest-boxes with > 80 mm entrance diameter during early autumn. We found larders of pygmy owls in similar frequency in both near and far plots (41 vs. 42% of plots), but in near plots the number and biomass of cached prey by pygmy owls were lower. These results suggest that there is competition for food between these two owl species and/or that food caching behaviour of pygmy owls is disturbed by larger Tengmalm's owls.
10.2307/3677196|The Spoonbill populations in Europe are fragmented and threatened. The dynamics of the species is poorly known but ringing and observation programmes are under way. Here we estimated the local survival of two colour-ringed populations of Spoonbills in the Netherlands. Adult survival and sighting rates, estimated with the Cormack-Jolly-Seber model, were high and constant over a 10-year period (1986-1996) and no differences could be detected between the two populations. Juvenile survival, estimated from the observed return rate, did not vary over a 5-year period (cohorts 1986-1990). However, at least in one of the two populations, the proportion of birds returning by two years of age increased over a 9-year period (cohorts 1986-1994). Thus there is only weak support for the idea that the recent increase in population size was driven by an increase in local survival. Our work on survival provide a first step towards a larger appreciation of the population dynamics and life-history of the Spoonbill.
30244472|The golden-mangrove whistler complex Pachycephala pectoralis/melanura is, with 66 named populations, described as the most complex avian example of geographic variation in the World. It represents a well-known example of niche differentiation where one species P. pectoralis is found on faunistically rich larger islands (and mainland) and the other P. melanura is confined to adjacent, faunistically poor islets. Except for a comparison of some Solomon Island populations, the relationships among these taxa have not been tested using molecular data. Here we combine a dense taxon sampling (22 populations of 12 named taxa distributed east of New Guinea and in Australia), with molecular data (two nuclear and two mitochondrial markers) to unravel more of the evolutionary history behind the golden whistler complex. In particular we examine relationships between Pachycephala melanura, and the very similar-looking P. citreogaster (Bismarcks Islands) and P. pectoralis (Australia). We demonstrate that a well-supported group of golden whistlers inhabit the Bismarck Islands and that several small islets in the immediate vicinity are inhabited by another monophyletic group consisting of P. melanura, mangrove golden whistler.
30244444|Many avian species are negatively impacted by urbanization, but other species survive and prosper in urbanized areas. One factor potentially contributing to the success of some species in urban areas is the reduced presence of predators or parasite vectors in urban compared to rural areas. In addition, urban areas may provide increased food and water resources, which can enhance immune capacity to resist infection and the ability to eliminate parasites. We determined patterns of blood parasitism, body condition, and immune cell profiles in urban and rural populations of five adult male songbird species that vary in their relative abundance within urban areas. Urban birds generally exhibited less blood parasitism than rural birds. This difference was particularly evident for the urban-adaptable Abert's towhee Pipilo aberti. In contrast, no difference in haemoparasitism was seen between urban and rural populations of the curve-billed thrasher Toxostoma curvirostre, a less-urban adaptable species. In two closely related species, the curve-billed thrasher and the northern mockingbird Mimuspolyglottos, urban birds had a higher leukocyte count and a higher heterophil to lymphocyte ratio, which is often associated with chronic stress or current infection, than rural birds. Urban northern mockingbirds were in better condition than rural counterparts, but no habitat-related differences in condition were detected for other species. Parasitic infection was correlated with body condition in only one species, the canyon towhee Pipilo fuscus. Parasitic infection in most species was correlated with changes in leukocyte abundance and profile. The findings suggest that interspecific differences in parasitic infection cannot be attributed entirely to differences in vector abundance or body condition. Interactions between immune function, parasite infection risk, and resource availability may contribute to determining the relative ability of certain species to adapt to cities.
10.2307/3677162|We describe and compare the migration routes, length of migration, and duration of migration of Peregrine Falcons Falco peregrinus tundrius and Swainson's Hawks Buteo swainsoni in the Western Hemisphere. We radio tracked migrants using the Argos satellite system. Our initial samples were 34 Swainson's Hawks from representative areas of their breeding range, and 61 Peregrine Falcons captured at nest sites across the North American boreal forest and low Arctic or on the migration routes along the mid-Atlantic and Gulf of Mexico coasts. The average distance of migration for Peregrines was 8,624 km southward, and 8,247 km northward. Peregrines travelled at an average rate of 172 km/d southward and 198 km/d going north. Peregrine Falcons used at least three broad, general routes south from the breeding areas, and individuals stopped migrating as far north as the U.S.A. mid-Atlantic coast and as far south as central Argentina. The radiomarked Peregrine Falcons used coastal routes, mid-continental routes, and water-crossing routes: the Davis Strait and Caribbean Sea. During northward migration, Peregrines migrating through at Padre Island, Texas diverged for destinations from central Alaska across the continent to central West Greenland. Swainson's Hawks migrated an average of about 13,504 km southward and 11,952 km northward, and travelled 188 km/d southward and 150 km/d northward. Swainson's Hawks converged in eastern Mexico on the Gulf of Mexico coast. Southward, these hawks followed a narrow, well-defined path through Central America, across the Andes Mountains in Columbia, and east of the Andes to central Argentina where they all spent the austral summer. Swainson's Hawks northward migration largely retraced their southward route.
3677756|Bird song structure may honestly reveal the health and vigour of individual males to potential mates and competitors. If this is the case then song may reflect the level of parasitic infections in males. We initially examined the relationship between blood parasite infections and the time taken to respond by 22 male Tawny Owls to a broadcast hoot. We then examined the call structure (total length and frequency) in relation to parasite infection, an index of owl condition and an index of food abundance. Owls with higher parasite loads responded more slowly to an intruder, although this relationship was not significant once condition and vole abundance were controlled for. We found no relationship between call length and any of the measured variables. However, the high frequency and the range of frequencies used in calls decreased with increasing parasite load. Thus, there was the potential for individuals to assess male parasite load from the speed of response and the structure of the call. Experimental tests of these relationships are now required.
3677528|In the context of sexual selection carotenoid based signals are candidates for indicator traits: they have to be taken up in the diet by animals, they can indicate the ability of the bearer to accumulate a limited resource, and they help in maintaining the health status. We investigated the yellow-orange colouration of the tarsi of the kestrel Falco tinnunculus in relation to sex, diet and to different aspects of male reproductive behaviour. The colouration of the tarsi (estimated as hue) was more intense in males than in females. Among males, the tarsi hue was associated with the intake of invertebrates; this was true also if the population diet was based mainly on voles. Carotenoid based colouration was positively associated with the number of vertebrate preys delivered to the nest per time unit and with territory quality (calculated on the basis of home-range size, habitat extension and prey availability). These results are consistent with predictions derived from good-parent models of sexual selection, suggesting that in the common kestrel carotenoid based colouration is important as an indicator of male quality.
10.2307/3677325|We studied the dawn chorus in the Willow Tit Parus montanus, a monogamous and territorial passerine. We expected that if the song is part of sperm competition, a male should invest most in singing during the period when his female is fertile. A total of 57 pairs of Willow Tits was observed during the spring of 1992. To express singing effort, two variables characterising the dawn chorus were measured for each morning: proportion of time devoted to singing and the onset of singing. Time singing peaked about ten days before commencement of laying, and decreased afterwards. The earliest singers were observed during the laying-period. Time singing differed between male age classes; old males sang more than yearlings. Our results indicate that the dawn chorus in Willow Tits functions as inter- and/or intrasexual communication used in sperm competition. Since adult (high quality) males tended to invest more in singing than yearlings, it is also possible that the dawn chorus is honest advertisement of male quality.
25662898|In migrating birds body mass change during stopover is often used to evaluate the quality of a stopover site. Because such body mass changes are difficult to survey in migrating birds various methods were developed to allow the analysis of larger sample sizes. In this article we present patterns of repeated body mass measurements of individual birds and the commonly used method of plotting body mass over time of day of birds being trapped only once. We repeatedly measured body mass of 89 northern wheatears Oenanthe oenanthe, when stopping over at a small island in the North Sea. A balance beneath bowls offering mealworms ad libitum was used to weigh their body mass several times per day. From these repeated body mass measurements we have generated a general model of daily mass gain patterns and nocturnal mass loss. Daily body mass changes followed in general an asymptotic curve progression with highest gain rates in the morning hours. During night birds lost about 5% of the evening body mass irrespectively of local wind force, temperature, night length or precipitation. By plotting first traps by time of day no such pattern in body mass increase was evident. Even in a simulated situation with repeatedly measured birds increasing their body mass, no such body mass increase could be shown when plotting one randomly chosen measurement of each bird per day. This "first-traps-by-time-of-day-method" depends highly on sample size, overall mass increase and the mass variation between individuals and will produce a traceable body mass increase only under certain circumstances.
10.2307/3677329|After failing to find any density-effects in a colony of California Gulls Larus californicus, Jehl (1994) cautioned recently that inferred nest-density effects in studies of large gulls may be only apparent. Judging from other sets of data, I argue that in the Herring Gull L. argentatus, nest density affects productivity, but, as pointed out by Jehl, data on mechanisms are scarce. It seems that more detailed studies would be needed to ascertain the role of different types of intruders in shaping the spatial patterns used by Herring Gulls while nesting. I suggest that the "density-dependent paradigm" should not be considered bankrupt unless proven to be so.
30244477|The African Odyssey project focuses on studying the migration of the black stork Ciconia nigra breeding at a migratory divide. In 1995-2001, a total of 18 black storks breeding in the Czech Republic were equipped with satellite (PTT) and VHF transmitters. Of them, 11 birds were tracked during at least one migration season and three birds were tracked repeatedly. The birds migrated either across western or eastern Europe to spend the winter in tropical west or east Africa, respectively. One of the juveniles made an intermediate route through Italy where it was shot during the first autumn migration. The mean distance of autumn migration was 6,227 km. The eastern route was significantly longer than the western one (7,000 km and 5,667 km respectively). Important stopover sites were discovered in Africa and Israel. Wintering areas were found from Mauritania and Sierra Leone in the west to Ethiopia and Central African Republic in the east and south. One of the storks migrating by the eastern migration route surprisingly reached western Africa. Birds that arrived early in the wintering areas stayed longer than those arriving later. On the average, birds migrating via the western route spent 37 d on migration compared to 80 d for birds migrating via the eastern route. The mean migration speed in the autumn was 126 km/d and the fastest stork flew 488 km/d when crossing the Sahara. The repeatedly tracked storks showed high winter site fidelity.
30244826|A comparative analysis using both independent contrasts (CAIC) and a species level analysis was used to investigate the allometric scaling of avian wing-bone lengths. Total arm (ta = humerus + ulna + manus) scaled with positive allometry as body mass <tex-math>$(AM)^{0.37-039}$</tex-math>. Similarly, and in accordance with previous studies, wing-span (b) was positively allometric, but CAIC suggested a lower allometric exponent (<tex-math>$M^{0.35}$</tex-math>) than found using species as independent data points (<tex-math>$M^{0.39}$</tex-math>). Contrary to previous studies, individual wing-bones appear to scale with similar exponents against M and scale isometrically with ta. In addition to a general trend for larger birds to have longer wings, wing-bones and ta, their ta was a larger proportion of their b. A detailed study of primary feather length and elbow joint angle across a wide range of bird species and bird size, however, is required before a conclusive explanation for this increase in ta relative to b in larger birds can be established. Scaling equations are presented that can be used to predict M, ta and b from individual wing-bone lengths, which may be of use to palaeontologists wishing to reconstruct whole animals from single bones.
10.2307/3677102|We investigated the impact of Cuckoo Cuculus canorus parasitism on Reed Warbler Acrocephalus scirpaceus breeding success in the southeastern part of the Czech Republic. Of 1108 nests, 178 (16.1%) were parasitized. We compared several breeding parameters of parasitized and unparasitized Reed Warblers as well as the effects on breeding success of three responses adopted by parasitized individuals; acceptance, ejection and desertion. Unparasitized nests fledged 0.48 young per egg laid, whereas parasitized nests fledged a mean of only 0.05 young per egg laid. Among the parasitized individuals, ejectors had a breeding success of 0.29, while the corresponding value for the acceptors was 0.03. Parasitized individuals may renest after deserting the nest, but only 30% of parasitized individuals deserted. We discuss the absence of nest desertion as a defence against Cuckoo parasitism based on the evolutionary lag and the equilibrium hypotheses. The frequency of Cuckoo parasitism was fairly constant throughout the breeding season, while the Reed Warbler's clutch size declined significantly during the same time, probably reflecting the costs of re-nesting for deserting individuals.
25161503|Recent studies on the function of female plumage characteristics have yielded ambiguous results. Some studies have found an association between different physiological, ecological or behavioural traits and female plumage, while others have found no association and interpret female plumage as neutral in function. We observed a high variance among females in both wing plumage and breeding success in female Common Goldeneyes Bucephala clangula, a sexually plumage-dimorphic diving duck. We studied the association between female wing plumage and hatching date. Principal component analysis of four wing patch area measurements derived a single factor describing wing plumage. Wing plumage was strongly associated with hatching date, which is the most important determinant of goldeneye recruit production; irrespective of age, females with more white in the wing bred earlier than individuals with more black in the wing. We propose that the wing pattern in Common Goldeneye females reflects individual quality.
10.2307/3677159|We developed a dynamic state variable model of individual migrating shorebirds for use in testing hypotheses about spring migration strategies of the Pectoral Sandpiper Calidris melanotos. We conducted model sensitivity analyses to determine how predicted migration schedules might vary with respect to the landscape and the physical environment. In landscapes with closely spaced, high-quality stopovers, female Pectoral Sandpipers can vary widely in their migration schedules and still arrive on the breeding grounds early enough and with sufficient energy reserves to achieve maximum reproductive success. Such a population might appear quite variable, and show no stopover patterns, even if all individuals were making optimal decisions. Latitudinal gradients in temperature and photoperiod differentially affect a bird's energy budget as it moves northward in the spring. Stopovers at more northerly locations are associated with higher metabolic rates, lower food abundance in early spring, and longer days for feeding. The optimal migration schedule in these conditions can be quite different from that in a homogeneous environment, and patterns observed in the field can be misinterpreted if the environmental gradients are not considered. The landscape and the physical environment shape migration schedules and influence one's ability to interpret patterns observed at stopovers. Modeling these factors may lead to new insights about migration adaptations in heterogeneous environments.
3677402|Hatching failure is a pervasive phenomenon in birds, but factors affecting hatchability remain poorly understood. We studied proximate causes and fitness consequences of hatching failure in a long-monitored population of the colonial lesser kestrel Falco naumanni. We investigated whether hatchability was related to clutch characteristics, parental traits, and social or environmental features. Hatching failure represents a cost for the parents in terms of immediate fitness, since it reduced both their number of young fledged and recruits in the breeding population, even when controlling for clutch size. Hatching failure showed a non-linear relationship with clutch size, clutches of four eggs showing higher levels of hatching success than larger or smaller clutches. Hatchability could therefore play a role in the evolution of optimal clutch size in this species, at least constraining the maximum number of eggs the parents can afford to incubate. Contrary to most studies, the mean volume of the clutch and the individual egg volume were negatively related to hatching failure, indicating that large eggs have thermoregulatory and/or nutritional advantages. Mean daily maximum temperature during incubation affected hatching success negatively, but only for females in poor condition. This result seems to indicate that females are reluctant to jeopardize their own condition, but instead sacrifice incubation effort by paying the costs of a lower hatching success in circumstances of high temperatures. There was no evidence that hatching failure was related to the intrinsic properties of individuals or genetic similarity between the parents as indicated by low repeatabilities of: (1) males that bred with different females, (2) females that bred with different males, and (3) pairs breeding together in different years. Neither colony size nor subpopulation size affected hatchability. All these findings show how hatching failure is simultaneously influenced by several factors acting in a complex way, which could in part explain the apparently conflicting conclusions of empirical or even experimental studies carried out to date.
25662893|Several studies have suggested a greater role for olfactory cues in avian social interactions than previously recognized, but few have explicitly investigated the effect of odor on parental behavior. We present results from a preliminary study in which we applied hetero- and conspecific preen gland secretions, which are known to contain volatile compounds, to the nests and eggs of incubating female dark-eyed juncos Junco hyemalis. The responses to these two conditions were compared to the responses of females whose nests were treated with their own preen oil as a control condition, and to females whose nests were treated with the vehicle only. We found that females significantly reduced incubation bout length, a form of parental care, in response to alien secretions, more so if they came from a heterospecific than a conspecific. Females did not reduce incubation bout length in response to their own preen oil or to a vehicle-only control. These results suggest that odors in the nest may influence avian parental care. However, the behavioral change was only temporary and had no effect on later hatching success. In our study population, brood parasitism by brown-headed cowbirds is common, but resulting nest abandonment is rare; juncos are frequently able to successfully breed even with cowbird nestlings in their nests. Thus, we suggest that more extreme behavioral responses to alien odor, such as nest abandonment or egg ejection, may not be adaptive and should not be expected.
3677596|Most studies that have tested the egg-recognition and egg-rejection ability of European cuckoo Cuculus canorus hosts have used artificial model eggs that are much harder than real Cuckoo eggs. Here we evaluate whether the use of such models overestimates the costs of egg rejection by hosts. We tested 17 potential cuckoo host species in south-eastern Spain with both artificial hard cuckoo-egg models and real eggs taken from a population of house sparrows Passer domesticus breeding in captivity. The puncture resistance of sparrow eggs, measured in the laboratory, was more similar to that of real cuckoo eggs than was the resistance of artificial models, although sparrow eggs were less resistant than real cuckoo eggs. Potential host species with a grasp index greater than 200 mm
30243878|Ornithologists interested in the drivers of nest success and brood parasitism benefit from the development of new analytical approaches. One example is the development of so-called "log exposure" models for analyzing nest success. However, analyses of brood parasitism data have not kept pace with developments in nest success analyses. The standard approach uses logistic regression which does not account for multiple parasitism events, nor does it prevent bias from using observed proportions of parasitized nests. Likewise, logistic regression analyses do not capture fine scale temporal variation in parasitism. At first glance, it might be tempting to apply log exposure models to parasitism data, but the process of parasitism is inherently different from the process of nest predation. We modeled daily parasitism rate as a Poisson process, which allowed us to correct potential biases in parasitism rate. We were also able to use our estimated parasitism rate to model parasitism risk as the probability of one or more parasitism events. We applied this model to redwinged blackbird Agelaius phoeniceus nesting colonies subject to parasitism by brown-headed cowbirds Molothrus ater. Our approach allowed us to model parasitism using a wider rage of covariates, especially functions of time. We found strong support for models combining temporal fluctuations in parasitism rate and nest-site characteristics. Similarly, we found that our annual predicted parasitism risk was lower on average than the risk estimated from observed parasitism levels. Our approach improves upon traditional logistic regression analyses and opens the door for more mechanistic modeling of the process of parasitism.
10.2307/3677107|Interspecific comparisons have previously shown both a dullness in male plumage and a reduction in wing length of both resident and island species compared with migratory and continental species, respectively. Intraspecific comparisons between subspecies were used to investigate whether these differences also occur within races of the same species and whether the effects of migration and island endemism are separate and additional, or identical, island endemics being resident. Continental migrant subspecies had both more colourful male plumage and longer wings than continental resident subspecies. Continental resident subspecies were longer winged and tended to be more colourful than island resident subspecies. No difference in either coloration or wing length was found between continental migrant and island migrant subspecies. In a three-way comparison, the order continental migrant > continental resident > island resident was supported for both wing length and plumage coloration. Intraspecific variation therefore parallels interspecific variation in male plumage coloration and wing length, and the trait reduction in island subspecies is additional to the reduction associated with residency, but conditional on lack of migration. Possible differences in natural and sexual selection pressures on coloration ensuing from insular and migratory life styles are discussed.
10.2307/3676979|When King Penguin Aptenodytes patagonicus males arrive on the breeding grounds to start courtship, their energy reserves must sustain them during a fast lasting about five weeks, including the first incubation shift. If the female is delayed in relieving the incubating male, he must make a state-dependent decision of how long to wait until abandoning the egg (i.e. breeding failure). This is ultimately a life-history trade-off between current reproduction and future survival, and includes consideration of the size of his remaining energy reserves and his ability to replenish exhausted body reserves (foraging skills). Experienced males that abandoned the egg weighed significantly less (9.49 kg) at departure than relieved males (10.43 kg), but inexperienced males abandoned the egg at a nearly significantly higher body mass (10.27 kg) than experienced males. I conclude that experienced birds can compensate for lower body reserves by being more proficient foragers.
30243840|The "cost-benefit" hypothesis states that avian body organs show mass changes consistent with the trade-off between their functional importance and maintenance cost, which may vary throughout the annual cycle. Flightless moulting common scoter Melanitta nigra in Danish marine waters select rich undisturbed offshore feeding areas lacking predators, suggesting active feeding during moult. We tested four predictions relating to organ size during flightlessness in moulting male common scoter under this hypothesis. Namely that (i) pectoral muscles would show atrophy followed by hypertrophy, but that there would be no change in (ii) leg muscles and heart (the locomotory architecture required to sustain diving for food), (iii) digestive organs and liver (required to process food), or (iv) fat deposits (because birds could fulfil daily energy requirements from locally abundant food resources). Dissection of scoters collected at different stages during wing moult south of the Danish island of Ls provided data on organ size that were consistent with these predictions. Pectoral muscle mass showed a c.23% atrophy during the middle of the flightless period relative to that at the end of moult. There was no significant loss in leg muscle, heart, digestive organs (except gizzard mass), liver, fat reserves or body mass with remigial growth. These findings are consistent with the hypothesis that common scoter moult in a rich feeding area, and rely on their diet to meet the nutritional requirements of remigial moult. These results differ in detail from those of a similar study of terrestrial feeding moulting greylag geese Anser anser, but because of the widely differing ecology of the species concerned, both sets of findings provide strong support for the hypothesis that variations in phenotypic plasticity in size of fat stores, locomotor and digestive organs can be interpreted as evolutionary adaptations to meet the conflicting needs (feather growth, nutritional challenges and predator avoidance) of the flightless moult period in different Anatidae species.
3677795|During the last 40 years, few species of African birds have undergone more taxonomic revision than the olive thrush Turdus olivaceus. This is due to disagreement on how to partition the striking phenotypic variation among allopatric populations. The current consensus is to recognise one species T. olivaceus, split into three assemblages: (1) the olivaceus group restricted to southern Africa, (2) the swynnertoni group of the Zimbabwean and southern Malawi highlands, and (3) the abyssinicus group of the montane highlands of eastern and central Africa. Mitochondrial DNA sequences from 63 individuals were analysed to investigate the phylogenetic relationships among 16 taxa (species and subspecies) in the olivaceus species complex (plus seven outgroup species), with, particular emphasis on the relationships and taxonomic status of the endangered Taita thrush (helleri). Phylogenetic hypotheses generated using parsimony, maximum likelihood, and Bayesian inference identified a number of discrete clades corresponding to recognised subspecies. Northern (abyssinicus clade) and southern populations (olivaceus+swynnertoni clade) of olive thrush differ by 9-10% in sequence divergence. Furthermore, all analytical methods suggested that helleri (Taita Hills) and roehli (Usambara and Pare Mountains) are reciprocally monophyletic with respect to mtDNA, and 2.5 to 10.5% divergent from all other forms of olive thrush. Both helleri and roehli are surrounded in adjacent highlands by populations of olive thrush that represent a more recent radiation, suggesting that helleri and roehli may be relict taxa which have been able to maintain their genetic integrity. The results of this study support previous arguments for recognizing the arid/woodland T. smithi as a species distinct from other southern African forest populations of T. olivaceus (including the swynnertoni group). Results further suggest that T. abyssinicus, T. helleri, and T. roehli be accorded species rank.
10.2307/3677091|It is unclear whether natural odours, including those associated with faeces or feathers, affect clutch survival in waterfowl and other ground-nesting birds because results of previous studies are potentially confounded by effects of nest density and habitat features. Thus, we conducted 6 experiments (40-125 clutches/test) over 3 years with natural and novel odours, evaluating effects on survival of simulated clutches (3-4 chicken eggs) while controlling nest density, habitat, clutch concealment, frequency of visits and local patterns of predation. Clutches treated with commercial duck scent, pond water, or a novel odour survived as well as controls. In a dose-response experiment, clutch survival did not vary with the amount of commercial duck scent. However, clutch survival declined with the addition of Mallard Anas platyrhynchos faeces mixed with pond water and, to a lesser extent, with down feathers removed from hatched nests. Higher survival of simulated nests relative to natural ones may be associated with differences in odours. Furthermore, nest predation may rise in the vicinity of nests when human visits cause birds to defecate on or near their nests.
3677625|We sequenced parts of three mitochondrial genes in 67 great spotted woodpeckers Dendrocopos major taken from 17 sites across Eurasia and Japan. Two groups, differing by ca. 3% sequence divergence, were determined to have had independent evolutionary histories: samples from the southeast (Sakhalin, Primor'e, Hokkaido), and the rest of Eurasia. The southeastern group corresponds to the subspecies D. m. japonicus, which will likely merit species status upon study of all subspecies; at present it should be considered an evolutionarily significant unit. From the United Kingdom to the Russian North Pacific, no phylogeographic divisions were found, which is likely a result of recent range expansion following retreat of permafrost after the last ice age.
3677421|In many colonial bird species there is considerable intraspecific variation in colony size and inter-nest distance (colony density). Possible causes of this variation and its effects on hatching success (survival of eggs) and breeding success (probability of a pair raising chicks) were studied in 48 Avocet Recurvirostra avosetta colonies in Schleswig-Holstein (Germany) between 1991 and 1996. Colony density was influenced by time of year and habitat (categories: island or mainland, close to or far from feeding grounds). Colonies on islands had the highest densities. When all available space at a colony site was used, colonies became very dense (mean nearest-neighbour nest distance less than 1 m). Colony size (number of clutches) was influenced by time of year, but not by habitat. Hatching success was low in high density colonies and in very low density 'colonies' (single nests) and high over a broad range of intermediate nest densities. The low success rate of single nests was caused by a very high predation rate, whereas the low success rate in very dense colonies was caused by a high rate of nest abandonment. Nest abandonment in very dense colonies was associated with a high level of aggressiveness among Avocets during the egg-laying period. Due to territorial behaviour, Avocets seemed to be expelled from the densest breeding sites. In very dense colonies, high frequencies of clutches of unusual size occurred due to conspecific nest parasitism. The number of Avocets taking part in attacks on potential egg predators was small and (in colonies of more than one clutch) depended neither on colony size nor on colony density. Despite a low hatching success in very dense colonies, individuals breeding in the densest colonies had significantly better chances of raising chicks than Avocets breeding in less dense colonies. Coloniality seemed to be obligatory for Avocets in order to ensure hatching success. The size and density of colonies seemed to be associated with the availability of suitable nesting habitats (islands).
30245210|It has been hypothesized that it is adaptive for birds to build new nests annually in order to avoid the accumulation of ectoparasites. Previous studies on costs of ectoparasitism have focused on cavity nesters in nestboxes while largely ignoring reproductive consequences in natural tree cavity nests, the context where nest selection strategies presumably evolved. To see whether ectoparasitism could be a driving selective force in the evolution of nest excavation in a woodpecker, I experimentally fumigated a subset of freshly excavated cavities and a subset of reused cavities of the northern flicker Colaptes auratus and compared reproductive performance with a set of control nests. The main ectoparasite of nestlings, a blood-sucking fly Carnus hemapterus, may have appeared one or two days earlier in reused nests but there was no difference between fresh and reused nests in intensities of flies one week post-hatching. Prevalence of parasitism reached 100% in both reused and freshly-excavated control nests in the second week. Nestlings from control nests had lower body mass residuals than those from fumigated nests after 15 d and fledged at a lower weight, suggesting that ectoparasitism by C hemapterus was costly. However, fresh nest construction was no benefit, likely because the high dispersal ability of the ectoparasite meant all nests were colonized rapidly. Parents did not adjust provisioning effort according to parasitism as delivery rates did not differ between control and fumigated nests but delivery rates increased with brood size.
3677521|When a predator is not an immediate threat, a prey may produce relatively loud alarm calls because the risk is low. Since such calls could nevertheless attract acoustically oriented predators, the cost of predator attraction must be outweighed by factors beneficial to the caller. In this field study we elicited low-risk alarm calls by temporarily catching wintering adult male great tits Parus major at feeders both within and outside their territories. We tested whether the alarm calls of dominant males can be explained in terms of mate warning, reciprocal altruism or notifying the predator of detection. If alarms are intended to warn mates, males accompanied by their mates should give alarm calls both within and outside home range, even if other permanent flock members are absent. If alarms are to be explained by reciprocal altruism, male great tits should give low-risk alarm calls when accompanied by permanent flock members other than mate within and not outside of the home-range. If alarm calling is a message to a predator, males should call when foraging alone. We found that male great tits gave low-risk alarm calls when accompanied by their mates, independent of feeder location. They also gave low-risk alarm calls within home ranges in the presence of other permanent flock members when mates were absent. In contrast, only a few males gave calls when foraging alone within their home ranges, or when in the company of unfamiliar great tits outside their usual home-range. The results suggest that the utterance of alarm calls may be explained as mate protection and reciprocal altruism among familiar individuals.
10.2307/3677232|There are three models of parasite-mediated sexual selection by female choice. Females may get (1) indirect, genetic gains; (2) direct, parental care gains and (3) direct contagion avoidance gains. Little is known about frequency and mechanisms of parasite transfer during mating. In an experiment, 20 male pheasants had lice removed. One week later sticky tape was placed on their legs and they were then allowed to mate with Mallophaga-infested females. A significant number of males were infested with lice within two seconds. These results support the contagion avoidance hypothesis, while not discounting other models.
10.2307/3677237|We used a PCR-SSCP assay to sex 288 nestling Corn Buntings Miliaria calandra from 113 clutches studied between 1988 and 1990 in the Western Isles, Scotland. In each year the sex ratio was not statistically different from 1:1. Brood sex ratios did not deviate significantly from the binomial distribution when tested by robust randomisation tests. Although the effect was not strong, the proportion of males in broods declined as the breeding season progressed in 1989, although the opposite trend was observed in 1988 and 1990. Overall, we found no effect of year, timing of breeding, levels of polygyny, brood size or female size on brood sex ratios although several terms had significant interactions with year due to the effects of the data collected in 1989. Independently of brood size, the feeding rates of males, females or both combined did not vary in relation to brood sex ratios. However, the proportion of feeds provided by fathers was highest at male-biased broods when brood size was small (1-3 young) but a female-biased broods when brood size was large (4-5 young).
3677613|Haematology and plasma biochemistry values are useful tools for ecological research. They have been used to investigate the physiological state and the adaptation of individuals to their habitat, changes in nutritional state of birds, body condition, the level of parasite infestation, male quality, the physical condition of nestlings, etc. In the present study we tested the role of haematological and plasma biochemistry values in burrowing parrots Cyanoliseus patagonus (Aves, Psittaciformes) for determining individual quality and condition. We measured triglyceride levels, plasma protein levels, plasma hue and erythrocyte sedimentation rate of nestlings and breeding adults in a colony in the north of Patagonia, Argentina. We found that plasma triglyceride levels strongly relate to changes in individual condition. Plasma levels of triglycerides were found to be strongly related to mass change, hatching order and brood size in nestlings. Levels of triglycerides were found to reflect reproductive effort in adults: males fledging larger broods had decreased levels of triglycerides. Adults with lower body condition had increased erythrocyte sedimentation rates. Plasma hue showed a strong relationship with an ornamental trait, the red abdominal patch of male adults, and with parameters of structural body size. Thus, we have shown that haematological and plasma biochemistry values, especially plasma levels of triglycerides, are good indicators of individual quality and condition in nestlings and breeding birds.
3677689|Mobbing is a widespread anti-predator strategy in birds, and predators are generally expected to avoid mobbing. For example, observational studies suggest that the cryptic roosting behaviour of nocturnal predators, such as many owls, may be a strategy to limit mobbing. In this paper, we present the results of the first experimental study investigating to what degree roost exposure influences the risk of being mobbed, and the intensity of a mobbing incidence once initiated. To determine these factors, we used an experimental setup with taxidermic mounts of tawny owls Strix aluco in Grib Skov forest, Denmark. The risk of an owl being mobbed during a 50 min morning survey period increased with the exposure of its roosting position, from 24% when hidden to 85% when openly exposed. The corresponding increase in the afternoon was from 6% to 36%. This suggests that an owl may minimize the mobbing rate by reducing the encounter rate with potential mobbers through its choice of roost. Once initiated, the duration of the mobbing (a proxy for the presumed cost of being mobbed) was independent of the roosting position of the mounted owl, but was positively correlated with the number of birds in the mob.
30243911|We report for the first time the existence of a structural mechanism of feathers different from iridescence that makes plumage conspicuous. By using electron and light microscopy, we show that the mechanism consists of special lengthened and twisted distal barbules that are very susceptible to damage. The dorsal side of these barbules is translucent, which creates a distinctive sheen colouration to feathers that otherwise would be dark. When distal sheen barbules are broken, the black proximal barbules are exposed, thus generating a conspicuous difference between abraded and non-abraded areas. Total and ultraviolet reflectance of sheen (non-abraded) areas are strikingly higher than in abraded areas. We propose that this mechanism represents a case of convergent evolution in species that are limited in developing colourful plumage patches. Future studies should explore the potential of this colour mechanism to act as a signal of individual quality or identity.
10.2307/3677316|Wing size and shape variation in thirteen species of Old World leaf warblers, genus Phylloscopus, were examined using wing formulae and principal components analysis. Data were taken from male individuals in breeding populations in Northern India and Japan. Species with longer wings migrate further and hover less than species with shorter wings. Species with more pointed wings migrate further and are more arboreal than species with rounder wings. Findings agree with those from previous studies on the genus Phylloscopus. Both foraging behaviour and migration distance have affected wing size and shape evolution in the genus.
30244425|During nine years of study, we detected a mechanism corresponding to site dependence operating in a population of the sedge warbler Acrocephalus schoenobaenus inhabiting a natural wetland of high within-habitat heterogeneity. Sites with a larger share of cover by tall wetland vegetation were preempted during spring settlement; they were occupied in more breeding seasons and by more experienced males. The fitness of males occupying these sites was higher in terms of local recruit production. The total area occupied by the population expanded or contracted depending on population size. This mechanism increased or decreased the mean site quality, influencing local recruitment of young, although mainly by changing the share of unproductive sites in the total pool of occupied sites. The results indicate that population demographic rates may depend on the spatial heterogeneity of resources at the level of individuals.
10.2307/3677193|To investigate aspects of neighbor recognition in a migratory bird with large and complex song repertoires we conducted playback experiments in the field with male territorial Thrush Nightingales Luscinia luscinia as subjects. Males sing with immediate variety and neighbors can share a considerable part of their repertoire of song components and song types. Subjects responded significantly more to their neighbors' song broadcast from the unshared (opposite) territorial boundary than to playback of the same song broadcast from the shared territorial boundary. Thus, this study did not detect constraints on neighbor recognition imposed for instance by large and complex song repertoires, high singing versatility, or sharing of song patterns. Because Thrush Nightingales sing shared patterns in different ways, either by constructing different song types out of the shared pool of elements or by singing shared song types in different sequential order, they could attend to song components and their syntactical arrangement, full songs, or their sequential delivery for neighbor recognition. Which mechanism they use might depend on the similarity of the song and singing style of a singer compared to other familiar conspecifics.
10.2307/3677160|We illustrate how a general technique for finding optimal cyclic routines can be applied to annual routines of migration. We present a schematic model in which there are two locations that differ in terms of food availability. We demonstrate how the model can be used to investigate the factors that determine the timing of migration. Reproductive values emerge from the model rather than being assumed. The form of the relationships between reproductive value and a bird's energy reserves and condition on the completion of the autumn migration is very different from that on the completion of the spring migration. The difference suggests that the timing of migration is more critical in spring than in autumn.
30244758|Ducklings reared by a hen swim with dry plumage a day or two after hatching, while incubator-hatched ducklings of the same age may sink and even drown when placed in water. The common interpretation is that wild-reared chicks receive preen oil from the parent, and this oil makes them more waterproof. Using mallard ducklings Anas platyrhynchos we tested the effect of preen and other oils, as well as hydrophilic or surfactant contaminants, on the water resistance of down. We found that the true cause for the difference between incubator and hen-reared ducklings is the presence of hydrophilic hatching fluid residues in the down of incubator-hatched ducklings. Once well rinsed and dried, incubator-hatched ducklings can swim for over an hour with essentially dry down. Other tests showed that clean down is quite water resistant, and that water resistance was not improved by preen or other oils. Small amounts of preen or other oils had no effect on water repellency or wetting during surface swimming. However, oil decreased the hydraulic pressure needed to penetrate down. Down lacks the stabilizing interlocking structure of adult contour feathers, and small amounts of oil apparently cause barbules to stick together and reduce the effective number of down fibers. Detergent decreases water repellency and increases water retention, and has a more severe effect on oiled down or when applied in combination with oil. The penetration pressure of a clean down coat, 866  154 Pa, could allow static immersion to ca. 8cm before water would saturate the down and increase thermal conductance. Thus, clean ducklings have a 2 x -3 x safety margin for surface swimming. Saturation increases the thermal conductance of the down coat from 14.3  1.38 W/m-C to 193  25 W/m-C. Thus, water pollution or down contamination causing wetting can significantly increase energy use and the frequency of hypothermia.
3677465|The successful use of stable isotopes to track migratory animals between different seasons of the annual cycle depends, in part, on the turnover rate of isotopes in sample tissue. We examined whether stable-carbon isotopes in the blood of a long-distance migratory bird, the American redstart Setophaga ruticilla, sampled upon arrival to the temperate breeding grounds could be used to track the quality of habitat used the previous season on the tropical wintering grounds. Stable-carbon isotopes in red-blood cells sampled upon arrival <tex-math>$(\delta {}^{13}{\rm C}{}_{{\rm RBC}})$</tex-math> were significantly less negative relative to: 1) plasma sampled upon arrival from the same individuals, 2) red-blood cells of redstarts recaptured more than a month later on the breeding grounds, and 3) nestling feathers grown at the same breeding location. <tex-math>$\delta {}^{13}{\rm C}{}_{{\rm RBC}}$</tex-math> was also significantly different between sexes, consistent with findings from the wintering grounds where sex-biased habitat use is known to occur. Although individuals likely integrate some isotopic signatures during migration, we provide evidence that cellular blood can be used to track the relative habitat use of migratory birds during the wintering period. Non-destructive methods of sampling stable-isotopes, such as this, are particularly useful because it provides a technique for tracking the patterns of habitat use and/or geographic location of migratory animals. Such approaches allow researchers to understand how events throughout the annual cycle interact to influence population dynamics.
30245188|Several studies demonstrated that bird song functions as a first line of territorial defence. The efficiency of deterring rivals depends strongly on the strategy of singing used (e.g. alternating/overlapping singing, singing with low/high rate, matching song type of a rival or singing different type). Causes of between males variation during countersinging are still not fully understood, especially when different signals have similar production costs and their meaning is assigned by arbitrary convention (conventional signalling). We tested whether an oscine bird with small repertoire size, the ortolan bunting Emberiza hortulana, differentiate strategy of responding to song of an intruder in relation to its age and threat value of signals. We performed playback experiments to measure response of second year (SY) and after second year (ASY) males to a song of low (eventual variety singing) and high (immediate variety singing) threat value. We found substantial differences in response to playback, which were related both to the type of stimuli used and age of responding males. Both SY and ASY males gave more calls than songs in response to immediate variety playback, which suggest stronger vocal response to the signal of higher threat value. Approaching loudspeaker was similar for both age classes when lower threat value signal was played back, while simultaneously SY males clearly avoided approaching loudspeaker when stronger threat values signal was played back. We conclude that ortolan bunting differentiate response to signal of different threat value and that the strength of response depends on the age of a male. This study provides experimental evidence that age of receiver affects its response to a territorial intruder. It also demonstrates that observed in many studies variation in response to playback may be an effect of age differences between males, which rarely is controlled.
3676996|Ring recoveries were used to explore the effect of early experience on the subsequent survival and dispersal of young Sparrowhawks in two areas in south Scotland. Young raised on high grade territories were recovered in greater proportion than young on low grade territories, implying that they had survived better after leaving the nest. Recovery rate tended to decline with increasing elevation of the nesting territory, implying that young from the high-ground territories survived less well than those from low-ground territories. Recovery rate showed no relationship with broodsize or sex composition, or with maternal age (yearling or older). After the post-fledging period, dispersal distances were greater in females than in males and showed significant increases with increasing elevation of nesting territory (one area only) and with lateness of laying (or fledging) date. Regardless of laying date, young males from yearling mothers also dispersed further than young from older mothers, and young males from high elevation territories further than those from lower territories. No significant relationships emerged between dispersal distances and grade of natal territory, brood size or sex composition.
3677761|Fluctuating asymmetry may impair locomotion but may also reflect intrinsic phenotypic quality. I tested whether fluctuating asymmetry of adult Barn Swallows Hirundo rustica negatively influenced offspring quality, by estimating the relationship between parental asymmetry and offspring size, condition and immunocompetence during three breeding seasons. Controlling for timing of breeding, brood size and the size of a secondary sexual character (tail length), wing and outermost tail feather asymmetry of male and female parents was not significantly correlated with offspring size, condition and immunocompetence. This was the case in spite of clear differences in nestling quality among years. In addition, parents with extreme asymmetries due to tail feather damage (not representing fluctuating asymmetry) did not have nestlings of lower quality than parents with undamaged tail feathers. These results indicate that there is only a weak relation between parental asymmetry and offspring quality.
3677681| We documented natal and breeding dispersal at several spatial scales by Galpagos Nazca boobies Sula granti, a wide-ranging pelagic seabird. We found exceptionally low degrees of both types of dispersal despite these birds' vagility. Median natal dispersal distances were 26 m and 105 m for males and females, respectively. Median breeding dispersal distances for both sexes were 0 m. No natal or breeding dispersals occurred from our study site at Punta Cevallos, Isla Espaola to six other colonies in the Galpagos, but we did document four long-distance natal dispersals from Punta Cevallos to islands near the South American coast. Recaptures and dead recoveries of ringed birds showed long distance non-breeding movements to the Central American coast and elsewhere in the eastern Pacific, contrasting with the very limited dispersal to breeding sites. 
3677778|Extra-pair paternity is typically rather infrequent in seabirds, as in most other long-lived and socially monogamous birds. Here we report the first paternity study of the little auk Alle alle, a high arctic seabird which raises only a single chick per year. Parentage was determined using three highly polymorphic microsatellite markers. We found that all 26 chicks in our sample were true genetic offspring of their social parents, with an upper 95% confidence limit of 10.88% for the frequency of extra-pair paternity. This level of extra-pair paternity is not significantly different from frequencies reported from the closely related common Uria aalge and Brnnich's guillemots U. lomvia.
30243894|In many sexually size-dimorphic species of birds and mammals, the larger sex, often the males, show increased environmental sensitivity during ontogeny. This is generally assumed to be due to higher energy requirements, reflected in higher absolute growth rates of the larger sex. Poor early conditions often increase the sex differences in vulnerability. However, it is not clear whether these patterns are equally pervasive in species where females are larger, as males face an additional early disadvantage due to high levels of testosterone. We investigated sex-specific growth patterns of mass, tarsus and wing of the great skua Stercorarius skua, a seabird with reversed size dimorphism. We were particularly interested in sex-specific effects of early conditions on growth. Beside data from unmanipulated nests, we present results from an egg removal experiment, which caused chicks to hatch from smaller eggs and in poorer body condition. Half of the experimental chicks were raised by pairs in which mothers were in poor body condition. At the end of the nesting period, great skua chicks exhibited a comparable degree of size dimorphism as is found in adults, although neither sex had reached final adult size. Despite females reaching larger asymptotic values of mass and tarsus, timing of growth was not different between the sexes. Absolute growth was higher for females around the time of maximum growth, which suggests that daughters face higher energetic demands. We found sex-specific effects of poor early conditions on growth patterns, although not to the extent which we had predicted. Hatching in poor body condition was related to slowed growth in females but not males. However, our experimental manipulations had no additional negative effect on growth. Our results indicate that daughters in the great skua face higher demands during growth than sons, and that early conditions are more important for the development of the larger sex in this reversed dimorphic species.
10.2307/3677053|In a two year study of a small breeding group of Grey Phalaropes Phalaropus fulicarius in Iceland the sex ratio was male-biased and polyandry was recorded in three of six female-years. Most observations suggested that males competed for females, in contrast to most other phalarope studies. Return rates of breeding males were also exceptionally high. No young were successfully fledged in either year, the causes of reproductive failure being a marked prevalence of inviable eggs and mortality of all chicks prior to fledging.
30244452|Identifying the natal origins of brood parasites is a major challenge that usually requires labor-intensive searching for nests of host species. Stable isotope analysis of feathers and other body tissues of parasitic young could be a possible tool for determining natal origins if tissues reflect the isotopic composition of the diet fed to nestlings. We measured the carbon ( $^{13}C$ ) and nitrogen ( $^{15}N$ ) isotope compositions of feathers for two age-classes of brown-headed cowbirds Molothrus ater at the Konza Prairie Biological Station near Manhattan, Kansas: nestlings raised by five species of songbird hosts in two different habitats, and juveniles captured after independence. Isotope values from cowbird nestlings did not differ among host species and we were unable to assign juvenile cowbirds to their natal hosts. However, nestlings raised in grassland habitat had feathers that contained significantly higher $\delta^{13}C$ values and lower $\delta^{15}N$ values than nestlings raised in shrub habitats. In addition, independent juveniles had isotopic signatures that were similar to cowbird nestlings raised on shrub habitats. Although dickcissel Spiza americana comprised the majority of samples from shrub habitats, our conclusions reflect the natural pattern of parasitism at the site and should be representative of cowbirds raised at Konza. We conclude that stable isotope analysis of feathers is effective for determining the natal origins of parasitic young if isotope values from nestlings are isotopically distinct among habitats.
10.2307/3677194| The Snow Petrel Pagodroma nivea is an Antarctic seabird that shows considerable geographic variation and sexual dimorphism in size, males being on average 10% larger than females. The origin and significance of body size variation in this species remain controversial. Two types "P. n. major" and "P. n. minor" are said to hybridize at a few localities (Jouventin and Viot 1985). Here, we examine body size variation, mating system, and possible hybridization between the two types of Snow Petrel using 470 individuals from two different breeding sites (Casey and Adlieland) where they are suspected to hybridize. We then use measurements of individuals from 12 different populations to test the hypothesis that sexual selection is the factor that has led to sexual dimorphism in that species. At Casey two different populations breed sympatrically, whereas only one population showing great variation in body size was found at Adlieland. Mating was assortative by type but hybridization between "P. n. major" and "P. n. minor" occurred at both sites. Hybridization appears to be more recent at Casey than at Adlieland, and results from Casey indicate that hybrids mostly result from pairs consisting of male "major" and female "minor". The considerable body size variation observed at Casey and Adlieland probably reflects hybridization of the two types. The amount of sexual dimorphism in size correlates with body size in the 12 Snow Petrel populations studied; sexual dimorphism was greater among populations of the larger type than among populations of the smaller type. These results support the sexual selection hypothesis and suggest that a variety of processes may contribute to the observed patterns of geographic variation in body size in the Snow Petrel. Other hypotheses that seek to explain the evolution of sexual dimorphism are considered and discussed for the Snow Petrel. 
3677441|The woodcreepers is a highly specialized lineage within the New World suboscine radiation. Most systematic studies of higher level relationships of this group rely on morphological characters, and few studies utilizing molecular data exist. In this paper, we present a molecular phylogeny of the major lineages of woodcreepers (Aves: Dendrocolaptinae), based on nucleotide sequence data from a nuclear non-coding gene region (myoglobin intron II) and a protein-coding mitochondrial gene (cytochrome b). A good topological agreement between the individual gene trees suggests that the resulting phylogeny reflects the true evolutionary history of woodcreepers well. However, the DNA-based phylogeny conflicts with the results of a parsimony analysis of morphological characters. The topological differences mainly concern the basal branches of the trees. The morphological data places the genus Drymornis in a basal position (mainly supported by characters in the hindlimb), while our data suggests it to be derived among woodcreepers. Unlike most other woodcreepers, Drymornis is ground-adapted, as are the ovenbirds. The observed morphological similarities between Drymornis and the ovenbird outgroup may thus be explained with convergence or with reversal to an ancestral state. This observation raises the question of the use of characters associated with locomotion and feeding in phylogenetic reconstruction based on parsimony.
3677746|I investigated whether plumage features are sufficient for species recognition in two sibling sympatric raptor species: the Montagu's harrier Circus pygargus and the hen harrier C. cyaneus. These species are similar in body size and differ slightly in plumage. During prelaying and laying periods, I placed artificial models close to nests of both species, simulating a conspecific male harrier (male of the same species), a heterospecific male harrier (male of the other species) or a wood pigeon Columba palumbus (acting as a control of the same size and colour). All of them represented birds perched in a neutral posture, so that they could only be recognised by their plumage differences. The use of plumage traits during this period would be particularly relevant in discriminating between their own and other species, offering the opportunity to avoid unnecessary fights, and therefore maximising the benefits of defence. I measured male responsiveness by recording aggressive behaviour towards each model (aggressive rate and time spent close to the female). Male presence time was significantly longer during conspecific decoy presentation than during heterospecific decoy presentation. Furthermore, males of both species were more aggressive towards the conspecific decoy than towards the heterospecific one, and no attacks towards the control were recorded. These results provide evidence that these birds are able to recognise plumage features of their own and the sibling species.
10.2307/3677198|Established pairs of Arctic Skuas Stercorarius parasiticus showed high repeatability in clutch volume (both within and between years), moderate repeatability in laying dates, but low repeatability in chick growth. Males that changed partner showed no repeatability in clutch volume or chick growth but did show repeatability in laying date, whereas females that changed partner did not show repeatability in laying date or chick growth but did show repeatability in clutch volume (indicating that laying date is determined predominantly by male quality, and clutch volume by female quality). In addition, pairs with males in better body condition laid earlier in the season, and females in better body condition laid clutches of greater volume. We suggest that variation in timing of breeding of Arctic Skuas arises from differences between males in their ability to provide sufficient prey to get the partner into reproductive condition, but clutch volume may be constrained by the female's ability to store the resources for egg production.
3676927| To reduce nest predation certain duck species nest in association with more aggressive species. For instance, Pochard Aythya ferina and Tufted Duck Aythya fuligula often nest in association with small larids, such as the Black-headed Gull Larus ridibundus. I studied nest predation, nesting association and nest site requirements of Pochard and Tufted Duck in central Finland (63N, 27E) observing natural and artifical nests. Predation of Pochard and Tufted Duck nests was of similar extent and stronger outside than within gull colonies. An experiment with artficial nests also showed that a higher proportion of nests was preyed upon outside than within gull colonies (0.98 and 0.13, respectively). The results are consistent with the hypothesis that nest predation is lower within than outside gull colonies. Tufted Ducks nest more often with gulls than do Pochards; 61.5% of Tufted Duck nests and 29.3% of Pochard nests were found within gull colonies. 
10.2307/3677338|The classical theory of cross-country soaring flight postulates climbs in discrete thermals, separated by glides through stationary air, and prescribes an "optimum" speed for the inter-thermal glides, based on the performance of the glider or bird, and the rate of climb in thermals. However, it is known that glider pilots usually fly slower than the theoretical optimum speed between thermals, and often achieve faster cross-country speeds than the maximum predicted by the theory. The reasons for this are analysed in relation to a survey of real thermals over the Serengeti National Park, Tanzania. About 1500 km was flown in straight lines, in a Schleicher ASK-14 motor glider, measuring the airmass lift (vertical velocity of the air) at 15-s intervals. It is shown how the bird or pilot can increase the mean rate of climb in the sample of thermals that are actually used, and so increase the cross-country speed, by selecting an inter-thermal speed below the supposed optimum. If the air between thermals is not stationary, the time lost in circling can be further reduced by variations of speed during the inter-thermal glides. Eventually, if thermals are organised into lines or "streets", circling can be eliminated altogether, and linear soaring becomes possible. Linear soaring is also sometimes possible along ridges and escarpments. Soaring in discrete thermals may be seen as one end of a spectrum of soaring techniques, with linear soaring at the other end, giving much higher cross-country speeds. In straight flight, soaring and flapping are end members of another spectrum, connected by various intermediate techniques. A bird migrating by flapping flight in a straight line can reduce its power requirements by flying through thermals or other forms of rising air.
30243843|Vocal duetting, where two birds produce temporally coordinated vocalizations, has been reported in a taxonomically and geographically diverse set of avian species. Researchers have suggested a number of potential correlates of duetting, including long term monogamy, year-round territory defense and sexual plumage monomorphism. Because the majority of duetting species are tropical, they have been the focus of the most comprehensive studies to date. There is, therefore, a real need for data regarding avian duets in temperate species. I used the recently completed Birds of North America species reports to examine the frequency, evolutionary origins and potential life history correlates of duetting behavior in North American passerines. "Duetting" behavior was reported in 7% of species from 12 avian families, likely representing 17 separate evolutionary origins. Duetting species showed apparent long term monogamy and year-round territoriality at frequencies more than double those of non-duetting passerines: 65% of duetting species were long term monogamous, compared to 27% of non-duetting species, and 50% of duetting species defended the same territory throughout the year, compared with only 11% of non-duetting species. Duetting and non-duetting species showed statistically indistinguishable frequencies of sexual plumage monomorphism. Comparative analyses of duetting species and their sister taxa revealed that the shift to duetting is accompanied by a gain of long term monogamy and year-round territoriality more often than it is associated with a loss of those traits. This study provides intriguing summary evidence that selective factors promoting duetting may be associated with a sedentary, monogamous lifestyle, and may operate similarly across taxonomic groups. Furthermore, vocal duetting may be considerably more common among temperatezone species than previously recognized.
3677453|Compilation and analysis of information from the literature regarding cross-species microsatellite amplification and polymorphism success, and relating this to source-target species genetic distance as estimated by pairwise cytochrome b (cytb) divergence, enabled an in-depth investigation of factors affecting avian cross-species microsatellite amplification. Source-target species cytb distances provided accurate estimates of cross-species microsatellite amplification/polymorphism success rates not only in birds, but also in taxa where microsatellites cross-amplify across contrasting levels of taxonomic classification (frogs and cetaceans). As cytb is one of the most commonly sequenced DNA regions, pairwise cytb genetic distances should therefore be useful for predicting cross-species microsatellite success across a range of taxonomic groups. While the most important factor affecting cross-species microsatellite amplification/polymorphism success was a negative association with source-target species genetic distance, associations with additional features affecting cross-species amplification/polymorphism success included: decreasing PCR annealing temperature significantly increasing the chance of successful cross-species amplification, and a significant positive association between source species polymorphism and the proportion of target species in which a locus revealed polymorphism. No association between cross-species amplification and repeat motif (di-, tri-, or tetranucelotide) or repeat structure (perfect, imperfect, or compound) was observed. A set of nine loci which cross-amplified across an unusually broad range of passerine bird species were also identified, and could serve as a good starting point for cross-species amplification testing in passerine species for which insufficient loci are available.
30244443|Although both repertoire sharing and individual variation have been studied widely in male solo song, few studies have investigated these aspects of song in a species that performs complex duets. This study examined song repertoires of both males and females of the plain wren (canebrake subspecies, Thryothorus modestus zeledom), which performs antiphonal duets, and tested for patterns of repertoire sharing at the level of the individual and of the pair. We suggest that both males and females of the plain wren develop their phrase repertoires by direct imitation from other individuals of their sex, but that males, who may exist for a period as 'floaters' after dispersal, learn their songs from a wider pool of tutors than do females. In contrast to considerable individual repertoire sharing, whole duet types were very rarely shared between pairs, despite the potential for this to occur. This suggests that duet types are developed within the pair without reference to other pairs and the implications of this for duet functions are discussed.
3677759|We examined physiological and morphological responses of reproductively active male White-plumed Honeyeaters Lichenostomus penicillatus to exogenous testosterone (T). Birds used in the experiment were held in captivity for two weeks and then were given subcutaneous implants which were either empty (controls) or T-filled silastic capsules (T-treated). Basal metabolic rates (BMR) measured just prior to implantation and again four weeks later were not affected by treatment and were indistinguishable from BMR measured in free-living White-plumed Honeyeaters, averaging 3.2 ml
30243827|Extrapair mating strategies are common among socially monogamous birds, but vary widely across ecological and social contexts in which breeding occurs. This variation is thought to reflect a compromise between the direct costs of mates' extrapair behavior and indirect benefits of extrapair fertilizations (EPF) to offspring fitness. However, in most free-living populations, the complete spatial and temporal distribution of mating attempts, genetic characteristics of available mates, and their relative contribution to EPF strategies are difficult to assess. Here we examined prevalence of EPF in relation to breeding density, synchrony, and genetic variability of available mates in a wild population of house finches Carpodacus mexicanus where all breeding attempts are known and all offspring are genotyped. We found that 15% of 59 nests contained extra-pair offspring and 9% of 212 offspring were sired by extra-pair males. We show experimentally that paired males and females avoided EPF displays in the presence of their social partners, revealing direct selection against EPF behavior. However, at the population level, the occurrence of EPF did not vary with nests dispersion, initiation date, synchrony, or with distance between the nests of extrapair partners. Instead, the occurrence of EPF closely covaried with genetic relatedness of a pool of available mates and offspring of genetically dissimilar mating tended to be resistant to a novel pathogen. These results corroborate findings that, in this population, strong fitness benefits of EPF are specific to each individual, thus highlighting the ecological, social, and genetic contingency of costs and benefits of an individual's extrapair behaviors.
3677404|Work against buoyancy during submergence is a large component of the energy costs for shallow diving ducks. For penguins, buoyancy is less of a problem, however they still seem to trade-off levels of oxygen stores against the costs and benefits of buoyant force during descent and ascent. This trade-off is presumably achieved by increasing air sac volume and hence pre-dive buoyancy <tex-math>$({\rm B}_{\text{pre}})$</tex-math> when diving deeper. Tufted ducks, Aythya fuligula, almost always dive with nearly full oxygen stores so these cannot be increased. However, the high natural buoyancy of tufted ducks guarantees a passive ascent, so they might be expected to decrease <tex-math>${\rm B}_{\text{pre}}$</tex-math> before particularly deep, long dives to reduce the energy costs of diving. Body heat lost to the water can also be a cause of substantial energy expenditure during a dive, both through dissipation to the ambient environment and through the heating of ingested food and water. Thus dive depth <tex-math>$({\rm d}_{{\rm d}})$</tex-math>, duration and food type can influence how much heat energy is lost during a dive. The present study investigated the relationship between certain physiological and behavioural adjustments by tufted ducks to <tex-math>${\rm d}_{{\rm d}}$</tex-math> and food type. Changes in <tex-math>${\rm B}_{\text{pre}}$</tex-math>, deep body temperature ( T<sub> b</sub>) and dive time budgeting of four ducks were measured when diving to two different depths (1.5 and 5.7 m), and for two types of food (mussels and mealworms). The hypothesis was that in tufted ducks, <tex-math>${\rm B}_{\text{pre}}$</tex-math> decreases as <tex-math>${\rm d}_{{\rm d}}$</tex-math> increases. The ducks did not change <tex-math>${\rm B}_{\text{pre}}$</tex-math> in response to different diving depths, and thus the hypothesis was rejected. T<sub> b</sub> was largely unaffected by dives to either depth. However, diving behaviour changed at the greater <tex-math>${\rm d}_{{\rm d}}$</tex-math>, including an increase in dive duration and vertical descent speed. Behaviour also changed depending on the food type, including an increase in foraging duration and vertical descent speed when mussels were present. Behavioural changes seem to represent the major adjustment made by tufted ducks in response to changes in their diving environment.
30243849|Recent studies of the vocal mechanisms of songbirds have shown that there are physical effects on sound production. Interspecific and phylogenetic comparisons have shown that body mass and bill morphology are two major factors affecting vocalizations such as songs. We analyzed the distance calls of female Bengalese finches Lonchura striata var. domestica, the non-vocal learning sex, to assess the potential physical effects on the acoustic structure of vocalizations. By experimentally controlling rearing condition using cross-fostering we could examine the effects of the developmental environment and genetic background. None of the tested factors affected the peak frequency of the distance calls, but we found that larger-billed birds tended to produce shorter bout calls with higher trill rates. These results suggest that the divergence of bill morphology can affect acoustic features at the within-population level. We also found that the birds reared in the same foster brood and siblings from the same genetic parents tended to produce calls with similar trill rates. This implies that the trill rate is under the influence of developmental and genetic factors.
3677383|We used maximum likelihood analysis of complete mitochondrial ND2 sequences (1041 bp) to clarify the taxonomy and relationships of various species and genera of grass and bush warblers. The tree revealed two clades of grass and bush warblers. One clade was comprised of all four western Palearctic Locustella and two species of Asian Bradypterus. The other clade included five eastern Palearctic Locustella (including the distinctive Sakhalin warbler Locustella amnicola) and the marsh grassbird Megalurus pryeri. African Bradypterus and Australian little grassbird Megalurus gramineus were distantly related to their Asian congeners. Therefore, current taxonomy of these genera does not reflect their evolutionary history and needs revision. It is proposed that a phylogenetic analysis of morphology and ecological preferences would show that the current taxonomy of grass and bush warblers reflects species' habitat preferences and morphology related to locomotion and foraging in their habitats, rather than their shared ancestry. Distinct clades were found in grasshopper warbler Locustella naevia and Pallas's grasshopper warbler L. certhiola. Detailed phylogeographic studies are needed to elucidate the species status of the clades within these two species.
3677429|The study of avian molecular systematics currently lags behind that of mammals in several ways. Little phylogenetic resolution is observed among orders and phylogenetic studies below the ordinal level largely remain based on fast evolving mitochondrial sequences. New papers by Paton et al., Ericson et al., and Thomas et al. provide avian molecular systematics with a badly needed boost. These studies indicate that sampling more taxa and slower evolving nuclear genes yields strong phylogenetic resolution among the major shorebird (order Charadriiformes) families. The new data show surprising overall consensus and converge on certain novel clades. If correct, this newly obtained phylogenetic framework has tremendous implications for our understanding of the evolution of shorebird morphology, ecology and behaviour.
10.2307/3677302|Females' perspectives like males' perspectives are used to generate hypotheses or draw conclusions about the evolution of social behavior. These gendered perspectives probably originate from the empathetic responses of researchers to the ecological problems faced by the individuals they study. Females' perspectives thus start with the main ecological problems that females of "typical species" (read as: "species like us") have to solve just as males' perspectives start with empathetic responses to the problems that males of "typical species" have to solve. Because men have predominated in the field of avian behavioral ecology, females' perspectives are yet to be as clearly articulated or frequently investigated as males' perspectives. Happily, this asymmetry in our ranks is changing, so that more attention to our questions from females' perspectives is accruing. Here I discuss 10 principles of females' perspectives that are particularly obvious to me. These were too-long-overlooked or previously ignored facts that contrast with predominating myths about females. These mythic notions seem to result from thinking about females from males' perspectives only rather than from more inclusive ones. I am not claiming that my list is a comprehensive one, nor that my view of females' perspectives is the only view. I am not claiming that females' perspectives can only be articulated and investigated by women, only that it is more likely that women will. Full incorporation of females' perspectives into avian behavioral ecology will be a result of inclusive theories. And, of course, inclusive theories can and should be cast and investigated by men as well as women. I contributed to this forum in the hopes of generating discussions that will facilitate inclusion of questions about females in studies of the evolution of social behavior. From this I expect increased understanding of the details of sexual dialectics. I look forward to the time when we can predict the traits the pendulum swing will bring: what are females' solutions to the ecological (selectively significant) problems created for them by males and what are males' solutions to the ecological problems created for them by females. Despite my obvious focus on the selective forces created by the interactions between the sexes, I suspect that the full nature of social behavior that we seek to discover will only come when we have theories that account for variation among individuals - beyond sex, beyond gender.
10.2307/3677261|Growth rates of three bilateral characters of nestling Tree Swallows Tachycineta bicolor were monitored to (a) determine the suitability of these characters in assessing fluctuating asymmetry (FA) and (b) test the hypothesis that fluctuating asymmetry of any or all of these characters is correlated with other growth parameters that may be indicative of genetic and/or environmental stress. Examination of the distribution of differences between right and left sides for tarsus, bill, and primary feather measurements reveals either directional asymmetry and/or a significant departure from a normal distribution suggesting that such characters may not be suitable for assessing fluctuating asymmetry. Further, there was little evidence that FA was correlated with any of the three growth parameters calculated from a Richards growth curve or with an overall index of growth performance for individual nestlings. Age-related trends were evident for both tarsus and primary feather asymmetry, with maximum values of asymmetry occurring during the mid or latter part of the nestling period, respectively, and declining before nestlings fledged. Such a pattern may be a normal component of growth not previously reported and related to peak growing periods for those characters.
10.2307/3676940|Effects of environmental conditions experienced during early life, as indicated by nestling body condition and hatching date, on migratory body condition and fat reserves were studied using data on nestling Blue Tits Parus caeruleus recaptured during their first autumn migration. Body condition index and fat score recorded during the migration were strongly inter-correlated, indicating that much of the variation in body condition index is due to differences in amount of stored fat. Nestling body condition was found to be a good predictor of amount of subcutaneous fat during migration (four months later) for males, but less so for females. However, the amount of fat during migration was negatively correlated with hatching date and positively correlated with recapture date in females, while male fat reserves were independent of both hatching and recapture dates. These results suggest that differences in body condition established during early life may be maintained over considerable periods of time, and that the time window for selective events leading to positive covariance between nestling body condition and fitness can be much wider than previously appreciated. In particular, through its effects on the amount of migratory fat, nestling condition or some trait closely correlated with it, may affect the young bird's probability of survival during the energetically demanding migration. Based on the findings of this and related studies, we outline some general mechanistic models which may account for the association between early life condition and adult performance.
10.2307/3676960|Corn Buntings in North Cornwall, England show a clear local dialect pattern of microgeographic song variation. This conclusion is based both on qualitative assessments of spectrogram similarity by human observers and on a non-subjective, quantitative method using cross-correlation. Compared with the local dialects found there 14 years ago there is no similarity with present dialects in either location of dialect boundaries or in detailed structure of songs. The extent of changes in song structure found implies a different mechanism from the accumulation of small year to year changes previously reported for this species. We suggest that changes in land use and associated changes in the suitability of the habitat for Corn Buntings are responsible. This idea is consistent with the finding that the area with most recent agricultural change has no clear pattern of local dialects.
3677768|During the Audouin's Gull's breeding season at the Ebro Delta in 1993, 24 fresh eggs from eight three-egg clutches (modal clutch-size) were collected at the peak of the laying period. Eggs were processed to obtain formalin-fixed yolks, which were halved and stained using the potassium dichromate method. Digitized images of the yolks were examined to assess the daily rates of yolk deposition. We used these data in combination with egg compositional analysis to build a model of energy demands during the formation of an average clutch in Audouin's Gull. To show how the different parameters of clutch formation affect the daily energy investment peak, we performed a simulation analysis in which the rapid yolk development (RYD) period, the follicle triggering interval (FTI), the laying interval (LI) and the albumen synthesis period (ASP) were allowed to vary simultaneously. In our sample, the mean RYD period was seven days with a range from six to eight days. There were no significant differences in yolk volume among eggs in a clutch, but albumen volume was significantly smaller in third eggs. According to our model the albumen synthesis of the a-egg coincides with the energy demand peak for clutch formation. This peak represents an increase by ca. 42% in female energy requirements. Values obtained from the simulation analysis showed that only the ASP of the a-egg and the RYD durations of the second and third follicles produced noticeable reductions in peak energy investment. We predict that in gulls, whose laying intervals seem to be kept constant, significant increases of the durations of the RYD periods of second and third eggs, or even significant reductions of yolk size of these eggs, may operate simultaneously to match the energy demands during clutch formation to the prevailing food conditions.
30244776|While the factors influencing reproduction and survival in colonial populations are relatively well studied, factors involved in dispersal and settlement decisions are not well understood. The present study investigated exchanges of great cormorants Phalacrocorax carbo sinensis among six breeding colonies over a 13-year period when the breeding population in Denmark increased from 2800 to 36 400 nests. We used a multistate capturerecapture model that combined multisite resightings and recoveries to examine simultaneously recruitment, natal dispersal, breeding dispersal and annual survival of first-year, immature and breeding great cormorants. Mean survival of first-year birds (0.50  0.09, range = 0.42-0.66 among colonies) was lower than survival of breeders (0.90  0.06, range = 0.81-0.97). Mean survival of immature birds over the study period was 0.87  0.08. Dispersal from a colony increased with decreasing mean brood size in the colony in both first-time and experienced breeders. The choice of the settlement colony in first-time breeders was affected by conditions in the natal colony and in the colonies prospected during the pre-breeding years. In particular, first-time breeders recruited to colonies where they could expect better breeding success. Experienced breeders relied mainly on cues present early in the season and on their own breeding experience to choose a new breeding colony. Newly established colonies resulted mainly from the immigration of first-time breeders originating from denser colonies. Dispersal was distance-dependent and first-time breeders dispersed longer distances than breeders. We suggest that the prospecting behaviour allows first-time breeders to recruit in nearby as well as more distant potential breeding colonies. Dispersing breeders preferred to settle in neighbouring colonies likely to benefit from their experience with foraging areas. We discuss the importance of these movements for growth and expansion of the breeding population.
3677725|Life-history theory assumes a trade-off between current reproductive effort and future reproductive success. There are a large number of studies demonstrating reproductive trade-offs in different animal taxa, particularly in birds. Most bird studies have focused on the costs of chick rearing in altricial species. These costs have been assumed to be low in precocial species, but this aspect has been little studied. We used long-term individual reproductive data from the common goldeneye Bucephala clangula, an iteroparous precocial duck with uniparental female care, to examine whether brood rearing carries costs that affect future reproductive performance. All females were experienced breeders, and possible differences in female quality were ruled out. We compared within-individual (between-year) changes in clutch size, hatching date and body mass between females that had reared a brood in the previous year and females that had not. It turned out that brood rearing involved a cost in terms of clutch size and hatching date the next year, but not in terms of body mass: females that had reared a brood in the previous year laid relatively smaller clutches and laid relatively later than females that had not reared a brood. Our results show that normal brood rearing in a precocial species involves costs that affect future reproduction.
30244794|The ability of mothers to modify offspring phenotype to match prevailing environmental conditions is an important component of reproductive success, especially in variable environments. Pre-breeding conditions, such as food abundance, may have significant consequences for both the number and quality of offspring a female produces as well as her ability to rear the offspring. In an experiment where pre-breeding diet was manipulated, we investigated if allocation of yolk androgens (testosterone and 5-dihydrotestosterone) was related to the quality of diet experienced prior to breeding. Female zebra finches Taeniopygia guttata produced larger clutches on high quality diet than on low quality diet but with no differences in egg mass. Yolk androgen levels were repeatable within subsequent clutches of the same female and females did not change mean androgen content in eggs in relation to diet quality. However, within-in clutch pattern of yolk testosterone and DHT changed with diet treatment. Testosterone and DHT decreased with laying order on the low quality diet but remained constant on the high quality diet. Differential yolk androgen allocation within the clutch may alter the competitive differences between chicks and provide females the possibility to adjust reproductive investment and offspring phenotype already at the egg stage.
10.2307/3677351|Seasonal changes in the mass and histology of the spleen of juvenile and adult Willow Tits Parus montanus throughout the year were examined. The results showed that the avian spleen is a highly dynamic structure able to undergo dramatic changes in size, mainly due to changes in the volumes of the lymphoid components. Twelve-day-old nestlings had small undifferentiated spleens with no germinal centres (GCs), but consisted of a homogeneous lymphocyte-containing tissue. One-month-old Willow Tits (July) had significantly heavier spleens than any other age group. Their spleens had a well developed red pulp and large numbers of small GCs and intensely basophilic cells (IBCs), probably reflecting an increased antibody production initiated by exposure to new antigens. The question why not all young tits develop large active spleens at this time is discussed, and it is suggested that the lymphoid activity of the spleen might be a factor of importance for successful establishment in an autumn/winter flock. Adult birds had small spleens in July. Although there was a very large inter-individual variation, most adult and juvenile tits had very big spleens in August and September, a period when tits are moulting and finishing flock establishment. This inter-individual variation most likely reflects differences in degree of infections. It is hypothesised that a large spleen, with a high lymphoid activity, in a moulting bird is the result of growing feather follicles being broken, and that the resulting wounds have become infected. Once moult and flock establishment are finished (October), spleens in both age groups remain small until next spring, containing few or no GCs and only weakly developed IBCs and red pulp. Small spleens during late autumn and winter may reflect low parasite infections or a high sensitivity to stress.
3677579|Diurnal raptors have been shown to use ultraviolet vision and UV-reflecting vole scent marks to find suitable hunting areas. We studied if a passerine species, the great grey shrike Lanius excubitor that uses voles as its primary food, may also detect prey-patches in the same way. We conducted a laboratory experiment with ten shrikes. Each individual shrike had four options to choose from: (1) scent marks with UV light, (2) scent marks without UV light, (3) clean arena with UV light, and (4) clean arena without UV light. The birds preferred the scent-marked arena with UV light as measured by the number of scans and the time spent above it. Therefore, we suggest that great grey shrike probably uses UV cues to gain information on vole locations and abundance.
3677779|Plumage coloration has been suggested to serve as an honest signal of benefits that males provide to females. One benefit proposed for females that choose to mate with elaborately colored males is that such males might provide more food resources to the females. To test this hypothesis, we investigated the relationship between the rates at which males provisioned incubating females and the structural ultraviolet (UV)/blue coloration and melanin-based chestnut coloration of male eastern bluebirds Sialia sialis, a sexually dichromatic songbird in which coloration has been shown to be sexually selected in males. We found that males with brighter UV/blue coloration provisioned incubating females more often than did drabber males. Melanin coloration, however, was not correlated with provisioning rates. Moreover, provisioning rates were correlated with the length of time that females spent off the nest, indicating an important benefit of increased male provisioning. These data support the hypothesis that female bluebirds receive direct resource benefits by pairing with males with bright structural coloration.
10.2307/3677083|Sixteen female Meadow Pipits were observed during the incubation period to test the hypothesis that incubation feeding by the male constitutes an important source of energy to the female. Female nest attentiveness was expected to increase with increasing frequency of incubation feeding, whereas a negative correlation between ambient temperature and the frequency of incubation feeding was anticipated. A statistically significant positive correlation between incubation feeding and nest attendance was found, but the negative correlation with ambient temperature was not significant. It is concluded that provisioning by the male has nutritional value for the incubating female. A negative relationship between reproductive success and rate of incubation feeding suggests that this behaviour functions as an insurance - its intensity increases when the clutch is threatened by unfavourable conditions (in the present study probably nest moisture) and the female has higher energetic demands.
3677473|Geographic variation in sexually selected traits is commonly attributed to geographic variation in the net benefit accrued from bearing such traits. Although natural and sexual selection are potentially important in shaping geographic variation, genetic constraints may also play a role. Although a genetic correlation between two traits may itself be the outcome of natural or sexual selection, it may indirectly reinforce the establishment and maintenance of cline variation with respect to one particular trait when across the cline different values of other traits are selected. Using the barn owl Tyto alba, a species in which the plumage of females is more reddish-brown and more marked with black spots than that of males, I report results that are consistent with the hypothesis that both direct selection and genetic constraints may help establish and maintain cline variation in sexual dichromatism. In this species, inter-individual variation in plumage coloration and spottiness has a genetic basis, and these traits are not sensitive to the environment. Data, based on the measurement of skin specimens, is consistent with the hypothesis that the stronger European cline variation in male spottiness than in female spottiness depends on the combined effects of (1) the similar cline variation in male and female plumage coloration and (2) the more intense phenotypic correlation between plumage coloration and spottiness in males (darker birds are more heavily spotted in the two sexes, but especially males) which is a general feature among the globally distributed barn owls. In northern Europe, male and female T. a. guttata are reddish-brown and heavily spotted, and in southern Europe male and female T. a. alba are white, but only females display many spots. Here, I discuss the relative importance of direct selection, genetic correlation and the post-ice age invasion of Europe by T. alba, in generating sex-specific cline variation in plumage spottiness and non-sex-specific cline variation in plumage coloration.
10.2307/3677029|The flight feather moult of the Red-necked Nightjar was studied in museum skins and in a free-living Spanish population during two summers. First winter birds start a complete moult of the remiges in their winter quarters following the typical moult sequence of other nightjars; however, as a rule it is interrupted before completion. Tail feathers are moulted partially. The following summer, birds reactivate the remex moult from the point it was stopped during the previous winter, but it is not finished until they reach the winter quarters; there, adults moult completely replacing descendantly first the outermost unmoulted primaries, and then the inner ones before moult is suspended again until the next post-nuptial moult, when the moult cycle is repeated. Thus, the moult of the Red-necked Nightjar is a cyclic process of periodically suspended moult stages, that is actively initiated already during the first winter moult and maintained during adulthood. I conclude that this moult strategy is related to the short time available for moult between breeding and autumn migration and the steep decline in food resources during the W African dry season.
3677583|I evaluate causes and patterns of nestling mortality in a sexually dimorphic species, the Montagu's harrier Circus pygargus, and their relationship with sex and condition. Starvation was apparently the main reason for nestling death. Condition of birds that died was lower than those that survived. Both probability of nestling death and the proportion of nestlings that died within a brood increased with the number of hatched nestlings in a brood, and with increasing hatching date. For the nestlings that died after being sexed, when controlling for brood effects, probability of death was significantly related to nestling sex, with smaller males having a higher probability of dying. The probability of nestling death if hatched late in the season was relatively greater for males than for females. There was also a significant interaction between sex and hatching date on nestling condition: the decline in condition if hatched late in the season was steeper for males than for females. Males did not have a higher probability of death when having more sisters: neither the probability of brood reduction nor the proportion of nestlings that died were significantly related to within-brood sex ratio. Results suggest that mortality may partly result from sibling competition: females, being the larger sex, might be better able to compete for food within a brood than their male siblings. Additionally, smaller males may be less able to recover from periods of declining body weight.
10.2307/3677130|The evolution of skuas is puzzling in several respects. Based on cladistic analysis of behaviour and review of other evidence, a likely phylogeny is suggested which is used to trace the evolution of plumage coloration and other traits in skuas. Behavioural, parasitological and four kinds of genetic evidence now show that the Pomarine Skua Stercorarius pomarinus is more closely related to great skuas, usually placed in the genus Catharacta, than to the two smaller Stercorarius species. All skuas should therefore be placed in the same genus, Stercorarius. Alternatively, the generic name of pomarinus should be changed to Catharacta. High similarity in mtDNA and feather lice (Phtiraptera) between Pomarine and North Atlantic Great Skua Catharacta skua is suggested to be explained by hybridization between them. Plumage coloration among skuas is puzzling, as the adult plumage of great skuas differs much from that of other skuas. This is related to a less pronounced change from juvenile to adult breeding plumage in great skuas, which are here suggested to be neotenic in several respects. Possible reasons for these differences between great and other skuas are suggested.
10.2307/3677279|Current treatments of collective detection hold that all members of the flock are alerted to predatory attack as long as at least one flock member detects it. This presumes that the individual(s) detecting attack somehow signal unambiguously that an attack is in progress. Alarm calls may provide such unambiguous signals, but for the many bird species lacking such calls, departures from the flock may be the main source of information on predator detection. These departures might themselves be considered alarm signals, but as such they are ambiguous, since departures may not be predator-driven. Thus non-detectors must decide whether to initiate escape behavior based upon the anti-predator information available in the departures. A mathematical exploration of this "departure information" reveals that multiple departures over a short time interval may be effectively required to sound the alarm in a flock. In fact, single detections (or departures) may usually go unheeded by other flock members. The information available to non-detectors in multiple departures varies considerably with the rate of non-predator-driven departures, attack rates, and flock size. In general, however, a good predator detection rule-of-thumb is likely to be: flee to safety with the simultaneous departures of two or more individuals, otherwise assess the reason for single departures before taking such action.
30244442|Many birds acquire carotenoid pigments from foods and deposit these pigments into feathers and bare-parts to become sexually attractive, but little work has been done on the interindividual and temporal variability in the types and amounts of carotenoids that free-ranging individuals have available for use in coloration or other functions (e.g., in immunomodulation). To address this issue, we studied intra-annual variation in plasma carotenoid profiles of juvenile and adult white-winged crossbills Loxia leucoptera of both sexes. Adult male crossbills exhibit bright red carotenoid-based plumage pigmentation, whereas females uniformly display drab yellow feather coloration and juvenile males only occasionally display some orange or pink color. Yellow xanthophylls (e.g., lutein, zeaxanthin) were predominant in plasma of birds from both sexes and age classes throughout the year. Plasma xanthophylls levels tended to be highest in the summer, when crossbills increase seed consumption for breeding as well as supplement their diet with insects. Blood accumulation of three other, less common plasma carotenoids--cryptoxanthin, rubixanthin, and gazaniaxanthin-varied in a highly season-, sex-, and age-dependent fashion. These carotenoids were virtually absent in juvenile or adult female plasma at all times of year and were only present in male plasma, at higher concentrations in adults than juveniles, during the period of feather growth (Sept.-Nov.). These pigments have been reported as valuable precursors of the metabolically derived red pigments (e.g., 3-hydroxy-echinenone, 4-oxo-rubixanthin, and 4-oxo-gazaniaxanthin, respectively) that appear in the plumage of male crossbills. These findings suggest that male crossbills either adopt a season-specific foraging strategy to acquire foods rich in these pigments at the time they are needed to develop red coloration, or have a unique physiological ability to metabolically produce these pigments or absorb them from food during molt, in order to maximize color production.
3677403|Offspring body mass and hatching date have been proposed as useful correlates of post-fledging survival and recruitment probability in studies of avian populations. However, these links may be mediated by underlying physiological variables which are frequently not reported. One of these is nestling immune function, which can be measured with several field-friendly protocols like the phytohemagglutinin (PHA) inoculation assay used to estimate cell-mediated immune response (CMI). Here we show in a population of pied flycatchers Ficedula hypoleuca subjected to a long-term study in central Spain that nestling CMI as measured with PHA is dependent on dose injected, body mass, hatching date and maternal moult state. Nestlings recruited during the first two or three years after hatching had a higher CMI but did not differ in mass or hatching date with respect to non-recruited nestlings. Nestling immunocompetence as measured with the PHA assay is a better predictor of local recruitment probability than mass or hatching date in our study population, and should be considered in future studies of determinants of offspring survival chances and fitness in avian populations.
3677000|Current ideas about the evolution of bird migration equate its origin with the first appearance of fully migratory populations, and attribute its evolution to a selective advantage generated by increased breeding success, gained through temporary emigration from resident populations to breed in under-exploited seasonal areas. I propose an alternative hypothesis in which migration first appears as a temporary directional shift away from the breeding site outside the reproductive period, in response to seasonal variation in the direction and/or severity of environmental gradients. Fully migratory populations then appear through either extinction of sedentary phenotypes, or colonisation of vacant seasonal areas by migrants. Where colonisation occurs, resident ancestral populations can be driven to extinction by competition from migrants which invade their range outside the breeding season, resulting in fully migratory species. An analogous process drives the evolution of migration between high latitudes and the tropics, since extension of breeding range into higher latitudes may drive low latitude populations to extinction, resulting in an overall shift of breeding range. This process can explain reverse latitudinal gradients in avian diversity in the temperate zone, since the breeding ranges of migratory species concentrate in latitudes where they enjoy the highest breeding success. Near absence of forest-dwelling species among Palaearctic-African migrants is attributable to the lack of forest in northern Africa for much of the Tertiary, which has precluded selection both for southward extension of migration by west Palaearctic forest species, and northward breeding colonisation by African forest species.
10.2307/3677087|We studied annual changes in the reproductive output of cyclic populations of Capercaillie Tetrao urogallus, Black Grouse Tetrao tetrix and Hazel Grouse Bonasa bonasia in Finland. The data consisted of route censuses made in early autumn in 11 provinces during 1964-1984. Records separated adults and young of the year. First, young bird numbers were regressed against adult densities. On a natural logarithmic scale this relationship was linear. No differences in slope of the regression were detected among the 11 provinces within any of the species. The regression slopes for the three species were: Capercaillie 1.24, Black Grouse 0.91 and Hazel Grouse 0.87. The reproductive output was defined as the residuals of the species-specific regression models in each province. It correlated with the population cycle, so that high reproductive output preceded high total numbers the next year. Using a simple stage-structured transition matrix model with delayed, second-order density dependence in breeding success, and differential fecundity and survival between first-time breeders and older birds, we were able to create cyclic population fluctuations closely matching those documented for Finnish grouse.
10.2307/3677158| Taking as my starting point the paper by Alerstam and Lindstrm (1990), I review models of optimal foraging and fuel loads during avian migration. As well as summarising previous results, I highlight topics where further work is required. I argue that we now have a good understanding of simple deterministic models based on time and energy. Discrepancies between such models and data have proved instructive. We also have some results about the influence of predation risk. Some work has been done on state-dependent models. This approach needs to be extended to models that can take account of changes in various aspects of internal state, and that put migration into the context of a bird's annual routine. I suggest that a combination of simple analytic models of some aspects of state, together with dynamic programming models of annual migration routines may be a fruitful research plan. We also need to explore the consequences of birds making decisions on the basis of climatic conditions. 
30243885|The laying of smaller replacement eggs has been described as a time-saving adaptation because chicks generally grow faster once hatched than inside the egg. However, chicks hatched from smaller eggs have, potentially, lower survival. Consequently, the smaller replacement egg represents a benefit to the female in terms of preserving its own condition at a cost to their offspring. We test these ideas by measuring adult mass changes and plasma lipid concentration changes in male and female Brtinnich's guillemots Uria lomvia breeding on Coats Island, Nunavut. Though males lost more mass than females, these differences were not significant. Between laying the first and replacement egg, plasma fatty acid concentrations declined in females and increased in males, suggesting that females mobilise less lipid to preserve their condition after laying the replacement egg. In females, plasma lipid concentrations of the dominant fatty acids found in the eggs (16:0 and 18:1) declined between the laying of first and replacement eggs while plasma concentrations of 20:1 increased in both males and females. We compared the fatty acid signatures of first and replacement egg to look for evidence of differences between the lipid sources for their production. Principal component and discriminant function analyses showed that the fatty acid signatures of replacement eggs were closer to the signatures of the local prey than those of first eggs. We suggest that females rely on local sources of energy to a greater degree for the production of the replacement egg than the first egg, but that endogenous reserves of certain nutrients are important for the production of both eggs.
3677566|Two male plumage morphs, 'white' and 'rufous', coexist in the Madagascar paradise flycatcher Terpsiphone mutata. There has been enduring debate about whether this dimorphism in male plumage represents seasonal dichromatism, delayed plumage maturation, or genetic differences. We present data from a nine-year study monitoring plumage changes in 119 individually colour-banded males (430 male-years). Our data show that paradise flycatchers are not seasonally dichromatic, and that although males show delayed plumage maturation, the rufous morph is not simply a precursor to white plumage, as previously thought. Individual males followed irreversible developmental pathways to 'rufous' or 'white', and could be reliably assigned to these distinct phenotypes by their second year. 'White' males adopted definitive plumage by the age of three years, whereas 'rufous' males did so between the ages of three and six years. The fixed nature of these morphs suggests that a genetic basis for the dichromatism is likely. However, variation in the timing of definitive plumage acquisition in rufous males could involve condition dependence and be environmentally influenced.
30244774|In the socially monogamous barn swallow, previous studies of individuals in the European subspecies Hirundo r. rustica have shown that a male's tail streamer length is under strong sexual selection and is positively associated with several measures of reproductive success, including a low probability of being cuckolded by other males. The prominence of these results has led to subsequent experimental and correlational investigations of individuals in the phenotypically divergent subspecies H. r. erythrogaster in North America, where it has been shown that male tail streamer length is not as strongly associated with reproductive success as in European populations. We examined relationships between male tail streamer length and patterns of: (1) social mate selection and reproductive success, and (2) extra-pair paternity in 265 progeny of 53 social fathers within a New York barn swallow population. Although tail streamers in this population were sexually dimorphic, male tail streamer length did not predict patterns of mate selection, seasonal reproductive success, or extra-pair paternity. Moreover, in contrast to the strong positive relationships between paternity and male streamer length in European populations, summarized in this paper, we found no positive relationship between a male's paternity of young in the nest he is attending and his tail streamer length in our study population in New York. Our results further corroborate recent suggestions that the function of sexual signals varies geographically in this species, although we await additional experimental analyses on streamer lengths to understand the maintenance of sexual dimorphism in this trait.
10.2307/3677358|Many birds hatch their eggs asynchronously while other species are more synchronous. Different hatching patterns may produce different sex-ratios through sex-biased chick mortality, but the relationship between sex-ratios and hatching pattern has received little attention. An extreme food shortage in a Lesser Black-backed Gull colony allowed us to examine the timing of mortality of nestlings relative to sex and to hatching order. This was carried out in experimentally-created synchronous and asynchronous broods, where the latter mimicked the normal hatching spread. Unambiguous sexing was facilitated by use of molecular methods. In asynchronous broods, last-hatched female chicks survived significantly longer than last-hatched male chicks, whilst the males significantly out-lived the females among the earlier-hatched chicks. There was no difference in survival time of the sexes in synchronous broods. This suggests that chick sex-ratio is, at least partly, a function of asynchrony. Production of skewed sex-ratios via sex-biased mortality should be considered when evaluating the merits of asynchrony and synchrony.
10.2307/3676971|The evolution of sociality in many communally breeding birds has been ascribed to a lack of optimum habitat, that is, insufficient high quality resources to allow dispersal and independent breeding of young. In these species, offspring do not disperse immediately, but instead remain as helpers in their natal territory until a breeding opportunity occurs. We examined the habitat saturation model for a communally breeding South American species, the Guira Cuckoo. This species breeds in large groups composed of both related and unrelated individuals. Nestlings also exhibit varying degrees of relatedness, or they may be completely unrelated. Thirteen ecological variables were measured in 14 sites occupied by groups and compared with data from nine vacant sites that appeared similar. Data concerning breeding traits were collected for each reproductive event. Guira Cuckoos exhibit tactics that reduce the reproductive success of others within the group, mainly egg-tossing behavior and, occasionally, infanticide. Potential nesting sites within territories, in the form of araucaria trees, varied greatly in number, but there was no relation between their availability and the size of the group controlling the area. Group size was significantly positively correlated with grass cover within territories, but unrelated to the other 12 vegetation variables measured. Empty sites had a significantly greater abundance of prey items than did areas occupied by Guira Cuckoos, which may indicate depletion of insects due to the cuckoos' foraging activities. No other significant differences were found between occupied and empty sites. These results suggest that habitat saturation may not be an important factor in the maintenance of group-living in Guira Cuckoos. However, this does not exclude the possibility that habitat quality may have an important effect on reproduction. The basis for group-living in this species is most likely related to intrinsic characteristics of sociality that increase survival and lifetime reproductive fitness.
30244460|Habitat selection is a hierarchical process where the distribution of individuals is constrained by environmental factors acting from the landscape scale to specific microhabitats such as breeding sites. However, interactions between conspecifics might greatly influence bird distribution and habitat use, especially in lekking birds. In the lekking Houbara bustard Chlamydotis undulata undulata, we investigated the respective role of environmental and social constraints on the distribution of nests and display sites. We measured environmental variables around 69 nests and 70 display sites at different spatial scales: the landscape, the breeding range, and the display and nest site scale. The variables were compared to those measured at 50 random plots to determine whether environmental features are actively selected. Social variables were included by studying spatial relationships between displaying male density, nests and female movements throughout the year. At the landscape scale, human presence acted as a limiting factor for the establishment of nest and display sites. At the breeding range scale, habitat requirements differed between sexes. Breeding females used a heterogeneous complex of habitats provided by the network of wadis (water courses) crossing the reg (gravel plain) covered by tall perennial plants. In contrast, display males looked for conspicuousness and courtship ability by selecting the reg with short perennials, and used temporarily flooded areas for feeding. Males aggregated on traditional display site where they experienced the greatest female density. This result supported the hotspot model in the evolution of leks in the Houbara bustard. It underlies an overriding effect of female attraction on male settlement in the individual habitat selection process.
10.2307/3677345|The redness of carotenoid pigmentation has been shown to be an indicator of individual condition. I tested whether the asymmetry of carotenoid pigmentation of male House Finches Carpodacus mexicanus, an indicator of developmental stability, decreases with plumage redness. Consistent with predictions, I found a significant relationship between the symmetry of carotenoid-based crown pigmentation and the redness of body plumage - redder plumage was more symmetrical. There was no significant relationship between the symmetry of the outer rectrices and either crown symmetry or plumage redness. The energetic cost of having asymmetrical carotenoid pigmentation is no greater for males with elaborate ornamentation (red plumage) than for males with less elaborate ornamentation (orange or yellow plumage). These observations are consistent with the idea that the magnitude of fluctuating asymmetry of an ornamental trait reflects the phenotypic or genotypic condition of the individual.
10.2307/3676948|The relation between fat accumulation and weather conditions was studied at a Barn Swallow roost in northern Italy during a 5-year period. Data were collected from the end of the breeding season, in early July, to the beginning of October, when the roost is abandoned. The post-breeding period (4 July-20 August) was characterised by a stationary or decreasing mean body mass. The pre-migratory period (1 September-3 October) was characterised by a rapid mass increase. During the post-breeding period, fat reserves were higher during worse than average weather conditions (wind and low temperatures), an indication that in this period fat stores function as a reserve to be used in case of food scarcity. By contrast, during the pre-migratory phase, fat reserves were lower during worse than average weather conditions (low air humidity and low temperature). This is expected if swallows build up the energy stores for migration as rapidly as they can, and fattening rate is sub-optimal in unfavourable weather conditions. Juveniles, inexperienced foragers compared to adults, should run a higher risk of starving during adverse weather and consequently were expected to carry more fat during the post-breeding phase. Conversely, their maximum fattening rate should be lower than that of adults. Thus, they were expected to be less fat during the pre-migratory period. Variation in fat reserves in the two groups was in agreement with these predictions, juveniles being significantly fatter than adults in the first part of the season, and leaner before migration.
3676999|In recent years there has been a resurgence of interest in models to explain the partitioning of direct reproduction ('reproductive skew') among members of one sex within social groups. We review models of skew, identify problems of testing models, and consider how to make progress. One series of models assumes that dominants have complete control of subordinate reproduction, but may allow subordinates some reproduction as a way of enticing them to help or getting them to share the cost of reproduction. Another series of models assume that dominants have limited control of subordinate reproduction. Reproductive skew may also be affected by incest avoidance or control by the opposite sex. Models are largely untested because no study of birds has quantified all relevant parameters, and we see no prospect of this happening soon. A common simplifying approach is to test qualitative predictions about the effect on skew of relatedness among group members. However, these data alone cannot distinguish among models because models do not make unique predictions, partly because skew is also affected by other factors. A major problem in cooperatively-breeding birds is that any effect of relatedness will often be confounded by covariation with relatedness asymmetry and subordinate competitiveness. Progress can be made with the development of theory, controlling confounding variables through the choice of study species or types of social group, and, most importantly, testing assumptions underlying hypotheses.
30244775|During the breeding season, adult male capercaillies Tetrao urogallus display on leks in the early morning. During the day, they occupy more or less exclusive home ranges within 1 km of the lekking ground, but little is known about their movements and range use patterns during this period. In three spring seasons we monitored the daily movement of 15 radio-tagged adult males, associated with six different leks, in a coniferous forest of southeast Norway. The objective was to relate dynamics of male movement and spatial distribution to changes in food resource availability and mating-related activities. In late winter, males exhibited a pattern of short daily relocations (distance between bird locations in successive days) within small ranges. Relocation distances and home ranges then increased markedly during two weeks preceeding the main mating period. During the mating and post-mating periods, movements again decreased, followed by another short peak at the time when females with depredated nests return to the lek for remating. These temporal changes in range use were not related to changes in food resources and probably not to shifts in anti-predator behaviour, and they differed between age groups: The increase in relocation distance during the pre-mating period was most pronounced among young resident males (3 and 4 year-olds), and range area of older males were smaller and did not increase as much during this period. The observed age-related changes in space use may reflect an alternative mating strategy by young and subdominant males; they seek out females outside the lekking ground where competition from more dominant males is less intense.
10.2307/3676966|Cooperatively breeding White-winged Choughs have an extremely long period of post fledgling care, they will provision young for up to eight months. During winter, however, provisioning ceases despite evidence that young continue to have difficulty finding food themselves. A provisioning experiment was designed to determine whether food availability played a role in the termination of care. Groups of White-winged Choughs were observed before, during, and after food was supplied in both small and large amounts. The supply of large amounts of food switched on provisioning behaviour in both breeders and helpers, and begging behaviour in juveniles. Helping behaviour is therefore influenced by the costs of supplying food.
30243916|Variation in maternal investments to offspring presumably reflects an optimization of resource allocation such that a female's fitness is maximized. In birds, both egg size and yolk constituents are examples of resources that can vary among offspring within a clutch. Egg size and maternally-derived steroid hormone concentrations present in yolk have been characterized for many species that lay small clutches or have altricial young, but little information is available for species that lay moderate to large clutches of precocial young. In this study, we recorded laying position, measured fresh egg mass and determined maternally-derived testosterone and estradiol concentrations present in yolks for whole clutches of free-living Canada geese Branta canadensis maxima to assess variation in maternal resources within clutches. We found that egg size varied non-linearly across the laying sequence such that first laid eggs were small, the largest eggs in the clutch occurred in the second and third positions, and size declined in eggs laid in subsequent positions. Concentration of testosterone in the yolk followed a pattern in which the first and second laid eggs have the highest concentrations within a clutch and declining concentrations in subsequently laid eggs. In contrast, maternally-derived yolk estradiol concentrations (measured in a subset of clutches) did not change across the laying sequence.
30244489|The practice of mummification by the ancient Egyptians is well known. However, it is less widely known that the ancient Egyptians also mummified animals, including birds, for religious and ceremonial reasons. Few radiographic descriptions of avian mummies are published in the scientific literature. This paper describes the radiographic findings from a falcon mummy from the ancient Egyptian Late Period (664-332 BC). The mummy is believed to be a kestrel Falco tinnunculus, based on anatomical comparisons made with type skeleton specimens held at the Smithsonian National Museum of Natural History located in Washington D.C. Photographs of the mummy and radiographs of the mummy's contents are presented.
30244749|Corticosterone is thought to play an important role in food caching and foraging behaviour. However, the direct influence of increased plasma corticosterone on feeding behaviour is still unclear. In this study the effect of increased corticosterone on feeding behaviour in migratory active red-eyed vireos Vireo olivaceus was investigated. We hypothesized that if increased corticosterone levels facilitate foraging behaviour, an increased number of visits to the food bowl by corticosterone treated birds would be seen. In addition to ad lib food during the experiment, the vireos were fed every full hour between 09.00-13.00 h with one meal worm injected either with 4 g corticosterone dissolved in 20 l DMSO, or with DMSO only as a control treatment. The presence or absence of a bird in the food bowl was recorded by a motion detector between 09.00-15.00 h. The non-invasive corticosterone treatment increased plasma corticosterone levels and caused vireos to visit the food bowl more frequently compared to control treated individuals between 11.00-12.00 h and 13.00-15.00 h. Our data indicate that corticosterone has an effect on feeding behaviour in birds.
3677640|In tree swallows Tachycineta bicolor, last-laid eggs typically hatch one to two days after the other eggs in the clutch hatch, putting last-hatched offspring at a disadvantage when competing for food delivered by parents. We studied the biology of last-laid, last-hatched tree swallow offspring over two years in a Wyoming, USA, population. Our first objective was to compare the growth of last-hatched offspring to that of their earlier-hatched nestmates. One previous study had suggested that last-hatched, competitively disadvantaged offspring grow feathers faster than senior nestmates, even at the expense of other aspects of growth. This may allow last-hatched offspring to fledge with senior nestmates and avoid abandonment by parents. A second objective was to determine the sex of nestlings from last-laid eggs. If last-laid eggs typically produce undersized, weak adults that are poor competitors for resources, and if the fitness costs of being undersized/weak are more severe for males than for females, then selection may favour having offspring from last-laid eggs to be female. In this study, last-laid eggs hatched in 63 of 66 (94%) nests and hatched last in 93% of cases. At hatching, offspring from last-laid eggs weighed, on average, 63% as much as their three heaviest nestmates (range: 26-107%). Offspring from last-laid eggs fledged from 71% of the nests that produced at least one fledgling and apparently starved to death in remaining nests. Last-hatched offspring who were presumably at a substantial competitive disadvantage (those whose mass at hatching was no more than about 75% of the mean mass of their three heaviest nestmates), gained mass more slowly than their senior nestmates but they eventually attained the same peak mass before fledging. Last-hatched offspring grew primary feathers more slowly than their senior nestmates although the difference in growth rate was slight (0.2 mm/d) and only marginally significant. As a group, offspring from last-laid eggs did not differ from offspring from all other eggs in either maximum mass attained before fledging or tarsus length at fledging. This is atypical for species with asynchronous hatching and is possibly the result of another unusual trait: the tendency of parent tree swallows to distribute food equally among young within broods. The sex ratio of offspring from last-laid eggs did not deviate from 1:1 (22 males, 21 females). Given that last-hatched eggs do not routinely produce undersized/weak individuals in our study population, there should be little selection on parent females to bias the sex ratio of last-laid offspring towards females.
30244750|This paper describes the daily foraging pattern of the white-browed babbler Pomatostomus superciliosus, a small passerine endemic to Australia. The percentage of time spent foraging as the day progressed increased by an average of only 9%. This contrasts markedly with studies of other passerines that have mostly shown a bimodal pattern, with a peak of foraging early in the day followed by a period of reduced activity and a second peak later in the day. The most likely explanation for the observed pattern of foraging time is that babblers experienced considerable diurnal certainty in their food supply mainly as a result of stable and predictable weather conditions. The lack of a marked increase in foraging towards the end of the day might also have resulted from an increase in predation risk at this time and a reduced need to build up food reserves at the end of the day because of the energetic advantages of communal roosting in an enclosed nest.
3677435|We removed first eggs from early-laying females to measure rates and consequences of relaying in Cassin's auklets Ptychoramphus aleuticus and rhinoceros auklets Cerorhinca monocerata at Triangle Island, British Columbia, Canada. Based on egg size and composition, the investment that Cassin's auklets made in first eggs was very close to that predicted from adult body mass, whereas rhinoceros auklets invested more. In both species, a high percentage of females relaid (90% of Cassin's and 87% of rhinoceros auklets). Breeding success declined weakly with later laying among control Cassin's auklet pairs, but pairs that we induced to relay bred more successfully than naturally late pairs, and similar to values predicted from laying dates of their first eggs. Their chicks also fledged heavier and younger than late control chicks, and similar to values in early control chicks, but followed the population-wide seasonal decline in wing length at fledging. Nestling diets were dominated by Neocalanus copepods until late in the season, a sign that feeding conditions remained favourable until late. In contrast, rhinoceros auklet pairs induced to relay followed the population-wide seasonal decline in breeding success, which was driven by a decline in hatching success. Pacific sandlance Ammodytes hexapterus, thought to be a preferred prey species, virtually disappeared from nestling diets in mid-to-late season, yet there was no seasonal decline in fledging mass. However, chicks from replacement eggs followed the declines among control chicks in both age and wing length at fledging. Despite the female having produced a replacement egg, and despite delayed breeding, there appeared to be little immediate consequence associated with relaying for Cassin's auklets, except for a tendency for their chicks to fledge with short wings. Consequences were more marked in rhinoceros auklets (greatly reduced hatching success, and having their chicks fledge with short wings), and this may have been due to the large investment made in eggs, and/or to delayed breeding. Results of this study show that attributes of Cassin's and rhinoceros auklets that lay at different times in the season can be important in driving seasonal declines in breeding performance, as found in studies on other Alcidae. They also show how decisions taken during the egg stage can have variable yet potentially important implications for fitness, even in relatively long-lived species that lay single-egg clutches.
10.2307/3677117|Deferred northward migration by young waders has been ascribed to the "risks of long-distance migration", but the nature of these risks has not been explored. We suggest that the low foraging proficiency of young waders is an important factor in the evolution of deferred migration by some small to medium-sized waders. Because of the disparity between adult and juvenile energy intake rates, juveniles would be prevented from migrating synchronously with adults if their migration involved one or more refuelling stops. The slower migration of juveniles would result in their late arrival at the breeding grounds, with a concomitantly high risk of breeding failure. The longer the migration and the higher the breeding latitude, the greater this risk, conforming with the conclusion of Summers et al. (1995) that young waders overwintering close to the breeding grounds are more likely to migrate north than are young waders which overwinter further south. We further suggest that the probability of successful breeding by late arriving long-distance migrants is so low that the risk of first-year birds dying on northward migration does not have to be high for the behaviour to be selected against and thus be lost from the population.
30244825|Diving birds have to overcome buoyancy, especially when diving in shallow water. Darters and anhingas (Anhingidae) are specialist shallow-water divers, with adaptations for reducing their buoyancy. Compared to closely-related cormorants (Phalacrocoracidae), darters have fully wettable plumage, smaller air sacs and denser bones. A previous study of darter diving behaviour reported no relationship between dive duration and water depth, contrary to optimal dive models. In this study I provide more extensive observations of African darters Anhinga melanogaster rufa diving in water <5 m deep at two sites. Dive duration increases with water depth at both sites, but the relationship is weak. Dives were longer than dives by cormorants in water of similar depth (max 108 s in water 2.5 m deep), with dives of up to 68 s observed in water <0.5 m deep. Initial dives in a bout were shorter than expected, possibly because their plumage was not fully saturated. Dive efficiency (dive:rest ratio) was 5-6, greater than cormorants (2.7  0.4 for 18 species) and other families of diving birds (average 0.2-4.3). Post-dive recovery periods increased with dive duration, but only slowly, resulting in a strong increase in efficiency with dive duration. All dives are likely to fall within the theoretical anaerobic dive limit. Foraging bouts were short (17.8  4.3 min) compared to cormorants, with birds spending 80  5% of time underwater. Darters take advantage of their low buoyancy to forage efficiently in shallow water, and their slow, stealthy dives are qualitatively different from those of other diving birds. However, they are forced to limit the duration of foraging bouts by increased thermoregulatory costs associated with wettable plumage.
10.2307/3677058|Seasonal changes in body mass of Arctic-nesting Brent Geese are characterized by a depression in early April, followed by a sharp increase during pre-migratory fattening. Both male and female Brent Geese increased their body mass by 25-35% in the Wadden Sea in April/May. Paired females reach on average higher body masses than single females. Female Brent Geese that returned with offspring to the wintering quarters in western Europe had on average been heavier at spring departure from the staging grounds in the Wadden Sea, than those failing to raise offspring. This difference remained significant after correcting for body size (i.e. wing length). In males, corrected spring body mass had no effect on subsequent breeding success. Measurements of changes in body mass of incubating female Brent Geese, coupled to estimated flying costs (based on data on body mass, wing span and total wing area) showed that body reserves stored in the Wadden Sea were insufficient to accomplish both migration and successful breeding. Presumably the geese refuelled in the White Sea, in order to complete their spring migration and arrive on the breeding grounds in Taymyr in the condition necessary for successful breeding.
30244762|Background noise should in theory hinder detection of auditory cues associated with approaching danger. We tested whether foraging chaffinches Fringilla coelebs responded to background noise by increasing vigilance, and examined whether this was explained by predation risk compensation or by a novel stimulus hypothesis. The former predicts that only inter-scan interval should be modified in the presence of background noise, not vigilance levels generally. This is because noise hampers auditory cue detection and increases perceived predation risk primarily when in the head-down position, and also because previous tests have shown that only interscan interval is correlated with predator detection ability in this system. Chaffinches only modified interscan interval supporting this hypothesis. At the same time they made significantly fewer pecks when feeding during the background noise treatment and so the increased vigilance led to a reduction in intake rate, suggesting that compensating for the increased predation risk could indirectly lead to a fitness cost. Finally, the novel stimulus hypothesis predicts that chaffinches should habituate to the noise, which did not occur within a trial or over 5 subsequent trials. We conclude that auditory cues may be an important component of the trade-off between vigilance and feeding, and discuss possible implications for anti-predation theory and ecological processes.
3677517|We examined mitochondrial cytochrome b sequence variation in masked Sula dactylatra, red-footed S. sula, and brown S. leucogaster boobies sampled from islands in the central and eastern Pacific Ocean and in the Caribbean Sea. Each species showed a different phylogeographic pattern. Whereas haplotypes in masked and red-footed boobies were shared across the central and eastern Pacific (i.e., across the Eastern Pacific Basin), brown booby haplotypes were not shared across the Eastern Pacific Basin. Although most masked booby haplotypes from the Pacific were distinct from those in the Caribbean, one haplotype was shared across the Isthmus of Panama. Red-footed and brown boobies, however, did not share haplotypes across the Isthmus of Panama. We estimate that divergence of these regional populations occurred within the last 560,000 years. Thus, the Isthmus of Panama and the Eastern Pacific Basin (albeit to a lesser degree) appear to have played a role in the diversification of these species.
30244483|Extra-pair paternity is common in many socially monogamous bird species. Increasing evidence suggests that extra-pair copulations are female-driven, but benefits for females mating outside social pair-bonds are still poorly understood. The most influential explanation, "good genes" hypothesis, states that females mated socially with low quality males, engage in extra-pair copulations to obtain genetic benefits for their progeny. According to this model, enhanced performance of extra-pair offspring is expected. Here, based on 4-year study of collared flycatcher Ficedula albicollis, we compared the condition of extra-pair and within-pair young. We found no difference in immune response and body size between maternal half-siblings raised in the same nests. Additionally sex ratio was not biased among extra-pair nestlings, and paternity was not associated with hatching rank. Our results failed to reveal "good genes" effects in the studied population. These effects might be hard to detect, but other hypotheses should also be studied more thoroughly in the future.
3677408|We develop a new approach to quantifying habitat use within the foraging ranges of satellite-tracked seabirds. We applied kernel estimation techniques to 167 days (3738 locations) of data from Black-browed and Grey-headed albatrosses Diomedea melanophris and D. chrysostoma during the chick-rearing period of the breeding cycle at South Georgia. At this time the activity range of these two species covers an estimated 440 000 and
3677678|Microsatellite DNA markers were used to investigate parentage relationships in a population of common cuckoo Cuculus canorus. Thirty adults and 55 nestlings were genotyped at six loci from blood samples collected over a four-year period. To test whether each cuckoo female specialises in parasitising one single host species (Host Preference Hypothesis), the maternal relationships were used to record each female's host choice. The results supported the Host Preference Hypothesis since no female (N = 3) was recorded to have parasitised more than one of four congeneric host species breeding in the area. In contrast, the males (N = 4) did not show such specialisation since two of them sired offspring reared by different host species.
3677598|We investigated courtship feeding and copulatory behaviour of common terns Sterna hirundo in relation to age. We found a significant positive correlation between the number of courtship feedings delivered to females and the number of mountings. Moreover, both courtship feeding and mounting rates were positively correlated with female and male age. Also, the number of cloacal contacts per mounting increased significantly with male or female age, which may indicate an increase in copulatory ability with age. The number of mountings for older birds was up to three times that for younger birds. Presuming that transfer of sperm is proportional to the number of cloacal contacts, older birds may have transferred up to six times more sperm than younger birds during the pre-laying and laying period. These results may account for the preference of young females for older mates as well as for older extra-pair mates.
10.2307/3677126|The ability of Antarctic Prions Pachyptila desolata to regulate their provisioning effort was studied at Kerguelen Islands by comparing two seasons when food availability differed, and by experimental manipulation of foraging costs. Antarctic Prions provision their chick by a two-fold foraging strategy: on average, they alternate a long foraging trip 7-9 days long when they build up body reserves and then feed the chick, with 2 or 3 successive short trips lasting 1 or 2 days when they use previously stored body reserves to forage for provisioning the chick. Although hatching success and fledging success were similar for the two seasons examined, chicks produced in 1996 grew faster and were heavier at the end of the study than in 1995. The difference was due to a higher provisioning rate in 1996 resulting from long trips being 2 days shorter than in 1995, because the Antarctic waters where adults are believed to feed on Antarctic krill during these long trips were 330 km further away in 1995 than in 1996. While returning from long trips, and during short trips, prions mainly feed close to the colonies on the amphipod Themisto gaudichaudii. This prey was less available in 1995, but prions were able to switch to other prey. Cost of foraging was increased experimentally by adding mass to adults. Loaded parents differed from control parents only by increasing the duration of long foraging trips. The results of both the experiment and the study of the natural variation indicate that the ability of Antarctic Prions to increase provisioning is limited. Birds kept their body mass stable, provided food loads of similar mass and had short foraging trips of similar duration. During long trips they spent longer time foraging either to reach more distant feeding grounds or to cover higher foraging costs. The main constraint on chick provisioning is probably the necessity for birds to maintain a threshold body mass to limit the risk of increased mortality due to breeding effort; the higher yields during long foraging trips permit them to do so.
30245329|Laying eggs in nests of unrelated conspecific pairs to parasitize their parental care is a common phenomenon in birds. In blue tits Cyanistes caeruleus such conspecific brood parasitism (CBP) has never been reported in the literature. However, in a situation where breeding density was extremely high, we found six nests to be parasitized with eggs of conspecific females. Natural selection may favour elevated competitiveness of parasite young, since the negative consequences of increased sibling competition are incurred on the unrelated host parents and siblings, and therefore do not act as inclusive fitness costs for the parasites. Parasitizing females could achieve such a competitive advantage for their offspring by laying larger eggs or eggs with higher concentrations of testosterone in the yolk. We analyzed these parameters of the six parasitized nests, but did not find that parasite eggs differ systematically in these aspects from host eggs, nor that parasite eggs showed resemblance to host eggs. We suggest that a shortage of available nest sites caused some females to use CBP as a best-of-a bad job strategy, but that either the occurrence of CBP is too rare to lead to strong selection for egg adjustments or that parasitizing females are unable to do so.
30243858|We here report the finding of ten new specimens of the poorly known large-billed reed warbler Acrocephalus orinus. Preliminary identifications were made on the basis of bill, tarsus and claw measurements, and their specific identity was then confirmed by comparison of partial sequences of the cytochrome b gene with a large data set containing nearly all other species in the genus Acrocephalus, including the type specimen of A. orinus. Five of the new specimens were collected in summer in Afghanistan and Kazakhstan, indicating that the species probably breeds in Central Asia, and the data and moult of the others suggest that the species migrates along the Himalayas to winter in N India and SE Asia. The population structure suggests a stable or shrinking population.
30244423|Predation may reduce prey numbers in such extent that prey may be depleted, which has negative effects on predator populations. Prey depletion would be more likely when the number of predators increase and/or concentrate their activity in a certain area, as is the case of colonial birds. As a matter of fact, food depletion due to intraspecific competition is considered a major cost of coloniality, and several studies have shown indirect evidence of this. However, no direct measures of food depletion have been provided along with its consequences for the fitness of the colony inhabitants. We carried out a field study with the lesser kestrel Falco naumanni, a raptor that breeds in colonies ranging from two to dozens of pairs. During the nestling period we sampled the main prey of the kestrels around different sized colonies at increasing distances. At the same time, we recorded hunting distances and prey delivery rates to the nest. In addition, we monitored the reproductive success in colonies of different sizes. Lesser kestrels feed their nestlings mainly with grasshoppers and these prey became depleted through the season in the surroundings of the large colonies. Prey depletion made kestrels fly longer distances to forage and prey delivery rates to the nest decreased. Lower feeding rates were not compensated by bringing larger prey, hence, the net amount of energy provided to the chicks decreased with the date in large colonies. By contrast, none of this occurred around small colonies, where both prey abundance and hunting distance remained constant throughout the season. As a consequence, the seasonal decline in the reproductive success (number of fledglings and fledgling body condition) was greater the larger the colony. Thus, these results evidence that food depletion and its fitness costs are related to colony size, as they are suffered by the kestrels breeding in large colonies but not by those settled at small ones. Finally, the consequences of prey depletion on the demographic dynamics and the regulation of colony size are discussed.
3677375|We analysed the effects of the design of feeding-preference experiments in a study of seed selection by Rufous-collared Sparrows Zonotrichia capensis. We presented eight seed options in multiple- and simple-offer experiments. Statistical results indicated that in multiple-offer tests there were three preferred, and two avoided seed species. The other three species could not be assigned to any of those groups. In contrast, results of simple-offer tests showed that all seed species were preferred, except the two avoided ones. Using a graphical combination of the results of both approaches, we obtained an easily interpretable assessment of the seed preferences of Rufous-collared Sparrows. In the graph space, seed species make up three groups: preferred, avoided, and less-preferred (i.e., heavily consumed in simple-offer trials, but avoided or consumed to a lesser extent in multiple-offer trials). With the combination of both protocols we avoided the biases caused by using one experimental design alone and could detect secondary-preferred food items. This seems crucial when the bird under study is plastic in its feeding preferences.
30244831|The phylogeographic structure of the widely distributed arid and semi-arid Australian splendid fairy-wren Malurus splendens was investigated by using variation in plumage characters and mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA). We examined sequences of the mtDNA ND2 gene and used spectrophotometry to quantify chromatic variation in plumage in order to test the current morphology-based intraspecific taxonomy of M. splendens and to discriminate between hypotheses invoking allopatric and parapatric processes in the origin of diversity in the complex. Genetic diversity of M. splendens fell into three divergent geographically structured clades. One represents populations ascribed to the western subspecies M. s. splendens, the other populations of central M. s. musgravi and the third all eastern populations currently ascribed to M. s. emmottorum and M. s. melanotus. Plumage patterns clearly differentiate M. s. splendens and M. s. musgravi, and spectrophotometry identified a step-wise transition in spectra between M. s. melanotus and M. s. emmottorum. Congruence of patterns of phenotypic and genetic variation among western, central and eastern populations of M. splendens strongly suggests that these populations have diverged in allopatry on either side of historical biogeographic barriers in this region. Decoupled patterns of phenotypic and genetic diversity suggest that the divergence of M. s. melanotus and M. s. emmottorum may have occurred without periods of isolation perhaps in response to differences in local environmental conditions, or alternatively, mtDNA and plumage may have different rates of evolution. Critically, we encountered issues with the placement of the root of the M. splendens complex. The root was placed within the subspecies M. s. splendens separating its northern and southern populations and rendering the subspecies paraphyletic.
10.2307/3677138| The time of departure of nocturnal passerine migrants was studied by radiotelemetry and tracking radar in South Sweden in spring and autumn. Our objective was to analyse the time of flight initiation in relation to celestial orientation cues during the twilight period at dusk. The telemetry and radar results were compared with data on nocturnal flight departures reported in the literature. There was a considerable variation in time of flight initiation throughout the twilight period. A large fraction of the birds (mostly thrushes) departed mainly during the civil and nautical twilight periods, with a sun elevation between 0 and -12, while several migrants did not leave until much later in the night. This variation in time of departures speaks against the hypothesis that departure time is connected with a critical skylight situation with respect to the visual accessibility of celestial orientation cues. Characteristic times of departure, as reflected by the associated elevations of the sun below the horizon, seem to differ between different passerine species, latitudes and times of migratory season. 
3677494|We examined the sex ratios of adults and nestlings in the cooperatively breeding bell miner Manorina melanophrys. Males were over-represented among helpers (mean of 6.8 male helpers per nest compared to 0.3 female helpers). 58% of nestlings sampled were identified as male using a molecular genetic marker. This was a significant departure from parity, yet the magnitude of the bias varied between years. The beneficial and male-biased nature of helping behaviour in this species and the similar size of male and female nestlings suggest the net cost of raising males is lower than the cost of raising females. Consequently, the male-biased sex ratio of nestlings we observed is consistent with the predictions of the repayment hypothesis that females may bias the production of their young towards the more helpful sex. Difficulties of generating quantitative predictions from repayment models that can be tested in the field are discussed.
3677523|We document seasonal changes in body mass and plasma hormone levels (testosterone and triiodothyronine) between winter and spring quarters in dark-bellied brent geese Branta bernicla bernicla. Body mass increased between winter and spring, whereas body size was the same for the birds sampled in winter and those in spring. Adults and males were larger and heavier than juveniles and females. Plasma testosterone levels did not differ significantly between winter and spring, and did not vary with sex, age and morphometry. Plasma triiodothyronine ( T3) levels were significantly higher in spring than in winter, and were higher for males than for females. However, T3 levels did not vary significantly with age and body measurements. To explain the findings, we discuss potential impacts of social dominance.
3677447|While accelerated growth can be advantageous to nestling birds, there may be a tradeoff between rapid growth and resistance to food shortages. Common murres Uria aalge are colonial seabirds that benefit from reproductive synchrony. Individuals that lay eggs late should benefit if they produce chicks capable of growing quickly and fledging synchronously with their neighbors. In this study, we controlled food provisioning of captive-hatched common murre chicks from a single subcolony and examined differences in growth between early-hatched individuals and their later-hatched neighbors. We assessed potential costs of rapid growth by comparing growth of chicks fed ad libitum with their growth under food restricted conditions. Chicks that hatched later were heavier, ate more and gained body mass more quickly than chicks that hatched earlier. Late-hatched chicks grew quickly enough to reach the same mass as their early-hatched neighbors in five days. However, chicks that grew more quickly under ad libitum food conditions grew more slowly when food was restricted. We conclude that murres that lay eggs late may synchronize their reproduction with early-laying neighbors by producing rapidly growing chicks. However, the ability to compensate for late hatching by growing quickly can be costly when food becomes limited.
3677639|High densities of penguins in their colonies and the continuous use of these sites over consecutive reproductive periods increase the risk of development of tick populations. We have studied the effects of tick parasitism by Ixodes uriae in a colony of king penguins Aptenodytes patagonicus at Possession Island during three breeding seasons. We investigated the prevalence and periods of tick infestation during the one-year breeding cycle of penguins. The effects of tick parasitism on penguin breeding performance were assessed from photographs of the colony and with an automatic penguin identification system. We compared two groups of penguins carrying individual subcutaneous electronic tags, one group breeding in an infested area and the other in a non-infested area. Tick feeding activity was coincident with the periods when adult penguins stayed ashore for six days or more, i.e. during the incubating period. This duration corresponds to the duration of a tick meal on the host. The level of infestation varied between years. Penguins showed a lower incubating success in infested areas during a year of high infestation. In an infested area, individuals seen with ticks had a lower breeding success in rearing a one-year old chick than those seen without ticks.
30243292|Bird song is an important signal for long-distance intraspecific communication. Thus, song characteristics are expected to have undergone adaptive modification to maximise propagation through the environment. Acoustic properties of song should be correlated with the habitat in which they are broadcast, and neighbouring individuals should sing similar songs because they share the same local acoustic environment. We tested these predictions by investigating associations between habitat characteristics and song attributes in the Madagascar paradise flycatcher Terpsiphone mutata. We also examined whether song dialects were distributed non-randomly through the study site and which features of habitat density best explained these associations. We found that individuals on territories in denser habitat sang longer songs at lower frequencies. Features of song structure were related to both understorey and canopy cover density. The distribution of dialects within the study site was also strongly associated with variation in understorey cover. These findings suggest that habitat variation contributes to maintaining microgeographic variation in song structure in this species.
3677508|Long-eared owls Asio otus do not build their own nests. They occupy old corvid nests in either coniferous or deciduous trees. In my study area owls favoured coniferous over deciduous trees for nesting and occupied nest sites in that order. Comparing overall breeding output, I found no difference between the two kinds of nest sites, but among early nests there was a higher proportion of unsuccessful nests in deciduous trees. This difference was due to differences in predation rate, indicating that the owls' pattern of nest site occupation followed predictions from the ideal despotic distribution model. I also show that, due to a seasonal change in habitat quality, predator driven despotism, although present, can be well masked and hence difficult to detect.
10.2307/3677034| We studied the relationship between female age and egg size of the Lesser Snow Goose Anser caerulescens caerulescens at La Prouse Bay, Manitoba, Canada, over a period of 15 years (1976-90). Two and three years old birds laid significantly lighter eggs than the rest of the population in a given year, laying sequence and clutch size. Analysis of repeated measures of individual birds showed equivalent results. Younger birds also laid eggs which were significantly longer and thinner than eggs laid by older birds. The pattern of intraclutch egg size variation was the same in both young and old birds, with younger birds laying slightly smaller eggs in each position within the laying sequence. Some physiological maturation process was probably responsible for the smaller eggs younger birds laid because the pattern held within individuals. However, changes in egg size and shape may be due to breeding experience rather than age itself. We detected no evidence for age-specific differences in egg size of older birds. Thus, neither senescent declines in egg size nor an increased allocation of reserves to reproduction appear to be occurring in this species. 
3677506| The foraging patterns of ten male rockhopper penguins Eudyptes chrysocome from the Falkland Islands were recorded during the incubation period by using satellite telemetry. Irrespective of study site and year, two different foraging areas could be identified. Three foraging trips were directed towards the slope of the Patagonian Shelf c. 140 km to the northeast of the breeding colony and these trips had a duration of 11-15 days. The seven other rockhopper penguins travelled c. 400 km towards the edge of the Falkland Islands' waters; all these foraging trips followed an anti-clock-wise direction and lasted 16-27 days. The calculated mean daily travelling speed, based on the time spent underwater and the distance covered between two positions, was significantly higher in birds travelling to the edge of the Falkland Islands' waters compared with those foraging at the shelf slope (4.4  1.6 km/h vs. 3.4  2.0 km/h, respectively). The consistent foraging patterns exhibited during the long trips may be linked to the Falklands current, allowing the penguins to reach remote areas while reducing their energy expenditure. Potential interactions between commercial fisheries and hydrocarbon exploration are discussed. 
30244468|Accurate measurements of what birds are looking at are valuable to most studies of vision and visually guided behaviour in avian species. Compared to human visual research, studies of gaze behaviour in birds are limited. A new laser-based method that can be used to quantify several aspects of a given sequence of gaze shifts and fixations is presented. Using near infrared light to estimate gaze direction is a relatively simple and cheap method to study visually guided behaviour. It has the potential to contribute significantly to the ornithological research by allowing the quantification of several behavioural traits of birds. Other methods are discussed and compared to the use of infrared light, and possible fields of application are suggested.
30244788|It is well established that extra-pair young are present to varying degrees in nests of most avian species. However, the timing of extra-pair copulations during a female's fertile cycle is not well known, nor is how these copulations translate into the distribution of extra-pair young within the laying sequence. We determined the rates of successful within-pair copulations where at least one cloacal contact was achieved, and the number of extra-pair copulations/attempts in 17 pairs of tree swallows Tachycineta bicolor during the mornings encompassing the female's fertile period. We also examined nestling paternity with respect to laying order in eighteen mixed-paternity tree swallow broods. The rate of successful within-pair copulations peaked three days prior to a female laying her first egg, and decreased steadily throughout the laying period. We therefore predicted that extra-pair young would be more likely to hatch out of later-laid than earlier-laid eggs within a female's brood. We found no evidence of an increased frequency of extra-pair young with laying order. Instead, extra-pair young appear to be randomly distributed within the laying sequence of tree swallows.
3677722| We tested if juvenile survival and recruitment (returning to breed) of wood thrushes Hylocichla mustelina into their natal population was dependent on several measures of nestling condition, growth, and site fidelity. Overall, nestling mass, wing chord, condition, and rank within the brood did not affect the probability of survival to the post-fledging stage, independence, or recruitment. We did not identify any morphometric differences among nestlings that remained in the study area after fledging and those that did not (or those that did not survive). Time of season and the number of days nestlings were present in the study area after hatching, or site fidelity, were the only variables measured that positively influenced juvenile survival and recruitment. Based on a restricted sample, fledglings that eventually recruited did not differ in size during post-fledging or post-independence from fledglings that did not return to breed. Independent, immigrant hatching-year (HY) birds are briefly described. Overall, immigrant HY birds had a higher probability of recruitment than all local fledglings. There was no difference in the probability of recruitment between immigrant HY birds and independent local fledglings (those present 35 days after hatching), however. Similar to local young, the number of days present in the study area increased the likelihood of recruitment for immigrant HY birds, although these effects could not be distinguished from those of emigration or survival. 
10.2307/3677046|In altricial birds, mass loss among brooding females may reflect nutritional stress due to reduced time available for foraging or the cost of warming young. Alternatively, it may be an adaptive adjustment to future energetic demands. To distinguish between these hypotheses we conducted a brood replacement experiment with Pied Flycatchers. Female Pied Flycatchers brood their young during the first 7 days after hatching. Nine broods with chicks 4 days old were replaced by broods that hatched on the day of manipulation. Females of the first group thus brooded for a longer period ("double brooding"), while the second group of females experienced a shortened brooding period ("non-brooding"). Other broods were not manipulated. Chicks were returned to their original nest after one week. Females adjusted their brooding and feeding response to the age of the brood being cared for. "Double brooding" females lost significantly less mass than control females during the first 8 days after hatching of their brood, although there was no difference between control and "non-brooding" females. There was no difference between treatments in nestling growth and survival. Total mass loss during the nestling period in the three treatments was equal. Female mass loss during the brooding period is not due to brooding effort, and presumably not a symptom of reproductive stress.
30243822|Although many animals use carotenoids to produce bright yellow, orange, and red colors, an increasing number of studies have found that other pigments, such as melanins, may also be used to produce bright colors. Yet, almost nothing is known about the evolutionary history of this colorful melanin use. We used reflectance spectrometry to determine whether colors in New World orioles were predominantly due to carotenoids, colorful melanins, or a mixture of both. We then used ancestral state reconstruction to infer the directionality of any pigment changes and to test for phylogenetic signal. We found that three oriole taxa likely switched from carotenoid- to melanin-based colors. Several other oriole taxa apparently gained localized melanin coloration, or had coloration that seemed to be produced by a mixture of carotenoids and melanins. We also found little phylogenetic signal on the use of carotenoids or melanins to produce color. However, all pigment changes occurred within one of three major clades of the oriole genus, suggesting there may be signal at deeper phylogenetic levels. These repeated independent switches between carotenoid and melanin colors are surprising in light of the important signaling role that color pigments (especially carotenoids) are thought to play across a wide range of taxa.
30244784|Chemodetection of common nest predators may be advantageous for nesting birds; however, few studies have examined the ability of songbirds to detect chemical odors from predators. Thus, in 2002, we presented eastern bluebirds Sialia sialis with pairs of nest boxes; one box in the pair was regularly scented with chemical cues from a common nest predator, the black rat snake Elaphe obsoleta, and the other with a neutral cue. In 2004, we again presented bluebirds with pairs of boxes, one scented with chemical cues from a different nest predator, the deer mouse Peromyscus maniculatus, and the other with a neutral scent. Although human females were able to correctly distinguish paper laced with predator cues from paper with neutral cues, bluebirds were as likely to lay eggs in boxes with predator cues as in boxes with neutral cues. While it remains possible that bluebirds may detect scent from potential nest predators, it appears that the presence of these chemical cues does not ultimately influence selection of nest sites.
30244419|Morphologies of bird species often vary along elevation gradients, yet causes of the variation have not been examined experimentally. We investigated variation in morphological traits of the dark-eyed junco Junco hyemalis, breeding at 1,000 m a.s.l. (low-elevation; i.e. low) and 2,000 m asl (high-elevation; i.e. high) in the Rocky Mountains, Canada. Eight morphological traits were measured in free-living birds. We found two consistent differences in populations between elevations: at high-elevation sites, females had longer wings and males had longer tails than birds from low- elevation sites. Other age- and gender- specific results were observed in free-living birds between elevations: tarsi were shorter in high-elevation second year (SY) females and after second year (ASY) males, beak lengths were slightly longer in low-elevation SY females, and high-elevation ASY females tended to have lower fat than low-elevation ASY females. Morphological differences may result from genetic differences between elevations, or phenotypic flexibility resulting from exposure to the different environmental conditions. To identify which mechanism caused the difference in morphometrics, hand-reared birds from low- and high-elevation habitats were raised in identical conditions with unlimited access to high quality food until they had replaced all feathers. The traits measured in the lab (wing and rectrix length, weight and fat score) tended to increase in magnitude compared to field values. Juncos from high- and low-elevations had similar responses to the aviary environment, with one exception: males from high-elevation sites had greater weight gain relative to free-living juncos than males from low-elevation sites. Thus, morphological traits in dark-eyed juncos were phenotypically flexible, capable of growing larger in the laboratory environment. However, there were also persistent genetic or perinatal/maternal differences underlying population responses that prevented traits from converging under aviary conditions. As a result, trait size differences between high- and low-elevation populations were maintained or exacerbated in the common aviary environment.
3677399|We studied long-term trends and the yearly variation in mean spring passage time in 36 passerine bird species trapped at Ottenby Bird Observatory in south-eastern Sweden. Between the years 1952-2002, data were available for 22-45 years depending on species. Most long-distance migrant species passed progressively earlier over the study period (range: 2.5 days earlier to 0.7 days later per 10 years, with an average of 0.9 days earlier per 10 years). The annual variation in timing of migration in most species, regardless of migration distance, correlated negatively with the winter index of the North Atlantic Oscillation (NAO), a large-scale climate phenomenon influencing the climate in the North Atlantic region. Birds passed earlier after mild and humid winters, corresponding to the high phase of the NAO. This corroborates the pattern found at a nearby migration site with a comparable dataset (Helgoland, 600 km WSW of Ottenby). However, short/medium-distance migrant species at Ottenby, in contrast to the situation at Helgoland, have shown no general trend of earlier passage in recent years. This was probably a consequence of the shorter study period at Ottenby, which included only the last 22-32 years (41 years at Helgoland), when the NAO showed no significant trend. At the species-specific level, the long-term trends in passage time were similar at the two sites, and there was some congruence to the extent that a given species was affected by NAO. Long-distance migrants wintering south and south-east of the breeding grounds showed some of the strongest changes in long-term trends (passing progressively earlier) at Ottenby, and for some of these species passage time varied negatively with NAO. Obviously, and contrary to previous suggestions, variations in NAO also influence birds migrating through eastern Europe, although the direct or indirect mechanisms through which this is achieved are unknown.
10.2307/3677167| The paper contains three parts. (A) A short description is given on the development of the bird flight wind-tunnel technology in my Mnchen and Saarbrcken labs; three tunnels especially adapted for the study of pigeon flight and of starling flight are described. (B) Results from aerodynamic two-component measurements of smooth starling models are given, built exactly after the coordinates gained by high resolution stereo photography of starlings gliding freely in a tiltable tunnel. Measurements of the model trunk, with and without tail feathers, are compared as well as measurements on the original starling and its model. The feather covering decreases drag and enhances lift. (C) Energetic measurements (by J. Speakman and his group who used our wind-tunnels) using the respiration mask technology, the doubly-labelled water technology and the heat dissipation technology are compared. Metabolic power rises slightly with flight speed. The three types of measurement coincide well. 
30244756|I review previous models of the speed at which parent birds should fly when delivering food to their young. Norberg gives a graphical method of finding a parent's best flight speed. This speed maximizes the overall rate at which energy is delivered to the young. An alternative assumption is that a parent maximizes the net rate of delivery of energy. I suggest that in general we cannot distinguish between net rate and overall rate on the basis of whether the parent feeds itself. The best way to distinguish between these currencies may be to use qualitative predictions. I present new results on the effect of a constraint on energy expenditure on the parent's optimal speed. I show that the optimal speed when foraging should be less than the optimal speed when traveling. I also analyse the advantage to a parent of flying faster than the maximum range speed and evaluate previous empirical studies of the speed at which parent birds fly. Only one study claims that parent birds fly at the speed identified by Norberg, but I raise doubts about this claim.
10.2307/3677305|I investigated the seasonal variation in growth rates among the semi-precocial chicks of European Coots Fulica atra. Mean body size and nutritional condition at four weeks of age showed a distinct seasonal decline among first broods, whereas variation in growth was independent of hatching date among later broods. Body dimensions differed between years, but there was no significant between-year variation in the seasonal patterns in chick growth. The seasonal pattern in mean body size was not explained by differences in mean egg mass, brood size or parental age between early and late breeding pairs. Independently of hatching date, chick body size was positively related to egg mass and negatively to brood size one week after hatching. To ascertain whether the seasonal decline in chick growth among first broods was due to a difference in the quality of early and late pairs (parental quality hypothesis), the brood care period of individual pairs was experimentally advanced or delayed by exchanging clutches that differed in laying date. In the first half of the season, the mean body size and nutritional condition of broods of experimental pairs were associated with the original hatching date, and not with the assigned actual (advanced or delayed) hatching date. Hence, the higher growth rate in the earliest broods was consistent with the parental quality hypothesis. In the second half of the season the mean body size and nutritional condition of broods fostered by experimentally advanced or delayed pairs were associated with the actual hatching date, and not with the original one. Thus, the mean body size and condition of chicks were causally related to hatching date in the second half of the season, either through a hatching date-linked deterioration of the environmental conditions for chick growth (date hypothesis) or through a decline in the quality of chicks with progressive hatching date (chick quality hypothesis). Analysis of individual variation in body size among chicks which were sexed upon recapture as adults, revealed a seasonal decline only among males. Body dimensions of female chicks were independent of hatching date. Finally, chicks of either sex that grew poorly were significantly smaller as adults. Therefore, variation in juvenile growth may represent a major factor in determining the reproductive value of coot chicks, as breeding success may depend on phenotypic differences in adult size.
3677370| We investigated the patterns of nocturnal bird migration in autumn 1998 at a coastal site on the Falsterbo peninsula in south-western Sweden, by means of a passive infrared device. In total 17411 flight paths, including track direction and altitude, of migrating birds were recorded for 68 nights from August to October. Mean migratory traffic rate per night varied between 6 and 6618 birds
30244802|Individuals can compensate for poor early nutrition by accelerating their growth rates once diet improves, but if malnutrition occurs at a key stage of development only certain body structures may compensate fully. This degree of compensation is predicted to differ between the sexes and also between species with different life history strategies. In this paper we determine how males and females in a short-lived bird species, with only slight size dimorphism, differ in their abilities to compensate for a poor start in life. Here, zebra finch Taeniopygia guttata chicks from 93 broods were reared on either a standard quality (SQ), or low quality (LQ) diet for the first 15 d of life, followed by a standard diet for the rest of their lives. Thus, the period of nutritional manipulation was relatively short compared with previous studies. Nestlings on a LQ diet showed slower body mass and tarsus growth rates than those on SQ diet but this was reversed after the diet of the LQ birds was improved. LQ birds of both sexes were able to fully compensate in terms of body mass and beak colour, but not tarsus length. Body size and beak colour are sexually selected traits in male zebra finches. By adulthood LQ females had significantly shorter wings than other birds, apparently directing resources into sex-specific structures instead of feather and skeletal growth. Thus, our experiment showed that the sexes differed in how they phenotypically compensated for a poor start in life. Males in particular invested sparse resources into structures associated with mate acquisition, as proposed by life history theory for a species that 'lives fast and dies young.' We predict that this relatively short period of malnutrition during early development will have long term, sex-specific, fitness consequences for these birds.
30244744|We examined the relationship between the Corsican nuthatch Sitta whiteheadi, a passerine endemic to the island of Corsica and Corsican pine Pinus nigra laricio forest, its virtually exclusive habitat, currently restricted to inland mountains. The Corsican nuthatch prefers older Corsican pine stands with tall, large trees, and avoids younger stands, both in the breeding and wintering seasons. This preference is explained by the greater availability of pine seeds from older trees. Territorial adults are almost completely sedentary, a trait that is influenced by seed hoarding behaviour. From late autumn to early spring (i.e., when cones are mature), and during sunny weather (i.e., when cones are open), nuthatches remove pine seeds from cones and cache them on branches and under the bark of trunks. The birds retrieve the cached seeds in cold and wet weather. The presence of old Corsican pine stands appears to be a key-factor in the survival of the Corsican nuthatch, whose habitat is currently threatened by logging and fires.
3676995|Aerodynamic theories of bird flight predict that horizontal flight speed will increase with increasing load whereas vertical flight speed will decrease. Horizontal flight speed for birds minimizing overall time on migration is predicted to be higher than flight speed for birds minimizing energy expenditure. In this study we compare flight speeds of Brent Geese Branta b. bernicla recorded by tracking radar and optical range finder during spring and autumn migration in southernmost Sweden, testing the above-mentioned predictions. Geese passing Sweden in spring are substantially heavier than in autumn and there might also be a stronger element of time-selection in spring than in autumn. Recorded airspeeds were significantly higher in spring (mean
30243821|Carotenoids produce the brilliant red, orange, and yellow colors of many animals. However, melanin pigments can also confer some of these same hues. Because carotenoid and melanin colors are produced in different ways and may serve different signaling functions, either within or between species, it is important to establish whether one or both types of pigment are responsible for coloration. We have discovered what appears to be an evolutionary switch from carotenoid- to melanin-based color in two sexually dichromatic New World orioles. Using a combination of reflectance spectrometry and chromatographic analyses of plumage pigments, we found that the chestnut plumage of adult male orchard orioles Icterus spurius is produced predominantly by phaeomelanins. Orchard oriole feathers also contain carotenoids, which appear to be masked by the high concentration of phaeomelanins. In contrast, both carotenoids and phaeomelanins appear to contribute to color in adult male Fuertes's orioles I. fuertesi. Moreover, yellow yearling male and female plumage in both species is produced by carotenoids alone. The masking of carotenoids with phaeomelanins in orchard orioles is interesting in light of the signaling roles that carotenoids are thought to play. In addition, these plumage differences produce a unique case of age and sexual pigment dimorphism in orchard and Fuertes's orioles.
10.2307/3677191|Parentage of 201 young (from 44 broods) in a population of Sedge Warblers Acrocephalus schoenobaenus in South Central Sweden, 1990-1992, was determined by using multilocus DNA fingerprinting. The frequency of extra-pair young (EPY) was 7.5% and they occurred in 23% of the broods. For 11 out of 15 extra-pair young we could identify the true father; in all of the cases he was a close neighbour. Among ten broods with extra-pair young, nine contained only one extra-pair sire and the remaining brood two extra-pair sires. The frequency of EPF varied among years (1.8-11.8%). The seasonal timing of broods with and without extra-pair young did not differ, and the occurrence of extra-pair fertilizations (EPF) was not related to the length of the pair male's mate-guarding period. EPF were not related to breeding synchrony (estimated as the mean number of fertile females per day during a female's fertile period). Pairs whose nests contained extra-pair young had more territories within 100 m of their nest than pairs without extra-pair young. Females that engaged in EPF had fewer attractive (i.e. singing) males to choose among the day before and at the day they formed their pair bond. Moreover, in all but one case the extra-pair male was not singing (i.e. not available as pair mate) the day the EPF-female settled. Males that fertilized extra-pair young tended to arrive earlier and to have higher pairing success than both males that were cuckolded and other males. Hence, female Sedge Warblers engaged in extra-pair fertilizations with attractive male neighbours. These results are consistent with the hypotheses that females participating in EPF are seeking genetic benefits to their offspring, but we cannot exclude the alternative explanation that attractive males are more efficient in forcing females to accept EPF.
30244797|The use of metal and colour-rings or bands as a means of measuring survival, movements and behaviour in birds is universal and fundamental to testing ecological and evolutionary theories. The practice rests on the largely untested assumption that the rings do not affect survival. However this assumption may not hold for several reasons, for example because the 'oddity effect' predicts predators select prey that appear different to their neighbours in order to avoid the 'confusion effect'. We compared the foraging behaviour and the death rates of redshanks Tringa totanus conspicuously marked with six colour rings and one metal ring each to unmarked birds in a study system, where routinely up to 50% of the total population are killed by avian predators during a winter. If avian predators selectively target and/or have a higher capture success of ringed birds then we would predict the proportion of colour-ringed birds in the population to decline through a winter. The proportion of colour-ringed birds in the population did not change over the course of three separate winters, and in one winter the ratio of marked:unmarked birds found killed by sparrowhawks Accipiter nisus was the same as the ratio of marked birds alive in the population. In the year with largest sample size, power was sufficient to detect a greater than 2.2% difference in predation rate between ringed and unringed groups. The average kill rate difference between ringed and unringed birds across the three winters was less than 1% (0.73  2.2%) suggesting that even if there were differences in predation rate that were not detected because of low statistical power they were extremely small. There were no differences in any foraging measures comparing ringed and unringed birds, suggesting that the rings did not affect the ability of birds to meet their daily energy budgets. The results showed that colour-ringed birds were not preferentially targeted or killed by avian predators, and suggest that the presence of a metal and even several large colour-rings is unlikely to affect behaviour and predation mortality even under extreme selection.
10.2307/3677201|During the last decades the White-backed Woodpecker has shown a precipitous decline in many regions of the western Palearctic. In this study I ask whether detoriation of the forest breeding habitat might have contributed to this population decline and contraction of the species' range. By using the technique of ptilochronology it is shown that the bird's condition reflects the quality of the breeding territory as estimated by the density of dead and deciduous stems. Feather growth bars were wider on old museum specimens, suggesting that birds living 55-150 years ago experienced a forest landscape of better quality than birds do today.
10.2307/3676965|Until recently, the Moustached Warbler was considered strictly monogamous. However, in our study we observed males other than the pair male incubating, feeding and defending nestlings. This additional care was far less extensive than that provided by the breeding male. Parental care by extra males seems to facilitate their later forming of a pair with the female for a subsequent brood. This is suggested by the following results: intrusions at foreign nests were strongly male-biased; high rates of non-aggressive encounters between intruders and pair females; helping behaviour occurred mostly in the presence of females; in subsequent second broods, two documented cases of mate switching at nests with extra male care in contrast to two cases of mate fidelity at nests where extra males did not help.
10.2307/3677211|Timing and speed of migration within Europe and North Africa are analysed in five Sylvia warblers using North European and British ringing recoveries. Intraspecific comparisons between populations breeding in Great Britain and in Northern Europe show no difference in the timing of autumn migration but about three weeks earlier spring arrival in Great Britain, indicating that northern populations spend a shorter time on the breeding grounds. Autumn migration speed estimates based on distance and elapsed time between consecutive captures vary between 43 and
25662902|Nest boxes provide sheltered nesting sites for both passerines and paper wasps. Although neither wasps nor birds appear to evict the other once one is fully established, it is unclear which is the dominant competitor at the onset of the breeding season. Using wire mesh, we excluded birds but not golden paper wasps Polistes fuscatus from alternating boxes along a transect through edge habitat in North Carolina from 2006  2008. If wasps dominate Carolina chickadees Poecile carolinensis and eastern bluebirds Sialia sialis during the early spring (all have similar nest initiation dates), we would expect wasps to settle in both box types at equal frequencies. However, if birds dominate wasps, we would expect wasp nests to be concentrated in "bird-proof" boxes. We found wasps in bird-proof boxes significantly more often than in bird-accessible boxes, indicating that secondary-cavity nesting birds are able to exclude wasps from available nest sites. Additionally, we found that during the period of nest initiation, birds usurp wasps more often than vice versa.
30244417|We examined androgens in clutches of two booby species that differ in their sibling conflict. Blue-footed booby Sula nebouxii chicks show an aggression-submission relationship, aggression is normally moderate and siblicide is facultative. Brown booby Sula leucogaster chicks show an aggression-aggression relationship, aggression of both chicks can be relentless and siblicide is obligate. The parental favoritism hypothesis predicts that egg mass, yolk mass and yolk androgens should decline with laying order less in the blue-footed booby than in the brown booby, to promote the survival of the former's junior chick. The eggs of the blue-footed booby had higher yolk concentrations of 5-dihydrotestosterone (DHT) and lower concentrations of testosterone (T); both species had similarly high yolk concentrations of androstenedione (A). Intra-clutch variation in yolk DHT, T and A failed to support our predictions. In both species, first and second eggs showed similar concentrations of all three hormones and were of similar size, although in the blue-footed booby (only) yolk masses declined with laying order. Brown booby mothers make junior chicks vulnerable to siblicide by hatching them 5 d after their broodmates, but not by differential allocation of egg androgens or nutrients. Blue-footed booby mothers appear to prepare junior chicks for thriving in a subordinate non-provocative role by hatching them 4 d after their broodmates and providing them with 10% less yolk. To orchestrate agonism within the brood, these boobies may rely more on hatch intervals and yolk provision than on androgens.
10.2307/3677303|A marked population of Checker-throated Antwrens Myrmotherula fulviventris was studied on Barro Colorado Island, Panama over a 14-year period. Once established on territories, Checker-throated Antwrens were found to be relatively long-lived - both males and females, which survive at least one year, live an average of four years; annual survival of territorial adults was 75%. After the first year, survivorship declined as birds aged; younger birds had a survivorship of 85-90% and older birds survived at an average of 50-76%. Territory boundaries were generally stable throughout the period despite substantial turn-over of individuals. Although territories are a stable and indivisible feature of the habitat, 37% of the marked adults shifted to neighboring territories at least once in their life. The frequency of switching appeared to be independent of sex or age. A large portion (59%) of the fledglings dispersed to within two territories of where they were hatched. Opportunity to improve territory quality appears to be largely limited to short-distance dispersal in both sexes of this species. Limited options for improving territory quality may explain the intense and often lengthy territorial boundary displays which occur on a daily basis. The need to provide defense against the intense competition for limited reproductive slots in the population may also explain the declining survivorship in territorial adults.
10.2307/3677242|Philopatry, nest-site tenacity, and mate fidelity were examined in a population of Semipalmated Plovers Charadrius semipalmatus breeding near Churchill, Manitoba, Canada from 1992 to 1997. Natal philopatry was low (7 of 445 (1.57%) hatchlings returned to the study area to breed) and no difference in sex of recruits was detected. Adult males returned at a significantly higher rate (58.9%) than adult females (41.2%). For both sexes, but more strongly for females, success in the previous year resulted in higher return rates in the subsequent year. Of pairs that returned, 41.6% divorced. Females that divorced or changed mates through death or disappearance of a partner between breeding seasons were significantly less site tenacious than females that reunited and also less so than males of any pairing status. Females that experienced breeding failure and changed mates in the subsequent breeding season moved farther than successful females that changed mates. In only one of four years did reunited pairs nest earlier and have greater hatching success than novel pairs. After divorce new mates of females did not differ significantly in morphological or plumage characteristics from old mates, nor did they possess territories with greater visibility, or territories nearer to water. After divorce new mates of males were significantly smaller than old mates. Our return rates underestimate survivorship in females because both the probability of return and site tenacity of females are strongly influenced by their previous success.
30243288|Some birds are known to use the UV reflectance in their feeding strategy. Knowing that the common kestrel Falco tinnunculus is able to recognise vole trails by perceiving the UV reflectance of their scent marks, this study was designed to investigate whether the use of scent marks in the UV range has an innate component, or if it is only acquired with experience. We tested the preference of 44 experienced adult and 49 nave juvenile common kestrels in four types of arenas: (1) scent-marked and covered with a UV transmitting filter (UV + SC), (2) scent-marked and covered with a UV blocking filter (UV-SC), (3) sprinkled with water and covered with a UV transmitting filter (UV + W), and (4) sprinkled with water and covered with a UV blocking filter (UV-W). We assessed the birds' preference by counting the number of visual scans and visits to each arena. The distribution of scans differed from random in both adults and juveniles. The birds scanned the UV + SC arena more often than the others. Since nave individuals showed the same preference as experienced ones, we hypothesised that the association between vole scent UV reflectance and vole presence has an innate component in the common kestrel. Nevertheless, adults differed from juveniles because they perceived the scented arenas from the water sprinkled ones, in fact, adults scanned the UV-SC arena more frequently than both UV + W and UV-W arenas. This result suggests that the ability of detecting UV cues has a learned component.
30244763|Birds frequently display a colourful plumage which is important both in inter and intraespecific communication, and either in sexual and social contexts. In last years some methodologies have been developed to analyse plumage coloration, but the use of the spectrometers has been particularly important for UV range. Measurement of plumage coloration with the spectrometer may be taken directly on the bird or, alternatively by collecting some feathers and measuring them later in the laboratory. However, few is known about the reliability of measures obtained from feathers and whether these are really representative of plumage coloration. We tested this assumption analysing measurements of carotenoids-based coloration components (lightness, chroma and hue) and lutein peak of the yellow breast of the great tit Parus major We used two spectrometers (Ocean optics and Minolta) which calculate differently the colour components. Our results showed that direct measurement of bird was highly repeatable to determine lightness, chroma and hue for both spectrometers. Similar results we found for collected feathers procedure for both devices. Collected feathers provided high representative measurements of colour values with Minolta spectrometer. Lightness was highly repeatable when we used Ocean optic spectrometer, but chroma and hue were moderate. Lutein peak was also highly repeatable in all cases. The number of feathers used to measure plumage coloration in collected feathers procedure strongly influenced values of colour plumage variables. In general, values of lightness, chroma and hue stabilised when more than 10-15 feathers were used although we found slight differences between spectrometers. However, only four feathers were needed for lutein peak. Thus, our results stress the need to use a minimum number of feathers in measuring plumage coloration from collected feathers.
30244832|Male structural plumage coloration and UV signals in particular can provide information on individual quality and influence female choice, while melanin-pigmented plumage is largely considered to be important in intrasexual competition. Many avian species demonstrate both types of plumage ornamentation that may convey different information about the signaller's quality or condition in addition to age. We examine rufous and blue plumage ornamentation across multiple body regions in relation to age, condition and reproductive performance in male western bluebirds Sialia mexicana. We demonstrate a strong positive relationship between head plumage brightness and both male age and the mass of the offspring. Older males are in better condition and display a reduced plumage patch on the back while the size of the rufous breast patch increases with increasing condition but not with age. Spectral characters from the wings and rump were not associated with any of the reproductive parameters measured. In conjunction with published evidence showing that females preferentially accept extrapair copulations from older males, these data suggest a need for experimental manipulation of plumage colour in known-aged birds to understand mate choice in this species.
30243868|An earlier onset of spring has been recorded for many parts of Eurasia in recent decades. This has consequences for migratory species, both in changing the conditions encountered by individuals on reaching migratory sites and in affecting cues regulating the timing of migration where decisions to migrate are influenced by local environmental variables. Here we examine the timing of spring migration for two arctic goose populations, the pink-footed goose Anser brachyrhynchus (during 1990-2003) and barnacle goose Branta leucopsis (during 1982-2003), which both breed on Svalbard. The satellite-derived Normalised Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI) was used to express the onset of spring at their wintering and spring staging sites. Pink-footed geese use several sites during spring migration, ranging from the southernmost wintering areas in Belgium to two spring staging areas in Norway, and distances between sites used along the flyway are relatively short. There was a positive correlation in the onset of spring between neighbouring sites, and the geese migrated earlier in early springs. Barnacle geese, on the other hand, have a long overseas crossing from their wintering grounds in Britain to spring staging areas in Norway. Although spring advanced in both regions, there was no corresponding correlation in the timing of onset of spring between their wintering and spring staging sites, and little evidence for barnacle geese migrating earlier over the whole study period. Hence, where geese can use spring conditions at one site as an indicator of the conditions they might encounter at the next, they have responded quickly to the advancement of spring, whereas in a situation where they cannot predict, they have not yet responded, despite the advancement of spring in the spring staging area.
3677765|Megapode hatchlings are "superprecocial" compared to hatchlings of other Galliformes. In this paper, we examine patterns of growth and inquire about evolutionary processes that led to different degrees of precocity at hatching in Galliformes. The postnatal development of body mass and that of seven morphometric parameters of wing and leg of Brush Turkey Alectura lathami, Peacock Pavo cristatus, Pheasant Phasianus colchicus and Japanese Quail Coturnix japonica was characterized by the ratio of exponential growth rate (EGR) to relative size (ln(W/A); W = size at a given age; A = asymptote) at a given age. From that relationship, we derived developmental trajectories as the slopes of a least squares regression of EGR on relative size. The slopes of the developmental trajectories are indicative of the degree of precocity of development. We found that Brush Turkey, Peacock, and Pheasant follow the same developmental trajectory. However, the Brush Turkey hatches heterochronically delayed on that trajectory and consequently, its hatchlings are superprecocial. The Quail follows a significantly steeper developmental trajectory and hatches with a high degree of embryonic function (EGR). From a comparative phylogenetic analysis we reconstruct the ancestral galliform developmental trajectory and infer that hypermorphosis of Brush Turkey embryos led to the superprecocial hatchlings. The steeper developmental trajectory of Quail is evolutionary derived from ancestral patterns of growth by somatic paedomorphosis. Using a multivariate approach we show that development of different parts of the body is coherent, i.e., that patterns of development of wing and leg do not vary independently of each other. Consequently, selection for changed development of any part of the wing or the leg will cause the other parts to change too.
3677707|Birds with uniparental incubation may face a time allocation problem between incubation and feeding. Eggs need regular warming to hatch successfully, but the parent must leave the nest to feed and safeguard its own survival. Time allocation during incubation is likely to depend on factors influencing egg cooling rates, parental energy requirements and feeding intake rate. How this allocation problem is resolved was subject of this study on arctic-breeding shorebirds. We compared incubation rhythms between four uniparental shorebird species differing in size and expected to find both species differences and weather effects on the organisation of incubation. Attentive behaviour and responses to variation in weather showed a remarkable consistency across species. All species alternated feeding bouts (recesses) with brooding bouts throughout the day. Recesses were concentrated in the warmer parts of the day, while recess duration showed little diurnal variation. Despite continuous daylight, a pronounced day-night rhythmicity was apparent. The four species in this study spent a similar proportion (13-19%) of the time off their nest. After correction for weather effects, the number of recesses was largest in the smallest species, while recess duration was longest in the largest species. Total recess time per day increased on cold days through an increase of mean recess length, while the number of recesses decreased. Comparing our observations to predictions derived from criteria that birds might use to organise their attentive behaviour, showed that the limits are set by parental requirements, while the energy stores of adults provide some leeway for short-term adjustments to environmental variability. If breeding birds trade off feeding time against incubation time, energy stores are expected to be influenced by weather. We expected uniparental species to be more likely to show weather effects on condition than biparentals, as in the latter 'off duty' time is much larger and independent of weather. This prediction was tested by comparing energy stores in two uniparental species and a biparental congener. While body mass of uniparental incubators decreased after a period with low temperatures, body mass of the biparental species did not.
3677701|Body mass of Brnnich's guillemots Uria lomvia breeding at Coats Island, Canada, was measured during incubation and chick-rearing in 1988-2001. In most years, mass increased during incubation and fell after hatching, leveling off by the time chicks were 18 d old, close to the age at which chicks departed. Mass during incubation increased with age up to about 12 yr, but the mass of birds brooding chicks was not related to age. The trend towards increasing mass during incubation was mainly a consequence of mass increases of young breeders as older birds maintained a constant mass. The variation in adult mass with age during incubation seems likely to reflect age-related variation in foraging ability, but the loss of mass after hatching, being greater for older birds, appears best explained as a response to the demands of provisioning chicks, with older birds transferring their accumulated reserves to their chicks via higher provisioning rates.
30244486|Arctic warbler Phylloscopus borealis is one of several high-latitude Passerines which are widely distributed across one northern continent but restricted to the Beringian part of the other. Most species with such asymmetric intercontinental ranges are monomorphic across Beringia, suggesting either recent colonization of the second continent or considerable gene flow across the Bering Strait. Arctic warbler is the only migratory species in this group that has three different subspecies in Beringia: Ph. b. borealis (Scandinavia to western Beringia, south to Mongolia), Ph. b. xanthodryas (Japan, Sakhalin, Kamchatka, western Beringia), and Ph. b. kennicotti (Alaska). This polymorphism may indicate that Arctic warbler has a unique and complex phylogeographic history that differs significantly from other species with similar ranges. Our analyses of complete mtDNA ND2 sequences of 88 Arctic warblers collected across the species range showed that the clade comprised of birds breeding on Sakhalin Island and Kamchatka Peninsula diverged from the Palearctic/Beringian clade by 3.8% in ND2 sequence. Beringian birds formed a recently derived clade embedded within the Palearctic clade. Nucleotide diversity declined sharply eastward from Palearctic to western Beringia and then to eastern Beringia. Our data provided no support for currently recognized subspecies. They suggested that the barrier at the western edge of Beringia was crossed by Arctic warbler earlier than the Bering Strait resulting in a stepping-stone colonization of Beringia by this species. Gene flow appears to be restricted across the western border of Beringia but not the Bering Strait.
3677391|Long-distance migrant passerines are well known to often display high levels of philopatry to breeding and wintering grounds. One could expect that similar selective pressures and similar navigation skills would result in their being faithful to stopover sites, a pattern that has been described for several populations of migratory waders and waterfowl. In this paper, we develop the argument that passerines should suffer from higher costs and receive lower benefits from stopover site faithfulness than waterfowl and waders. Based on Alerstam's (1979) "optimal drift strategy" theory and other considerations, we predict that passerines should have lower stopover site fidelity than geese and waders, and that site faithfulness should decrease with increasing distance from either end of the migratory journey. We present results from a long-term study on the stopover ecology of migrant passerines in southern Portugal that support these predictions and show that, for species and populations that neither nest nor winter in this country, few individuals are faithful to the stopover site. On the other hand, populations that included individuals at (or near to) the start or the end of the migratory journey, had much higher return rates. We could not find any evidence that species linked to scarce habitats, such as wetlands, were more site faithful. Our results are in agreement with several other reports, but in apparent contrast to previous conclusions resulting from some studies involving Old World warblers. These differences are discussed and it is argued that there is no solid evidence to suggest that site fidelity should be important for passerines at stopovers far away from breeding or wintering grounds, meaning that there is a large within-individual variability in the precise migratory routes and stopover sequence used each year.
10.2307/3677155|The full magnitude and complexity of bird migration have not been possible to grasp until after the revolutionary discoveries made with the aid of, e.g., ringing, systematic field observations and radar. These have opened up opportunities for a more formalized theoretical construction work during the recent decades. The introduction of theoretical concepts and tools from flight mechanics into the field of bird flight and migration took place during the 1960s and 1970s and paved the way for the use of optimization analysis to evaluate adaptive aspects of flight behaviour, fuel deposition and responses to wind drift by migrating birds. The approach has been expanded, i.e. through the use of stochastic dynamic programming, to analyse the expected disposition of the migratory journey (with respect to flight and stopover arrangement) under different ecological conditions and the adaptive temporal structure of the annual cycle of a migratory bird. Theoretical considerations also play an important role in analysing the orientation of migratory birds, their population ecology, and patterns of differential migration. Theoretical developments in these areas are reviewed. In the long run evolutionary and mechanistic theories must meet and join to provide a full understanding. While optimization models standing up to critical tests may help to identify primary forces of balancing selection and constraints, mechanistic theories are needed to tell us how the inherent biological algorithms operate within the sensory, neural and physiological systems to control behaviour and design in an adaptive way.
30244820|We studied reproductive success and post-breeding movements of 32 adult female emperor geese Chen canagica that were marked with satellite radio transmitters on their nesting area on the Yukon-Kuskokwim Delta (YKD), Alaska 2000-2004. All 16 females that failed to successfully reproduce departed the YKD and moulted remiges either on the north coast of the Chukotka Peninsula, Russia (n = 15), or on St. Lawrence Island, Alaska (n= 1). Of 16 females that successfully nested, one migrated to Russia following hatch whereas the remainder stayed on the YKD. While moulting on the Chukotka Peninsula, emperor geese with satellite transmitters primarily used coastal lagoons west of Kolyuchin Bay. We observed 21,150 adult-plumaged emperor geese during aerial surveys in Chukotka in 2002. Most (95%) were in the same region used by geese that had been marked with satellite transmitters in Alaska. The number of emperor geese observed in Russia was comparable to our estimate of  20,000 adults that either do not nest or nest unsuccessfully each year on the YKD, suggesting that most nonproductive adults, or  28% of the adult population departs the YKD to moult elsewhere. The number of moult migrants may be substantially higher in years of poor reproductive success or if adult-plumaged birds that are not of breeding age also leave the YKD. Moult migration of emperor geese between Alaska and Russia is likely substantially greater than previously believed. Russian moulting habitats are important to the North American population of emperor geese and events that affect survival of geese in Russia could impact population trends on the YKD. Protection of coastal lagoons on the north coast of Chukotka is warranted.
10.2307/3677344|The abundances of potential avian prey species may be lower in the vicinity of the nests of predatory birds than farther away. We predicted that, if this density depression is due to predation, the observed density pattern should develop gradually during the breeding season as raptors deplete the prey populations. In contrast, if the low abundance is a result of predator avoidance during breeding habitat selection, the observed pattern should be evident from the beginning of the breeding season. We tested these predictions by counting breeding birds along transect lines (length 700 m, width 100 m) radiating away from Kestrel Falco tinnunculus nests, and along control transect lines situated > 1000 m from Kestrel nests, five times in the course of the 1994 breeding season in western Finland. Breeding bird density was ca. 25% lower within 700 m of the Kestrel nests than on control sites. The positive relationship between bird densities and the distance from Kestrel nests was most evident in the early breeding season, which supports the predator avoidance hypothesis. The effect of predator presence on the distribution of breeding pairs seemed to be weak at species level but stronger at community level. At the beginning of the breeding season, distance from predator nests explained a larger proportion of the observed variation in the number of birds or species than any of the habitat variables used.
3677742|The effects of natural moult on avian flight performance have received relatively little attention, yet moult is an important part of the annual cycle. Quantification of flight costs will help to explain the diversity of moult patterns observed in avian taxa. Take-off from the ground requires a high power output from the flight muscles compared to other modes of flight, and is an important feature of foraging and predation escape. The present study was designed to quantify the effect of natural moult and new plumage on the take-off strategy, kinematics, and flight performance of European starlings Sturnus vulgaris. A high-speed (185 Hz) cine camera was used to film seven European starlings on three occasions: session 1, two weeks prior to the onset of moult; session 2, during mid-moult; and session 3, two weeks after full plumage had re-grown. From subsequent film analysis, we assessed take-off speed and angle, the energy gained per wingbeat, and wingtip kinematics. Take-off strategy (measured by angle and speed) altered through the course of the three experimental sessions, i.e. ascent angle decreased and take-off speed increased. Energy gained per wingbeat did not vary, suggesting there was no significant decrease in flight performance due to moult, but there was a significant improvement in take-off performance due to renewal of flight plumage. Wingbeat amplitude increased in association with moult and after flight plumage had been completely renewed. The European starlings incurred relatively minor flight costs due to moult, when comparing before-moult with during-moult take-off performance. The apparent absence of additional flight costs associated with moult may reflect a decreased mechanical performance of year-old feathers (which are replaced during the moult) and may also help to explain the relatively long duration of the moult in this species. This study also provides evidence of the benefits of plumage renewal, as take-off performance is improved after moult has been completed.
3677660|The breeding of Black-legged Kittiwakes Rissa tridactyla in their last breeding season has been compared with that of pairs which survived to the next breeding season. The time of laying was not affected but the clutch size, breeding success and productivity were significantly lower and a higher proportion of pairs totally failed to rear any young in pairs where one of the partners died before the next breeding season. When both partners died before the next breeding season, the breeding performance was reduced to a greater extent, suggesting an additive influence. The depressive effect on the last breeding attempt was confirmed by comparing the breeding success of individual females in their ultimate and penultimate breeding attempts. The effect was present in breeding birds of all ages, from first time breeders to the oldest individuals, and so could not be interpreted as an effect of senescence. Most of the adults which died apparently did so several months after breeding, during the winter half of the year when the kittiwake is oceanic. It is suggested that this depressive effect on breeding is the result of terminal illness which caused the birds to lose condition progressively over several weeks or months. It is possible that stress in the form of disease or parasite infections is primarily responsible for the death of many of the individuals. Attention is drawn to the possible confusion between the effect reported here and claims that senescence leads to lower reproductive output in old birds. It is suggested that more critical examinations are needed of claims that senescence directly affects the breeding success of birds.
3677621|Anti-predator vigilance describes how animals scan their environments for predators. For mathematical simplicity, theories of anti-predator vigilance have generally assumed that animals initiate scans with a constant probability for each unit of time spent feeding. Initiating scans in such a fashion would produce a wide distribution of intervals between scans. Because so much variation was assumed by theory, observations of variation have received little consideration. We show that the original theories of vigilance contain a conceptual discrepancy between the assumed predator and anti-predator tactics. Modified versions of the theory allow variation only under restrictive circumstances that seem unlikely to apply in nature. Plausible reasons for the observed variation in interscan interval are that theories of vigilance assume the wrong predator tactics or the wrong details of predator detection. These possibilities lead to testable predictions about how distributions of interscan intervals should change under different threat and detection conditions.
30244789|Relative numbers of males and females in breeding groups may vary from expected values owing to a variety of factors. To determine how sex ratio might influence individual phenotypes in a captive population of dark-eyed juncos Junco hyemalis during the breeding season, we established three treatment groups: a male-biased (2:1), equal (1:1), and female-biased group (1:2). Within-group density (birds/m) was constant across groups. We assessed the frequency of flight chases (a proxy for social instability), measured changes in body mass and pectoral muscle condition, assayed plasma levels of testosterone (T) and compared cell-mediated immunity of individuals. We found significantly more chases in the male-biased group than in the female-biased group. Birds in the male-biased group lost more mass and displayed poorer pectoral-muscle condition than birds in the equal group. Cell-mediated immune responses were reduced in individuals in the male-biased group in comparison to the female-biased group. Plasma T levels in both sexes did not vary with sex ratio. Collectively, these results suggest that during the breeding season, social instability is greater in male-biased populations, and instability may lead to decreased general health and vigour.
30243845|The distances that individuals disperse, from their natal site to the site of first breeding and between breeding sites, have important consequences for the dynamics and genetic structure of a population. Nearly all previous studies on dispersal have the problem that, because the study area encompassed only a part of the population, emigration may have been confounded with mortality. As a result long-distance dispersers may have been overlooked and dispersal data biased towards short distances. By studying a virtually closed population of Seychelles warblers Acrocephalus sechellensis we obtained almost unbiased results on several aspects of dispersal. As in the majority of other avian species, natal dispersal distance was female biased in the Seychelles warbler. Female offspring also forayed further from the natal territory in search of breeding vacancies than male offspring. The sex bias in natal dispersal distance did, however, depend on local breeding density. In males, dispersal distance decreased as the number of territories bordering the natal territory increased, while in females, dispersal distance did not vary with local density. Dispersal by breeders was rare and, unlike in most species, distances did not differ between the sexes. We argue that our results favour the idea that the sex bias in natal dispersal distance in the Seychelles warbler is due to inbreeding avoidance and not resource competition or intrasexual competition for mates.
30245319|We show that in a long-distance migrant shorebird species with outspoken seasonal changes in body mass and composition, the red knot Calidris canutus, the ratio between the masses of the small flight muscle (musculus supracoracoideus, powering twists and active upstrokes of the wings) and the larger flight muscle (musculus pectoralis, for the downstrokes) is far from constant. During an annual cycle the supracoracoideus/pectoralis ratio varied more than twofold between values of 0.058 (0.005 SE) in early winter period and of 0.124 (0.01 SE) on the High Arctic tundra breeding grounds. The ratios thus spanned a range from those typical of soaring raptors and seabirds to those of fast and agile fliers and birds with rapid take-offs. The overall average ratio was 0.102 (0.001 SE, for non-starved knots, and 0.1030.001 SE including starved knots) and did not differ between males and females. As predicted from the known functions of supracoracoideus and pectoralis, the ratio was a negative function of body mass. However, after arrival on the breeding grounds (0.124) and during winter starvation (0.135) particularly high ratios were reached: these may be times when wing-manoeuvrability (in flight display and during the evasive 'rodent run' away from predators at the nest) and an ability for rapid take-off and active up-strokes (from -near- the nest, and in times of depletion of flight muscle mass during winter starvation) may be at premium. The particularly low ratio of 0.06 in early winter is puzzling. Many aspects of avian phenotypes have recently been shown to be intraindividually variable. To a twofold seasonal variation in flight muscle mass (Dietz et al. 2007), we can now add the twofold variation in the ratio between the muscles for the upstroke and the downstroke.
10.2307/3677047|In a three year field study on a population of 350 Greater Rheas Rhea americana we followed the fates of 138 nests. In four of these nests we observed that, instead of one, there were two males sitting. These males were less than one metre apart and during the incubation period, they stole eggs from each other. There were no signs of aggression between them. The total number of eggs in these adjacent or double nests was similar to that in single nests. Each double nest began as a single nest but during incubation, a second male sat beside the first male and started stealing eggs. We discuss possible functional and mechanistic explanations of this apparently misdirected behaviour.
25662894|The primary and accepted method used to estimate seabird densities at sea from ships is the strip transect method, designed to correct for the effect of random directional bird movement relative to that of the ship. However, this method relies on the critical assumption that all of the birds within the survey strip are detected. We used the distance sampling method from line-transects to estimate detection probability of a number of species of flying seabirds, and to test whether distance from the ship and bird body size affected detectability. Detection probability decreased from 0.987 (SE = 0.029) to 0.269 (SE = 0.035) with increasing strip half-width from 100 to 1400 m. Detection probability also varied between size-groups of species with strip half-width. For all size-groups, this probability was close to 1 for strip half-width of 100 m, but was 0.869 (SE = 0.115), 0.725 (SE = 0.096) and 0.693 (SE = 0.091) for strip half-width of 300 m, a typical strip width used in seabird surveys, for respectively large, medium and small size flying seabirds. For larger strip half-width, detection probability was higher for large sized species, intermediate for medium sized species and lower for smaller sized species. For strip half-width larger than 100 m we suggest that more attention should be paid to testing the assumption of perfect detectability, because abundance estimates may be underestimated when this assumption is violated. Finally, the effect of the speed of travel of flying seabird on the detection probability was estimated in a simulation study, which suggests that detection probability was underestimated with increasing flying speed.
3676924|We studied the sex ratio of Bluethroat Luscinia svecica broods using AFLPs. Our aim was to test whether there is a bias towards males that could be explained by sexual selection theories, or conversely, a bias towards females that could help explain the female-biased sex ratio among juveniles observed at a wintering site. The AFLP technique was reliable in sexing the nestlings from even small initial DNA quantities. Given the large number of polymorphic markers that can be obtained for each primer combination, the probability of detecting a W-chromosome-linked fragment is reasonably high. As a consequence, this method could be used in other species for sex-ratio studies and for other genetic purposes. Among 246 nestlings, we found an overall proportion of males of 50.8% at hatching and the sex-ratio variation using broods as independent units was not significantly different from expectation under a binomial distribution. None of the parental and environmental variables tested changed significantly the deviance to the model. Thus, sex determination in the Bluethroat seems to match the classical Mendelian model of a 1:1 sex ratio and cannot explain the biased sex ratio towards juvenile females found at the wintering site.
3677594|In male birds, the gonadal hormone testosterone (T) is known to influence territorial and mating behaviour. Plasma levels of T show seasonal fluctuations which vary in relation to mating system and social instability. First, we determined the natural T profile of male blue tits Parus caeruleus during the breeding season. We found that plasma levels of T increased at the onset of nest building. Thus, the increase in circulating T was not associated with territory establishment, nor with the fertile period of the males' mates. In most individuals, T levels dropped to values close to zero during the period of chick feeding. Second, we investigated the relationship between plasma levels of T and male age, size, and singing behaviour. During the mating period, T levels did not differ between 1 yr old and older males and did not correlate with body size or condition. However, song output during the dawn chorus tended to be positively correlated with T levels. Therefore, if high T levels are costly, song output might be an honest indicator of male quality in blue tits. Finally, we show that plasma levels of T are significantly higher during the night than during the day. This pattern has also been observed in captive non-passerine birds, but its functional significance remains unknown.
30244761|We evaluated the relationship between spatial variability in prey and food habits of eastern imperial eagles Aquila heliaca at a 90,000 ha national nature reserve in north-central Kazakhstan. Eagle diet varied greatly within the population and the spatial structure of eagle diet within the population varied according to the scale of measurement. Patterns in dietary response were inconsistent with expectations if either ontogenetic imprinting or competition determined diet choice, but they met expectations if functional response determined diet. Eagles nesting near a high-density prey resource used that resource almost exclusively. In contrast, in locations with no single high-density prey species, eagles' diet was more diverse. Our results demonstrate that spatial structuring of diet of vertebrate predators can provide important insight into the mechanisms that drive dietary decisions.
3677637|Recently Carter et al. (2000) have shown that it is possible to amplify microsatellite markers from the DNA of spermatozoa trapped in the perivitelline layers of avian eggs. This makes it possible to establish whether sperm reaches the ovum and to identify the males that contribute sperm competing to fertilise an egg. In this article we quantify the genotyping error rate associated with the biased amplification of differently sized alleles. We conclude that multiple marker loci should be used and that those markers where the competing males' alleles differ by more than ten base pairs should be avoided.
10.2307/3677240|During a 10-year study at two adjacent Scottish sites we tested the null hypotheses that Sparrowhawks Accipiter nisus selected overwintering Redshanks Tringa totanus independently of body size and condition. There was no significant difference in wing length, leg length and bill length between Redshanks killed by Sparrowhawks and the Redshank population as assessed from cannon-netted samples. On one site in one winter the survivors (where 20% of the surviving population was sampled) were no different in size from those killed by Sparrowhawks (where over 45% of the wintering population was killed), although shorter-legged adults were killed more frequently than expected. There was no significant variation in the size of Redshanks killed by Sparrowhawks with month. Redshanks maintained the same body condition relative to other Redshanks throughout a winter. The body condition of Redshanks killed by Sparrowhawks was not different from that of Redshanks cannon-netted at the same time of winter, and there was no suggestion that birds in either particularly poor or particularly good condition were selected. The lack of selection according to size or condition was probably due to Sparrowhawks being surprise, short-chase predators that selected prey on the ground.
10.2307/3676939|In many bird species, egg and/or clutch size increases with female age, and declines with laying date. The declines with date have been considered time-saving adaptations to seasonal environments. At Coats Island, N.W.T., Canada in 1994 and 1995, we examined the relationships among female age, laying date and egg size in the Thick-billed Murre Uria lomvia, an Arctic seabird that lays a one-egg clutch. In particular, we tested a model that views the seasonal decline in egg size in this species as a time-saving adaptation: the model predicts that, irrespective of their age, late-laying birds will reduce egg size. Laying dates became earlier with increasing female age to 8 years, because young birds initiated egg formation late. Egg size increased with age to 8 years, possibly because young birds deposited yolk at a slow rate. Individual effects explained much of the variation in laying date and egg size. Egg size declined with laying date in a random sample of eggs laid by birds of unknown age. However, egg size was independent of laying date among older birds. In contrast, egg size declined with laying date among young birds, but this was an effect of age, not date. Young birds that laid at the same time as older birds laid smaller eggs. These results indicate that the time-saving model does not adequately explain the seasonal decline in egg size in Thick-billed Murres. We suggest that characteristics of individual Thick-billed Murres, largely mediated by age (or experience) during early reproductive attempts, determine the size of egg they lay.
10.2307/3677008|Studies of sexual selection have focused mainly on explanations of how male characteristics influence mating success during the breeding season. By contrast, few studies have investigated how behaviours prior to the breeding season influence mate choice during the mating period. Males in many species of birds exhibit behaviours that resemble mating behaviours typically performed during the breeding season, even though environmental conditions are then not suitable for breeding. In one such species, the lekking Black Grouse Tetrao tetrix, both males and females visit leks regularly in autumn. Between 1988 and 1994 we studied autumn lekking and its relation to the performance of males and females in spring in a Black Grouse population in central Finland. We found that virtually all males, regardless of their previous copulation success, joined the lek in autumn, and that territory defence, in terms of fighting behaviour, was as intense in autumn as in spring. Furthermore, males that did not establish their territories until spring were less successful in obtaining copulations than males that established their territories in the previous autumn or earlier. In addition, males possessing central territories in autumn had higher copulation success in the following spring, probably because females visited the same male territories in autumn and in the following spring. Our results suggest that males lek in autumn to increase their copulation success in the following spring. Consequently, this behaviour may provide females with an opportunity to assess males prior to the breeding season.
30245209|Health state parameters in natural populations can be used as bioindicators of environmental health if they respond to environmental cues. We studied to which extent health state parameters (morphological, biochemical, and haematological) were determined by the environment in which nestling birds were reared or by their genotype, using a cross-fostering experiment in great tits Parus major. Morphological parameters and plasma protein, had a higher environmental than genetic component of variance which could be related with food availability differing between rearing nests. Glutathione peroxidase, an enzyme involved in antioxidant protection, also had a relatively high environmental component of variance, suggesting that nestlings in different rearing nests were exposed to different degrees of oxidative stress. Plasma cholinesterases were more influenced by the birds' genotype than by the rearing environment. The parameters with the lowest residual variance and the highest environmental component of variance such as glutathione peroxidase, plasma protein and morphological parameters (tarsus length and weight) would be more adequate as bioindicators.
3677490|Present knowledge of the effects of nest predation on spatial distribution, habitat selection and community structure of birds is to a large extent based on results from experiments with artificial nests. Although nest predation risk is likely to differ between artificial and real nests, most previous studies of nest predation using artificial nests have been lacking a proper control. We investigated whether predation rates on artificial nests predicted those on real nests by simultaneously comparing the fate of real and artificial nests (containing quail Coturnix coturnix and plasticine eggs) in 92 territories of the northern wheatear Oenanthe oenanthe in 1996. We also investigated whether risk for artificial nests was related to relative average risk for real nests in these territories (based on data collected two years before and two years after the experiment). Nest predation on artificial nests did predict relative predation risk for real nests only when quail egg depredation was used as the criterion for artificial nest predation. Despite plasticine egg depredation being the most common type of predation it was not associated with predation risk for real nests. Small mice and vole species dominated among cases with only plasticine egg depredation, while predatory mammals and snakes destroyed most quail eggs in artificial nests and most eggs in real wheatear nests. The results suggest that artificial nests may only predict the risk for real nests when the nest predator species are similar among the two types of nest. Furthermore, our data suggest that small mice and vole species rarely depredate nests of mid-sized passerine birds. Our results cast doubt on many previous conclusions based on experiments with artificial nests, since predation risk for such nests is likely to be uncorrelated with risk for real nests due to nest-type-specific differences in nest preying species.
3677001|In altricial birds, adults are expected to alleviate the impact of parasitism on their young by increasing parental care. We experimentally investigated the effects of blowfly parasitism on adult behaviour in the nest cavity in a population of Blue Tits in which nestlings are heavily parasitized by blowfly larvae. The behaviour of males and females was different, since only the females carried out nest sanitation activities related to the presence of parasites. The time females devoted to nest sanitation was higher in parasitized nests than in experimentally deparasitized ones, suggesting that chicks and adults might share the costs of blowfly parasitism.
30244803|We used stable isotope (SI) methods in combination with pen feeding trials to determine the importance of eggs of the Atlantic horseshoe crab Limulus polyphemus to migratory fattening of red knots Calidris canutus rufa and ruddy turnstones Arenaria interpres morinella during spring stopover in Delaware Bay. By manifesting measurable fractionation (ca + 3) and rapid turnover, blood plasma <tex-math>$\delta^{15}$</tex-math> nitrogen proved a functional marker for SI diet tracking during the short 3-week stopover. Blood samples from free-ranging knots (3 data sets) and turnstones (1 data set) produced similar convergence of plasma <tex-math>$\delta^{15}N$</tex-math> signatures with increasing body mass that indicated highly similar diets. Asymptotes deviated slightly (0.3 to 0.7) from that of captive shorebirds fed a diet of only crab eggs during stopover, thus confirming a strong crab egg-shorebird linkage. The plasma <tex-math>$\delta^{15}N$</tex-math> crab-egg diet asymptote was enriched ca +4.5 and therefore readily discriminated from that of either blue mussels Mytilus edulis or coquina clams Donax variabilis, the most likely alternative prey of knots in Delaware Bay. Crab eggs were highly palatable to captive knots and turnstones which achieved rates of mass gain (3-11 g/d) comparable to that of free-ranging birds. Peak consumption rates during hyperphagic events were 23,940 and 19,360 eggs/bird/d, respectively. The empirical conversions of eggs consumed to body mass gained (5,017 eggs/g for knots and 4,320 eggs/g for turnstones) indicate the large quantities of crab eggs required for the maintenance of these shorebird populations during stopover.
30244475|Despite a long history of anatomical studies in birds, the genitalia of most avian species remain undescribed. Birds are the only vertebrate taxon with internal fertilization where an intromittent phallus has been lost in most species. Studying the anatomical transitions of the avian phallus in those species where it is still present, allows us to test evolutionary hypotheses of why the phallus was lost in the ancestor of modern birds. As part of an anatomical survey of the evolution of avian phallus morphology, we have examined some avian species whose genitalia have not been described. Previously, there were only two known events of phallus reduction in birds: one transition from intromittent to non-intromittent in the Galliformes, and a complete loss of phallic structures in the ancestor of Neoaves. Here we report three additional cases of phallus reduction in birds: a transition from intromittent to non-intromittent phallus in Tinamiformes (Crypturellus, Tinamidae), the presence of a non-intromittent phallus in Alectura (Megapodidae), and a complete loss of the phallus in Leipoa (Megapodidae). In addition, we report on the unique morphology of the Crypturellus non-intromittent phallus. These new records of phallus reduction highlight the dynamic nature of phallus evolution in birds. Our findings provide evidence against the hypothesis that the phallus in birds is maintained to insure paternity in taxa with exclusive male parental care, since both groups where we report phallus reduction provide predominately male-only care.
3677664|As understanding of the processes and mechanisms of bird navigation has increased, older conceptual frameworks and terminology have become inadequate. Terminology used to refer to orientation and navigation behaviour have acquired varied and divergent meanings. Here I present a unified set of terminology that I hope will help clarify thinking and communication in the field.
3677693|The genetic mating system is known for only a few species of owls. Most of them are genetically monogamous. The Lanyu scops owl Otus elegans botelensis breeds in high density in the forests of Lanyu (Orchid Island), southeast of Taiwan. Because extra-pair copulations (EPCs) have frequently been observed, we suspected a high degree of extrapair fertilizations (EPFs). Through intensive field observations we quantified both within-pair and extra-pair copulations of this owl, and used a set of microsatellite loci to assign the parentage of 200 offspring from 108 families collected between 1999 and 2004. Among copulations for which we could identify both participants, 19.77% were EPC. However, no EPC was observed in the period just before egg laying. We found only two cases of parentage mismatch among 108 broods. The first case was most likely a case of brood usurpation, which would be the first case reported in the Strigidae. The second case was an EPF resulting in one offspring. Our study found that parentage mismatch in the Lanyu scops owls to be extremely low, therefore reproductive success can be estimated accurately by simply counting chicks in nests.
30244836|Condition indices are commonly used in an attempt to link body condition of birds to ecological variables of interest, including demographic attributes such as survival and reproduction. Most indices are based on body mass adjusted for structural body size, calculated as simple ratios or residuals from regressions. However, condition indices are often applied without confirming their predictive value (i.e., without being validated against measured values of fat and protein), which we term 'unverified' use. We evaluated the ability of a number of unverified indices frequently found in the literature to predict absolute and proportional levels of fat and protein across five species of waterfowl. Among indices we considered, those accounting for body size never predicted absolute protein more precisely than body mass, however, some indices improved predictability of fat, although the form of the best index varied by species. Further, the gain in precision by using a condition index to predict either absolute or percent fat was minimal (rise in r 0.13), and in many cases model fit was actually reduced. Our data agrees with previous assertions that the assumption that indices provide more precise indicators of body condition than body mass alone is often invalid. We strongly discourage the use of unverified indices, because subjectively selecting indices likely does little to improve precision and might in fact decrease predictability relative to using body mass alone.
30243285|Rates of food intake in animals consuming abundant prey can be constrained by the rates of digestion or excretion of ingested substances, such as salt, particularly so in the animals that regularly migrate between freshwater and saltwater environments. We tested this hypothesis in a long-distance migrant shorebird, the eastern curlew Numenius madagascariensis (suborder Charadrii), foraging on intertidal decapods in eastern Australia. We predicted that if food intake rates are constrained osmotically, individuals with access to freshwater and less saline prey (FW group) would have higher rates of food and water intake than individuals with seawater-only access (SW group). Food intake rates did not differ between the FW and SW Froups (0.14 g ashfree dry mass min), nor did the water influx rates (0.75 g min). Salt intake rates were lower at FW sites (19.3 versus 23.3 mg NaCl min) and overall they were similar to those of marine birds. Food intake rate in the eastern curlew appeared limited by digestive rather than by osmoregulatory capacity.
10.2307/3677009| Useful sampling guidelines have recently been provided to improve the precision of bird population parameter estimates from point count data. Less attention has been given, however, to the issue of accuracy or completeness of counts at each sampling point. While it may not be critical in studies that compare average counts among study plots, completeness of counts at the level of individual points may pose several problems in studies that assess relationships between response variables (species' occurrence or abundance) and explanatory variables (vegetation structure, size and isolation of the fragment, proportion of interior habitat) on a point by point basis. Reliability of models in such studies is greatly dependent on the accuracy of counts at each point. We examined how bias of incomplete counts could be minimised through refinements of the point-count method. Six forest types of the northeastern deciduous forest in Qubec (Canada) were intensively surveyed during an entire breeding season. Census performances of the point-count method for measuring species richness at individual points were assessed by resampling the original data set for a simulated census protocol of two visits at a point. Effects of daily variation, time of season, time of day, and count duration were tested. Census performances of counts conducted the same day were significantly poorer than counts from different days. Census performances were influenced by the time of season during which counts were conducted. When pooled across habitats, census performances for counts that combined visits at the beginning and at the end of the breeding season were significantly better than counts that were concentrated in either one of these periods. The 05:00 to 08:30 morning period yielded the best results for five of the six habitats. Census performances in open field were, however, significantly better during the first sampling period (04:30), suggesting that bird censuses in open habitats could be initiated before sunrise. Longer counts (25 and 20 min) greatly improved species richness estimates at a point. For studies that focus on comparisons at the scale of individual points, longer counts are preferable to short counts (15 and 10 min). We stress the importance of the scale (study plots or individual points) at which statistical analyses of point count data are conducted in the decision-making process of point count sampling procedures. 
30243294|Phylogenetic relationships between goldcrest populations from the Atlantic Islands (Azores and Canary Islands) were investigated by two molecular markers (mitochondrial control region and cytochrome b sequences), and partly by morphology and territorial song. The Azorean goldcrest populations are closely related to European nominate R. r. regulus. Most probably, the Azores were colonized by goldcrests in a single late-pleistocene invasion, while colonization of the Canary Islands presumably occurred in two steps: An early invasion to Tenerife and La Gomera 1.9-2.3 million years (my) ago and a more recent one to El Hierro and La Palma 1.3-1.8 my ago. Distribution of haplotypes on the Azores suggests a division of R. r. azoricus on So Miguel into an eastern population with close affinities to R. r. sanctaemariae and a western population belonging to the lineage of R. r. inermis on the central and western island group. The Canarian populations are genetically substructured into a northeastern group embracing Tenerife and La Gomera and a second, southwestern group including El Hierro and La Palma. Genetic distances between members of the two Canarian clades range at 3.1-3.4% (TrN distance, control region and cytochrome b). Differentiation between the two groups is also supported by morphology and by territorial song. Substitution rate estimates for the both genes range at approximately the same values of 0.0031 and 0.0044 substitutions per site and lineage per my which roughly corresponds 0.61-0.83% divergence between Regulus lineages per my. Highest local rates occur in island clades of the Azorean and the Canarian population and in R. r. japonensis from the Russian Far East and Japan. However, a general acceleration of a molecular clock in island populations is not evident from the Regulus data set due to extremely low local rate estimates in the Canarian clade of Tenerife and La Gomera. As a taxonomic consequence of the marked differentiation of the two Canarian goldcrest clades the populations from El Hierro and La Palma are described as a taxon new to science and are named Regulus regulus ellenthalerae n. ssp.
3677396|Differential migration is a widespread, but poorly understood, phenomenon in birds. In this paper, we present the first detailed field study of differential migration in the Old World warbler (Sylviidae) family. We studied two chiffchaff Phylloscopus [collybita] semispecies: the common chiffchaff P. [c.] collybita and the Iberian chiffchaff P. [c.] ibericus. Using data collected at several latitudes in Europe and Africa, we present convincing evidence for differential distance migration of sexes in chiffchaffs, with females moving further than males. Interestingly, while there was a pronounced gradient in the sex-ratios in Europe and North Africa (with an increasing proportion of females with declining latitude), no clear pattern was found south of the Sahara, where sex-ratios were more male-biased than predicted by a simple latitude model. This suggests that, amongst the chiffchaffs wintering in West Africa, a large proportion is composed by Iberian birds, and provides support to previous suggestions that Iberian chiffchaffs are long distance migrants. Results from detailed studies in Senegal also show that chiffchaffs display differential timing of spring migration, with males leaving the winter quarters considerably earlier than females. The results are discussed in the framework of the three main (non-mutually exclusive) hypotheses attempting to explain the latitudinal segregation of the sexes. Given the relative failure of standard comparative studies to discriminate between competing single-factor hypotheses to explain differential migration, it is argued that the chiffchaff species complex might be particularly suited to study this issue using a new approach suggested by Cristol et al. (1999): detailed (further) comparisons between closely related species (such as the common and the Iberian chiffchaffs) could help identifying the key factors to be incorporated into optimality models that can predict relative distance of migration of different sex or age classes.
25161528|Female Great Tits are known to eavesdrop on the singing behaviour of males. It is unknown, however, whether manipulation of these signals is sufficient to influence extra-pair copulations, or whether such potentially costly reproductive decisions are unaffected by altering short-term signals of condition. Using interactive playbacks, we systematically engaged males in territorial contests in which we could control whether the focal male won or lost the interaction, regardless of the males' true potential. We then determined the levels and patterns of extra-pair paternity among experimental and neighbouring pairs using DNA microsatellite analysis. Extra-pair young were found in equal frequency among the nests of males allowed to win interactions as among those who lost interactions. However, cuckolded males were significantly less variable in allele sizes across the five microsatellite alleles tested than males who were not cuckolded. As measures of genetic variability are increasingly being found to correlate with individual fitness, this may suggest that females are attentive to underlying measures of condition when making extra-pair decisions. Short-term modification of the males' perceived quality may be insufficient to cause females to alter extra-pair decisions.
3677458|Bird song is generally regarded as a sexually selected trait, and may represent a reliable handicap signal under at least certain conditions. Females may use the degree of male song production as a reliable cue to male condition or territory quality. We investigated the effect of supplementary feeding on song output in the migratory Australian reed warbler Acrocephalus australis. We experimentally increased the food availability on alternate days, and recorded several weather variables. We measured song rate and song length independently. Supplementary fed birds sang more on feeding days than on non-feeding days, while control birds did not show this effect. Song output was not significantly associated with any of the weather variables examined. Our results indicate that singing has the potential to serve as a reliable handicap signal to territorial food availability irrespective of the prevailing weather conditions. We discuss the role of energetic constraints and behavioural flexibility on the signaling function of song.
30244414|Several studies have shown that enlargement of clutches during incubation reduces the long-term survival of parents. In line with these findings, studies on the energetic costs of nocturnal incubation show an increase in energy expenditure with clutch enlargement. Studies on daily energy expenditure during incubation $(DEE_{inc})$ , however, do not consistently show such a negative effect of clutch enlargement. To determine whether differential survival results from a direct increase in energy costs or rather from costs associated with compensatory behaviour, we studied the $DEE_{inc}(kJ) day ^{-1}$ , change in body mass and nest attendance behaviour of free-living female great tits Parus major that incubated either control or experimentally enlarged clutches. $DEE_{inc}$ did not differ between the two treatment groups, but was negatively related to mean ambient temperature over the 24-h measuring period, and to the fraction of daytime females spent on the nest. Controlling for these two factors, females incubating enlarged clutches did not spend more energy per 24 h period than females incubating control clutches. Clutch enlargement also did not affect body mass of incubating females, or their nest attendance behaviour. Yet, in the enlarged group body mass change and nest attentiveness were negatively correlated, suggesting that females responded differently to the experimental treatment and thereby preventing us from finding an effect of clutch enlargement.
10.2307/3677262|Female Moorhens Gallinula chloropus laid their eggs in the evening, with more than 80% being laid between 1900 and 2200 hours BST. Parasitic eggs were laid within the same range of times as eggs laid by females in their own nests. Observation from videotape of laying events by eight different brood parasites revealed that parasitic laying is a stereotyped behaviour, consistent between females and characterized by speed and stealth. Parasitic females travelled directly to the host nest. By contrast with females laying at their own nests, brood parasites did not stop and wait for the host males to get off the nest before getting on, and they did not remain on the nest longer than was necessary to lay an egg. As predicted, hosts were aggressive toward brood parasites. Yet, brood parasites tolerated the hosts' aggression, and laid successfully in host nests in spite of the hosts' attacks. Although parasitic females and their mates both stood to benefit from brood parasitism, the act of laying parasitically was initiated entirely by (and entailed a potential risk for) the female alone. I discuss the implications of an evening laying hour for the evolution of intraspecific brood parasitism.
30245204|Feather stable isotope composition may not reflect local isoscapes in which they were grown if supplemented with protein of endogenous origin. Thus, feather isotope analysis, combined with knowledge of local isoscapes can be used to infer endogenous nutrient composition to feathers in cases where birds travel to moult. We investigated this possibility in a study of flightless moulting greylag geese Anser anser on the Danish island of Saltholm, which are known to mobilise endogenous protein stores (acquired at previous terrestrial staging locations in Sweden) to reconstitute muscle blocks and organs whilst feeding on a saltmarsh (i.e. marine-influenced) diet with contrasting stable isotope ratios. We used stable isotope ( $\delta^{13}C$ , $\delta^{15}N$ measurements to test the prediction that new-grown flight feathers would have stable isotope values intermediate between those derived from a purely terrestrial C diet and one composed purely of saltmarsh plants. Feather $\delta^{13}C$ and $\delta^{15}N$ values were intermediate between those expected for feather material derived from local saltmarsh (i.e. exogenous) food items and Swedish terrestrial (endogenous muscle) sources, suggesting a mixing of endogenous and exogenous sources. These results confirm that moult migrant Anatidae exploit body stores to meet specific protein needs during the flightless period of remige regrowth and caution against the use of feather stable isotope ratios as direct indicators of the isotopic environment in which they were regrown, where endogenous contributions may occur.
30243881|The costs imposed by parental care duties on an individual's future survival and reproduction generate conflicts because parents should attempt to minimize their investment in the present brood, and exploit the parental care of the other parent. This conflict is likely to contribute to cases of both polygamy and desertion. Here, we study the costs of polygyny in the tree swallow Tachycineta bicolor, using observations on 52 nests that were attended by polygynous males over 14 y. Both females mated to polygynous males paid reproductive costs at several stages of the nesting cycle. Clutches laid by social mates of polygynous versus monogamous males did not differ in size. However, initial brood sizes for polygynously mated females were lower because a higher proportion of their eggs failed to hatch. Likewise, fledging success was lower and nest predation rates were higher, perhaps reflecting the direct or indirect effects of reduced male attention. These results demonstrate that females pay a productivity cost when breeding with reduced male parental care. In contrast, polygynous males fledge on average more young than monogamous ones and clearly benefit from the association. We suggest that a mate-search cost is leading to the few cases of polygamous males: although females are likely evaluating males for their prospective dedication to the breeding attempt, in a short-lived bird with a short breeding season, the cost to females of searching for a more dedicated male is the risk of not breeding at all.
3677569|The evolutionary equilibrium hypothesis explains the existence of both acceptors and rejecters of brood parasite eggs within a host population as resulting from a balance between the costs of acceptance and the costs of recognition errors. In such equilibria conditional responses may play an important role. One such response that has been demonstrated in one common cuckoo Cuculus canorus host species is that first year, naive breeders accept parasitic eggs at a higher frequency than older and more experienced birds do. In the present study we tested whether this is the response in the bluethroat Luscinia svecica. We did not find any difference in rejection behaviour between first-year breeders and older birds. This finding is discussed in relation to recognition costs, cuckoo egg mimicry and the bluethroat's present status as a host. We conclude that the results are best explained by the evolutionary lag hypothesis.
3677657|In socially monogamous birds, males benefit from frequent copulations with their partner if this increases their paternity in the brood. By soliciting and accepting copulation attempts, female birds can control pair copulation frequencies. Engaging in copulations can be costly by taking up time and by increasing the risks of predation and pathogen transmission. Current hypotheses propose that high pair-copulation frequencies may compensate for these costs by providing females with direct benefits that can result in higher reproductive success. In this study, I examine in a Tree Sparrow population the prediction that high pair-copulation frequencies are associated with better female reproductive performance. The results show that clutch sizes laid were positively correlated with the pair-copulation frequency. The length of the incubation period was negatively correlated and, as expected, the number of fledglings was positively correlated with pair-copulation frequency. The results are consistent with current hypotheses for the evolution of frequent pair copulations and provide one of the few evidences for a positive relation between pair-copulation frequency and female reproductive performance. This study also suggests that within-pair copulation frequency could be an early expression of the pairs' reproductive ability and might signal their phenotypic quality.
3677401|The potential use of stable nitrogen ( <sup>15</sup> N), carbon ( <sup>13</sup> C) and hydrogen (D) isotope ratios in feathers of marsh warblers Acrocephalus palustris, river warblers Locustella fluviatilis and whitethroats Sylvia communis was evaluated as a means to help identify the location and isotopic composition of autumn stopover sites in northeast Africa. Feather D values were compared with regional precipitation D maps averaged over autumn months. Compared with whitethroats, feather <tex-math>$\delta {}^{15}{\rm N},\delta {}^{13}{\rm C}$</tex-math>, and D values of marsh warblers and river warblers suggest the two warblers occupy and grow their feathers in geographic locations with relatively mesic environments, and with higher proportions of C3 (vs. C4) plants. However,  <sup>13</sup> C values of marsh and river warblers were distinct enough to indicate use of different foodwebs. From previous studies, it is evident that during autumn stopover, river warblers moult their primaries in Ethiopia. It is likely that marsh warblers, like river warblers, stay in Ethiopia and/or in neighbouring regions. Based on feather D values and regional D precipitation maps, this region should lie between southeast Sudan and southwest Ethiopia. However, without additional regional isotopic maps in Africa, more precise locations of the stopover sites remain unclear. The relatively enriched  <sup>15</sup> N and  <sup>13</sup> C values of whitethroat feathers compared with the two other species, reflect the fact that whitethroats moult in relatively drier environments and/or with a lower proportion of C3 vs. C4 plants.
3677534|Many long-distance migrant birds regularly have to pass ecological barriers, like the Saharan desert, where fuelling is very difficult, and large fuel loads have to be stored in advance. In this paper, we have investigated how seven species of birds are distributed in autumn close to the Saharan desert in the eastern Mediterranean area by using ring recoveries from northern Europe. The result clearly shows that the species included are not randomly distributed at this point, about 3,000 km from the breeding area. Birds from rather large breeding areas were shown to converge in confined areas, which in several cases completely differ between species. This means that birds of the same species have to follow different migratory directions depending on the location of their starting point. The observed pattern support earlier findings indicating that birds, in combination with a clock-and-compass orientation procedure, must use some external cues in order to find confined species-specific areas. The possibility for birds to use information from the Earth's magnetic field as an external cue in this area is discussed.
10.2307/3677200|The findings from previous food-addition experiments designed to examine the effects of food availability on reproductive parameters could have led to false conclusions because most experimental designs fail to take account of population parameters during periods preceding the experiments and because the studied effects of supplemental food could have been confounded by effects on age composition and pair bonds. To test this possibility, we provided a population of the Varied Tit Parus varius with extra food (sunflower seed) from February to April and compared density, survival rate and mate change of the fed population with those of an unfed population. A similar comparison is made between these populations before and after the addition of food. In the fed area, population density was stable and pair bonds from the winter were maintained. By contrast, the survival rate in the unfed area was low resulting in lower density, and many members of winter units changed their partners. Since food supply in early spring promoted the stability of pair bonds and may make age composition more stable, we propose that food-addition experiments should include not only comparisons of reproductive parameters of fed and unfed populations, but also comparisons of both age composition and pair-bond stability before and after the addition of food.
10.2307/3677339|Animals may join flocks to gain protection against predation. In this experiment we investigated how predation risk affects the spatial distribution of forest birds during breeding time. We manipulated the perceived risk of predation by showing stuffed avian predators and by playing the warning signals of some of the passerine species in experimental areas. The spatial distribution of the bird individuals in both experimental and control areas was investigated by censusing birds and marking the locations of all individuals on maps both before and after the simulated appearance of a predator. We predicted that the distances between heterospecific individuals would be reduced in the experimental areas compared with those in control plots because of a perceived increased risk of predation. After predator presentation individuals in experimental areas were closer to heterospecifics than in control areas. Predation risk is one possible cause of clumped distribution of species and mixed-species foraging flocks in boreal breeding bird communities.
10.2307/3677048|Few studies are available on the responses of birds to fluctuations in prey abundance during the breeding season. The aim of this study was to study such responses of Grey Wagtails Motacilla cinerea. Prey availability varied significantly, and often very rapidly, on both a temporal and a spatial scale. Grey Wagtails were able to keep track of changes in prey availability and to switch between foraging sites. The use of foraging sites changed during the breeding period and in different weather conditions. During periods with high prey availability, 95% of prey capture attempts were recorded in the stream bed and specific kinds of prey, or prey of large body size, were selected. However, during periods of food scarcity, Grey Wagtails switched to hunt mainly for drifted invertebrates on roads etc. The results show that Grey Wagtails were able to optimize foraging behaviour in a changing environment.
30244448|Dispersal is a key parameter in evolutionary, demographic and conservation theory, but the factors influencing dispersal between populations are rarely known, and the contribution of immigrants to population stability remains uncertain. Using dispersal data from nine island populations of song sparrows, we show that female and male immigrants responded differently to population structure: in females, immigration varied with adult sex ratio; whereas immigration by males was more influenced by population density. These patterns are consistent with the hypothesis that intra-sexual competition for breeding resources influenced recruitment patterns. Immigrants often constituted a substantial fraction of local population size, and in six cases immigration by females prevented the extirpation of that sex from the island. Breeding vacancies and extirpations may have been more likely in females because their apparent survival was lower than in males. Local recruitment and immigration varied markedly among islands, perhaps as consequence of island size and isolation. Overall, our results suggest that immigration varied with local demography in a sex-specific way, stabilized population numbers and reduced extinction rates in the smallest populations.
30244791|Information about male infertility in free-living birds is scarce, but anecdotal and circumstantial evidence suggests that it does occur regularly at a low frequency. In this paper we document three cases of azoospermia in two passerine species, the willow warbler Phylloscopus trochilus and the bluethroat Luscinia svecica at their breeding grounds in South Norway. In willow warblers, two males out of a sample of 50 territory holders had no sperm in their seminal glomera, the storage site of sperm ready for ejaculation. The two males also had very small testes. One out of 48 bluethroat males also had no sperm in the seminal glomera. This male had an extreme asymmetry of the testes, with the right testis being about twice as large as the left. He also failed to fertilize any eggs in his own nest, as well as in neighbouring nests, as revealed by microsatellite genotyping. Thus, the proportion of males without sperm seems to be at a magnitude of a few (2-4) percent in both species. These are among the first estimates of the frequency of azoospermia in wild birds. Our results indicate a significant risk for sexually monogamous females of laying unfertilized eggs, which could favour the evolution of extra-pair copulation as a fertility insurance strategy in females.
25161507|Egg mass shows large intraspecific variation in birds and is repeatable within individuals. The mechanisms underlying this variation are unknown. We hypothesized that measures of egg quality (the mass of yolk protein, yolk lipid, and albumen protein) would be positively correlated with the plasma pools of the yolk precursor vitellogenin, and the masses of the oviduct, metabolic machinery (liver, heart, lungs, kidneys, gizzard, small intestine and pancreas), and endogenous stores of protein and lipid. We tested these predictions in European Starlings Sturnus vulgaris collected at the peak of egg production effort. In contrast to our predictions, both yolk protein and yolk lipid were negatively correlated with plasma vitellogenin levels. Albumen protein was positively related to oviduct mass, but other aspects of body composition failed to explain variation in egg quality. Hence, while we observed correlations between egg composition and peripheral systems (circulating precursor pools and the oviduct), we found no evidence that egg quality is determined by more general processes, i.e., the supply and processing of nutrients.
3677741|Phylogenetic relationships among Neotropical honeycreepers were studied by using cytochrome b sequence data. Although honeycreepers were once placed in their own family (Coerebidae), these species did not form a monophyletic group in any of the phylogenies in this study. Thus, our results indicate that nectar-feeding evolved independently multiple times among these birds. The Neotropical honeycreepers are best considered disparate members of a larger radiation of tanagers and finches, in which bill size and shape, and associated feeding behaviors have changed frequently to fill a variety of niches. Our phylogenies also provide specific taxonomic recommendations on the placement of each honeycreeper genus. The use of the taxon Coerebidae is no longer warranted given the well-supported relationships between different honeycreeper species and a variety of tanagers and finches.
10.2307/3677021|The effects of offspring food demand on the regulation of parental food provisioning were examined in the Rhinoceros Auklet Cerorhincha monocerata, a nocturnal single-provisioning species, by conducting mate removal and supplementary feeding experiments. Parents did not adjust their level of food provisioning in response to an increased or a decreased chick food demand, contrasting with previous studies of the Atlandtic Puffin Fratercula arctica and procellariiforms that provision their chicks at shorter intervals. The chicks reared by a single parent grew more slowly while those receiving supplementary food grew faster and fledged heavier and younger. The body condition of parents did not change.
3677422|Throughout the range of the Scarlet Rosefinch, its territorial song consists of 3-9 (usually 4-5) elements, of which there are 5 different types. The differences lie in the way the pitch of the element changes in time (frequency "slope") and the width of the frequency band. Within a given type of song, the various elements can be present in almost any combination. Therefore, so many song types can be formed that the songs in even small parts of the species' area are clearly distinct from one another. Despite this capacity for variation, however, by chance identical songs may be sung in widely separated parts of the area, in some cases by different subspecies. The species has not developed large-scale dialects or regiolects based on a song tradition acquired during an early imprinting phase. Scarlet Rosefinches tend to breed in small colonies, groups of up to about 15 pairs characterized by the same type of song (song neighbourhoods, formed by the development of a microlect). Microlects develop by a founder effect. When males, near one-year old or older, join one another to form isolated colonies after arrival in the breeding region, they adopt ("learn") the song type that will eventually characterize the colony from the first male to arrive at the site. After the colony has been founded, in most cases each male uses only one type of song during a breeding season, with practically no variation of the temporal and frequency parameters. Singing the same type of song, the members of a colony accept one another sufficiently to allow the breeding territories to be closely packed. It appears that a long-lasting capacity for acoustic learning, in combination with colony-like breeding and great ecological flexibility, has allowed the Scarlet Rosefinch to become the most successful species of the genus Carpodacus.
3677757|Many birds could expend substantially less energy at night by using hypothermia, but generally do not. This suggests that the potential savings are offset by costs; one of these costs is presumed to be the risk of predation at night. If this assumption is correct, a bird will face one of two trade-offs: (1) it can avoid the cost of hypothermia by gaining fat to decrease the risk of starvation, but this increases energetic costs of fat maintenance and risk of diurnal predation, or (2) it can maintain lower fat reserves and use hypothermia at night, but this option increases the risk of nocturnal predation. We used a dynamic model to investigate these trade-offs and how the use of nocturnal hypothermia changes energy management tactics in food-caching birds. Our model predicted that: (i) optimal daily routines of fat reserves, feeding rate, food caching, and cache retrieval should be similar in hypothermic and non-hypothermic birds; (ii) low fat reserves, small cache size, low ambient temperature, and high variability in foraging success favor increased use of hypothermia; (iii) the effect of ambient temperature on the use of hypothermia is especially important at higher levels of variance in foraging success; (iv) hypothermic birds are predicted to have lower mass at dusk than non-hypothermic individuals while their morning mass should be more similar. Many of these predictions have been supported by empirical data. Also, survival rates are predicted to be higher for birds using hypothermia, especially in the most severe environmental conditions. This is the first attempt to evaluate the role of cache maintenance and variance in foraging success in the use of hypothermia. This is also the first discussion of the relationship between behavior hypothermia and diurnal patterns of energy management.
3676925|In this study on free-ranging Crested Tits Parus cristatus, I examine the relationship between social dominance and the frequency of use of long-range communication calls. Calling rates of trills were highest among socially dominant individuals and they gave more calls when close to the boundary of their territories. Dominant females uttered fewer calls than their mates. However, they gave significantly more calls than subordinate males and subordinate females, the latter calling least. A removal and playback experiment revealed a relationship between the utterance of trilled calls and the defence of the winter territory in the Crested Tit. Although territorial vocalizations could incur costs, territorial individuals may gain from improved winter survival by decreasing the risk of food stealing by Crested Tits from adjacent territories.
3676989|Greater nest predation in tropical than temperate birds has been hypothesized to be a primary selective force generating latitudinal differences in avian life history traits. Few extensive data sets, however, have been available from tropical forests to compare with data from temperate forests. To increase the amount of empirical information available for addressing issues related to the evolution of life history traits of tropical birds, we measured the nesting success of understory birds in lowland forest of central Panama. We found and monitored the fates of 696 nests of 71 species over two breeding seasons. Daily nest predation rates for the ten species for which we obtained the largest samples ranged from 1.6 to 8.3%, equivalent to a loss of 43 to 92% of nests. These values overlapped extensively the range of daily predation rates experienced by ecologically similar species in North America. Proportion of nests fledging young, estimated with the Mayfield method, was significantly lower in tropical (range: 8 to 57%) than temperate (27 to 60%) species. Nesting success in Panama varied among years, however, being greater in 1996 than 1997. In 1996, nesting success was similar to that of species breeding in forest fragments of midwestern North America. When compared with success of nests in large, contiguous forest tracts of North America, however, tropical avian nesting success was consistently lower by approximately 23%. We conclude that nesting success in central Panama may be poor in most breeding seasons, but also may be punctuated by occasional years of relatively exceptional success, a possibility heretofore unappreciated because of a general paucity of data from the tropics. Furthermore, our results indicate substantial variation in levels of nesting success among species, and almost no variation in clutch size. Such large interspecific variation, as well as potentially large annual variation, in nesting success does not support the hypothesis that uniformly low levels of nesting success select for small tropical clutch sizes.
3677469|We examined the relationship between acoustic properties of male advertising calls, male body size and female responses in little penguins Eudyptula minor. Larger males produced calls of lower frequency. Playback experiments indicated that females were more likely to respond to low or medium pitched calls, than to high ones (although only 28% of females responded vocally to playback). This may reflect the interest of unmated females in large to medium sized senders as potential mates, or indicate a stronger territorial response to large intruders.
30243861|Body feathers are important to many interactions birds have with their physical and social environments, such as streamlining the body for flight, thermoregulation, and social signaling. Birds differ dramatically in the texture of their body plumage depending on species and age class, likely reflecting different functional demands and age-related trade-offs in feather production. Despite the important insights potentially offered by studying variation in the structure of body feathers, there is no clear system for quantifying this variation. We present methods for quantifying age and species differences in the structure of body feathers. Most variation in our measures is due to species and age-class differences, with little variance attributable to individual birds or to differences among feathers sampled from the same bird. We use our measures to test the hypothesis that the loosely-textured plumage characteristic of many juvenile passerines reflects a trade-off between investment in feather quality and rapid body growth that promotes early fledging. The structure of juvenile feathers was negatively correlated with duration of the nestling period among ten species of New World warblers (Parulidae), suggesting a trade-off between investment in feathers and investment in rapid somatic development promoting fledging. Systematic studies of variation in the structure of body feathers will likely offer numerous other insights into avian biology.
30244467|Several species of Nearctic-Neotropical migratory songbirds appear to form roosting aggregations while on their wintering grounds but little is understood about the ecology of this behavior. We studied roosting behavior and patterns of roost habitat selection in the northern waterthrush Seiurus noveboracensis, during three winter years (2002-2004) in Puerto Rico using radio telemetry. Overall, red mangrove was selected for roosting disproportionately to its availability. Regardless of diurnal habitat used, 87% (n = 86) of northern waterthrush selected dense stands of coastal red mangrove for roost sites. Individuals traveled up to 2 km to access roost sites in this habitat on a daily basis. The majority (8 of 14) of individuals roosted alone, while others roosted in loose aggregations near communal roosts of gray kingbirds Tyrannus dominicensis. Patterns of roost site selection did not vary by sex. Individuals showing aggressive response to playback during the day, however, selected roost sites significantly closer to the coast. Several additional migratory and resident bird species also used red mangrove for night-time roosting habitat. Red mangrove may be a critical nocturnal roosting habitat for bird populations that live in proximity to coastal areas in the Neotropics. The benefits of nocturnal roosting behavior as well as why individuals appear to select red mangrove remain poorly understood.
10.2307/3676943|The distribution of breeding birds on Siberian tundra was studied around nests of Long-tailed Skuas Stercorarius skua, Grey Plovers Pluvialis squatarola, Pacific Golden Plovers Pluvialis fulva and Bar-tailed Godwits Limosa lapponica, all of which have been observed attacking avian predators entering their nesting territories. Only the skua and the Grey Plover turned out to do so regularly, however. The efficiency of defence was measured using artificial nests 30, 70 and 150 m from nests of the four species. The survival of "defended" nests was significantly higher than the survival of control group nests only around Grey Plover nests. Long-tailed Skuas defended their own nests fiercely, but were observed preying on artificial nests inside their territories. Nest distribution of local birds around the potential protectors reflected the efficiency with which the protectors defended their territory, but most of all it reflected the survival probabilities found for artificial nests: the number of nests located within 100 m from Grey Plover nests was significantly higher than in control plots. The Long-tailed Skua did not attract more birds than control points, presumably because it could not be trusted as a reliable neighbour when rodent numbers were decreasing. It is concluded that tundra birds are able to make optimal decisions about the choice of protective neighbour.
10.2307/3677149|The Vickers microhardness of non-melanic keratin was measured from the bills, claws and outer primaries of Common Starlings Sturnus vulgaris. Highly significant differences in hardness were found between all three keratin types. Bill keratin was the hardest and feather keratin the least hard; the relative molecular weight of the different keratin types may explain these differences. Indentation hardness can be used as a measure of the competence of a material to resist abrasive wear so it is likely that the three keratin types differ in their competence at resisting abrasive wear.
10.2307/3676942|Nest predation in relation to nestling noise and nest conspicuousness was investigated in Blackbirds. In one year there was no temporal variation in nest predation or significant variation in nest predation rates due to nest conspicuousness. In a second year nest predation rates were significantly higher in the early stages of breeding (laying and the first half of incubation), and nests that were less conspicuous were more likely to survive longer or succeed. In both years there was no significant difference in nest predation rate between the second half of incubation and the first half of the chick stage, but there was a significant decrease in nest predation rate between the first and second half of the chick stage. The results suggest that increased noise from nests during the chick stage did not increase the probability of nest predation, and that if nest predation is important in determining clutch size in Blackbirds, selection may occur early on in breeding.
10.2307/3677064|Spring territorial behaviour and habitat selection of the Jay Garrulus glandarius were investigated in two study areas in the Maremma Natural Park (Central Italy). Seven birds in 1990 and seven in 1991 were trapped and subsequently radio-tracked. Incremental area plots and the analysis of auto-overlap showed that most of the Jays did not have fixed home ranges, and that these overlapped greatly. Furthermore, many untagged Jays were seen inside the home ranges of the tagged ones and one pair of Jays successfully reproduced in 1991 inside other Jays' home ranges. No aggressive interactions were observed. These data seem to suggest that the Jays in Maremma do not show territorial behaviour. Home range sizes at one study area (Faunistico) were larger than in the other area (Pratini) (on average 36 ha versus 5 ha). This could depend on the higher habitat diversity or lower habitat quality of the first area. Habitat use differed between the areas. At Pratini the maquis scrub was positively selected whereas the olive grove was avoided; at Faunistico the maquis, the olive grove and the cultivated fields were avoided whereas the meadows with scattered trees and the "open" scrub were positively selected. The non-territorial behaviour of the Jays in the Maremma Natural Park may be determined by several local factors, such as resource abundance, high density of birds, low reproductive rates and food partly being collected outside the maquis. In particular, both in the case of resource abundance and in that of high density of birds, the cost of sharing resources would be less than the cost of defending the territory against all intruders and a non-territorial system would indeed be expected.
3677559|Over the past three decades, the red-winged blackbird Agelaius phoeniceus has served as a model species for studies of sexual selection and the evolution of ornamental traits. Particular attention has been paid to the role of the colorful red-and-yellow epaulets that are striking in males but reduced in females and juveniles. It has been assumed that carotenoid pigments bestow the brilliant red and yellow colors on epaulet feathers, but this has never been tested biochemically. Here, we use high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) to describe the pigments present in these colorful feathers. Two red ketocarotenoids (astaxanthin and canthaxanthin) are responsible for the bright red hue of epaulets. Two yellow dietary precursors pigments (lutein and zeaxanthin) are also present in moderately high concentrations in red feathers. After extracting carotenoids, however, red feathers remained deep brown in color. HPLC tests show that melanin pigments (primarily eumelanin) are also found in the red-pigmented barbules of epaulet feathers, at an 'approximately equal concentration to carotenoids. This appears to be an uncommon feature of carotenoid-based ornamental plumage in birds, as was shown by comparable analyses of melanin in the yellow feathers of male American goldfinches Carduelis tristis and the red feathers of northern cardinals Cardinalis cardinalis, in which we detected virtually no melanins. Furthermore, the yellow bordering feathers of male epaulets are devoid of carotenoids (except when tinged with a carotenoid-derived pink coloration on occasion) and instead are comprised of a high concentration of primarily phaeomelanin pigments. The dual pigment composition of red epaulet feathers and the melanin-only basis for yellow coloration may have important implications for the honesty-reinforcing mechanisms underlying ornamental epaulets in red-winged blackbirds, and shed light on the difficulties researchers have had to date in characterizing the signaling function of this trait. As in several other birds, the melanic nature of feathers may explain why epaulets are used largely to settle aggressive contests rather than to attract mates.
3677388|Recent findings suggest that herbivores select feeding sites of intermediate biomass in order to maximise their digestible nutrient intake as the result of the trade-off between forage quality and quantity ('forage maturation hypothesis'). We propose a reformulation of this hypothesis which recognises this trade-off, but also underlines that constraints due to body mass (i.e. metabolism and digestive constraints, size of the feeding apparatus) can lead to variations in grazing patterns. We tested this latter hypothesis experimentally in three species of herbivorous Anatidae of different body mass: the wigeon Anas penelope (in our study c. 620 g), the barnacle goose Branta leucopsis (c. 2000 g), and the greylag goose Anser anser (c. 3500 g). Each species was tested separately from 0600 to 0930 hours, in an enclosure with a mosaic of patches of grass of three different heights: short, medium and tall. The behaviour, and the location (i.e. patch) of each individual were recorded every 5 minutes. Our results show important interspecific differences in intake rates resulting in different feeding site selection: wigeon and barnacle goose fed fastest on the shortest swards, and selected short grass which was also of higher quality. Tall grass provided the highest dry matter intake rate and digestible protein intake for greylag geese, and they preferred these swards. These choices allowed the birds to maximise their digestible nitrogen intake rate rather than dry matter intake rate and our results thus underline the importance of nitrogen as a major currency for foraging decisions in herbivorous Anatidae. Since the birds selected the two extreme sward heights (instead of the medium one), the results give support to our hypothesis and underline the role of body size as an important cause of variations in patch selection in herbivorous Anatidae.
10.2307/3677121|The frequency and mass of meals delivered to ten Antarctic Prion Pachyptila desolata chicks nesting at Bird Island, South Georgia were examined using automated weighing systems, placed in the nest chamber of the burrow. The weighing systems, which consisted of an artificial nest platform mounted on electronic load cells linked to a data logger, recorded the mass of the chick every 10 min. Meal delivery was concentrated in the first few hours after dark with a peak (45% of meals) in the second hour of darkness. The mean number of meals per night per chick ranged from 0.4 to 1.7 with 80% of chicks receiving at least one meal per night; there were no nights when none of the chicks was fed. Chick 9, which had the highest feeding frequency, received smaller meals (mean 18 g) than all of the other chicks (mean 37 g). The mass of first and second meals delivered in the same night was not different nor was there a relationship between meal mass and feeding frequency (except for chick 9). There was no relationship between meal mass and chick age between 5 and 50 days. Meals delivered following a night when a chick received no meal were larger than when a chick had been fed the previous night. The proportion of chicks receiving 0, 1 and 2 meals per night differed from the predicted binomial distribution, assuming the independence of feeding by both parents, with more chicks receiving one meal per night than expected. Comparison with periodic weighing methods indicates that the latter underestimates meal size and feeding frequency. The variation within the small sample of chicks studied indicates the need for large sample sizes to estimate population provisioning parameters. However, the weighing system was very successful in providing accurate data on chick provisioning and, with additional development, could provide data on the individual provisioning strategies of adult birds.
30244807|We presented monogamous pairs of New Zealand robins Petroica australis with a superabundant supply of artificial prey and then observed birds re-cache previously hoarded prey. Males and females frequently relocated and redistributed previously hoarded prey. Both sexes also re-cached prey that was originally hoarded by their mate. However, re-caching rates of retrieved and pilfered prey differed between sexes. Female-made caches were re-cached at the same rate by both females and pilfering males, while male-made caches were re-cached more frequently by pilfering females. The re-caching of previously hoarded prey is consistent with the hypothesis that re-caching reduces theft. However, re-caching pilfered prey suggests that it might also play a role in cache theft strategies. Higher rates of re-caching by pilfering females cannot be explained by current hypotheses used to account avian re-caching behaviours. We suggest two new hypotheses, sexual dimorphism in spatial memory and indirect mate provisioning, which may help to explain the evolution of re-caching in New Zealand robins.
3677582|Bar-tailed godwits migrate from West African wintering sites to breeding areas in northern Russia with only one stopover. We compared hematocrit (Hct), blood hemoglobin concentration (Hb), and mean cell hemoglobin concentration (MCHb; a measure of the relative proportion of Hb in the cellular blood fraction) between arriving godwits lured to land 60 km short of the stopover site and godwits during subsequent refueling. The Hct and Hb of arriving godwits was low when compared to that of refueling birds. On the stopover site, Hct and Hb correlated positively with size-corrected body mass. In addition, Hb and MCHb reached peak levels in the last days of stopover. We explored the possibility of regenerative anemia in arriving godwits by comparing the fraction of reticulocytes (young red blood cells) between arriving and refueling birds. No differences were found. Therefore, we suggest that the increase in Hct, Hb, and MCHb during refueling is not in response to a severe anemic state at arrival. Rather, we suggest that the increase in blood parameters may anticipate the increased aerobic requirements of impending migratory flight and possibly satisfy heightened oxygen demands of the larger body mass of fattened birds. The Hct increase on the stopover site may also serve to buffer the red blood cell population against possible red blood cell breakdown during long-distance flight.
30244759|The concept of effective population size ( $N_{e}$ ) is used widely by conservation and evolutionary biologists as an indicator of the genetic state of populations, but its precision and relation to the census population size is often uncertain. Extra-pair fertilizations have the potential to bias estimates of $N_{e}$ when they affect the number of breeders or their estimated reproductive success tallied from social pedigrees. We tested if the occurrence of extra-pair fertilizations influenced estimates of $N_{e}$ in a resident population of song sparrows Melospiza melodia using four years of detailed behavioural and genetic data. Estimates of $N_{e}$ based on social and genetic data were nearly identical and averaged c. 65% of the census population size over four years, despite that 28% of 471 independent young were sired outside of social pairs. Variance in male reproductive success also did not differ between estimates based on social and genetic data, indicating that extra-pair mating had little effect on the distribution of reproductive success in our study population. Our results show that the genetic assignment will not always be necessary to estimate $N_{e}$ precisely.
3677570| We used the doubly-labelled water technique to measure daily energy expenditure (DEE) of a free-living uniparental incubator, the white-throated dipper Cinclus cinclus, in Scotland. DEE was 205  8 (s.e.m.)
30244435|Animals may assess the quality of other individuals by using information that is contained in elaborate traits. We investigated the degree of sexual dimorphism in structural blue plumage coloration and the potential signal value of these traits in the azure-winged magpie Cyanopica cyanus. We predicted that in this species blue coloration should signal individual quality in both sexes since both females and males invest significantly in caring for offspring. Males have more saturated UV/blue coloration than females and blueness decreased from moulting to reproduction. Males and females did not mate assortatively for blue coloration although they did in relation to body size and condition. Blue colour did not correlate with adult body size or condition. However, nest predation decreased with female and male brightness. Our results suggest that blue coloration may potentially be used to assess parental qualities by potential mates in both sexes of the azure-winged magpie.
10.2307/3677061|In 1990 a complete survey of the south Pennines in England (covering
30244479|Most comparative studies of avian blood parasites based on visual inspection of smears have reported Haemoproteus infections to be more prevalent than Plasmodium infections in both tropical and temperate locations. Recently, molecular techniques have increased our ability to detect infections often missed on blood smears. Here we quantify the bias in prevalence resulting from unrecognized infections by examining blood smears of infected passerine birds from the West Indies (312 individuals) and the Ozark Mountains of southern Missouri (134 individuals) for which we could identify parasites based on cytochrome b sequences. In the West Indian sample, 63 of 179 Haemoproteus infections (35%) and 121 of 133 Plasmodium infections (91%) were not detected among ca. 2,800 red blood cells examined per smear. In the Missouri sample, 19 of 77 Haemoproteus infections (25%) and 31 of 57 Plasmodium infections (54%) were not detected among ca. 10,000 red blood cells examined. Clearly, visual inspection of blood smears at this level of effort fails to recognize many malaria parasite infections ascertained by PCR screening, and this bias for Plasmodium parasites exceeds that for Haemoproteus parasites. The lower prevalence of Plasmodium compared to Haemoproteus reported in comparative studies based on blood smears likely reflects differences in detection rather than infection rates. Estimates obtained from visual inspection of blood smears would appear to be more indicative of parasite virulence and how well host individuals control infections than of the prevalence of infections in host populations.
25161527|According to the optimal body mass hypothesis, resident individuals, having priority of resource access and better knowledge of food availability in an area, should carry smaller fat reserves than transients whose resource predictability is lower. We tested this prediction in a free-living population of Coal Tits Parus ater in sub-alpine coniferous forest during three winters. We examined the role of residence status in determining the daily patterns of fat accumulation of individuals using time of day, temperature, season, year and body size as covariates. Only time of day, residence status and temperature significantly affected daily variation of fat score in Coal Tits. Fat scores were higher in transients than residents, although within residents, juveniles did not carry significantly more fat than adults. Our results show that fattening strategies are associated with residence status in the Coal Tit, in support of the hypothesis that transient individuals facing lower food predictability carry larger body fat reserves. The finding that within residents, patterns of fat accumulation did not differ between adults and juveniles, suggests that residence per se, involving higher food predictability, rather than age-related dominance or hoarding behaviour, determines fattening strategies in wild Coal Tits.
3677682|Most terrestrial animals face the challenge of having to conserve water in a desiccating environment. Not surprisingly, the ability to produce concentrated urine has been relatively well studied in birds. Nectar-feeding birds are unusual among terrestrial animals in that they often ingest and excrete prodigious water volumes to obtain adequate energy. Thus, they confront the unusual challenge of having to conserve electrolytes. The diluting abilities of birds and the renal mechanisms that may correlate with them have been relatively neglected. To elucidate diluting and concentrating abilities in nectar-feeding birds, we fed rufous hummingbirds Selasphorus rufus an electrolyte-free nectar and a nectar containing a range of NaCl concentrations. Hummingbirds had a spectacular (and possibly unique) diluting ability: when fed on electrolyte-free food they produced excreta containing less than 0.5 mM 1
30244746|In many bird species, eggs laid late in the laying period hatch after a shorter incubation period than early-laid eggs. However, the mechanisms that explain these seasonal declines in incubation periods among clutches remain poorly understood. In this study we investigated the plasticity of brood patch development during incubation in yellow-eyed penguins Megadyptes antipodes and established whether differences exist in brood patch formation among early, mean and late-breeding penguins. We also examined whether brood patch development was influenced by sex and age of birds. We then placed an artificial egg in nests a few days prior to egg laying to investigate whether the presence of an egg influences brood patch development and whether an advanced brood patch development at the time of egg laying causes declines in incubation periods. Initial brood patch width on the day the first egg was laid was dependent on sex and age, while the development of brood patch width after first egg laying was slower in early-laying birds than in mean- and late-laying birds. Initial brood patch temperature as well as temperature throughout incubation was largely dependent upon sex, whereby males had higher brood patch surface temperatures than females. Placement of an artificial egg in nests stimulated successfully brood patch development in manipulated birds, so that by the time they laid their own first egg, their brood patches were wider and had higher temperatures than those of control birds. Moreover, incubation periods of first eggs from manipulated nests were significantly shorter (43.5 days) than were those from control nests (47.3 days). Thus, variation in brood patch development and related differences in incubation temperature during early incubation could contribute to seasonal declines in incubation periods.
10.2307/3677245| Late-nesting birds frequently have a lower reproductive success than early-nesting ones. This could be a consequence of seasonal variations in environmental conditions or because late-nesting parents are of lower quality than early-nesting ones. We tested the hypothesis that a difference between early and late parents in their ability to raise viable offspring could explain the seasonal decline in offspring growth and survival in the Greater Snow Goose Anser caerulescens atlanticus, a species with self-feeding precocial young. Over two years, we exchanged complete clutches between early and late parents, to change the hatching date experienced by parents. We exchanged eggs between 164 experimental nests, whose hatching dates differed by 0 to 9 days (x = 3 days). We detected no seasonal effect on survival rate in the sample of experimental nests, but there was a seasonal decline of growth rate. When delaying or advancing hatching, the fostered goslings grew respectively slower or faster compared to the parents' original hatching date, indicating that variations in environmental conditions are responsible for seasonal variation of growth. However, growth of experimental goslings did not differ from unmanipulated goslings hatched at the same date, indicating that parental quality did not contribute to seasonal variations of growth rate. We conclude that the seasonal variation in reproductive success is not caused by a difference in parental quality between early and late nesters, but mostly by environmental factors directly related to the date of the season. 
25662895|Study of the evolution of ecological characteristics using phylogenetic information is only beginning, but several new tools and approaches open fascinating possibilities. The Pipridae is a diverse and well-known family of frugivorous birds that are easily sampled and that are broadly distributed across many Neotropical environments, and as such are appropriate for studies of ecological niche evolution. Using known occurrences and climate and topography data sets, we modeled ecological niches for each species in the family, and carried out analyses aimed at describing ecological niches of manakins and understanding historical patterns of ecological change in the family. Most species' ecological niches were characterized by warm and relatively humid conditions, reflecting the great diversification of the family in lowland and montane forests of western South America. Ecological niche evolution was in general conservative, with most sister species pairs being closely similar ecologically, indicating that isolation rather than adaptation to new ecological conditions has dominated the diversification in this family. Exceptions to this pattern represent interesting foci for future research, whereas studies of ecological niches focusing on past distributions of manakins will allow further biogeographic inferences.
3677781|Individual-based data on little terns Sterna albifrons at a post-breeding moulting area were used to investigate the spatial extent at which this site attract birds. Combining information collected on young terns, ringed at the natal colonies, with that on birds captured a few months later at the moulting site, we estimated a survival/movement parameter for each age-by-colony combination. This parameter is the product between the survival probability and the probability to visit the moulting site. The distance between the natal colony and the moulting site negatively influenced the probability of reaching the site in yearlings. Having corrected for the distance from the moulting area, colony characteristics explained only about 10% of the spatial variation in the survival/movement parameter of juveniles. In older birds that had visited the site at least once in their life, neither the colony nor the distance affected the survival/movement parameter significantly. The average annual adult survival/movement probability was 0.90. Juvenile survival between June and September was 0.60. Overall results suggest that the moulting area could act as a 'population funnel' within a system of moult migration that involves birds breeding up to 500 km away. However, other unknown moulting site must exist within this area that could be important for the conservation of the species.
10.2307/3676973|Male characteristics used by females in choosing mates for good genes may also reflect outcomes of male-male competition. The extravagantly ornamented Wild Turkey Meleagris gallopavo is an appropriate species in which to test this relationship. Wild Turkeys have a highly competitive social system in which combat and other dominance interactions between males are common throughout the year. In this study dyadic dominance trials between unfamiliar captive males demonstrated that a male's relative snood length, a character previously shown to be used by females in mate choice, is also predictive of the outcome of male-male competition. Complementary trials using artificial males confirmed that live males assess the snood length of potential competitors independent of other male characteristics. In an earlier study snood length was shown to be negatively correlated with coccidian parasite load and positively correlated with male condition in free-living Wild Turkeys.
25161505|Phylogenetic relationships among major groups of passeriform birds were studied by analyses of nucleotide sequence data from two nuclear genes, c-myc and RAG-1. The results corroborated both the monophyly of the order Passeriformes, and the major dichotomy into oscine and suboscine passerines previously suggested based on syringeal morphology and DNA-DNA hybridizations. The representatives of the Old World suboscines (families Eurylaimidae, Philepittidae and Pittidae) formed a monophyletic clade. The New World suboscines clustered into two clades. The first contained Conopophaga (Conopophagidae), Furnarius (Furnariidae), Lepidocolaptes (Dendrocolaptidae), Thamnophilus (Formicariidae), and Rhinocrypta (Rhinocryptidae). Previously, the monophyly of this group has been inferred from their possession of a unique, "tracheophone" syrinx, and from DNA-DNA hybridisation data. The second clade of New World suboscines includes Gubernetes and Muscivora (Tyrannidae), Phytotoma (Phytotomidae), Tityra (Cotingidae) and Pipra (Pipridae). This group of families have been considered monophyletic based on morphology (although ambiguously) and DNA-DNA hybridisation. The sister group relationship of Tityra and Phytotoma supports the previously supposed cotingid affinity of Phytotoma. Nuclear DNA data also unambiguously group the lyrebirds Menura with the oscines. The presented results from the analysis of nuclear DNA agree well with morphology and DNA-DNA hybridisation data. The precise age of the divergences studied herein are unknown but based on interpretations of the fossil record of passerine birds many of them might date back to the early Tertiary. The agreement between data from the nuclear DNA and other sources, along with the fact that neither of the studied genes showed sign of saturation, indicate the great potential of these two nuclear genes to resolve very old divergences in birds.
3677644|It has long been suggested that competing groups of social animals assess one another on the basis of communal vocalisations, but so far this has only been demonstrated in mammals. We investigated this idea in the subdesert mesite, a group-living bird that produces communal songs during aggressive territorial interactions with other groups. Where groups compete as units, differences in group size might outweigh inter-individual differences in determining the outcome of contests. Given this species' variable social system, we predicted that the composition of groups would also influence their resource holding potential. Playback experiments showed that the number of simulated intruders significantly influenced the strength of response by defending groups hearing the stimulus: groups were less likely to approach but gave more protracted and more communal vocal responses as the number of vocalising intruders increased. We found that the likelihood of a group approaching playback increased as the ratio between the number of males in the defending group and the number of males in the intruding group increased. Furthermore, the ratio of adult males to females in the defending group significantly affected the probability of approach, with the probability increasing as groups became more male-biased. This finding supports the idea that the social structure of groups may be important in determining the outcome of contests between groups. Overall this study provides some indication in birds of relative numerical assessment based on vocal cues.
10.2307/3677337|The patterned hooting of owls may serve one or more functions including repulsion of territorial invaders, attraction of potential mates, and stimulation of the mate. In this study I looked for characteristics in the Tawny Owl hoot which might convey information on the signaller's quality or that of its territory to potential mates and rivals. I therefore analysed relationships between hooting rate, hoot harshness and 13 structural features of the hoots of 22 territory-defending male Tawny Owls on the one hand, and male RHP (i.e., aggressiveness in response to playback), territory size, stability, patchiness, fragmentation and owl reproductive output on each territory on the other. Hooting rate, hoot harshness and rhythm were all related to male RHP, but not to any measure of territory quality. These features therefore appeared to reflect aspects of male competitive potential, i.e. the male's quality as a defender. By contrast, duration and frequency range of notes were related to reproductive output and territory stability, possibly signalling better territories in terms of resources and better male parental performance. Males involved in territorial contests increased their hooting rate when females joined them in a communal response. This more conspicuous display, rather than functioning as a mate guarding strategy, may be interpreted as a means of influencing female choice directly.
30245323|Early arrival to breeding grounds is a life history trait in birds that can result in fitness benefits. We studied the relationship between arrival date and breeding success of individuals in a central Iberian population of white stork Ciconia ciconia, between 1999 and 2005, and the ways in which other potential factors, such as age or sex, affect this relationship. Our results showed that age was the factor most closely related to arrival date and breeding success. Older individuals returned earlier to the breeding grounds, achieved larger clutch sizes and produced more chicks than younger birds. After controlling statistically for age effect, breeding probability (laid eggs or not) and laying date were still significantly explained by arrival date. A higher probability of failure to reproduce (no eggs laid) was found in birds arriving later than in those arriving early. However, clutch size and nestling success (number of nestlings in the nest 40 days after hatching) were not correlated with arrival date. Food availability in the study area throughout the breeding cycle, due to a nearby rubbish dump, could be the factor mitigating differences in clutch size and nestling success related to individual arrival date.
3677709|Explanations for the ecological integration of migratory and non-migratory (resident) insectivorous birds in the tropics have been complicated by the paradox that arthropod abundances are low when bird abundances reach their annual peak. The breeding currency hypothesis and the nest predation hypothesis both account for this paradox by postulating that residents are held below the non-breeding season carrying capacity, which frees resources available for migratory insectivores. The breeding currency hypothesis suggests residents are limited by food suitable for nestlings, whereas the nest predation hypothesis emphasizes the primacy of high rates of nest predation. However, theoretical arguments suggest that food availability and predation risk interact strongly to limit breeding birds. We use graphical analyses to extend the breeding currency hypothesis to incorporate effects of nest predation. This yields a more synthetic and realistic model for the integration of migrant and resident insectivores in the tropics - the balanced breeding limitation hypothesis.
10.2307/3676946|The temporal variation of blood parasites in captive Yellowhammer males was studied in order to investigate possible costs of parasites. Birds were caught in the wild in early April and kept in aviaries during the study period. Blood samples were taken, body mass measured, and moult was scored twelve times for the same individuals from April to October. Blood parasites were detectable in smears during the whole study period with an intensity peak coinciding with breeding in the wild. Young birds had more parasites and a consistently higher body mass than older birds. There was no relationship between parasite intensity and mass in older birds but possibly one in young birds. Parasites did not seem to affect moult in either age class. Repeatability of parasite counts of smears from the same individual was very high and smears are therefore a reliable method for estimating parasite intensity. We conclude that blood parasites are probably most severe during, but occur in their hosts long after, the breeding season. Possible costs of parasites outside the breeding season require further study.
30244790|Recent data suggest that facultative hypothermic responses such as torpor are more important in the energy balance of birds from tropical and sub-tropical regions than previously thought. We used telemetric measurements of skin temperature ( <tex-math>$T_{skin}$</tex-math> ) for five individuals on 151 bird-nights to investigate the occurrence of torpor during winter in an 81 g African caprimulgid, the freckled nightjar Caprimulgus tristigma. We found that freckled nightjars have the capacity to enter torpor, with a minimum observed <tex-math>$T_{skin}$</tex-math> of 12.8C. During the torpor bouts we observed, complete rewarming typically occurred after sunrise, and coincided with the availability of solar radiation. There was considerable inter-individual variability in the frequency and depth of torpor bouts, with one female nightjar exhibiting particularly frequent and deep torpor. Our results confirm the ability to use torpor by a nocturnal aerial insectivore from the Afrotropics, and reiterate the variability in patterns of torpor that can exist within a population.
3677525|Bright plumage, song display, and aggressive resource defence in males may cause higher predation on males than on females during the breeding season. However, in birds, higher predation on females is sometimes observed. Parental investment may be high in females (egg-laying, incubation and feeding of offspring), which might lead to a high risk of predation. We studied predation by sparrowhawks Accipiter nisus in relation to behaviour in pied flycatchers Ficedula hypoleuca where breeding males are more conspicuous than females in plumage and behaviour. Male pied flycatchers generally occupied more exposed perches than females. Females were more mobile and foraged more than males, especially prior to and during incubation. During the incubation and nestling stages, when predation on the sexes could be directly compared, sparrowhawks took about the same number of male and female pied flycatchers. During incubation, however, females spent about 77% of the day in the nest and were 4.7 times more vulnerable than males per unit of time available (i.e. outside the nest). A comparison with the chaffinch Fringilla coelebs, where hawks took more females than males, indicates that timing of breeding, foraging behaviour and parental roles of males and females affect predation risk.
10.2307/3677112|We investigated the effect of hatching date on chick body condition, chick survival, post-fledging survival and eventual breeding performance as an adult (laying date and clutch volume) of Great Skuas in Foula (Shetland). In 10 out of 16 years there was a seasonal decline in chick body condition. In the remaining years, there was no detectable effect of hatching date on chick condition. Differences among years were statistically significant. Chicks in early broods survived better than late-hatched chicks in four years, and no trend could be detected in one year. Annual variation in the seasonal pattern of chick growth and survival, and of adult territorial attendance, suggests that environmental conditions play a role in determining the seasonal decline in performance. Post-fledging survival in relation to hatching date was studied by analysis of ringing recoveries. Hatching date affected post-fledging survival, but only in the first year of life. Breeding parameters of birds of known hatching date were studied when they came back to breed in Foula. Hatching date of an individual did not affect its laying date or volume of the clutches laid later in life. This suggests that laying date has a low heritability, or none at all. Birds that laid early in the season produced more future recruits than later birds. After an early breeding attempt, skuas had a higher overwinter survival probability than after a late season. These results suggest that laying date is an indicator of individual quality in skuas, in the sense that early birds apparently are more competent at gathering resources for reproduction and survival.
3677366|Territorial quality and parental quality are usually assumed to be the main sources of variation in the reproductive success of passerine birds. To evaluate their relative importance for variation in breeding time (itself an important factor for breeding success), clutch size and offspring condition at fledging, we analysed six years of data from a Blue Tit Parus caeruleus population breeding on the island of Gotland, Sweden. Hatching dates and the condition of offspring were consistent for territories between years and accounted for 30% and 33% of the variation in these variables, respectively. After removing the effect of territory quality, none of the breeding parameters were significantly repeatable for individual females, but offspring condition was repeatable for males, accounting for 28% of variation. For females breeding on the same territory in subsequent seasons (combined effect of individual and territory quality) only hatching date was repeatable (45% of variation accounted for). In males, the combined effect of individual and territory quality was repeatable for offspring condition and accounted for 33% of variation, but this result was only marginally significant. Consistency of the peak frass-fall date for individual frass collectors over the study period suggests that repeatable hatching dates on territories may be related to the relationship between timing of breeding and timing of peak food availability on territories. Our results suggest that territory quality is more important than parental quality for breeding success in the Blue Tit, and that male (but not female) quality makes a considerable contribution to reproductive success.
30244823|The energetic cost of immune responses has been proposed to be an important basis for trade-offs between life-history traits, such as between survival and reproduction. A critical assumption of this hypothesis is that the magnitude of the energetic cost increases with the strength of an immune response, so that energy can be saved by partly suppressing a response. Here, we test this assumption experimentally. The immune system of great tits Parus major was experimentally activated by injecting different doses of phytohemagglutinin (PHA) in the wing web. We found the resting metabolic rate of immune challenged birds to increase by 5%. However, although great tits injected with a high dose had a stronger immune response, this was not paralleled by a higher metabolic rate. Thus, we found the energetic cost of the immune response to be relatively low and not dose-dependent. This suggests to us that the energetic cost of immune responses cannot form the basis for trade-offs between life-history traits.
10.2307/3677019|The management of reedbeds for birds is often a controversial issue in discussions between conservationists, reed harvesters and managers. At the same time, data on the density and nesting success of birds in cut and uncut reed are scarce. This paper presents the results of a study on the density and nesting success of Reed Warblers Acrocephalus scirpaceus and Sedge Warblers A. schoenobaenus in cut and uncut reed in a peat marsh, De Weerribben National Park in the Netherlands in 1993-1995. Depending on year, densities of Reed Warblers were 1.2-2.5 times higher in uncut reed than in cut reed, while densities of Sedge Warblers in uncut reed and other vegetation were 6-50 times higher than in cut vegetation. Reed Warblers nested 6-12 days earlier in uncut reed than in cut reed. No difference could be detected in laying dates of Sedge Warblers in cut and uncut vegetation, presumably because many Sedge Warblers in cut vegetation nested in small remnants of uncut vegetation. There were no differences in clutch size or fledging success in non-depredated nests of Reed Warblers and Sedge Warblers between cut and uncut vegetation. However, the predation rate of Reed Warbler nests in cut vegetation was 2.2 times as high, and of Sedge Warbler nests 1.6 times as high as in uncut vegetation. Sedge Warblers started to nest two to three weeks earlier and their nests were more often preyed upon than Reed Warblers' nests, in particular by ground predators. This may explain why Sedge Warblers more strongly preferred uncut reed than did Reed Warblers. Contrary to Sedge Warblers, Reed Warblers close to trees were parasitized by Cuckoos Cuculus canorus, which may explain why Reed Warblers nested in lower densities close to trees than farther away from trees. The results show that uncut reed is more suitable for nesting Reed Warblers and Sedge Warblers than cut reed because it allows them to nest earlier - and thus to raise on average more clutches per season - and because the birds suffer a lower predation risk.
10.2307/3677273| Long term ringing of chicks and retrapping of adult Shags at a colony in south-east Scotland have provided information on survival to breeding age for 25 cohorts. The mean survival for 18 cohorts at risk of being recaptured for 10 years was 0.3070.2. Generalized linear modelling demonstrated that survival varied according to year, fledging date and brood size. The effect of each variable was apparently independent of those of the other two. Young hatched early in the season survived better than those hatched later which, when linked to the seasonal decline in breeding success, results in early laying individuals contributing 10 times as many recruits to subsequent generations as do birds laying two months later. Chicks in broods of three had a higher estimated survival than those in broods of two and both appeared to survive very much better than those in broods of one. Differences in the survival of cohorts could not be explained by annual differences in the timing of breeding or mean brood size. Rather, differential survival of cohorts appeared to be due to the timing of mortality during the first winter. 
10.2307/3677230|We investigated if one category of birds, prospectors, i.e. those likely to seek future breeding sites, attempt to gather information on the local reproductive success of their conspecifics. If prospecting is an important information-gathering process, it should occur when reliable estimation of the local reproductive success can be made. We tested this prediction in a colonial seabird, the Kittiwake Rissa tridactyla, by monitoring the number of prospectors and the value of the information available on local reproductive success in a series of breeding cliffs during two breeding seasons. We found that the bulk of prospecting occurred when the best information on local reproductive success was available. The pattern was very similar in the two study years (1985 and 1992); prospecting occurred late in the season, as reported for most bird species. This result is consistent with the potential use of conspecific reproductive success as a proximate cue for habitat selection.
30243847|In response to a variety of unpredictable conditions, birds secrete the steroid hormone corticosterone, which has numerous effects on physiology and behavior. A standardized protocol of handling and restraint has been demonstrated to elicit a robust corticosterone response in many species of birds. In contrast, comparatively little is known about the effects of capture technique on corticosterone secretion in wild birds. Setting up multiple live traps checked at regular intervals allows field researchers to capture many birds in a short period of time. However, one potential drawback of this technique is that birds may spend unknown lengths of time in traps prior to sampling. Many birds appear to remain calm and/or feed during this period, potentially leading researchers to assume that corticosterone secretion is unaffected by trapping. We assessed the impact of being left in traps for up to 30 minutes on baseline corticosterone and subsequent corticosterone responses to restraint in non-breeding and breeding house sparrows Passer domesticus. Traps were baited with seed, and birds were either removed immediately after entry (controls), or left in the trap undisturbed for 15 or 30 min. Upon removal, birds were subjected to a standardized handling/restraint protocol in which blood samples were collected within 3 min, and again at regular intervals for 60 min. Analysis of blood samples revealed that both non-breeding and breeding sparrows that were held in the traps had significantly higher baseline corticosterone than controls, and showed no further increase in corticosterone secretion in response to handling. However, corticosterone responses to trapping differed seasonally. Our study indicates that although birds did not exhibit prolonged escape behavior while trapped, entry into a walk-in trap initiated a robust stress response. Taken together with data from a previous study, our data suggest that ornithologists should consider species-specific and stage-specific effects of trapping on physiology when designing field studies.
3677577|We examined inter-clutch egg size variation of Eurasian kestrels Falco tinnunculus in western Finland over a period of 12 years, during which their main prey, Microtus voles, fluctuated in three-year population cycles. Females that bred twice in the area had highly repeatable egg size, and the main part of the observed variation was likely to be due to among-female differences. Laying date also explained some variation in egg size, but compared to the variation between individuals its effect was small and varied among the phases of the vole cycle. During decrease phases and years with low vole abundance mean egg size of clutches declined with laying date, whereas during increase phases mean egg size remained stable within the season. Although egg size was not related to fledging success, we found that egg size may have value for the development of eggs as the probability of total hatching success of a clutch increased with increasing mean egg size.
30243898|In many cooperatively-breeding species, the presence of one or more helpers improves the reproductive performance of the breeding pair receiving help. Helper contributions can take many different forms, including allo-feeding, offspring provisioning, and offspring guarding or defence. Yet, most studies have focussed on single forms of helper contribution, particularly offspring provisioning, and few have evaluated the relative importance of a broader range of helper contributions to group reproductive performance. We examined helper contributions to multiple components of breeding performance in the Karoo scrub-robin Cercotrichas coryphaeus, a facultative cooperative breeder. We also tested a prediction of increased female investment in reproduction when helpers improve conditions for rearing young. Helpers assisted the breeding male in allo-feeding the incubating female, increasing allo-feeding rates. Greater allo-feeding correlated with greater female nest attentiveness during incubation. Nest predation was substantially lower among pairs breeding with a helper, resulting in a 74% increase in the probability of nest survival. Helper contributions to offspring provisioning increased nestling feeding rates, resulting in a reduced incidence of nestling starvation and increased nestling mass. Nestling mass had a strong, positive effect on post-fledging survival. Controlling for female age and habitat effects, annual production of fledged young was 130% greater among pairs breeding with a helper, and was influenced most strongly by helper correlates with nest survival, despite important helper effects on offspring provisioning. Females breeding with a helper increased clutch size, supporting the prediction of increased female investment in reproduction in response to helper benefits.
30243903|The adaptive significance of avian egg speckling patterns has been a subject of ongoing debate. We examined speckling in a population of Mexican jays Aphelocoma ultramarina exhibiting extreme eggshell variability. We sampled 167 eggs at 55 nests from sites ranging across a steep elevation gradient within the Sierra del Carmen mountain range in Coahuila, Mexico, in order to test the recent hypothesis that egg speckling lends structural support to eggs and should therefore be more prevalent in females subject to reduced environmental calcium. Although we documented high variation in the amount and distribution of eggshell speckling within the Sierra del Carmen jays, we found no relationship between local soil calcium levels and the pattern of speckling. Our results indicate that explanations in addition to soil calcium levels are necessary to explain extreme variation in eggshell speckling in birds.
10.2307/3677144|Field studies have demonstrated interspecific niche separation between the Willow Tit Parus montanus and the Crested Tit P. cristatus in mixed-species flocks using mature coniferous forest. The dominant Crested Tit prefers the upper parts in pine, while the Willow Tit forages lower in the canopy. Foraging niche shifts of these species were studied when they foraged alternately in mature pine forest and in areas with saplings. In the saplings, where flying predators are unable to attack prey in the lower part of the canopy because of the dense branch structure there, Crested Tits switched to forage in the lower parts. As the subordinate species, Willow Tits foraged lower in the mature forest and higher up in the saplings, thus in both cases using more exposed parts of the canopy. Predation risk from Sparrowhawks Accipiter nisus seemed to be high. Since Crested Tits used the safest sites in both habitats, tits seem able to evaluate predation risk and adjust their habitat use. The spatial segregation of foraging niches in flocks of wintering tits can be explained by their response to habitat gradients in predator exposure.
10.2307/3677213| By analogy with patch-use decisions made by animals foraging among patches, animals storing food items among scattered sites must make decisions such as how long to persist in exploiting a known source before leaving to search for alternative sources. If the survival of scattered caches is density-dependent, then there should be a "source-departure threshold," beyond which additional caching would reduce the long-term average rate of storage of recoverable food. The hoarder would profit maximally by leaving the source at that threshold, even though the source still contains food. We experimentally examined how two factors influence various source-use decisions of Gray Jays Perisoreus canadensis exploiting locally abundant food sources. First, we examined the behavior of jays exploiting a food source during an initial "encounter" and during another encounter 3 days later. The jays made fewer caches during subsequent encounters with a source at a given location, around which the local density of previously made caches was high. They also compensated by spacing out their caches more widely and by increasing the rate at which they retrieved and redistributed previously made caches. Second, we investigated the effect of the composition of a food source (i.e., the value of its food items) on the jays' source-use decisions. The jays cached substantially more food items (raisins) from a large-item (X=491) than from a small-item (328) source when sources of each type were made available on different days. The cumulative number of caches made by individual jays (over 10 h) was more nearly asymptotic in the smaller-item treatment. We propose that the jays' tendency to recache previously made caches accounts for their failure to cease hoarding from our experimental sources. This two-stage process of food storage (i.e., initial placement and subsequent recaching) may yield long-term average rates of storage throughout the territory exceeding those predicted by simple rate-maximization, patch-use models. 
3676984|A recent experimental study reported that Thick-billed Murre Uria lomvia chicks that hatched from large eggs grew their wing feathers more quickly than did small-egg chicks. There is little evidence of this (or any other) egg-size effect on post-hatching development in other birds. Thick-billed Murres are marine birds of the family Alcidae that employ the unique "intermediate" developmental strategy: chicks go to sea after 15-30 days at the nest site, at < 30% of adult mass, accompanied by their male parent. Rapid feather growth during the brief nestling period is critical to enable chicks to make the transition from life at the nest site to life at sea quickly and safely. At the Gannet Islands, Labrador, Canada, in 1996 and 1997, I tested whether egg size has the same effect on wing-feather growth in the Razorbill Alca torda, another of the intermediate auks. To control for underlying correlations between egg size and other parental attributes, eggs were switched randomly among pairs. As in other birds, egg size strongly predicted hatchling mass, and to less extent hatchling size (tarsus length), but had no effect on the rate at which nestlings gained mass. However, egg size had the same effect on wing growth in Razorbills as in Thick-billed Murres: the wings of large-egg chicks began rapid, linear growth sooner, indicating that early development of wing feathers was enhanced in large-egg chicks. Differences in wing length established in this manner persisted through the nestling period. Egg-size effects on feather growth have not been detected in experimental studies on other birds, suggesting that effects of the magnitude seen in Razorbills and Thick-billed Murres might reflect evolutionary priorities in the post-hatching development of intermediate auks.
3677679|In order to succeed in crossing extensive ecological barriers, migratory birds usually deposit fuel en route. High rates of fuel deposition may enable birds to shorten their total migration time and are therefore advantageous for time-minimizing migrants. Several studies have suggested that water provision may increase food utilization in non-migratory birds. The goal of this study was to test the influence of water availability on the fuel deposition of en route migratory passerines. We studied fuel deposition of blackcaps Sylvia atricapilla and lesser whitethroats S. curruca staging in a plantation of Mount Atlas gum-tree Pistacia atlantica in the northern Negev desert, Israel, during the autumns of 2000 and 2002. We manipulated water availability at the site and measured the effect of water supplementation on fuel deposition of birds of both species. We found that when water was available, blackcaps had higher fuel loads and higher fuel deposition rates than during control trials. However, water availability had no effect on fuel deposition of lesser whitethroats. Species-specific differences in adaptations to arid conditions, reflected in the species' winter habitat preferences, may be responsible for the between-species dissimilarity in responding to water provision. We suggest that water availability may have strong ecological and evolutionary consequences for birds migrating through arid environments, by its possible effect on bird behavior and physiology.
30243296|Theory predicts that females should track resources while making decisions about where to reproduce, and males should track females. However, when males create the resource that females require, female settlement follows that of males. In this situation, how do individuals make settling decisions and what are the fitness consequences of these decisions? Here, I test the hypothesis that environmental factors (wind direction and velocity) affect optimal nest placement and orientation, and thus male and female settlement, in Baya weaver Ploceus philippinus colonies. Nests experimentally placed in windward locations with entrance tubes oriented toward the wind were more likely to lose clutches of artificial eggs than were nests placed in other combinations of placement and orientation. Correspondingly, males built their nests strongly clustered on the leeward side of colony trees, with entrance tubes oriented away from the wind. However, females did not discriminate amongst natural nests on the basis of nest placement or orientation. This may be because the effect of wind on the success of natural nests was small and was overwhelmed by other causes of nest loss. I suggest that, in some situations, female preference may remain undetected because the options available to females are constrained by preceding settlement decisions by males. In these cases, it is necessary to manipulate male distribution outside the range of natural variation to gain a better understanding of selective pressures imposed by female preferences.
10.2307/3677062|We studied the selective advantage of nest and egg crypsis in the Stone Curlew Burhinus oedicnemus. Experimental removal of camouflaging nest material resulted in replacement of a similar amount and size of nest material for the specific nest site. The match between the colour of the eggs and the ground was usually perfect and mismatches in coloration increased the predation rate by visually searching avian nest predators. Both nest building and choice of nest substrate appeared to increase crypsis and improved hatching success.
3677514|Woodpeckers, honeyguides, barbets, and toucans form a well-supported clade with approximately 355 species. This clade, commonly referred to as Pici, share with the South American clade Galbulae (puffbirds and jacamars) a zygodactyls foot with a unique arrangement of the deep flexor tendons (Gadow's Type VI). Based on these characters, Pici and Galbulae are often considered sister taxa, and have in traditional classification been placed in the order Piciformes. There are, however, a wealth of other morphological characters that contradicts this association, and indicates that Pici is closer related to the Passeriformes (passerines) than to Galbulae. Galbulae, in turn, is considered more closely related to the rollers and ground-rollers (Coracii). In this study, we evaluate these two hypotheses by using DNA sequence data from exons of the nuclear RAG-1 and c-myc genes, and an intron of the nuclear myoglobin gene, totally including 3400 basepairs of aligned sequences. The results indicate a sister group relationship between Pici and Galbulae, i.e. monophyly of the Piciformes, and this association has high statistical support in terms of bootstrap values and posterior probabilities. This study also supports several associations within the traditional order Coraciiformes, including a sister group relationship between the kingfishers (Alcedinidae) and a clade with todies (Todidae) and motmots (Momotidae), and with the bee-eaters (Meropidae) placed basal relative to these three groups.
30243851|Social monogamy with biparental care is the norm in gulls Laridae, but egg colour variation suggests that some nests may contain mixed clutches laid by more than one female. Here we use protein fingerprinting of egg albumen to assess the occurrence of mixed maternity clutches in three colonies of black-headed gulls. Among 160 analysed clutches with >1 egg, 34% contained eggs from more than one female, and 15% of the eggs in clutches >1 came from other females than the major female (laying most eggs in nest). Among clutches with 2-3 eggs 28% were mixed, and among clutches with 4 or more eggs 89% contained eggs from two or more females. There were significantly fewer eggs from the major female in mixed nests (mean = 2.060.63 SD) than in non-mixed nests (mean = 2.820.43 SD). In nests without evidence of female conflict, hatching success of minority eggs was similar to that of eggs from the major female (12.5 and 8.4%, respectively). In 21% of mixed maternity nests, one or more minority eggs was buried or punctured, and 25% of eggs from major females were also found evicted, suggesting conflict between females and rejection of eggs. Intra-specific nest parasitism seems the most likely cause of mixed clutches, but there are also other possible causes.
3677708|Understanding the degree of demographic connectivity among population segments is increasingly recognized as central to the fields of population ecology and conservation biology. However, delineating discrete population units has proven challenging, particularly for migratory birds as they move through their annual cycle. In this study, radio telemetry was used to assess movement rates among habitats by harlequin ducks Histrionicus histrionicus during the non-breeding season in Prince William Sound, Alaska. A total of 434 females were outfitted with radio transmitters over six years of data collection, and their signals tracked by aircraft. Using a spatially nested design, it was determined that 75% of radioed females remained in the bay or coastline area where they were originally trapped, 94% remained on the same island or mainland region of Prince William Sound where they began the winter period, and 98% remained within the 4500 km<sup>2</sup> study area as a whole. Home range analyses corroborated these findings, indicating that the scale of individual movements was small, with 95% kernel home range estimates averaging only 11.52.2 km<sup>2</sup>. A simple demographic model, which incorporated estimates for population size, survival, and movement rates, was used to infer the degree of independence among population segments. Immigrant females were found to contribute little to population numbers in most areas, accounting for only 4% of the adult female population at a scale of approximately 100 km<sup>2</sup>. These results have important implications for the scale of conservation action for the species and demonstrate that winter movements can have a strong influence local population dynamics.
10.2307/3677010|Recent studies have demonstrated that wild birds breeding in acidified areas may have difficulties in obtaining sufficient calcium for their eggshells, and that a shortage of land snails may be the cause. Here we present experimental evidence that calcium deficiency may affect reproductive traits also in birds breeding in non-acidified but naturally base-poor forest habitats. The study was conducted in Estonia in 1995 and 1996. We compared egg characteristics and other life-history traits of the Pied Flycatcher Ficedula hypoleuca and the Great Tit Parus major in two habitats differing in natural availability of calcium (base-poor pine forests and base-rich deciduous forests). In both species, egg volume was smaller in the poor than the rich habitat. Eggshell thickness also tended to be less in the poor habitat in 1996, but the difference was significant only in the Pied Flycatcher. An experimental supplementation of calcium was performed in the habitats to determine to what extent differences between rich and poor habitats might be caused by differences in calcium availability. Egg volume and shell thickness were positively affected by calcium supplementation in the Pied Flycatcher. The same tendency was observed in the Great Tit in 1996, although not significant. However, there was no effect of calcium provisioning on hatching success, nest desertion rate and number or quality of fledglings. Our results show that calcium limitation may occur in wild birds on naturally calcium-poor soils. Birds breeding in such habitats may be vulnerable to possible increases in acid deposition.
3677743|Reproductive performance varies with age in a wide range of organisms, and increasingly such patterns are interpreted in terms of state-dependent models. We sought to characterise 'state' with regards to age-related variation in clutch size, egg mass and timing of breeding in captive zebra finches Taeniopygia guttata, focusing on the roles of diet quality, age and breeding experience. Females on a high-quality diet laid larger clutches of larger eggs than did females on a low-quality diet. The effect of age on reproductive performance was examined by comparing females breeding (i.e. paired) for the first time at either 3- and/or 6-months of age. Clutch size increased with age but on the low-quality diet only, not on the high-quality diet. Furthermore, clutch size decreased between 3- and 6-months of age in birds bred first on the high-quality diet and then on the low-quality diet. Age did not affect egg mass but older birds had shorter laying intervals. Reproductive performance did not differ between females breeding at 6-months of age for the first or second time: the effects of age were not due to 'training' effects or experience specific to breeding (e.g. undergoing the physiological process of egg formation). In conclusion, nutritional condition (diet) emerged as a central component of state that could strongly influence, and even reverse, any age-dependent increase in primary reproductive performance.
10.2307/3677081|The incidence of Cuckoo Cuculus canorus parasitism among complete clutches of Rufous Bush Chat Cercotrichas galactotes in an area of southwestern Spain was 27.6% (N=29) and 27.3% (N=44) in two successive years. Breeding Rufous Bush Chats mobbed adult Cuckoos only if the latter tried to approach their nests. They deserted seven (46.7%) out of 15 parasitized nests found at the egg stage. Cuckoo eggs were mimetic in size and colour with respect to Rufous Bush Chat eggs, but could be distinguished by their greater size and mass and by their lighter colour. Cuckoos do not successfully parasitize other bird species breeding in the area and their eggs are not similar to those laid by any of them. Out of the 15 Cuckoo eggs found, 40% hatched and 33% reached the fledgling stage.
30244747|Large-scale climate fluctuations, such as the North Atlantic Oscillation (NAO), have a marked effect on the timing of spring migration of birds. It has however been suggested that long-distance migrants wintering in Africa could respond less to NAO than short-distance migrants wintering in Europe, making them more vulnerable to climatic changes. We studied whether migratory boreal and arctic bird species returning from different wintering areas show differences in responses to the NAO in the timing of their spring migration. We used data on 75 species from two bird observatories in northern Europe (60N). By extending the examination to the whole distribution of spring migration and to a taxonomically diverse set of birds, we aimed at finding general patterns of the effects of climate fluctuation on the timing of avian migration. Most species arrived earlier after winters with high NAO index. The degree of NAO-response diminished with the phase of migration: the early part of a species' migratory population responded more strongly than the later part. Early phase waterfowl responded strongest to NAO, but in later phases their response faded to non-significant. This pattern may be related to winter severity and/or ice conditions in the Baltic. In the two other groups, gulls and waders and passerines, all phases of migration responded to NAO and fading with phase was non-significant. The difference between waterfowl and other groups may be related to differences between the phenological development of their respective macrohabitats. Wintering area affected the strength of NAO response in a complicated way. On average medium distance migrants responded most strongly, followed by short-distance migrants and partial migrants. Our results concerning the response of long-distance migrants were difficult to interpret: there is an overall weak yet statistically significant effect, but patterns with phase of migration need further study. Our results highlight the importance of examining the whole distribution of migration and warrant the use of data sets from several sampling sites when studying climatic effects on the timing of avian life-history events.
3677775|We tested the prediction that at higher latitudes there will be an increase in the number hosts per cuckoo species. This prediction is confirmed, and the number of hosts exploited per cuckoo species increases with increasing latitude. Although this result is strongly influenced by a single species (the common cuckoo Cuculus canorus) in high latitudes, it is significant and holds even at lower latitudes where this species is absent. This trend may be explained as a case of competitive release and niche expansion by the few cuckoo species that have expanded their ranges north, despite the shortage of hairy caterpillar prey species at high latitudes.
3677409| The chick provisioning behaviour of Short-tailed Shearwaters Puffinus tenuirostris breeding at the northern edge of their distribution on Montague Island, New South Wales, was examined in February and March 1997. The duration of individual foraging trips of parents, weight changes of adults and chicks, and meal sizes delivered to chicks were determined. It was found that individual parents mixed a long foraging trip to Antarctic waters (14.4  2.0 days) with one to three short foraging trips (1.36  0.7 days, mode = 1 day). Adults gained body mass on long trips and lost weight on short trips. The size of meals fed to the chicks was significantly greater after a long trip (161  21 g) than after a short trip (135  28 g), although short trips increased the overall chick feeding frequency. The variable number of short trips made by adult Short-tailed Shearwaters and the relationship between short trips and adult body condition were consistent with current life-history theory: adults do not sacrifice their own body condition to increase food delivered to their chicks. Modelling revealed that this dual foraging strategy inevitable leads to chicks enduring long intervals between meals. These long intervals may have led to the evolution of an over-feeding strategy by parents and the nestling obesity reported in this shearwater. The durations of the long trips from Montague Island were significantly greater than those for Short-tailed Shearwaters breeding at the centre of their distribution in Tasmania, although there was no significant difference in the length of short trips. A commitment to feed regularly in Antarctic waters may explain why the breeding distribution of this species does not extend much further north. 
10.2307/3677272|In winter, Great Tits Parus major have a mixed diet of insect food and seeds. Field data suggest a dietary shift towards seeds with declining ambient temperatures. We hypothesised that Great Tits increase their preference for seeds with decreasing temperatures to raise their fat intake over time. An experiment was carried out to test whether this dietary shift with temperature exists. Six Great Tit females, held in captivity and acclimatized to winter conditions, had free access to two food types that differed in fat content. The ambient temperature was manipulated during the night, and for both food types the consumption and digestibility were estimated. During the night the energy expenditure was estimated using indirect calorimetry. Neither the digestibility of fat, nor the energy metabolization was related to ambient temperature. Evening weight, nocturnal energy expenditure, net food consumption and metabolizable energy intake were higher at lower temperatures. The proportion of fat in the diet was independent of the night temperature. There is no evidence that the preference for a fat-rich diet in Great Tits is affected by ambient temperatures.
10.2307/3677290| The bird migration pattern in June in southern Scandinavia was analysed on the basis of registrations from six years 1986-1991 by a long-range surveillance radar located in Scania, southern Sweden. The timing of migration, field observations and identification of some echoes suggested that mainly Knots Calidris c. canutus, on their way between the Wadden Sea and breeding grounds along the high arctic coasts of Siberia, were involved in the movements analysed. The daily timing was similar each year, with a peak passage across Scania in the night. The median time of passage (all years combined) was three hours after local sunset. The Knots have probably flown directly from well-known staging sites in the German Wadden Sea, and the median departure time from there was estimated to occur 1 1/2 h before sunset. The average track direction was 63  14 angular deviation. This is slightly, but significantly, to the south of the constant compass bearing (rhumbline = 57) between the German Wadden Sea and possible destination areas on the north coast of the Taymyr Peninsula in Siberia. Track directions varied significantly with wind, suggesting partial drift or pseudodrift. The groundspeed (
10.2307/3677049|A goal oriented migrant optimizing energy expenditure during flight should coordinate the adaptation of heading and airspeed with respect to wind. The model introduced in this study combines for the first time the simultaneous adaptation of heading and airspeed in an optimal strategy. Compared to other models (constant track or constant airspeed), the largest benefit from using the optimal strategy results with lateral and opposing winds. With decreasing distance to the goal, compensation for wind drift should be extended by adjusting heading and increasing airspeed. Regardless of their flight mechanics, birds completing their migratory journey in a few long flights should fly faster and compensate more for lateral wind drift, than birds travelling in numerous short hops. An analysis of flight paths of small passerines gathered with a tracking radar at night showed good correlations between measured headings and airspeeds and those predicted by the optimal strategy.
30243882|We measured breeding performance of little penguins Eudyptula minor at Phillip Island, Victoria, Australia, during a 21-year period. All birds considered in this paper (n = 307) were of known age (2-22 y) and sex, and most were of known, or closely-estimated, pair-bond status (1-8 mates per bird; pair-bond durations 1-13 y). Breeding dates and breeding performance varied markedly from year to year; measures of annual performance were not associated with early breeding. Measures of individual breeding performance (clutch-size, hatching success, chick masses and productivity) were related to early laying, parental age, and duration of pair-bond. Dependence of breeding performance on parental age was curvilinear, levelling off at about 8 y of age. Productivity declined significantly among birds older than 8 y; this decline was not due to events in the last year of breeding ("terminal illness"). Breeding performance increased with duration of pair-bond at least through y 5. Early breeding was significantly related to age and duration of pair-bond. Most of these relationships were stronger among males than among females, and many of them were not significant when females were considered alone. After controlling for other factors, breeding performance varied significantly among birds, but autocorrelations were low and limited to intervals of one year. Parental quality (defined for birds studied in six or more years as the individual bird term in a GLM for productivity controlling for other factors) was not correlated with lifespan or other demographic parameters, but high-quality birds were less prone to change mates and burrows than lowquality birds. We know of no previous study in which simultaneous effects of laying date, age and pair-bond duration on breeding performance were measured, while controlling for year, individual quality and terminal illness.
30243833|We analysed the hypothesis of Weihs and Katzir (1994) that feeding spoonbills use their broad bills by sweeping it through the water to shed a vortex. This would result in a hydrodynamic suction on the bottom for catching prey immediately or during the next sweep besides providing some extra benefits. The basic assumptions appear to be erroneous. (1) A spoonbill does not mainly feed on small, benthic invertebrates, but mainly on nekton such as fish and shrimps. (2) The inner surface of the upper mandible of a spoonbill is not concave but convex. (3) During feeding, a spoonbill does not keep its bill tip close to the bottom independent of the water depth. The outcomes of the tests supporting the hypothesis do not hold and the suggested benefits are dubious. Therefore, we reject the hypothesis and the claim that the bill of a spoonbill is used as a hydrofoil. The discussed paper tried to give an explanation of the behaviour of a bird with the help of hydrodynamic formulae. The fundamental mistake in the paper is that the use of the formulae is based on wrong assumptions concerning the food of the bird, its feeding behaviour as well as its anatomical details. The tests with a bird kept in captivity suggesting a proof of the rightness of the hypothesis lack a proper connection to the situation in the wild.
3677520|Despite many decades of study, scientists cannot answer why colonial breeding has evolved. This paper shows that the evolution of colonial breeding cannot be sufficiently explained by the evolutionary conditions proposed in previous studies. Until now, studies have compared colonial breeding with only solitary non-territorial breeding (two-state comparison) and have discussed factors that facilitate evolution of the former. Here, I propose a new approach, a three-state comparison, which compares colonial breeding with not only solitary non-territorial breeding but also solitary territorial breeding. This three-state comparison indicates that (i) merely determining the factors that make colonial breeding advantageous over non-territorial solitary breeding is not sufficient to explain the evolution of colonial breeding, (ii) the disadvantages of solitary territorial breeding can promote the evolution of colonial breeding, and (iii) the evolution of colonial breeding is far more influenced by different selection pressures than has been predicted by previous studies. Thus, the three-state comparison provides a more precise description of the conditions that lead to the evolution of colonial breeding.
10.2307/3677031|This paper analyses by means of ringing data the stopover site fidelity of four warbler species (Sylvia atricapilla, Sylvia borin, Phylloscopus collybita and Acrocephalus scirpaceus) during their migrations across the Iberian Peninsula. The mean recovery rates observed during migration periods (mean 0.28, range 0-0.54) were around 50% of the ones observed during the breeding and wintering seasons (mean 0.51, range 0.41-0.58). These differences in recovery rate were statistically significant in all species but Acrocephalus scirpaceus. This warbler, with its more restricted habitat requirements, showed higher recovery rates during the spring and autumn migration periods confirming the hypothesis that species depending on scarce, patchily distributed stopover habitats during their migrations show stronger stopover site fidelity during their journeys. Our results support the view that some migrant species actively select stopover sites during their migrations.
30243912|Individual differentiation is usually advantageous in maximising the fitness benefits of interactions with conspecifics. In social species, where intraspecific interactions are frequent, this is likely to be particularly important. Indeed, some form of differentiation underpins most hypotheses proposed to account for cooperative behaviour in birds. The auditory modality is a likely candidate for this function, particularly for species where individuals are widely spaced and in dense vegetation. In this study, we examined the acoustic structure of a distinctive mobbing signal, the 'chur' call, of the cooperatively breeding noisy miner Manorina melanocephala. Using 250 calls from 25 individuals, a combination of spectrographic-based measurement of call parameters, cross-correlation and multi-dimensional scaling was used to test for systematic individual differences in call structure. Strong differences between individuals were observed in all measures, indicating that this call encodes sufficient information to facilitate individual differentiation. We then conducted a series of field playbacks to test the effect of the behaviour on conspecifics. Results demonstrated that the call, in isolation, has a clear attractant effect. Given that chur calls are synonymous with the characteristic cooperative mobbing behaviour of this species, these findings suggest they are likely to have an important function in coordinating complex social behaviour.
3677515|The little penguin Eudyptula minor is unique among penguin species in being able to fledge chicks from two clutches in one breeding season. Pairs laying two clutches in a given season make a higher reproductive investment, and may be rewarded by a higher reproductive success as they may raise twice as many chicks as pairs laying one clutch. The higher effort made by pairs laying two clutches could correlate negatively with survival, future reproductive performance or offspring survival, indicating a cost of reproduction. Conversely, a positive relationship between the number of clutches produced in a given breeding season and survival, future reproductive performance or offspring survival would indicate that birds laying two clutches belonged to a category of birds with higher fitness, compared to birds laying only one clutch in the season. In this study we used a long-term data set taken from an increasing population of little penguins in Otago, SE New Zealand. We modelled the relationship between the number of clutches laid in a breeding season and survival probability, reproductive performance in the next breeding season and first year survival of offspring using capture-recapture modelling. Birds laying two clutches produced 1.7 times more fledglings during a breeding season than pairs laying one clutch. We found that birds laying two clutches had a higher probability of breeding in the following breeding season, a higher probability of laying two clutches in the following breeding season and a higher survival probability. There was no overall difference in post-fledging survival between the young of birds producing one clutch and the young of birds producing two clutches. However, the survival of young of single clutch breeders declined with laying date, whereas the young of double clutch breeders had the same survival rate irrespective of laying date. For a subset of data with birds of known age, we found evidence that the probability of laying two clutches increased with age. However, there were also indications for differences among birds in the tendency to lay two clutches that could not be attributed to age. We tentatively interpret our results as evidence of quality difference among little penguin breeders.
3677635|This paper summarizes and discusses the many new insights into passerine evolution gained from an increased general interest in avian evolution among biologists, and particularly from the extensive use of DNA sequence data in phylogenetic reconstruction. The sister group relationship between the New Zealand rifleman and all other passerines, indicates the importance of the former southern supercontinent Gondwana in the earliest evolution of this group. Following the break-up of Gondwana, the ancestors of other major passerine groups became isolated in Australia (oscines), South America (New World suboscines), and possibly, the then connected Kerguelen Plateau/India/Madagascar tectonic plates (Old World suboscines). The oscines underwent a significant radiation in the Australo-Papuan region and only a few oscine lineages have spread further than to the nearby Southeast Asia. A remarkable exception is the ancestor to the vast Passerida radiation, which now comprises 35% of all bird species. This group obviously benefitted greatly from the increased diversity in plant seed size and, morphology during the Tertiary. The lyrebirds (and possibly scrub-birds) constitute the sister group to all other oscines, which renders "Corvida" (sensu Sibley and Ahlquist 1990) paraphyletic. Sequence data suggests that Passerida, the other clade of oscines postulated based on the results of DNA-DNA hybridizations, is monophyletic, and that the rockfowl and rock-jumpers are the most basal members of this clade. The suboscines in the Old World (Eurylamides) and the New World (Tyrannides), respectively, are sister groups. A provisional, working classification of the passerines is presented based on the increased understanding of the major patterns of passerine evolution.
30244781|Components of avian egg quality often show remarkable variation between females and yet the causes of variation in this fitness-related trait remain poorly understood. We investigated the egg size and yolk carotenoid investment of blue tit Parus caeruleus females in relation to multiple parental traits. We show that females produce eggs with more colourful yolks when mated to ultraviolet (UV) attractive males. Since yolk carotenoids may enhance offspring fitness, but may be available to females in limiting amounts, the correlation we found suggests adaptive egg quality adjustment in response to mate attractiveness, but an experimental approach is required to rule out alternative explanations. Yolk colour was also correlated with laying date and yolk mass. Though the effect of laying date could not be explained by ambient temperature during egg formation, it suggests a proximate constraint of general carotenoid availability on yolk composition. Egg size was not affected by male attractiveness; however, females with a brighter crown produced larger eggs, suggesting that crown coloration might indicate individual quality in females too.
30244817|Optimality models are frequently used in studies of long distance bird migration to help understand and predict migration routes, stopover strategies and fuelling behaviour in a spatially varying environment. These models typically evaluate bird behaviour by focusing on a single optimization currency, such as total migration time or energy-use, without explicitly considering trade-offs between the involved objectives. In this paper, we demonstrate that this classic single-objective approach downplays the importance of variability in bird behaviour. In the light of these considerations, we therefore propose to use a full multi-criteria optimization method to isolate the set of non-dominated, efficient or Pareto optimal solutions. Unlike single-objective optimization where there is only one combination of bird behaviour maximizing fitness, the Pareto solution set represents a range of optimal solutions to conflicting objectives. Our results demonstrate that this multi-objective approach provides important new ways of analyzing how environmental factors and behavioural constraints have driven the evolution of migratory behaviour.
30244740|Different phases of the annual cycle in birds and mammals are often associated with characteristic and recurrent foraging behaviours. The extent to which stage-dependent changes in foraging behaviour are caused by intrinsic or extrinsic factors is unclear. We controlled for the effects of extrinsic factors by synchronising groups of incubating and chick-rearing black-legged kittiwakes Rissa tridactyla. Synchrony amongst incubators and rearers was achieved experimentally by switching eggs between nests. Behavioural responses to the treatment varied between the sexes. Male kittiwakes with prolongedincubation made fewer foraging trips but of greater duration compared to those rearing chicks resulting in no change in the time spent on trips between the two groups. Females with prolonged-incubation carried out fewer trips than those rearing chicks but trip duration did not differ between the two stages which resulted in prolonged-incubating birds spending a lower percentage time on trips. In contrast, foraging ranges did not differ between prolonged-incubation and chick-rearing birds for either sex. This suggests that extrinsic factors, such as food availability and distribution determine kittiwake foraging locations and ranges, whereas intrinsic factors, reflected in parental duties, constrain nest attendance. Female prolonged-incubators invested lower levels of parental effort, in terms of daily energy expenditure, compared to chick-rearers whereas males did not show stage-related differences in energy expenditure. This provides evidence that incubation could be an energetically cheaper stage although under normal conditions this difference may be masked by temporal variation in environmental factors. We conclude that while conditions differ between the incubation and chick rearing stages for kittiwakes at this colony, they are not the main factors prompting changes in stage-related foraging patterns. Intrinsic factors such as sex differences, or behaviours required for each stage of the annual cycle, rather than extrinsic factors related to seasonal environments, are likely to be the main proximate cause of recurring changes in behaviour between breeding stages.
30243896|Plunge-diving is a specialised hunting tactic used by some avian predators to overcome the high buoyancy encountered near the water surface and surprise prey. However, plunge-diving is effective only to a certain depth; to access deeper prey, birds need to use an additional method of propulsion, e.g. wings or feet. We used miniature accelerometers to record the details of the aerial and underwater phases of plunge dives by northern gannets Morus bassanus. Birds never reached depths > 11 m using the momentum of the aerial part of the plunge dive and had to flap their wings underwater to gain additional depth. A biomechanical model demonstrates that little additional depth can be obtained from momentum alone when initiating a plunge from heights > 40 m. Thus, the additional energy required to attain greater starting heights is not rewarded by reaching significantly greater depths. However, by using their wings underwater, gannets were able to more than double the depth attained (up to 24 m). It appears that prey may be captured by surprise in the first 10 m of the water column, whereas wing-propelled pursuit is required to catch prey at deeper depths, a strategy likely to be used only for prey of sufficient profitability to justify the cost of flapping the gannet's large wings underwater. Our study demonstrates the importance of understanding the constraints placed on predators by the physical environment when interpreting predator-prey interactions.
3677724|Redstart and black redstart inhabit different types of habitats under natural conditions. However, they come into close contact in a mosaic urban environment. Mechanisms enabling their local coexistence were looked for. We found that: 1) The two species occupied exclusive territories of different habitat compositions. 2) Territories differed in the proportion of trees and buildings. 3) Within their territories, the two species used the same foraging techniques, but with different frequencies. 4) Prey size was similar, but the proportions of taxonomic groups differed. 5) Spontaneous interspecific conflicts were observed. Interspecific aggression was confirmed in playback experiments. The black redstart was dominant in both natural and simulated encounters. We conclude that the main mechanism enabling coexistence of the two redstarts in a mosaic urban environment is different habitat selection with the proportion of trees as a key parameter. This proportion was always below 26% in black redstart territories, and above 27% in redstart territories. This is consistent with the habitat preferences these two species show in non-urban conditions. This pattern is compared to the other cases of coexistence of congeneric bird species such as chickadees Poecile or Sylvia warblers. As the two redstart species are able to hybridise in the wild, the observed interspecific aggression may operate as a pre-copulation barrier.
3677648|An increasing population of the mute swan Cygnus olor, was studied from its very establishment in 1976 until 1998. As the number of pairs increased, there was a decline in all production parameters, including the average number of clutches per pair, the average number of broods per clutch, and the average number of fledged young per brood. In a multiple regression analysis covering the whole breeding season, the number of pairs and the average number of clutches per pair explained 71% of the variation in the average number of fledglings per pair. During the brood season, the average number of fledglings per brood was an additionally important parameter in explaining fledgling production. Habitat quality seemed to affect breeding: in places occupied earlier more cygnets fledged from a clutch than in habitats inhabited later. The decreased production of young very likely reflects density-dependent effects on reproduction. This density dependence seems to operate on the breeding grounds, since winter harshness did not affect breeding success. Density-dependent processes started acting already when pairs were beginning to nest, and continued during the brood period. Density dependence has apparently not been detected at the pair stage in earlier studies of bird populations.
3677619| During May 1996 and April 1997, eight harlequin duck males were captured and fitted with satellite transmitters while migrating along the shores of Forillon National Park, Qubec, Canada. Another 17 males were equipped with satellite transmitters in river systems of eastern Hudson Bay, Ungava Bay and northern Labrador in June 1997 and 1998. Our objectives were to determine relationships between breeding, moulting and wintering areas, and to determine whether distinct population segments existed among harlequin ducks in eastern North America. All birds tracked from Forillon migrated to Labrador. Moulting areas were identified for six birds. Forillon males were followed to the eastern North American major wintering site in Maine. Males captured in northern Qubec and Labrador migrated to moult and winter in south-western Greenland. Our data suggest the presence of two demographically distinct population segments in eastern North America, perhaps originating from the Pleistocene glacial refuge in western Greenland and south of the Laurentide ice sheet in eastern Canada or United States. 
3677587|Theoretically, the trajectories describing the daily accumulation of body reserves are expected to differ between bird species in relation to whether or not they hoard food. To carry reserves on the body may be costly and hoarding species can be expected to hoard food early in the day when light and retrieve it in the afternoon, with a concomitant rapid increase in body mass. Also, the increased food predictability resulting from being able to consume hoarded food late in the day should lead to a relatively faster gain in body reserves in the afternoon in hoarding species compared to non-hoarders. Non-hoarders may have to hedge against possible afternoon losses of foraging opportunities by accumulating more reserves early in the day. In this study the daily patterns of body mass gain in four small bird species resident during winter in Scandinavia are described. Individually known birds were trained to come to a permanent feeder and their body masses were recorded every hour throughout the day with a remote-controlled balance. The hoarding willow tit Parus montanus, marsh tit P. palustris and European nuthatch Sitta europaea all displayed the most rapid gain in body mass in the early hours of the day. After the initial burst in the morning, reserves were accumulated at a roughly constant rate for the remainder of the day. In contrast, the non-hoarding great tit P. major apparently gained body reserves at a more even rate. The daily pattern of body mass gain found in the hoarding species differs from prevailing theoretical predictions, whereas the pattern in the non-hoarding great tit is in a better agreement with theory, from which this pattern has been predicted repeatedly.
3677727|Intraspecific brood parasites lay their eggs in the nests of conspecifics. There are a number of methods for detecting intraspecific brood parasitism (IBP) in birds based on egg morphology. Here we test Eadie's (1989) method, which calculates the Euclidean distances between eggs in a given clutch in a three-dimensional space (weight, length and width). A parasitised clutch is predicted to contain an egg (or eggs) that is significantly different from the clutch's other eggs. Data from three species were analysed. Our captive zebra finch Taeniopygia guttata clutches did not include any instances of IBP, the wild jackdaw Corvus monedula data were unlikely to contain any, and for the goldeneye Bucephala clangula data set we had an observational estimate of IBP. We simulated IBP in the zebra finch, jackdaw and goldeneye data to test whether the method reliably detects an experimentally 'parasitised' clutch. We show that the distributions of the test statistics greatly overlap in 'parasitised' and unmodified clutches, and are dependent on the clutch size. We therefore conclude that the method can only be used with caution, after calibrating it for a given population.
3677793|Seasonal decline in breeding success limits fitness in many bird species nesting in the temperate, boreal and arctic zones. Factors affecting this decline, especially if the decline is reduced, can thus have significant ecological and evolutionary importance. In an experiment designed to investigate fitness consequences of heterospecific attraction, no seasonal decline in breeding success was observed for pied flycatchers Ficedula hypoleuca breeding in the presence of resident titmice Parus spp., whereas a pattern of steep decline was observed for birds breeding in areas where residents were removed. Randomisation of removal treatment and pied flycatcher territories with respect to arrival date leaves enhanced foraging that results from the presence of resident titmice during breeding as the best, albeit currently hypothetical, explanation for the observed absence of a seasonal decline. Among terrestrial vertebrates, reports of this kind of direct positive interactions are rare.
3677538|Multiple brooding can substantially increase the annual reproductive output of birds, and the propensity for multiple brooding can vary geographically. Thus, studies attempting to understand the evolution of geographic variation in nesting success need to account for variation in re-nesting potential. However, direct assessment of rates of multiple brooding requires individually recognizable breeding adults, which are not generally available. We explore the possibility of comparing relative indices of multiple broodedness across a latitudinal gradient from studies of un-banded birds locally restricted to nest boxes. We analyzed nest box reoccupation by a multiple-brooding species, the eastern bluebird Sialia sialis, reported by volunteers in a citizen-participation project (1998-2002) in which nest boxes were monitored throughout much of the breeding range of the bluebirds. We found nest boxes in the southern portion of the bluebird range (30 latitude) had, on average 17-33% higher likelihood of repeated egg-laying, brooding, and successful fledging events than boxes in the north (48 latitude). Latitudinal variation in the reoccupation of nest boxes may indicate that either (1) the number of broods per female varies with latitude, (2) female breeding dispersal/site fidelity varies with latitude, (3) the density, distribution, and/or availability of suitable nest sites varies with latitude, or (4) observer bias varies with latitude. Various lines of evidence suggest that nest re-occupancy is a useful index of latitudinal variation in re-nesting. During the time-frame of second attempts, first-time box occupancy was as likely as second occupancy and approximately 45% more likely in the south than north, suggesting that, despite considerable breeding dispersal, observed trends in box reoccupation conservatively reflect latitudinal trends in the number of nest attempts/broods per female. Furthermore, despite a compressed nesting cycle in the north (shorter incubation and re-nesting interval), the shorter duration of the breeding season in the north restricted the potential number of broods. Studies of banded birds are necessary to confirm the behavior underlying the latitudinal trends in box reoccupation.
3676926|The effects of community dynamics in birds on the optimisation of their migratory strategies is a neglected area. For three years, we captured migrating warblers on autumn passage at a coastal site in western Britain. We used canonical correspondence analysis (CCA) to assess spatio-temporal patterns of occurrence, and principal components analysis (PCA) to assess morphological variation. We calculated Euclidean distance in ordination and morphological space to assess separation between species pairs, and used Monte-Carlo simulations to assess the probability of pattern occurring by chance. Ordination revealed five species-groups separated by habitat type and time of passage. Reed Warbler Acrocephalus scirpaceus and Sedge Warbler A. schoenobaenus (Group 1) occurred in wet habitats and peaked simultaneously. In drier habitats with scrub, a first wave of Blackcap Sylvia atricapilla (Group 2) significantly preceded Grasshopper Warbler Locustella naevia, Willow Warbler Phylloscopus trochilus, Whitethroat Sylvia communis and Lesser Whitethroat Sylvia curruca (Group 3), which in all but one case (Lesser Whitethroat) significantly preceded Garden Warbler Sylvia borin (Group 4); peak numbers of Chiffchaffs Phylloscopus collybita and a second wave of Blackcaps (Group 5) occurred later still. Age effects were found only in Acrocephalus, with adults peaking before juveniles. For seven out of eight pairings within genera, separation in time of passage increased significantly in species that were morphologically similar. The only exception was Blackcap and Lesser Whitethroat which differed substantially in both passage time and morphology. Monte-Carlo simulations showed that chance was unlikely to be responsible for ordination patterns, nor for inter-specific variation in passage time and its relationship with species morphology. These data provide annually consistent evidence that migrating sylviid warblers are separated ecologically by habitat use, time of passage and morphology: we cannot refute the hypothesis that community dynamics have influenced niche use and autumn migratory strategy. We call for further tests of the 'migrant interaction' hypothesis in other geographical locations and taxa, particularly where migrants are allopatric and interact ecologically only on migration.
10.2307/3677212|Twenty-four morphometric parameters were measured from samples of live southern African Peregrine Falcons Falco peregrinus minor and Lanner Falcons F. biarmicus biarmicus. The two species were different in most measurements, especially those relevant to prey capture and handling techniques, and flight performance (bill size, foot size, wing span, wing area, tail length and wing loading). Flight performance parameters calculated from mensural data predicted significant differences in the flying abilities of the two species, notably that Peregrines should fly faster in level powered and gliding flight, but incur greater fuel costs in terms of both time and distance flown. Peregrines should glide less efficiently and be restricted in their ability to soar in thermals. These predictions were compared with observations of Peregrines and Lanners under uniform environmental conditions, and mostly were confirmed. Peregrines flew faster but for less time, flapped more and soared in thermals less than Lanners. Theoretically, Peregrines should tend more towards sedentary perch hunting than Lanners, and be more habitat selective as a result. Observations and distributional data from South Africa corroborate this. Form and functional differences in these two falcons are relatable to differences in foraging mode, distribution and abundance. I suggest that similar inferences may be drawn from morphological comparisons of other large falcons to provide proximal explanations for broad-scale patterns of distribution.
3676993|During the night of 29-30 October 1995, over 600 Redwings Turdus iliacus died as a result of flying into the lighthouse at Bardsey, Gwynedd, North Wales. These migrating birds were used to investigate fat levels in relation to age, sex, biometrics and pectoral muscle mass. Wing length was the best single linear measure of size and mean wing length of males was 2.5 mm greater than that of females. Body mass of the casualties declined during the night and the mean body mass of birds arriving towards the end of the night was 1.5 g lower than that of the first arrivals. Fat deposits at different body sites were significantly correlated with each other and with body mass, and, by extrapolation, the mass of intra-abdominal fat remaining would be significant when other fat deposits have been depleted. Fat in the tracheal pit (the claviculo-coracoid fat body) demonstrated the best correlation with body mass and was linearly correlated with visual fat scores. Fat was also present in the pectoral muscle but did not make a significant contribution to overall body mass. Two-thirds of the variation in body mass was accounted for by wing length, the mass of claviculo-coracoid fat and the lean-dry mass of pectoral muscle. Claviculo-coracoid fat and lean pectoral-muscle mass contributed independently to overall body mass. These data support the view that increase in fat in relation to migration is accompanied by an increase in protein or lean muscle mass, but suggest that these are controlled independently.
10.2307/3677095|Sex-biased local resource competition (LRC) between parents and offspring has been suggested to exert selection pressure on progeny sex ratio variation in birds. In a recent article Weatherhead and Montgomerie (1995) questioned that the assumptions underlying the LRC hypothesis are applicable to birds. We here study the basic assumptions of the LRC hypothesis with data from the Common Goldeneye Bucephala clangula. First, we found strong female-biased natal philopatry, as expected in Anseriformes. Second, of all the females breeding in the study area, individuals born there comprised a major proportion each year. Third, we document a considerable overlap between home ranges of breeding mothers and daughters. Our results, combined with results from other Common Goldeneye populations and other Bucephala species, give strong support for the assumptions of the LRC hypothesis to be applicable to birds, at least to some species.
3677792|In animals that produce few offspring during their lifetime, the ability to raise high-quality offspring through the provision of parental care is particularly important for individual fitness. In this paper, we use repeatability analysis of data from two separate time-periods, in the 1970s and the 1990s, to examine parental and environmental effects on chick growth and food provisioning in a long-lived seabird, the Manx shearwater Puffinus puffinus. We test the hypothesis that asymptotic body masses of chicks are most strongly influenced by an individual's genotype, with growth rates intermediate and food provisioning rates most strongly affected by environmental conditions during growth. Peak body masses of chicks raised by the same parents showed significant repeatability in both samples, whereas mass growth rates up to the attainment of peak mass showed significant repeatability only in the 1970s. Several different measures of food provisioning by parents showed no individual consistency in either time-period, in keeping with our predictions. Food provisioning rate was a major determinant of annual variation in chick growth, and so it may seem surprising that Manx shearwaters showed repeatable patterns of chick growth but not of food provisioning, and several possible explanations for this pattern are discussed.
10.2307/3677224|Male-male mountings were commonly performed by sexually monomorphic Razor-bills Alca torda in mating arenas where males aggressively competed over extra-pair copulations (EPCs) with visiting females. In two breeding seasons, 417 male-male mountings were recorded. Forty-one percent of all non-pair mountings were of males, 66% of males performed male mountings, and 91% of males received mountings. Several lines of evidence suggest that male mountings were a form of fighting over EPCs rather than a case of mistaken identity: (1) In a multiple regression, the percentage of all mountings that were of males increased with the male-male aggression rate rather than with the male: female sex ratio; (2) the frequency of male mountings also increased with the aggression rate, rather than with the frequency of EPC attempts of females; (3) a large percentage (41%) of male mountings occurred after the mounted male had been settled in the arena and had time to be recognized, and not only immediately upon arrival, when mistaken identity may have been expected; and (4) males made significantly more, rather than fewer, male mountings as their age increased, suggesting that lack of experience did not lead to mis-identifications. The number of male mountings performed was positively correlated with EPC success, as well as with three other variables associated with EPC success, suggesting that male mounting belongs to a suite of behaviors aimed at obtaining extra-pair copulations. A possible benefit of this behavior is to inhibit competitors from attending the mating arenas, because there was a negative correlation between the attendance of males and the number of mountings they received per day. This is the first study to report quantitative evidence that male-male mounting by birds is beneficial.
3676929|Radar observations on the altitude of bird migration and altitudinal profiles of meteorological conditions over the Sahara desert are presented for the autumn migratory period. Migratory birds fly at an average altitude of 1016 m (a.s.l.) during the day and 571 m during the night. Weather data served to calculate flight range using two models: an energy model (EM) and an energy-and-water model (EWM). The EM assumes that fuel supply limits flight range whereas the EWM assumes that both fuel and water may limit flight range. Flight ranges estimated with the EM were generally longer than those with the EWM. This indicates that trans-Sahara migrants might have more problems balancing their water than their energy budget. However, if we assume fuel stores to consist of 70% instead of 100% fat (the remainder consisting of 9% protein and 21% water), predicted flight ranges of the EM and EWM largely overlap. Increased oxygen extraction, reduced flight costs, reduced exhaled air temperature, reduced cutaneous water loss and increased tolerance to water loss are potential physiological adaptations that would improve the water budget in migrants. Both the EM and EWM predict optimal flight altitudes in agreement with radar observations in autumn. Optimal flight altitudes are differently predicted by the EM and EWM for nocturnal spring migration. During spring, the EWM predicts moderately higher and the EM substantially higher flight altitudes than during autumn. EWM predictions are therefore in better agreement with radar observations on flight altitude of migrants over the Negev desert in spring than EM predictions.
3677580|The frequency of extra-pair paternity in a wild colony of swifts Apus apus was determined by multilocus DNA fingerprinting in two successive breeding seasons. The data were used to examine the expectation that extra-pair paternity is frequent in colonial-nesting species, either for proximal reasons such as the increased opportunity for extra-pair matings, or because extra-pair matings are important in the evolution and maintenance of coloniality. Forty-two broods containing 88 chicks were analysed. The genetic analysis revealed four cases of extra-pair paternity (4.5% of chicks) from four (9.5%) nests. Rapid mate-switching was considered unlikely to be the cause of extra-pair paternity since three of the cases were in the nests of previously established breeding pairs. Extra-pair copulations were not observed, but were assumed to be the cause of extra-pair paternity. The data show that high levels of extra-pair paternity are not an inevitable feature of high-density nesting.
30244418|Laysan and black-footed albatrosses, Phoebastria immutabilis and P. nigripes, exhibit both annual and biennial breeding frequencies, and annually replace flight feathers in patterns that can be described as large, small or medium in extent. Large molts are temporally incompatible with successful breeding. Small molts are temporally compatible with the longest breeding seasons. Medium molts are compatible with shorter, but still successful breeding seasons. On average, large and small molts combined replace the same feathers with the same frequencies as two medium molts combined. Thus, large and small annual molt patterns combined provide a mechanism for "transferring time from one year to another" enabling extended breeding seasons every other year, and thus biennial breeding. Medium-sized molts are compatible with annual breeding. Among multiple albatross species, large-scale, annual molt patterns can shift in response to shifting breeding frequencies, but there may be a time lag in the response. A newly identified period of rapid fattening following molt termination and preceding colony arrival suggests albatrosses maintain low fat stores throughout active molt to reduce wing-loading, intensifying temporal trade-offs between flight feather molt and breeding.
3677662|Measurements of costs of reproduction are essential for our understanding of the evolution of reproductive effort. While in birds the effects of increased chick-rearing effort on subsequent survival and fecundity have been relatively well studied experimentally, costs associated with increased egg-production effort have received relatively little attention. We experimentally increased the egg-production effort of individually marked Lesser Black-backed Gulls Larus fuscus and followed their breeding performance in the next year. In the season following increased egg production, females, but not males, were less likely to be resighted in the study plot and those that did return were less likely to produce a clutch compared to control birds. It is unclear whether the observed effect on local return rate represents differential survival, differences in breeding propensity or differences in dispersal between experimental and control females. In any event, all of these would adversely affect the fitness of experimental females. In addition, those experimental females that did breed invested less in egg production the following season, which again is likely to affect breeding performance. Thus, this study provides evidence that there is an inter-brood trade-off between current egg-production effort and future fitness in birds.
3677449|The trade-off between reproductive effort and adult survival in birds is modulated by several factors. Corticosterone and prolactin have additive effects on reproductive behaviour by stimulating foraging and parental behaviours, respectively. When incubation is associated with fasting, nest desertion is supposed to be activated by an unknown refeeding signal when body condition becomes critically deteriorated. The concomitant rise in corticosterone levels has been suggested to be the triggering factor. We tested the role of corticosterone on reproductive success by observing the effect of corticosterone implants on reproductive success and on plasma prolactin concentration in female common eiders Somateria mollissima. Implanted females showed a significant increase in corticosterone and a decrease in prolactin levels. Despite their enhanced daily body mass loss, females did not abandon incubation nor did they start to refeed in the four days following implantation. These data show that the experimentally induced rise in plasma corticosterone concentration alone does not trigger nest desertion. However, after 25 days of incubation, implanted females displayed a higher rate of egg loss, suggesting lower nest attentiveness towards the end of incubation. We suggest that the short-term effects of corticosterone may be dependent on the energy state of the bird. However, the late-induced change in reproductive success is indirectly linked to corticosterone, and we suggest that either a prolactin decrease, or a depletion in protein body reserves, may participate in the long-term adjustment of incubation behaviour in female eiders.
3677440|We manipulated the quantity of food provided to hand-reared song sparrows Melospiza melodia from 3 to 18 days post-hatching, a period when young birds in the wild are especially likely to experience nutritional stress. A control group was given unlimited food, while an experimental group was limited to 60% of the intake of the controls. Both groups showed excellent survival. The controls had significantly higher growth rates than the experimentals and fledged significantly earlier. At the end of treatment, controls were significantly larger than experimentals in body mass, tarsus length, and length of the third primary. After treatment ended, when all birds were receiving the same diet, both groups showed a recession in body mass, but the amount of mass lost was significantly greater in the controls. Consequently the difference in body mass between the treatment groups was much reduced after the period of weight recession. As adults, the controls were significantly larger than experimentals in a principal component measure of size that combined six post-mortem bone measurements. Controls and experimentals did not differ in the number of fault bars in tail feathers grown in part during the period of nutritional manipulation, nor did they differ in the degree of asymmetry in bone measurements. We conclude that early nutrition affects growth rates in young song sparrows, with effects on skeletal size that carry over into adulthood. These results are consistent with the nutritional stress hypothesis, which posits that early nutrition affects adult phenotypic quality as well as display attributes.
30244481|We used Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) amplification of 16S rRNA genes and Denaturing Gradient Gel Electrophoresis (DGGE) to describe the microbial communities present in the cloacae of spotted towhees Pipilo maculatus. Our goals were to quantify bacterial diversity of breeding females, describe microgeographic variation of cloacal communities in a network of four urban parks in Portland, OR, and evaluate the degree to which microbial species richness varied with individual female characteristics (age, size, and condition). We detected 57 Operational Taxonomic Units (OTUs) in 46 towhees, but most OTUs showed a relatively low prevalence. Discriminant function analysis correctly classified 69.6% of towhees to their park of origin based on the presence or absence of five OTUs. Parks thus had unique "microbial signatures". The presence or absence of specific OTUs was not associated with a female's age, but a general linear models analysis established that OTU richness was greatest among females with short tails, narrow bills, and with the exception of one individual, among relatively heavy birds. We speculate that the microgeographic differences in cloacal microbial community structure may exist due to differences in anthropogenic influences among parks. The explanations for the negative relationship between microbial richness and flight feather length, but positive relationship between microbial richness and body condition are unclear, but may reflect the different time frames over which feather growth and body mass are determined.
25662897|Contact zones between recently diverged taxa offer unique opportunities to test whether the forms are reproductively isolated and therefore distinct species. The Pacific-slope flycatcher Empidonax difficilis and Cordilleran flycatcher Empidonax occidentalis are closely related taxa that were officially separated into two species in 1989, a treatment that has been controversial due to reports of phenotypically intermediate birds across the southern interior of British Columbia and Alberta. We present the first analysis of molecular variation across this region, in order to determine whether there is genetic introgression between the taxa. Allopatric populations of Pacific-slope and Cordilleran flycatchers belong to distinct mitochondrial clades, and all of the individuals sampled in interior southwestern Canada have the Pacific-slope haplotype. In contrast, variation in nuclear DNA (AFLPs) indicates hybridization between Pacific-slope and Cordilleran flycatchers in this region. We suggest that the discordance between the mitochondrial and nuclear markers most likely results from stochastic loss of Cordilleran mitochondrial haplotype lineages facilitated by asymmetries in mating due to earlier arrival and greater abundance of Pacific-slope flycatchers in the contact zone. The discovery of hybridization between Pacific-slope and Cordilleran flycatchers in southwestern Canada may call into question the decision to split them into two species. On the other hand, allopatric populations are genetically distinct in both mitochondrial and nuclear DNA, and the hybridization might not affect populations outside of the contact zone. This study highlights the importance of employing multiple genetic markers in studies of contact zones between closely related species.
3677541|The great cormorant Phalacrocorax carbo is thought to have a wettable plumage, providing low body insulation during foraging. Great cormorants should thus be constrained by water temperatures, and show high energy requirements. Surprisingly, this species has one of the widest breeding distributions of all diving birds, and does not require more food than these other species. We explored this apparent paradox by comparing the insulative properties of body plumage in four subspecies of great cormorants ranging from tropical to polar regions. We found that all subspecies retained an insulating air layer in their plumage, which was, however, much thinner than for other species of diving birds. Detailed examination of the plumage showed that each cormorant body feather has a loose, instantaneously wet, outer section and a highly waterproof central portion. This indicates that the plumage of great cormorants is only partly wettable, and that birds maintain a thin layer of air in their plumage. Our findings suggest an unusual morphological-functional adaptation to diving which balances the antagonist constraints of thermoregulation and buoyancy.
10.2307/3677341|A bird foraging at concentrated food sources such as artificial feeders or carcasses of wild animals, irrespective of its dominance rank, may be preyed upon by airborne predators with a greater probability than other flock members foraging under protective cover. Field observations on 15 free-ranging Great Tit Parus major basic-flocks were carried out to examine whether duration of anti-predator vigilance and foraging at feeders is related to social rank, group size and location of a feeding site within a communal flock territory. The proportion of time spent scanning was positively correlated with dominance rank. Removal experiments supported results of field observations revealing a causal relationship between rank and ability to choose the safest foraging behaviour. This result suggests that dominants can benefit directly from their personal vigilance. The lack of a relationship between flock size and vigilance time of dominants also provides evidence for a direct benefit of being vigilant. Dominants were free to scan more than subordinates only within their home ranges. When visiting home areas of neighbouring basic-flocks, dominant individuals lost their priority. This supports results of previous studies that there is a site-related dominance in the Great Tit.
3677749|We investigate the trade-off between reproductive effort, health status and T-lymphocyte acquired immunity in female and nestling barn swallows Hirundo rustica using a brood size manipulation experiment. Maternal and total feeding effort increased with experimental brood size. Parents did not fully compensate for the increased food demand of the enlarged broods and as a consequence the per capita feeding rate of nestlings decreased with increasing experimental brood size. Body mass and a measure of T-cell mediated immunity in 12 days old nestlings also decreased with increasing experimental brood size. Different leucocyte concentrations and the heterophile/lymphocyte ratio - an index of stress - of nestlings did not change in relation to experimental brood size, suggesting that within brood competition did not affect stress to nestlings. The brood size manipulation had a significant effect on maternal T-cell mediated immunity, measured by the phytohemagglutinin skin test, but not on maternal body mass, haematocrit or differential or total white blood cell counts. Our results seem to support the prediction that under mild work stress females respond first by reducing the energetically expensive acquired immunity. Different leucocyte types and the heterophile/lymphocyte ratio appear less sensitive to parental workload.
10.2307/3677310|Variation in the seasonal pattern of mass changes by adult Arctic Skuas Stercorarius parasiticus on Foula, Shetland, was examined in relation to sex-role partitioning of breeding duties. Male body mass remained comparatively uniform throughout incubation and chick-rearing. By contrast, female mass showed an overall seasonal decline, although no significant changes occurred within incubation or chick-rearing. ANOVA confirmed a stepwise drop in female mass shortly after hatching, but that no further mass was lost during the remainder of the breeding season. We suggest that female Arctic Skuas retain body reserves during incubation as an insurance against natural fluctuations in food availability and/or to permit earlier relaying if the initial breeding attempt is unsuccessful. These reserves are then shed shortly after hatching as an adaptive response to reduce wing loading and improve flight efficiency in order to cope with the increasing energetic demands of growing chicks. The reduction after hatching of 4.3-5.3% of the female's incubation mass was estimated to result in energy savings of 5-10% of BMR in 24 hours, or alternatively, a reduction by 7-9% of the mechanical power required during flight.
30243284|Family cohesion in birds is often explained as a product of limitations on breeding opportunities leading to delayed dispersal among the offspring. Yet, it is not independent reproduction but floating (queuing outside the natal territory for a breeding opportunity) that is the alternative to delaying dispersal. In contrast to a strong phylogenetic bias in cooperative breeding that has been taken to indicate a hard-wired behaviour maintained by evolutionary inertia, offspring behaviour is plastic and facultative in group living in the short term, indicating that family cohesion is under selection. Non-breeding offspring could gain inclusive fitness that would promote family cohesion from delaying dispersal and providing alloparental care to subsequent broods to boost group productivity. This holds in particular for offspring hatched from early broods in multi-brooded species that have the opportunity to gain inclusive fitness from help in rearing siblings hatched from later broods in the same season. Yet, seasonality will circumscribe the potential for alloparenting to be the immediate factor selecting for family cohesion. The option of gaining inclusive fitness from providing alloparental care is not open to the offspring among single-brooded species until after they have survived a non-breeding season, rather indicating kin cooperation returning enhanced survival prospects from general group living effects as a more immediate factor selecting for family cohesion. Indeed, a variety of family groups maintained in the absence of alloparental care underlines the capacity of general group living enhancing survival as a primary agent selecting for family cohesion. These seasonal constraints on fitness components selecting for family cohesion may contribute to the large scale geographical pattern with a relative paucity of family cohesions among bird species in the northern hemisphere.
10.2307/3676947|Nest predation was studied in the Fieldfare Turdus pilaris and Redwing T. iliacus in relation to nest site characteristics and nest defence behaviour. Seventeen percent of the Fieldfare and 55% of the Redwing nests suffered predation. The frequency of predation was lowest for Fieldfare nests with many neighbours. In the Redwing short nearest neighbour distances were associated with low predation rates. The time of egglaying, nest cover and height of the nest above the ground did not influence predation rate. The nest defence responses to a Hooded Crow Corvus corone dummy varied from no aggression to strong nest defence behaviour including close dives, the birds sometimes hitting the dummy with their claws. The Fieldfare also used defensive defaecation. In both species the intensity of nest defence increased during the breeding cycle but predation rate did not differ significantly with variation in nest defence in either species.
3677622|Sympatric occurrence of two closely related species is expected to lead to diverging or converging shifts in signal characteristics of one or both species. We examined signal characteristics in the vinaceous dove Streptopelia vinacea and the ring-necked dove S. capicola, two sister species that are mainly allopatric but occur in sympatry in northwestern Uganda. Vocal characteristics of the birds in sympatry were compared with those of an adjacent and a distant allopatric population of each species. The sympatric population showed intermediate values between the allopatric populations from Uganda. However, within each species there is little geographic variation between distant allopatric populations. Since vocal differences between dove species have a genetic base, the convergence in vocal characteristics is most likely explained by hybridization. Probably, the two species came into secondary contact relatively recently. Climatic changes during the last several thousand years and recent habitat changes caused by the growing human population, may have allowed Streptopelia capicola to extend its range in the northern direction.
3677695|Social factors, such as the duration of territorial occupancy or of time paired with a mate can affect the rate at which individual birds sing. This study examined the influence of duration of pair-bond and territory occupancy as well as date on the rate of singing by male and female northern cardinals Cardinalis cardinalis. When differences in breeding status were controlled, female cardinals sang at higher rates earlier in the season. Females in newly formed pairs sang at significantly higher rates than those in pairs that had previously bred together. In contrast, male cardinals did not show significant variation in the rate of singing throughout the season. The song rates of males in newly formed and established pairs did not differ significantly. Song rates for males and females in mated pairs were not significantly correlated. This study suggests that social factors have a strong effect on the rate at which female cardinals sing. It is possible that increased intra-sexual aggression by females when they are establishing a new territory with a new mate leads to this higher level of song output. Once females have established a territory and acquired a mate, dear-enemy effects might diminish the need for acoustic territorial defence. Differences in the constraints of nesting or the attraction of extra-pair mates might explain the sexual differences in male and female singing behaviour.
3677575|We examined redstart Phoenicurus phoenicurus populations over a period of fifteen years to study interactions between the cuckoo Cuculus canorus and its cavity-nesting host. Over 380 redstart nests were checked and more than 100 cuckoo eggs were found during the study period. The average parasitism rate was 20%. The cuckoos' breeding success was extremely low, only 18 chicks surviving to the fledgling stage. When redstarts were parasitized experimentally with artificial cuckoo eggs, they rejected eight percent of mimetic eggs and 44% of non-mimetic eggs. We were not able to record any rejection of the real cuckoo eggs. However, about 30% of the real cuckoo eggs were found outside the redstart's nest cup. This could be the result of laying failures by the cuckoo, rather than of a strong rejection behaviour by the redstart. We suggest that redstarts' cavity nesting itself was a factor that reduced the cost of the parasitism dramatically. Firstly, it makes it difficult for the female cuckoo to lay her egg correctly in the nest and secondly, it is more difficult for the cuckoo chick to evict the host's eggs or nestlings effectively from the nest. Only 54% of the cuckoo chicks were able to evict all the host eggs or chicks from the nest. When reared in mixed broods, cuckoo chicks survived only in every second case to fledgling age, while at least one redstart chick from every brood managed to leave the nest.
10.2307/3677072|Previous work suggests that sexual dimorphism in the bill shape of tits is related to the relative importance of intra- and interspecific competition experienced by a species' population. Thus socially dominant species differ in bill size more due to sex than do subdominant species. We tested the hypothesis that competitive release could lead to greater sexual dimorphism in bill shape by comparing measurements of the Coal Tit from Wytham, U.K., where it is subdominant, with those from S. W. Ireland, where it has fewer competitors. Bill variation was indeed significantly greater in the Killarney population, and this was due to a significant sexual dimorphism in bill shape, which was not found in Wytham. The populations also differed in the relationships among bill and other biometric variables. Winter feeding height data from the two populations suggested that the differences in sexual dimorphism corresponded with differences in the degree to which the sexes segregated by feeding station.
30244432|In species defending territories, fitness of newly independent juveniles could depend on phenotypic quality or early access to vacant resources as a result of rapid dispersal. In the first case, parent-offspring conflict will arise when parents cease feeding maturing offspring while these still demand provisioning. In the latter case, the young should decide when to stop begging to search for vacant territories. I radio-tracked 72 juvenile tawny owls from independence to sexual maturity to investigate whether parents or offspring decided the timing of the onset of independence and compare effects of age versus date of independence on survival and reproductive status. Juvenile owls stopped begging when 90-123 d old. This was synchronous within broods, independent of gender or age rank. Independence age of cross-fostered young varied across foster nests but was independent of hatching nest. After independence, young roosted in their parents' territory for 18 d on average before dispersal. This suggests that juvenile owls would rather extend dependency than disperse early. As predicted from this behaviour, age of independence had a positive influence on survival and reproductive status at maturity, whereas there were no effects of date of independence.
30243877|In birds, female egg allocation patterns have a strong influence in offspring development and differential investment in egg size and composition has been shown to respond to male attractiveness. In this study we experimentally manipulated the perceived attractiveness of male starlings Sturnus unicolor by increasing the amount of green material in some nests (a male courtship display in this species). We predicted that, if female investment before laying is related to male attractiveness, experimental females would increase their reproductive investment in response to the addition of plants in their nests when compared to control females. We found that our manipulation caused variations in female reproductive investment in a way that seems to influence offspring quantity but not offspring quality: Females laid larger clutch sizes but not larger eggs when green plant material was added. However, yolk androgens contents were not related to the experimental manipulation. Contrary to expectations, females breeding in experimental nests laid eggs with smaller amounts of eggshell pigments. Interestingly, we found that eggs laid later in the sequence had higher testosterone levels and showed more intense egg colouration than eggs laid earlier in the sequence. These differences at the within-clutch level suggest that selection has favoured compensatory strategies for hatching asynchrony. Alternatively, since nest sabotages by other females are most common at the beginning of laying, this could be seen as female strategy to minimise losses due to nest sabotages. As far as we know, this is the first study to show that an external egg characteristic such as blue-green colouration reflects yolk androgen concentration.
10.2307/3677206|Flock size, food abundance and dispersion patterns, and cover at foraging sites were determined in winter for Hazel Grouse Bonasa bonasia at three study areas near the eastern edge of the species' range in eastern Siberia and one near the western edge in Sweden. Winter group size varied by habitat type; least in dense spruce forests in Sweden, where Hazel Grouse defended winter territories; intermediate in larch-birch ecotonal forests in Siberia; and greatest in open deciduous riparian forests in Siberia, where they formed cohesive, sexually mixed flocks. Group size in winter increased with increasingly open forests that had less cover at arboreal foraging sites but more winter food available, suggesting that the previously reported geographical differences in winter group size actually reflect habitat differences. A literature review supported this view. Winter food trees were significantly more abundant and more evenly distributed in the Siberian habitats than in the Swedish habitat. We suggest that groups were larger in more open habitats as a response to higher predation risk, but that food abundance also influences social organization. For example, abundant food may be a prerequisite for flocking behavior to originate. We present a conceptual model that can be used to test our hypothesis.
30245326|A common life history pattern in many organisms is that reproductive success increases with age. We report a similar pattern in house sparrows Passer domesticus, older individuals performed better than yearlings for most measures of reproductive success. Older males and females began breeding earlier in a given season and fledged more young than their yearling counterparts. Individual males also fledged more young in their second breeding season than they did in their first, but individual females did not show consistent improvement in reproductive success from year one to two. A path analysis indicated that age in both sexes acted primarily through the timing of breeding; earlier nesters laid more eggs and hence fledged more young but did not have more nesting attempts. We tested whether the increased reproductive success with age arose from high quality individuals surviving to be older (selection hypothesis). In contrast to the main prediction of this hypothesis that reproductive success and survival should be positively related, we found that survival from one year of age to two years of age was negatively related to reproductive success in the first year for males and females combined. Additionally, individuals that survived to breed as two-year-olds did not differ in total young fledged in their first year from those that did not survive to their second season of breeding. Our results indicate that fledgling production increases with age due to improvements in timing of breeding, particularly in females, and not because of the loss of poor breeders or increased output. Mechanisms producing age-related differences in timing of breeding warrant further study.
10.2307/3677041|The Black-headed Gull Larus ridibundus is the most abundant bird species in the Tagus estuary all year round, using intertidal areas as feeding grounds. Their diet varied according to the season: during summer ragworms Nereis diversicolor were the main prey while during winter gulls took siphons of the bivalve Scrobicularia plana, which represented more than 80% of the total ingested biomass. Average siphon feeding rate ranged from 7.9 to
3677667| We describe the features of waters where seabirds were feeding by sampling vertical water temperature profiles with data loggers mounted on five Brnnich's Guillemots in Svalbard, Norway. The guillemots foraged in a cold water (-0.5-0.5C SST (sea surface temperature)) by making 1.8 dive bouts in short trips (32-257 min duration) as well as in moderate (0.5-2.0C SST) and warm waters (2.5-4.0C SST) by making 6.0 dive bouts during long trips (411-688 min duration). Judging from outbound flying time (15.7-24.4 min), time between dive bouts (23.9-43.3 min) and water types, the birds probably fed in fjord or coastal waters during short trips and in both coastal and offshore waters during long trips. Water temperature and diving behaviour can be simultaneously recorded by small data loggers, which therefore will provide useful information on marine features and foraging activity of top predators. 
3677729|We tested the hypothesis that implanted data loggers have no effect on the survival, breeding success and behaviour of macaroni penguins Eudyptes chrysolophus. Seventy penguins were implanted with heart rate data loggers (DLs) for periods of up to 15 months. When compared to control groups, implanted penguins showed no significant difference in over-wintering survival rates, arrival date and mass at the beginning of the breeding season. Later in the breeding season, implanted penguins showed no significant difference in the duration of their incubation foraging trip, breeding success, fledging mass of their chicks, date of arrival to moult and mass at the beginning of the moult fast. We conclude that implanted devices had no effects on the behaviour, breeding success and survival of this species. We contrast these results to those from studies using externally attached devices, which commonly affect the behaviour of penguins. We suggest that implanted devices should be considered as an alternative to externally attached devices in order to obtain the most accurate representation of the free-ranging behaviour, ecology and physiology of penguins.
25161512|We compared haematocrits and blood haemoglobin concentrations of nestling House Wrens Troglodytes aedon in nests with relatively large numbers of haematophagous larvae of the blow fly Protocalliphora parorum (> 6.4 large larvae/nestling) and nests in which exposure to larvae was severely reduced or eliminated (0-2.0 larvae/nestling). Heavily parasitized nestlings showed no reduction in haematocrit levels but a significant 28% reduction in haemoglobin levels. Previous research on avian response to chronic blood loss suggests that parasitized nestlings may show normal volumes of red blood cells as a result of a rapid production of new cells in response to blood loss and, additionally, as a result of swelling of individual cells left in the bloodstream after parasite feeding. Rapid erythropoiesis places high numbers of haemoglobin-poor, immature cells into the bloodstream which would explain the reduced haemoglobin levels of parasitized nestlings. Our results refute the conclusion that larval feeding has "little direct effect" on nestling wrens in this parasite-host system, drawn earlier by Johnson and Albrecht (1993) based on examination of haematocrits alone. Our results also strongly suggest that researchers wanting to measure effects of blood-feeding parasites on birds measure haemoglobin levels, not haematocrits.
3677726|Mitochondrial control region sequences from European populations of the blue tit Parus caeruleus were used to reveal the Pleistocene history and the post-glacial recolonization of Europe by the species. The southern subspecies, P. c. ogliastrae was found to represent a stable population with isolation-by-distance structure harboring a lot of genetic variation, and the northern subspecies P. c. caeruleus a recently bottlenecked and expanded population. We suggest that after the last Ice Ages, the subspecies have colonized Europe from two different southern refuges following previously proposed general recolonization routes from the Balkans to northern and Central Europe, and from the Iberian Peninsula north- and eastwards. The two subspecies form a wide secondary contact zone extending from southern Spain to southern France.
3677434|Although redstarts Phoenicurus phoenicurus and black redstarts P. ochruros breed in different habitats they have been found to interbreed and to produce viable and fertile offspring, which backcross to the parental species. In a dual choice experiment, I investigated the preference of black redstarts and redstarts, and
30243838|It has been hypothesized that variation (e.g., of repertoire elements) in prolonged vocalization sessions of passerine birds can serve to minimize habituation by conspecifics. The repertoire of vocalization types limited in suboscine passerines, raising the question of how a limited set of elements can create patterns that minimize habituation. This question was studied by computational analysis of recorded singing sessions of 20 suboscine species from the subfamily Tyranninae, family Tyrannidae (tyrant flycatchers). The recordings of 12 of the species included two or more distinct vocalization types (VTs). In these species, the interval between vocalization units when the VT changed was on average shorter than that when the VT remained the same. In addition, when the VT changed, the mean interval length between successive vocalization units differed depending on which VT preceded the interval and which VT followed it. On the other hand, species with just a single VT in the session analyzed showed a surprisingly high degree of absolute difference between adjacent vocalization units with respect to both the length of the vocalization and percentage of time elapsed until peak amplitude. A change in the rhythm of vocalization accompanying a change in VT provided a potential means of drawing a conspecific listener's attention to the change in VT. The results showed that tyrant flycatchers use temporal patterning to achieve a high level of variety in vocalization sessions despite a limited vocal repertoire.
30243902|Parasites influence the expression of secondary sexual traits and the health of infected individuals. We set out to test the influence of reputed exogenous parasites, plumage bacteria, including feather-degrading bacteria (FDB), on secondary sexual characteristics and body condition of wild adult eastern bluebirds Sialia sialis. Previous work has shown that FDB alter the coloration of structurally-colored bluebird feathers in vitro (Shawkey et al. 2007). In a correlational study of how bacteria affect birds in the wild, we found that female plumage got duller with increasing FDB intensity. Males tended to get brighter with increasing FDB intensity, but the relationship was not significant. We also found significant associations between plumage bacteria intensity and body condition, but, again, with gender-based differences. Female body condition was negatively associated with plumage bacteria intensity, while male body condition was positively associated with plumage bacteria intensity. Interestingly, plumage bacteria intensity of males and females in nesting pairs was significantly positively correlated. We also report the highest prevalence of FDB measured in a wild bird population, with FDB detected on 67/68 (99%) of individuals. Further work is needed to fully understand the relationships between plumage bacteria and birds, but our data indicate that plumage bacteria may have sex-dependent effects on multiple phenotypic traits.
30244782|Acoustically-mediated individual discrimination has been the focus of much investigation in ornithology. For cooperatively breeding species, strong selection pressure favouring individual recognition during acts of altruism is predicted under many of the most interesting hypotheses proposed to account for helping behaviour. We investigated differences in 157 calls given by 12 different individuals as they provisioned nestlings, including both breeding and helper bell miners Manorina melanophrys (Meliphagidae), a cooperatively breeding honeyeater endemic to south-eastern Australia. Individual differences were apparent in all 15 call parameters analysed, many with a high level of repeatability. Moreover, the information capacity of mew calls allows as many as 515 different signatures to exist in the system. As many parameters showed strong sex differences, separate discriminant functions were used to predict individual identity within each sex. Five parameters were used in a function that correctly identified over 90% of female calls in both a training (n = 35) and test dataset (n = 11) not used to generate the function. Among males, a separate function used six parameters to correctly assign individual identity in 89.3% (n = 84; training) and 77.8% (n = 27; test) of cases. Three original parameters, including spectral and spatial characteristics, were highly correlated with functions predicting identity in both sexes. The accuracy of functions was not influenced by a signaller's sex, breeding status, or by sampling period which was spread over as much as two breeding seasons within individuals. Significant potential therefore exists for bell miners to use these simple provisioning calls in individual discrimination. If this is the case, call information also has the potential to be used by receivers as predicted by signalling hypotheses proposed to account for cooperative helping behaviour, such as the pay-to-stay and social prestige hypotheses.
10.2307/3677322|By manipulating the density and area of a food supply of grain offered to wild Jackdaws we showed that individuals in flocks varied in their ability to acquire food through direct physical competition, and that the relative pay-offs to individual competitors varied according to the distribution of the resource. There was a disproportionate ability of some individuals to occupy preferred flock positions or feeding sites and higher ranking males had greater access to clumped food. Rank was positively correlated with the more efficient provisioning of offspring and the raising of larger annual broods, but reproductive success and social status were also strongly dependent on age. Our results provided evidence that attributes of dominance (e.g. fighting ability) are valuable for maintaining access to increasingly restricted food supplies. Since the rank of an individual is explained at least in part by age we discuss the consequences of this for the durability of the pair-bond and life-time reproductive success.
30244458|According to honest signalling theory, signals must be costly to produce to retain information about the signaller's quality. The song produced by male birds during breeding is a vocal "ornament" used for intra- and inter-sexual purposes. The energetic cost of this vocal signal remains a contentious issue. We used the doubly labelled water method to measure field metabolic rate by estimating CO production and then convert this to daily energy expenditure (DEE) in great reed warbler males singing under natural conditions (10 at low to moderate intensity and 7 at very high intensity from dawn to dusk). There was a significant positive relationship between singing intensity and DEE. From this relationship we extrapolated the average DEE for intensely singing males (i.e., males producing song sounds 50% of the time and hence sitting at their elevated song post in the top of a reed stem more or less continuously throughout the  20 h of daylight) to 3.3 x BMR (basal metabolic rate) and for non-singing males to 2.2 x BMR. The mean DEE measured for the seven males singing with very high intensity was 3.1 x BMR. The maximum measured DEE for a single male was 3.9 x BMR, i.e. close to the maximum sustainable DEE (4 x BMR), and the minimum DEE was 2.1 x BMR for a male singing at very low intensity. These results imply that producing intensive advertising song in birds may incur a substantial cost in terms of increased energy expenditure.
10.2307/3677109|We manipulated the within-brood mass hierarchy of Lesser Black-backed Gulls Larus fuscus, controlling for chick quality (related to laying order) by swapping last hatched (c-) chicks in experimental broods with a- or b- chicks from residual broods to create either synchronous broods (all 3 chicks in the brood approximately the same mass) or asynchronous broods (same within-brood difference in mass between largest and smallest chicks as that of unmanipulated broods), whilst also controlling for variation in characteristics of parental quality (clutch size, egg size and timing of laying). Subsequent chick growth and survival for each brood were monitored in comparison with naturally asynchronous, unmanipulated broods in order to assess the effect of hatching asynchrony per se on chick growth and survival. There were no differences among treatments in fledging success or growth characteristics of surviving chicks. However, chick mortality occurred significantly later in synchronous broods and this was a consequence of the smaller within-brood hierarchical differences in size and body condition of these chicks. Apparently, parents could not regulate resource allocation in synchronous broods, and invested a greater amount of parental investment in chicks that later died. The results indicate that (1) the degree of hatching asynchrony may be optimized with respect to the prevailing food supply and/or female nutritional condition, and (2) the degree of hatching asynchrony is more important than initial within-clutch differences in egg or chick quality in determining the outcome of sibling rivalry over parental investment.
3677537|Birds rearing experimentally enlarged broods have lower antibody responses to a novel antigen, and we tested three hypotheses that could explain this result. We used zebra finches Taeniopygia guttata inoculated with sheep red blood cells (SRBC) as a study system, for which this trade-off was previously demonstrated. 1. Compensatory cellular immunity: The humoral immune response is slow, and removal of SRBC through upregulated cellular immunity could pre-empt an antibody response. However, cellular immune response to PHA decreased with increasing brood size, allowing rejection of this hypothesis. 2. Costs of antibody-production: Chicks in large broods grow less well, and birds with large broods may allocate resources to chicks instead of antibodies when these are costly. Compared to saline controls, SRBC suppressed metabolic rate in the hours following immunisation, but there was no effect in the following night, or at any time 4 and 8 days later. Fitness costs were measured by repeatedly immunising parents with SRBC while rearing young. Chick growth, parental condition, and subsequent reproduction of the parents were not affected by SRBC. We conclude that the costs of antibody formation cannot explain the trade-off between brood size and antibody responsiveness. 3. Costs of immune system maintenance: Maintaining a system enabling antibody-formation may be very costly, and birds rearing large broods may have down-regulated this system. Based on this hypothesis we predicted that antibody formation would still be reduced in parents rearing large broods when immunised after rearing the chicks. Our results confirmed this prediction, and we suggest that birds rearing large broods have lower antibody responses because they economised on the maintenance costs of the immune system.
10.2307/3677186|Two flocks of Red Knots Calidris canutus, belonging to the temperate-wintering subspecies islandica and to the tropical-wintering subspecies canutus, were kept in outdoor cages at north-temperate latitudes over two annual cycles during which their plasma concentrations of corticosterone were measured at 4-6 week intervals. Islandica-knots maintained the schedules of moult and body mass changes of their counterparts in the wild over the two years of study, but canutus-knots showed deviations from normal annual rhythms. Even though the range of measured corticosterone concentrations was great, values remained well within those measured in free-living shorebirds. As predicted on the basis of past research, plasma corticosterone increased with respect to time required to capture and handle the birds during each sampling episode (capture-stress response). Plasma concentrations of corticosterone were also somewhat greater during spring migration periods (when birds had higher than average body masses) than at other times. In the islandica-, but not the canutus-flock, there were significant differences between individual concentrations of corticosterone. However, even after taking the foregoing factors into account, for the group showing the most natural mass and moult cycles (islandica), by far the strongest effect on corticosterone concentrations was the time since being taken into captivity. The longer the birds had been in the artificial aviary-environment, the lower the concentrations of plasma corticosterone became. Long-distance migrant bird species such as Red Knots normally encounter a wide range of environments during the course of their annual cycle. We interpret the long-term decrease in corticosterone in the light of its role in mediating appropriate physiological responses of birds faced with ecological variability in their environment and the occurrence of unpredictable events. We hypothesize that only after experiencing a full annual cycle in captivity do such birds recognize captive conditions as normal and as predictable.
10.2307/3677356|The relationship between juvenile body condition and pre-reproductive survival and recruitment of female Common Eiders was analysed in three duckling cohorts marked in the Stavns Fjord colony, Denmark during 1991-1993, based on recoveries of females in the colony in 1996. Mean duckling condition differed significantly between the three cohorts, but recruitment was not affected by this difference, c. 18% having recruited from each cohort in the third year after ringing. Compared to mean cohort condition, in all years a positive relationship existed between individual duckling condition and recruitment, irrespective of duckling size at capture. The present results suggest that survival and recruitment of female eiders were related to the relative body condition attained as ducklings within cohorts rather than related to the absolute condition attained by separate cohorts.
10.2307/3677227|Mate-guarding behaviour and territorial intrusions were examined in a population of polygynous Corn Buntings Miliaria calandra. All males showed only a weak tendency to mate-guard by close following of the female. Monogamous and polygynous males did not differ in their extent of mate-guarding, and there was no difference in the extent to which polygynous males guarded primary and secondary females. Territorial intrusions and attempted extra-pair copulations were infrequent and not timed to coincide with the fertile period of females. All intrusions were by territory-holding males, the majority of which were immediate neighbours. Unmated males did not intrude more than paired males and were not observed to attempt any extra-pair copulations. Polygynous males did not suffer significantly more intrusions than monogamous males. We suggest that either the high detectability of intrusions in an open habitat or female control over access to fertilizations made close mate-guarding unnecessary. Males may benefit more from maintaining their own territory in the hope of one or more females settling to breed, rather than seeking extra-pair copulations.
30244459|The occurrence of group-living behaviour has often been explained by the benefits individuals receive through cooperation; including increased reproductive output, vigilance against predators, and load-lightening behaviour. However, to fully understand the benefits of group-living, it is important to quantify the costs of living alone. Here, we look at the fate of floaters (individuals who have no fixed territory and remain alone for extended periods) in a population of cooperatively breeding pied babblers Turdoides bicolor. We found that individuals spent less time foraging and more time vigilant for predators when found as a floater compared to when they were in a group. Consequently, they suffered a continuous loss of body mass, with long-term floaters suffering the highest losses. This had a long-term effect: floaters that eventually did regain a position in a group usually entered as helpers, in contrast to dispersers, who usually entered a new group as breeders. This high cost of living alone highlights the benefits of group-living and may help to understand patterns of delayed dispersal in some social species.
30245194|The importance of plumage colour as an indicator of individual quality and the basis of sexual selection has long been recognized. Of the three generally distinguished classes of plumage colours, melanin-based ornaments are traditionally considered to provide less reliable information than carotenoid-based traits. However, the role of structural ornaments in multiple signalling systems has rarely been examined, and no study has compared the information content and role of the three ornament types simultaneously. Here we investigated three plumage ornaments in great tits Parus major. the size of the melanin-based breast stripe, the carotenoid-based colour of the yellow breast and the structurally based reflectance properties of the black crown. We worked on both the mechanistic and the functional levels. First, we assessed the dependence of ornaments on body condition during moult using ptilochronology. Second, we estimated assortative mating for these traits, as a measure of mutual sexual selection. Only the spectral attributes of crown feathers correlated with body condition during moult. However, breast stripe size was related to age, while the brightness of the yellow breast indicated body size. Relative crown ultraviolet reflectance was much higher in males than in females. Assortative mating was strongest for crown ultraviolet reflectance, but composite measures suggest that a system of multiple sexually selected traits with different information content may work in this population. These data support the accumulating evidence that the condition-dependence of melanin and carotenoid coloration is not qualitatively different. They also suggest that more research should target the reflectance properties of dark plumage areas in general, and ultraviolet crown ornamentation in tits in particular.
30244814|Neighbour-stranger discrimination has been demonstrated in many species, but the mechanisms employed in discrimination vary. We tested whether an oscine bird with small repertoire size, the ortolan bunting Emberiza hortulana, discriminated between songs of neighbours and strangers. We performed playback experiments to measure response of males to a repeated single example of a single song type derived from a repertoire of a neighbour or stranger. Thirteen males were tested twice each, and in both cases songs were broadcast from the territory boundary shared by the subject male and the neighbour. Subjects responded more aggressively to songs of strangers than neighbours, i.e. they approached the loudspeaker faster and came closer and did more flights during the playback of stranger song. We found no significant differences in vocal response between treatments. We conclude that ortolan bunting can discriminate between songs of neighbours and strangers. This study provides experimental evidence for ortolan buntings in neighbour-stranger discrimination. It also demonstrates that a single example of song is enough to discriminate between neighbours and strangers. We discuss which song characteristics are the possible acoustic basis for discrimination in the studied species.
30245328|Studies on individual reproductive success in relation to interspecific competition between distantly related taxa are scarce. We studied whether the abundance of red wood ants Formica rufa -group is related to the breeding habitat selection, fecundity and offspring quality in the Eurasian treecreeper Certhia familiaris, an old-growth forest passerine. The nest-box occupancy data were gathered over a five-year study period, whereas the breeding performance analyses were based on a two-year data set. The abundance of wood ants, measured within 50 m around the nest-boxes, was not related to nest-box occupancy rate, fecundity or the physiological stress of nestlings. In contrast, the abundance of wood ants was negatively related to the offspring quality and life-history traits, such as lowered body mass, subcutaneous fat reserves, and tarsus length at fledging. Our results suggest that exploitative competition between distantly related taxa may have considerable and adverse influences on nestling quality as measured by body mass, subcutaneous, fat and tarsus length. Red wood ants may decrease the fitness of treecreepers as the lower body condition of nestlings has the potential to impair recruitment into the breeding population and, additionally, impair the future reproductive effort.
3677739|In a subalpine birch forest in Central Norway, the breeding population of fieldfare Turdus pilaris varied from 3 to 63 pairs per km
3677647|The relation between wind, latitude and daily migration speed along the entire migration route of white storks was analysed. Mean daily migration speed was calculated using satellite telemetry data for autumn and spring migration of white storks from their breeding grounds in Germany and Poland to wintering grounds in Africa and back. The National Center for Environmental Prediction (NCEP) reanalysis data were used to systematically fit 850 mb wind vectors to daily migration speed along the migration route. White storks migrated significantly faster and had a shorter migration season in autumn (10 km/h) compared to spring (6.4 km/h). In autumn mean daily migration speed was significantly slower in Europe (8.0 km/h) than in the Middle East (11.1 km/h) and Africa (11.0 km/h). In spring mean daily migration speed was significantly faster in Africa (10.5 km/h) as birds left their wintering grounds than in the Middle East (4.3 km/h). Migration speed then increased in Europe (6.5 km/h) as birds approached their breeding grounds. In both spring and autumn tailwind (at 850mb) and latitude were found to be significant variables related to daily migration speed.
30245189|Compared to other birds, most raptors take large prey for their size, and feeding bouts are extended. However, ingestion rate has largely been overlooked as a constraint in raptors' foraging and breeding ecology. We measured ingestion rate by offering avian and mammalian prey to eighteen wild raptors temporarily kept in captivity, representing seven species and three orders. Ingestion rate was higher for small than for large prey, higher for mammalian than for avian prey, higher for large than for small raptors, and higher for wide-gaped than for narrow-gaped raptors. Mammalian prey were ingested faster by raptors belonging to species with mainly mammals in their diet than by raptors with mainly birds in their diet, but the drop in ingestion rate with increasing prey size was more rapid for the former than for the latter. We argue that the separate sex roles found in raptors, i.e. the male hunting and the female feeding the young, is a solution of the conflict between the prolonged feeding bouts at the nest, and the benefit of rapid resumption of hunting in general, and rapid return to the previous capture site in particular (the prey size hypothesis). Thus, the sex roles differ more when prey takes longer to feed, i.e. from insects to mammals to birds. We then argue that the reversed sexual size dimorphism in raptors, i.e. smaller males than females, results from a conflict between the benefit of being small during breeding to capture the smallest items with the highest ingestion rate among these agile prey types (mammals and bird), and the benefit of being large outside the breeding season to ensure survival by being able to include large items in the diet when small items are scarce (the ingestion rate hypothesis). This hypothesis explains the observed variation in reversed sexual size dimorphism among raptors in relation to size and type of prey, i.e. increasing RSD from insects to mammals to birds as prey.
30243824|The timing of the chick-rearing phase is known to have a profound effect on the reproductive success of birds. However, little is known about the energetic costs faced by the parents during different periods of the breeding season. These costs may have vital consequences for both their survival and future reproduction. In most studies, daily energy expenditure (DEE) of breeding and non-breeding birds has been compared, without controlling for the effect of season. In the present study, we examined the energy demands of breeding compared to non-breeding Palestine sunbirds Nectarinia osea and whether there were sex-specific differences in DEE within and between different seasons. We predicted that DEE would be elevated when birds rear chicks, especially at cooler ambient temperatures. Time-energy budgets were constructed for pairs of sunbirds, rearing chicks, or not breeding, in spring and summer. There were significant seasonal differences in estimates of DEE in non-breeders that were 21% higher in spring than in summer. We attributed these to increases in non-flight metabolic rate rather than changes in time spent on different activities. Our estimates of DEE for the birds that were rearing chicks were higher than non-breeding adults. In females the increase in DEE when breeding, compared to when not breeding, was similar in both spring and summer, while males increased their DEE much less when breeding in spring. The differences in estimated DEE, however, were not significant between male and female birds in any season. Between seasons, female breeders had 17.1% higher DEE in spring than in summer, while male breeders showed no difference in DEE when rearing chicks in different seasons. Accordingly, our initial prediction was supported, as DEE in chick-rearing adults was higher than in non-breeding adults. In addition, although temperatures are lower in spring, breeding in the spring is only more costly than breeding in summer for females. Apparently, males are more flexible in reallocating their time and energy spent on different activities.
10.2307/3676975|Lesser Grey Shrikes and Red-backed Shrikes have much smaller ranges on the non-breeding grounds in the Kalahari basin than during breeding. This study investigated whether, as a result of competition, habitat segregation occurs on the non-breeding grounds. Migrant shrikes were surveyed in point-transect counts in 19 vegetation types in Botswana. There were clear differences in habitat distribution between the species, and also between the sexes in the Red-backed Shrike. Female Red-backed Shrikes occupied more densely wooded bushveld than males, while Lesser Grey Shrikes occupied the most open habitat and overlapped more frequently with male than with female Red-backed Shrikes. More subtle differences along gradients of herbaceous ground cover suggest that differences in habitat quality may be involved, the dominant species (Lesser Grey Shrike) occupying, on average, the best and the most subordinate birds (female Red-backed Shrikes) the poorest habitat. The sex differences in habitat occupation on the non-breeding grounds in the Red-backed Shrike are the first such differences documented in any Palaearctic-African migrant passerine.
3677451|We analyzed sequences of two mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) gene regions (control region and ND2) totaling 1477 base-pairs from 232 specimens of the white wagtail Motacilla alba obtained from 27 localities throughout Eurasia. Although overall haplotype diversity was relatively low (0.79) and the most common haplotype was shared by 45% of individuals, belonging to six subspecies, a high level of population differentiation was detected. The mtDNA tree revealed three clades: (1) most individuals from Krasnodar (belonging to M. a. alba subspecies), (2) all individuals from Almaty and some from Primor'e (belonging to M. a. personata, M. a. lugens and M. a. leucopsis subspecies), and (3) the remaining individuals (representing all subspecies and all localities except Almaty). We suggest that these three clades represent historically isolated populations that relatively recently came into secondary contact in Krasnodar and Primor'e. None of the six subspecies were reciprocally monophyletic in the mtDNA tree. The Krasnodar population appeared to receive immigrants from other localities, but distinctive haplotypes from this locality did not appear elsewhere, suggesting asymmetric gene flow. Signatures of recent gene flow between northern populations were detected, and there was no evidence of isolation by distance within the northern group of populations. Mismatch distributions for most localities were consistent with population expansions. We also analyzed 12 male plumage characters from 93 study skins sampled from 24 populations. Phylogenetic trees resulting from separate genetic and morphological analyses were incongruent. Plumage evolution seems to be under strong sexual or natural selection, which favors particular phenotypes in various areas irrespective of the mitochondrial background. Dispersal events at different evolutionary times could have obscured the effects of earlier isolation events. The mtDNA data does not support species status for M. a. lugens and M. a. personata, which shared haplotypes with other subspecies of M. alba. We recommend that M. lugens and M. personata are placed as junior synonyms of M. alba.
10.2307/3677326|African Stonechats at the equator in Kenya breed only once per breeding season, whereas European Stonechats breed two or three times. To learn whether this difference in annual brood number results mainly from the differences in environmental conditions in the field or is endogenously determined, pairs of both subspecies were kept in controlled conditions and their breeding behaviour was monitored. In the laboratory the difference between the subspecies found in the field was no longer observed: both the European and the African Stonechats were multi-brooded. In both subspecies the second or third clutches were laid while the preceding brood was still being raised ("telescoping"). However, the inter-brood intervals were longer for African than for European pairs. A possible functional implication of this difference is discussed. The finding that African Stonechats are just as capable as those of the European subspecies of producing multiple broods suggests that brood number in the field is limited by particular environmental factors. Canditates considered include limitation of a favourable food supply to the rainy season and the timing of the latter with respect to the endogenous "breeding window". Field observations suggest that in certain exceptional conditions African Stonechats might be able to produce two broods.
3677437|Food availability is an important factor affecting breeding success in birds. Food supplementation experiments in birds have in general focused on the effects on reproductive success in terms of female investment (laying date, clutch size, egg size), however, it is also known that the estimation of mate quality based on sexually selected signals influences female reproductive investment. In the particular case of magpies, females use nest size, a post-mating sexually selected signal, to assess male's likelihood to invest in reproduction, and accordingly adjust reproductive investment (clutch size). Then, the possible effects of food supplementation on female reproductive investment could be mediated by other variables related to parental quality, such as nest size in magpies. In the present study, we explore if higher food availability in a magpie territory affected both male sexually selected traits (i.e. nest size) and female reproductive investment (laying date, egg size, clutch size). We performed a food supplementation experiment in which we experimentally increased food availability in several magpie territories, keeping others as controls. In food-supplemented territories, males built significantly larger nests and females significantly increased egg size by 4.1% compared to control females. Results suggest that the continuous provisioning of protein rich food allowed magpie females to increase egg size. However, laying date and clutch size did not differ between control and food-supplemented magpie pairs. Food availability also affected the relationship between female reproductive investment and nest size. In control territories, females decreased their egg size in response to a larger nest, whereas a tendency for the opposite relationship was revealed in food-supplemented territories. We discuss the possibility that magpie females adopt different strategies for reproductive investment according to food availability.
10.2307/3677247| We used doubly-labelled water to measure field metabolic rates of breeding Common Terns Sterna hirundo, and hence to investigate differences in reproductive efficiency among birds of different ages. Field metabolic rates, activity patterns, changes in body mass, chick provisioning rates, and chick growth rates were measured for 14 males of known age (6-24 yr) during a 48-h period immediately after hatching of the first chick, when males provide most of the food. Males expended energy at high rates (3.3-6.3  estimated basal metabolic rates). We found no significant relationship between male age and energy expenditure. Some aspects of male performance (feeding rates and food provisioning rates) were age-related due to changes in efficiency. Efficiency in the use of time and energy was low in the youngest breeding males, increased thereafter to peak at about 12 years of age, but appeared to decline again amongst the oldest breeding males. Changes in body mass and measures of activity were not correlated with energy expenditure and hence were not appropriate measures of reproductive effort. 
3677777|In birds with hatching asynchrony and sexual size dimorphism, chicks hatched earlier and later in the laying sequence usually suffer different mortalities due to uneven abilities to compete for food, especially in poor years. If sexes differ in vulnerability to environmental conditions, e.g., by having different food requirements due to differential growth rates, mothers can increase fitness by allocating sex according to the laying order, producing less vulnerable sex later rather than early in the clutch. By analysing variation in primary sex ratio using a PCR-based DNA technique, we tested this prediction in black-headed gull Larus ridibundus chicks where males may be the less viable sex under adverse conditions. The overall primary sex ratio of the population did not depart from parity. However, first hatched chicks were more likely to be males whereas last hatched chicks were more likely to be females. Both egg volume and hatchling body mass decreased with laying order irrespective of sex. Time of breeding had no effect on offspring sex or hatchling sex ratios.
10.2307/3676980|The effects of ectoparasites of the genus Protocalliphora on nestling birds have been poorly investigated in Europe, probably due to low abundances of these parasitic flies. However, in a population of Blue Tits Parus caeruleus on the island of Corsica, we found extremely high infestation rates. In this population, we showed a negative relationship between the mean parasite load per chick and both nestling body mass and haematocrit level before fledging, which might affect post-fledging survival. Tarsus length decreased with increasing parasite load, but only in large broods, and we found no relationship between parasite load and the proportion of young fledged.
3677418|A recent hypothesis suggested that bird song repertoire size is a reliable indication of male quality because the number of songs emitted by an individual and the expression of many traits important for fitness are highly dependent on developmental conditions. To test this hypothesis, we studied the relationship between song repertoire size and a trait known to be strongly affected by developmental conditions: tarsus length of Blue Tits Parus caeruleus. We studied this relationship in three populations presenting differences in density, quantity of food available and relative and absolute densities of Great Tits Parus major. Great Tit density may be an important factor because this species is supposed to be in competition for acoustic space with the Blue Tit. We found a positive correlation between Blue Tit dawn repertoire size and tarsus length in the three study populations which is consistent with the tested hypothesis. However, this correlation was only significant in the population with the lower Great Tit density. We discuss the significance of this variation and propose that interspecific competition may limit the action of sexual selection on song repertoire size.
10.2307/3677059|In many bird species females parasitize the parental investment of other pairs by laying eggs in their nests. Such intraspecific brood parasitism is considered rare among altricial birds, but this may result from methodological difficulties in detecting and quantifying this behaviour. In this study, we investigated first whether intraspecific brood parasitism occurs in Blue Tits Parus caeruleus and Great Tits P. major, using a combination of frequent nest inspections, DNA profiling and a survey of the literature. No evidence for parasitism was found. Next, we investigated whether the absence of brood parasitism could be explained by efficient anti-parasite strategies of the hosts. We experimentally parasitized 75 Blue Tit and 51 Great Tit nests before and during egg-laying. We found no evidence for rejection of the parasitic eggs. Thus the absence of brood parasitism is not a product of undetected parasitism. Although intense female-female aggression may deter females that try to lay eggs in other nests, we suggest that in both species intraspecific brood parasitism has not evolved because females do not benefit from laying eggs in the nests of others.
3677372|In this study we assessed territory turnover of the European Scops Owl Otus scops, a migratory nocturnal raptor, using sonagrams of hoots recorded in the same territories in the 1993 and 1994 breeding seasons. Three structural parameters of the hoot (duration, inter-note interval and frequency) varied considerably, and a Discriminant Function Analysis classified >90% of individual calls correctly. In order to investigate yearly turnover and site-fidelity of male Scops Owls, the discriminant functions derived from the hoot sample recorded in 1993 were used to classify hoots of individuals recorded in the same territories in 1994. Apparently, turn-over rate of territory owners was high and rapid, because 55-78% of territories censused in 1993 were defended by a different male in 1994. The fast decline of our Scops Owl population, probably due to winter mortality, could be responsible for such a high turnover of territorial owners.
25662901|Many northerly breeding shorebird species show a separation in timing of adult and juvenile migration. If, in addition to genetic control of migration, learning from experienced conspecifics is advantageous, juveniles should join adult birds during their first fall migration when possible. We here present a method to test if juveniles mix with adults during the period of overlap during southward migration, using dunlin Calidris alpina migrating over southern Sweden as an example. While taking timing differences between age classes into account, we compare flock compositions observed in the field against randomized flock-compositions based on the pool of available individuals derived from the field data. During both the early, the adult-dominated, and later, the juvenile-dominated, part of the season, age classes segregate. Applied to other shorebird species, our method could be used in a comparative sense to evaluate the potential for social learning of migration routes.
3677698|Satin bowerbirds Ptilonorhynchus violaceus have an elaborate multi-component sexual display, some components of which have been extensively studied. We describe a relatively unstudied component of this display, bower painting, and birds' responses to manipulations of their paint. Males of this species focus their display around a stick bower constructed on the forest floor which they decorate with a variety of objects and paint. Painting involves a male masticating plant material and wiping the plant-saliva mixture onto the inside walls of the bower; during courtship visits to bowers, females nibble at this paint. We found that 93% of 53 males painted their bowers at our study site and the time males spent painting their bowers accounted for 24% of their time at the bower. We experimentally removed and added paint to bowers to test whether males respond to these changes in their paint. Males gave more advertisement calls and spent less time manipulating sticks at the bower when we added fresh wet paint to their bowers compared to older dried paint or a control treatment. They did not respond to the removal of paint from their bowers, perhaps because it was primarily older dried paint that was removed. We also found that males painted more frequently when there was measurable wind in their bowers, which could have degraded the quality of the signal. Our findings indicate that fresh wet paint is more important to males than older dried paint and, together with previous work at this site, suggest that paint may act as a signal to females. Given that females nibble bower sticks during courtship, we suggest that bower paint may function as a chemical sexual signal rather than a visual signal.
10.2307/3677241|The foraging behaviour of five plover species was studied at Mida Creek, Kenya, to assess how foraging behaviour is influenced by bird body size and/or diet. All five plovers had functionally identical instantaneous foraging behaviour, but the predicted allometric scaling of components of this behaviour with body size was not conclusively demonstrated. Variation in almost all foraging parameters could be better explained by interspecific differences in diet, specifically the relative proportions of prey providing a strong visual cue (e.g. surface-active crabs) versus a weak one (e.g. polychaetes and very small prey). One species, the Greater Sandplover Charadrius leschenaultii, was positioned anomalously in several scaling relationships. If this species was excluded from analyses, six of eight foraging parameters were significantly correlated with body mass. It is not possible to extrapolate the fine details of foraging behaviour from one locality to another and this study strongly suggests that predictions about foraging behaviour based on morphological allometry have limited robustness, even for sympatric species with stereotyped foraging tactics.
30244473|Experiments to determine sugar preferences of nectarivorous animals have been conducted using a wide variety of experimental procedures, all of which aim at ensuring that the solutions offered in choices are "equivalent". Each method used historically has controlled for a particular variable, such as number of molecules in solution, weight of sugar in solution, or amount of energy in solution, depending on what question the researchers have tried to answer. Biologists interpreting these results in terms of bird sugar preference have seldom taken these differences into account. The consequences of using different experimental procedures for sugar preferences exhibited by a nectarivorous bird, the malachite sunbird Nectarinia famosa, were examined using paired sucrose and hexose sugar solutions made up to be either equimolar, equiweight or equicaloric. We found the effect of methodology on bird sugar preference to be quite distinct, especially at low concentrations, where malachite sunbirds showed either sucrose preference, no preference, or hexose preference, depending on the method used. This study highlights the need for researchers to consider methodology when interpreting, or comparing among, results from previous studies.
3677624| During energy-demanding periods of the annual cycle such as migration or during cold days in winter, birds store fat comprised mostly of 16- or 18-carbon unsaturated fatty acids. In such situations, birds may feed selectively on foods with specific fatty acids that enable efficient fat deposition. We offered wild-caught yellow-rumped warblers Dendroica coronata paired choices between semi-synthetic diets that differed only in their fatty acid composition. Warblers strongly preferred diets containing long-chain (18:1; carbon atoms:double bonds) unsaturated, unesterified fatty acids to diets containing long-chain saturated, unesterified fatty acids (18:0) and they preferred diets containing mono-unsaturated fats (18:1) to diets containing poly-unsaturated fats (18:2). The preference for diets containing long-chain unsaturated fatty acids to diets containing long-chain saturated fatty acids was consistent in birds tested one week after capture at 21C, one month after capture when cold-acclimated (1C), and six weeks after capture at 21C. Birds acclimated to a diet with 50% of the fat comprised of unesterified stearic acid (18:0) lost mass and reduced their food intake when we reduced ambient temperature from 21C to 11C over three days. We conclude that especially in energy-demanding situations there are limits to the yellow-rumped warblers' ability to assimilate some long-chain saturated fatty acids and that this digestive constraint can explain in part why yellow-rumped warblers prefer diets containing long-chain unsaturated fatty acids to diets containing long-chain saturated fatty acids. 
10.2307/3677045|For most birds, nest predation is the main cause of reproductive failure. Many species reduce predation by hiding their nests in vegetation. However, it is unclear whether they maximize cover around nests. Individuals may benefit also by keeping potential predators, food, and conspecifics in view, and selection of nest site may be a trade-off between concealment and visibility. We examined this idea in the Song Thrush Turdus philomelos, which builds cup-shaped nests in trees. For artificial nests, the risk of predation decreased when nests were more concealed within individual trees. However, Song Thrushes did not maximize concealment of nests within trees but selected intermediate concealment from the range of concealment available. The proportion of destroyed natural nests was not related to degree of nest concealment. Song Thrushes also selected patches of intermediate tree density, but tree density did not influence predation rate of artificial nests. These results are consistent with the trade-off hypothesis, which deserves more attention in future studies of nest site selection.
10.2307/3677210|Three Fenno-Scandian populations of Pied Flycatchers Ficedula hypoleuca were sampled for their haematozoan parasites over the period 1989-1992. Pied Flycatchers from the environs of Uppsala, Sweden had lower prevalence and intensities of infections than those from Meltaus, Finland. In addition, birds from Uppsala were not parasitized by leucocytozoids and were virtually free from trypanosomes; conversely, birds from Meltaus were heavily parasitized by both groups. Birds from Konnevesi, Finland, showed an intermediate prevalence and intensity of parasitism. This study clearly shows the role of ecologically diverse conditions in determining the composition, transmission and prevalence of a blood parasite fauna presumably through their effect on vector composition and population density.
3677555|We investigated the effects of increased egg production on body condition as well as on measures of reproductive performance in great skuas, Stercorarius skua, over two subsequent years. We experimentally increased egg production from the normal two to six eggs. Six eggs might also be produced under natural circumstances after repeated clutch loss. After the production of the last egg we measured: (i) body mass, (ii) pectoral muscle, and (iii) haematocrit, total red blood cell count and mean corpuscular volume, as indicators of body condition. We took the same measurements of control females who had produced the normal clutch of two eggs. The measurements were repeated one year after the manipulation, and survival, laying dates, clutch sizes and hatching success were recorded for up to three consecutive years. After producing six eggs, females were lighter, had smaller pectoral muscles and lower haematological values than control females. Hatching success of eggs was significantly reduced. Even one year after the experiment there were still differences in body condition. Annual survival was not affected by the manipulations, although there was an indication that survival costs depended on whether chicks were raised after the increased egg production. While pair bonds and egg sizes were not affected in the post-experimental year, females started breeding significantly later than in the previous year. Two years after the experiment laying dates had advanced again and were not different from those of control females. This pattern of maintaining survival and egg sizes, but delaying breeding in the post-experimental year was found for two independent groups of females which had both been subjected to increased egg production. These results present evidence that increased egg production can have long-term effects on female body condition and aspects of reproduction. However, although present, the costs of extra eggs appear to have been relatively small in the great skua in comparison to the two other bird species for which inter-annual effects have been reported.
10.2307/3677199|Several raptors have been shown to mate assortatively, most commonly according to age, less often in relation to various linear measurements. This paper demonstrates positive assortative mating for winglength in three falcons: the Peregrine Falcon Falco peregrinus, Brown Falcon F. berigora and Nankeen Kestrel F. cenchroides. Because females showed greater variation in winglength than did males, larger females formed more dimorphic pairs than smaller females. The results suggest a possible link between assortative mating and dimorphism.
10.2307/3677094|We used a supplementary feeding experiment to investigate the existence of a causal relationship between the nutritional status of nestling Puffins and the subsequent rates of food provisioning by their parents. Chicks given supplementary food received less frequent meals than controls, with the effect that the total amount of food received by the experimental group (parental delivery plus supplementary food) was similar to the amount delivered by parents in the control group. This indicated compensatory regulation of provisioning by parents in the experimental group. Increases in body size and body mass were virtually identical in the two groups until shortly before fledging, when supplemented chicks attained higher body mass than controls. This difference appeared to result mainly from the fact that unmanipulated chicks normally receive little food from their parents towards the end of the nestling period; supplements thus constituted a large proportion of chicks' normal daily food intake over this period, and compensatory reduction in food delivery by parents did not completely match the extra food given to chicks in the supplemented group. If growth rates of chicks were usually limited by poor food supply and adults delivered food to the chick at the maximum rate permitted by food availability irrespective of the chick's immediate nutritional requirements, then regulation of food delivery by parents would not be expected. The fact that adults were regulating food delivery to their offspring below the maximum attainable rate suggests that in this study at least, nestling growth rate was not limited by a scarce and unpredictable food supply.
30244840|Fat reserves influence the orientation of migrating songbirds at ecological barriers, such as expansive water crossings. Upon encountering a body of water, fat migrants usually cross the barrier exhibiting 'forward' migration in a seasonally appropriate direction. In contrast, lean birds often exhibit temporary 'reverse' orientation away from the water, possibly to lead them to suitable habitats for refueling. Most examples of reverse orientation are restricted to autumn migration and, in North America, are largely limited to transcontinental migrants prior to crossing the Gulf of Mexico. Little is known about the orientation of lean birds after crossing an ecological barrier or on the way to their breeding grounds. We examined the effect of fat stores on migratory orientation of both long- and short-distance migrants before and after a water crossing near their breeding grounds; Catharus thrushes (Swainson's and gray-cheeked thrushes, C. ustulatus and C. minimus) and white-throated sparrows Zonotrichia albicollis were tested for orientation at the south shore of Lake Ontario during spring and autumn. During both spring and autumn, fat birds oriented in a seasonally appropriate, forward direction. Lean thrushes showed a tendency for reverse orientation upon encountering water in the spring and axial, shoreline orientation after crossing water in the autumn. Lean sparrows were not consistently oriented in any direction during either season. The responses of lean birds may be attributable to their stopover ecology and seasonallydependent habitat quality.
3677612|We describe winter territoriality in common cranes, Grus grus, a long-lived migrant species with long-lasting pair bonds and parental care extending throughout the winter. Cranes are territorial in the breeding season, and usually gregarious during migration and wintering. Only 2% of the families present in our study area were territorial, all other families foraged in flocks with immatures and adult pairs. Territorial pairs defended the same winter territory year after year, but only when they had offspring. They were gregarious otherwise. The average breeding success measured throughout several years was higher in territorial pairs. Winter territories were small (0.7 km
3677511|Over 11 winters I examined the interactions between sparrowhawk Accipiter nisus attack behaviour, the gregariousness of redshanks Tringa totanus and local geography to test hypotheses that suggest birds should flock to reduce their risk of predation and that predation risk should decline with the prey's distance from cover. Sparrowhawk attacks on redshanks feeding on beaches around the high tide mark (the strandline zone) were more frequent and more successful than attacks on redshanks feeding seaward of the strandline zone (in the intertidal zone). The results threfore confirmed hypothetical expectations that predation risk should decline with distance from cover. Flocking only appeared to influence the outcome of hawk attacks at shorter distances from cover on the strandline, with attacks on singletons and small flocks being more successful than attacks on larger flocks. Distance from cover had a stronger influence on the likelihood of attack success than did flock size. Mid-range flock sizes (6-45 birds) were attacked more frequently than expected, but singletons and large flocks were attacked less than expected. Despite these differences an individual redshank's likelihood of predation by a sparrowhawk declined with increasing flock size, thereby confirming the 'dilution effect' and 'vigilance' hypotheses for the evolution of flocking in birds. Food intake rates of redshanks declined with increasing flock size, further indicating that redshanks flocked to avoid predation rather than to increase their food intake rates. The strong interaction between two influences on predation risk revealed by the present study suggests other studies should take great care when considering a single influence on predation risk in isolation from others.
30244487|Wing-spreading of cormorants (Phalacrocoracidae) is a characteristic and enigmatic aspect of their behavioural repertoire. It has been suggested to have a range of functions including wing-drying, food-warming, and social signalling of foraging success. We investigated two of these putative roles by comparing the wing-spreading behaviour of fed and unfed animals after they had been swimming and diving. The duration of wing-spreading was correlated only with time spent on the water. The ingestion of food did not influence the duration of wing-spreading, a finding that supports a wing-drying, rather than a food-warming, function.
3677589| We investigated the seasonal pattern of changes in body condition of breeding black-legged kittiwakes Rissa tridactyla in Svalbard (79N) to evaluate whether changes in body condition were a consequence of the energetic demands of breeding (the reproductive stress hypothesis) or of voluntary anorexia to attain lower flight costs during chick rearing (the programmed anorexia hypothesis). Adult body condition was recorded from early egg laying to fledging and was examined in relation to date (relative to hatching), sex, parental time-budget, brood size and reproductive success. To distinguish between the two hypotheses we evaluate whether the reduction in body condition occurred during or ahead of the energetically most demanding part of the chick-rearing period. We combine our results on changes in body condition and time-budget with published information on field metabolic rate (FMR) and chick energy requirements from studies in the same colony. Our calculations of adult energy requirements and energy intakes indicate that the first part of the chick-rearing period was energetically the most demanding period, because adult energy requirement per hour spent off the nest was highest in this period, and adults were time constrained because of the need for 24-h brooding of the chicks. During the incubation period female body condition increased slightly, but significantly, while male body condition was stable. During the first part of the chick-rearing period, female and male body condition decreased by 14.8% and 8.4%, respectively. During the second part of the chick-rearing period, both male and female body condition remained stable. The reductions in body condition occurred during the phase which was suggested to be the energetically most demanding part of the chick-rearing period, thus supporting the reproductive stress hypothesis. Parental body condition during the incubation period was positively related to the probability of successfully fledging young, providing additional support for the reproductive stress hypothesis. 
3677377| All studies of interactions between fleas and hole-nesting birds so far have been done in nestboxes. This study, which is the first study of flea infestation of nests of hole-nesters in natural holes, was carried out in the Biaowiea National Park (E Poland) and demonstrated that, in contrast to those studies, both prevalence (below 10%) and intensity of infestation nests of Parus palustris and Ficedula flycatchers were very low, an order of magnitude lower than elsewhere. However, in the same forest, flycatchers breeding in nestboxes, and tits in natural holes within the nestbox plot, had significantly higher infestation rates, approaching those found in other studies. These observations indicate that the high flea loads reported for tits and flycatchers may be a product of biased sampling - exclusive collection of data in nestbox areas - rather than reflect their species-specific characteristics. The data from natural holes undermine the widespread assumption that data on flea loads in nestboxes can be treated as representative, and generalised to areas without nestboxes. 
30244426|The interactions among the multiple factors regulating predator-prey relationships make predation a more complex process than previously thought. The degree to which substandard individuals are captured disproportionately seems to be better a function of the difficulty of prey capture than of the hunting techniques (coursing vs. ambushing predators). That is, when the capture and killing of a prey species is easy, substandard individuals will be predated in proportion to their occurrence in the prey population. In the present study, we made use of eagle owls Bubo bubo and their main prey, the rabbit Oryctolagus cuniculus. (a) the brightness of the white tails of rabbits seems to be correlated with the physical condition of individuals, (b) by using the tails of predated rabbits as an index of individual condition, we found that eagle owls seem to prefer substandard individuals (characterized by duller tails), and (c) by using information from continuous radiotracking of 14 individuals, we suggest that the difficulty of rabbit capture could be low. Although the relative benefits of preying on substandard individuals should considerably decrease when a predator is attacking an easy prey, we hypothesise that the eagle owl preference for substandard individuals could be due to the easy detection of poor individuals by a visual cue, the brightness of the rabbit tail. Several elements allow us to believe that this form of visual communication between a prey and one of its main predators could be more widespread than previously thought. In fact: (a) visual signalling plays a relevant role in intraspecific communication in eagle owls and, consequently, visual signals could also play a role in interspecific interactions, and (b) empirical studies showed that signals may inform the predator that it has been perceived, or that the prey is in a sufficiently healthy state to elude the predator.
3677605|Unlike exercising mammals, migratory birds fuel very high intensity exercise (e.g., flight) with fatty acids delivered from the adipose tissue to the working muscles by the circulatory system. Given the primary importance of fatty acids for fueling intense exercise, we discuss the likely limiting steps in lipid transport and oxidation for exercising birds and the ecological factors that affect the quality and quantity of fat stored in wild birds. Most stored lipids in migratory birds are comprised of three fatty acids (16:0, 18:1 and 18:2) even though migratory birds have diverse food habits. Diet selection and selective metabolism of lipids play important roles in determining the fatty acid composition of birds which, in turn, affects energetic performance during intense exercise. As such, migratory birds offer an intriguing model for studying the implications of lipid metabolism and obesity on exercise performance. We conclude with a discussion of the energetic costs of migratory flight and stopover in birds, and its implications for bird migration strategies.
3677711|Mechanisms that drive sex-specific foraging behaviour in seabirds are not fully understood. In some cases, sexual-size dimorphism has been implicated. However, recent empirical work indicates that foraging behaviour may also differ between sexes of monomorphic seabird taxa. We simultaneously examined sex-specific differences in adult foraging behaviour, chick provisioning rates and maximum dive-depths in a monomorphic seabird, the wedge-tailed shearwater Puffinus pacificus. We found significant divergence between sexes. Mean foraging trip length was longer, provisioning rate lower and mean maximum dive-depth shallower in females. We found no evidence of divergence in foraging behaviour due to condition-dependant increases in self-provisioning by females, or differences in the nest attendance patterns of each sex. In addition, chick body condition did not influence meal mass or trip length differently in one or other sex. Consistent with results obtained for dimorphic species we suggest that inter-sexual competition at the foraging grounds provides the most parsimonious explanation for the sex-specific differences observed in this monomorphic species. Based on our findings we believe this possibility warrants further critical investigation.
30243850|Vocally differentiated common crossbill Loxia curvirostra populations ('vocal types') in North America show a high degree of morphological and ecological specialization coupled with significant genetic differentiation and appreciable levels of assortative mating in sympatry. Similar vocally differentiated common crossbill vocal types have recently also been uncovered in Europe. These vocal types frequently overlap in space and time, and preliminary data indicate strong assortatively mating in sympatry. These observations suggest that the European nominate subspecies also consists of several independent evolutionary lineages, but so far morphological and ecological support for this view has been lacking. Bill morphology of crossbills is tightly linked to resource use, and we earlier showed that average morphology (of birds of unknown vocal type) indeed differed among years, consistent with the possibility that vocal types are morphologically differentiated if the proportion of each type caught varies among years. Here we test specifically for morphological differences between birds assigned to vocal type, at two sites and during two independent influxes. Differentiation between the two vocal types studied is highly significant, with the same pattern uncovered at each site and for each influx. Of eight traits investigated, in both univariate and multivariate analyses, the trait that differs most between the two types is the ecologically important bill depth. The difference in average bill depth between these two European vocal types (0.26 mm) is equivalent to the difference between some ecologically specialised North American vocal types. These results provide further evidence that the nominate subspecies of the common crossbill consists of several ecologically distinct populations, if not cryptic species.
3677478| Great tits Parus major have generally much poorer breeding success in northern Finland than in mid- and western Europe. The aim of this study is to find out whether the poor success is linked to foraging behaviour. This was studied by monitoring great tits' foraging behaviour and food abundance in different substrates during the breeding cycle in two populations, N Finland (65N) and Latvia (56N). It was shown that breeding success, from eggs to fledglings, was significantly poorer (56% vs. 93%) and caterpillar abundance considerably lower in the northern population. The general patterns in foraging behaviour were the same in N Finland and Latvia (especially the preference of birches Betula spp.) indicating that great tits used basically the same species-typical foraging strategy in both populations. However, thin branches of birch were preferred in the north but avoided in Latvia, which may suggest that northern great tits have changed their foraging niche towards the outer parts of canopy, a niche typically occupied by the blue tit. This shift is theoretically advantageous, since the outer parts of the canopy are the richest caterpillar source. In practice, however, the poorer success of great tits indicates that this is not a beneficial strategy. Primarily, great tits in the northern population seem to be food limited since they lay too large clutches in relation to accessible food resources. This may be because great tits are not adapted to lower caterpillar production in the northern margins of their distribution and cannot change their narrow diet (3/4 caterpillars), like e.g. willow tits can. In search for caterpillars, food accessibility is further limited because the great tits' normal foraging behaviour, with wide search radius, may not function properly in the denser, outer parts of the canopy. Great tits may also be too heavy to forage efficiently on leafed twigs. 
3676994|We studied the nestling diet and the foraging performance of Great Tits in relation to prey abundance in the field. Numerous experimental studies present data on foraging decisions in captive Great Tits. Little is, however, known about prey selection in the field in relation to the food available and the consequences this has for the food delivery rate to nestlings. Since the foraging performance of the parents is one of the main determinants of fledging weight and juvenile survival, foraging behaviour is an important part of Great Tit reproduction. During the early breeding season up to 75% of the prey biomass delivered to the nestlings were spiders, which is in contrast with other studies. Only when caterpillars reached a size of 10-12 mg (approximately the average size of the spiders caught at that time) did the Great Tits change their preferences and 80-90% of the delivered prey masses were caterpillars, as reported by other authors. This 'switching' between prey occurred within a few days. It was not related to the changes in abundance but to size of caterpillars. The rate at which caterpillars were delivered to the nestlings (in mg/nestling/h) was strongly correlated with the caterpillar biomass available (in mg/m of branches) and nestling growth rate was significantly influenced by the mass of available caterpillars. The results provide evidence why perfect timing of breeding is so important for the Great Tit, and contribute to the understanding of the causal link between food supply, growth and breeding success.
10.2307/3676944|We analysed fat reserves of 28 species of trans-Saharan migrants after their crossing of the Sahara and most of the central Mediterranean on their way towards the breeding grounds in spring. A considerable variability was observed, with both fat and lean species, indicating species-specific strategies adopted to cross the Sahara and the Mediterranean. Lean species showed mean body mass values well below those reported during the breeding season, suggesting a pronounced physical stress caused by the migratory flight. To investigate the factors influencing the levels of residual fat reserves, we analysed correlates of mean fat load of each species at this stage of the journey. A stepwise multiple regression was run, with the fat reserve level as the dependent variable and the mean latitude of the wintering and breeding quarters, the northernmost latitude of the preferred habitat south of the Sahara, and wing morphology as independent variables. Residual fat load was standardised for each species' flying efficiency, using the residual of a regression of fat load on fat consumption per unit of distance covered, calculated using Pennycuick's (1989) model. After standardisation, residual fat load was significantly correlated only with the northernmost latitude of the optimal habitat south of the Sahara. The explained variance did not change when admitting for the species adapted to open habitats to make a stopover in northern Africa. Morphology (wing shape and tail/wing ratio) was significantly related to the distance covered but not to the residual fat levels. Our results suggest that the crossing of the Sahara and Mediterranean is constrained by the distribution of preferred habitat south of the Sahara. The ongoing desertification process in sub-Saharan Africa might therefore have a negative impact not only on the species wintering in the sub-Saharan area, but also on those species wintering in equatorial Africa.
30244736|Food abundance is an important determinant in habitat and patch selection but food accessibility and detectability is less often considered. Foraging on more cryptic seeds may increase predation risk by increasing the length of head down periods. Habitat structure may interact with this as birds are less able to detect predators with their head lowered in riskier obstructed habitats. We investigated patch choice in chaffinches Fringilla coelebs foraging in obstructed and open habitats and artificially manipulated the search times of seeds by colouring them either yellow or black. One trial consisted of a choice between the conspicuous seed in the open patch, and the cryptic seed in the obstructed patch; in the second trial the treatments were reversed. Individuals were more willing to forage in the obstructed habitat when the yellow seeds were present (43% of pecks made in the obstructed patch) than when the black seeds were present (18% of pecks in the obstructed patch). Differences in search time are likely to explain this result: yellow seeds were located almost twice as fast (1.260.60 seconds) as black ones (2.360.88 seconds). This experiment shows that individual foraging decisions may be influenced not only by food abundance but by the properties of individual food items (in this case seed crypsis) and the structure of the habitat they are present in.
3677386|Sexual dimorphism or dichromatism has long been considered the result of sexual selection. However, for many organisms the degree to which sexual dichromatism occurs has been determined within the confines of human perception. For birds, objective measures of plumage color have revealed previously unappreciated sexual dichromatism for several species. Here we present an unbiased assessment of plumage dichromatism in the yellow-breasted chat Icteria virens. Chats exhibit yellow to orange throat and breast plumage that to the unaided human observer differs only subtly in color. Spectrophotometric analyses revealed that chat throat and breast feathers exhibited reflective curves with two peaks, one in the ultraviolet and one in the yellow end of the spectrum. We found differences in both the shape and magnitude of reflectance curves between males and females. Moreover, for feathers collected from the lower edge and middle of the breast patch, male plumage reflected more light in the ultraviolet and yellow wavelengths compared to females, whereas male throat feathers appeared brighter than those of females only in the ultraviolet. Biochemical analyses indicated that the plumage pigmentation consisted solely of the carotenoid all-trans lutein and we found that males have higher concentrations of plumage carotenoids than females. Feathers that were naturally unpigmented reflected more UV light than yellow feathers, suggesting a potential role of feather microstructure in UV reflectance.
3677487| The crossing of ecological barriers is among the most energy-demanding and risky phases of migration. Scanty field data exist on the relationships between ecological barriers and pre-migratory fuel storing in songbirds. The aim of this study was to analyse whether the distance to be covered across ecological barriers can be considered as a factor affecting pre-migratory fuel stores in barn swallows Hirundo rustica following the two main western European flyways, funnelling through Iberia and Italy. Data refer to 13029 swallows and were collected during July-October in 1997-1998 at 19 roost sites, scattered over Spain and Italy (south of 43N). During the post-breeding phase (PB, July-August) energy stores did not differ significantly between the two geographical areas, whereas during the pre-migratory phase (PM, September-October) swallows in Italy carried larger energy stores than those in Spain. Assuming that swallows leave for migration from the fuelling site, we found a significant positive correlation between the width of ecological barriers and an average index of energy stores for each roost site during the PM phase. The width of ecological barriers (along a N-S migration route) was expressed as (1) the distance between the roost site and the coast of North Africa (representing the Mediterranean Sea), and (2) the distance between the roost site and the southern margin of the Sahara desert (the total width of ecological barriers). The weaker correlations obtained when considering only the Mediterranean as a barrier suggest that swallows may cross the desert without substantial refuelling in North Africa. Hence, we showed that fuel stores have a degree of population-specific variability among Italian and Iberian barn swallows and that the extension of ecological barriers may play a role in determining the amount of stores needed for the migratory flight. 
3677430|Recently acquired tissue makes possible a first molecular assessment of the taxonomic position of the Soccoro Island endemic mimid Mimodes graysoni. Mitochondrial DNA sequence data from the ND-2 gene was analyzed using parsimony, maximum likelihood and bayesian methods of inference. These methods all placed Mimodes graysoni within a strongly supported clade containing four representatives of the genus Mimus. Retention of the monotypic Mimodes would make Mimus paraphyletic, therefore Mimodes graysoni is more properly placed in the genus Mimus.
10.2307/3677092|Experimental feeding regimes in the field with laboratory mice tested the null hypothesis that food does not influence the reproduction of Eastern Screech-Owls. Dead mice were put in nest boxes. Only yearling females chose provisioned over unprovisioned boxes for nesting, but all owls took more mice from fed boxes in which they nested and increased consumption with the approach of egg laying. Experimental food did not affect laying date, which was earlier in warmer springs and among older females; nor did it influence clutch size, which was increased by warmer temperatures, more natural food, and female age. However, experimental food may have increased incubation attentiveness leading to more hatchlings and hence fledglings per egg in successful nests. Because female age (breeding experience) and environmental factors were the strongest or only determinants of egg laying, the null hypothesis was supported with modifications about nest-site selection and hatching. Favorable natural factors offset most effects of experimental food, suggesting that they should be measured and controlled statistically in order to place experimental food in its proper perspective in field situations. Also the amount of experimental food relative to daily maintenance must be specified, because different amounts may alter natural provisioning and experimental results.
10.2307/3677296| The prevalence and intensity of haematozoan infections were studied in a nest box breeding population of Great Tits on the island of Gotland in the Baltic Sea during 1990 to 1992. Adult birds were captured during the nestling period and blood smears taken. Ten taxa of haematozoa belonging to seven genera were identified. Haemoproteus majoris dominated with an overall prevalence of around 76%. There were year and age class differences in both prevalence and mean intensity of infection. Annual differences were probably due to variation in vector abundance and activity in the previous year. Older birds (2 years old) were more often infected, probably as a result of their longer time of exposure to vectors, but had a lower mean intensity of infection than young (1 year old) birds indicating an acquired immunity to parasites. Our results suggest that the frequency of blood parasites in avian populations may primarily be an effect of the abundance and behaviour of suitable vectors, and that birds may have little scope for behavioural adaptations to avoid being parasitized. 
10.2307/3677145|Sedge Warblers Acrocephalus schoenobaenus are reported to have no partial postjuvenile moult before migration, but this is uncertain and controversial. To resolve this issue, feather growth and development was studied in nestling, juvenile and 1st-calendar-year Sedge Warblers. Two phases of feather growth, representing growth of juvenile feathers in the main feather tracts of nestlings, and, within a few days of fledging, the later growth of feathers along the margins of the mid-dorsal tract, the ventral apterium and under-wing remigial coverts, are described. In addition, replacement of some dorsal-tract juvenile feathers was observed in 19% of birds and may represent the initiation of post-juvenile moult. These data indicate that a proportion of juvenile Sedge Warblers in northern England may initiate post-juvenile moult before migration. This observation is discussed in the context of strategies for moult, dispersal and migration in Acrocephalus species and highlights the need for a greater understanding of the physiological control of moult in relation to dispersal and migration.
10.2307/3677065|We collected House Sparrows Passer domesticus around London, Ontario, estimated their total body calcium masses, food habits and egg production to test for the effects of endogenous calcium levels on control of clutch size. Before egg production began, calcium levels increased significantly and remained high through the end of egg laying, and then declined significantly after egg laying. We found no evidence that clutch size was related to endogenous calcium levels. Upon first ovulation, House Sparrows greatly increased consumption of calciferous materials such as snail shells, bird eggshells and calciferous grit. Their diet returned to normal after the final egg was ovulated. Daily calcium intake was sufficient to meet eggshell calcium needs.
30243857|Sex ratio biases in avian species remain controversial, although several studies have documented apparent facultative adjustment of offspring sex ratios. While hybridizing pied and collared flycatchers have exhibited sex ratio skews that may be a response to sex-based costs associated with hybridization, this appears not to be true of a hybridized population of blue-winged Vermivora pinus and golden-winged V. chrysoptera warblers. We examined the primary sex ratio of nestlings in a population of hybrid and introgressed golden-winged warblers. The sex ratio of 298 nestlings from 81 nests in the population was approximately 50:50. We conducted paternity assignments and analyzed groups of nestlings with shared genetic parents ("genetic broods") and found no difference from the expected binomial distribution, and no statistically significant relationship between parental species phenotype and nestling sex ratio. We saw no evidence of preferential production of male or female nestlings, and female hybrids were found to mate and breed in the population. This suggests that heterogametic (female) hybrids are both viable and fertile, and thus that Haldane's Rule does not apply to this system. While populations of hybridizing golden-winged warblers should be monitored for evidence of costs of heterospecific pairings, it is unlikely that adjustment of sex ratios would be the form of compensation for sub-optimal mating conditions. Our results provide support for the emerging hypothesis that hybrids suffer no disadvantage relative to golden-winged and blue-winged warblers.
10.2307/3677306| In changes that are among the most dramatic known for birds, Eared Grebes undergo 3-6 atrophy/hypertrophy cycles in major body constituents annually. The most pronounced takes place at staging areas in fall, when grebes become flightless for up to several months. At this season they accumulate huge fat stores (to 46% of lean body mass) and more than double the mass of body, liver, stomach, and intestine; leg and heart mass also increase. Concurrently, pectoral muscles atrophy and can shrink below the size needed for flight ( 11% of total body mass). Before grebes depart for wintering areas these changes are reversed. In a 2-3 week predeparture period body mass drops by one-third as birds catabolize fat and reduce viscera mass by 50%; leg mass also declines, while pectoral muscle increases. Similar cycles, which do not involve fattening to obesity, are repeated at wintering and breeding locations and, in some birds, on additional spring staging and fall molting areas. Heavy fat deposits in fall may insure that grebes can postpone their migration to wintering areas into the months of maximum darkness, thereby minimizing the risk of predation. The extreme predeparture reductions in leg and visceral mass, which occur in all seasons, reduce flight costs by minimizing wing loading and enhancing flight speed. Why grebes allow pectoral muscles to atrophy if they must rebuild them presently remains a puzzle. Several lines of evidence suggest that grebes attain a specific (optimal?) body composition prior to migrating. Further research into changes that may take place in other species prior to migration or at different times of the annual cycle is warranted. 
30243837|Display flight in collared doves Streptopelia decaocto consists of a rapid ascent from a perch, followed by a glide back to the same or near-by perch. The hypothesis that ascending flight presents an honest signal of the maximum power generating capacity of the displayer is considered. Using a deliberately conservative approach to calculating the power requirements of collared dove display flights, the highest power performance in an ascending collared dove is equivalent to that derived from wind tunnel studies on the morphologically similar ringed turtle-dove Streptopelia risoria. Muscle power requirements are very high (up to 232 W/kg), representing the highest performance measured in the field to date. However, the maximum energy requirements over an hour due to climbing power equates to only 5% of the basal metabolic rate. Display flight in collared doves appears to be an efficient and 'uncheatable' system for demonstrating fitness, either for mating or for territory defence.
30244799|Young birds often face poor food supply, which reduces their growth and development. However, if the shortage of resources is only temporary, there is a possibility to adjust the growth trajectory of morphological traits after the end of the short-term limitation period. The two main ways of compensatory growth are delayed development (parallel growth) and growth acceleration (catch-up growth). Parallel growth has been widely demonstrated in birds, but the presence of catch-up growth in altricial species has been questioned. However, most experiments have been conducted in laboratory conditions. We manipulated the food supply of nestling collared flycatchers Ficedula albicollis in the wild by removing the male parent for three days at 4-7 days of chick age. We performed early partial swapping to control for origin effects on growth, and total swapping after the period of food limitation to ensure similar late growth environment for deprived and control chicks. Both body mass and tarsus length of deprived chicks was negatively affected by the food scarcity. Body mass showed efficient catch-up growth, but this compensation was absent in skeletal size. Body mass is an important determinant of postfledging survival in this long-distance migrant. Further studies are needed in a variety of species to examine developmental plasticity in relation to age at food scarcity and the allocation hierarchy of various morphological traits.
3677747|Tawny owls Strix aluco generally roost in cryptic locations during the day. To test the hypothesis that this cryptic behaviour is an effort to avoid mobbers or avian predators, we measured diurnal behaviour and cause-specific mortality of radio-tagged birds. Non-breeding adults (assumed to be well fed individuals, optimising their own survival) roosted in less exposed locations than adults with young and newly independent juveniles. Parents roosted in the most exposed sites when their young were immature and vulnerable to depredation, probably to guard offspring. Newly independent juveniles apparently selected roosting sites in exposed places to get access to food, as this behaviour was associated with lower perching heights and higher prey abundance beneath their roosting sites. They also perched in more exposed sites, closer to the ground, in summers with low prey abundance compared to summers with high prey abundance. After previous encounters with goshawks Accipiter gentilis, dependent juveniles roosted in less exposed places compared to other young. The increased risk of being mobbed was highly significant with increasing roosting exposure. Once an owl was mobbed, the intensity of the mobbing correlated positively with the mass of the mobbers, but mobbing birds never killed any owls. In contrast, diurnal raptors caused 73% of natural owl deaths (n = 15) and the depredation rate by raptors was 3.8 times higher in population classes that generally roosted in more exposed locations than did non-breeding adults. We therefore suggest that depredation by diurnal raptors is the main factor shaping the diurnal behaviour of tawny owls.
10.2307/3677125|Fruit-eating birds are thought to inefficiently digest and/or assimilate nutrients from fruits. Contradicting this established premise, I found that Cedar Waxwings Bombycilla cedrorum and three thrush species absorbed fruit sugars efficiently, comparable to levels of sugar assimilation shown by nectar-feeding birds. Relatively low sugar digestive efficiencies by birds eating Lonicera morowii fruit could be explained by the especially low sugar solute concentration of this fruit's pulp. Sugar digestive efficiency is a proportional measure of sugar extraction from ingested sugar solutions. When most ingested water is excreted with unabsorbed sugars, digestive efficiency will decline as fruit sugar concentration decreases if sugars are reduced to relatively constant, minimum concentrations in excreted water. Under this circumstance, fecal nutrient concentration may be more appropriate for comparisons of how well animals utilize nutrients from foods that differ in their concentrations of dissolved or dispersed nutrients. Efficient absorption of fruit sugars by Cedar Waxwings and thrushes contradicts the premise that sugary, bird-dispersed fruits challenge the digestive systems of avian frugivores so that nutrient utilization is impaired. Because simple sugars (glucose and fructose) are readily assimilated, digestive processing of sugary fruits is more rapid than processing of foods containing complex nutrients. Thus, fruits represent accessible, energy-rich foods from which nutrients are efficiently absorbed by avian frugivores.
10.2307/3677157|An animal that migrates may travel to an area where the hazards of winter are less severe than in the breeding area, or where the food supply is better, but the journey may be dangerous and its energy cost may be high. Simple conditions are presented for predicting whether migration will increase its probability of survival, or improve its energy balance. Speeds and energy costs of migration are estimated for walking, swimming and flying vertebrates of masses ranging from three grammes to three tonnes. Consideration of these in the light of the proposed conditions indicates that 1000 km (round trip) migrations may benefit flying vertebrates of all sizes, but are unlikely to be beneficial for small swimmers or runners. Migrations of 10,000 km are expected to be beneficial only for fliers and large endothermic (but not ectothermic) swimmers. These conclusions are consistent with the occurrence of long migrations among vertebrates.
3677554|In many bird populations, individuals display one of several genetically inherited colour morphs. Colour polymorphism can be maintained by several mechanisms one of which being frequency-dependent selection with colour morphs signalling alternative mating strategies. One morph may be dominant and territorial, and another one adopt a sneaky behaviour to gain access to fertile females. We tested this hypothesis in the barn owl Tyto alba in which coloration varies from reddish-brown to white. This trait is heritable and neither sensitive to the environment in which individuals live nor to body condition. In Switzerland, reddish-brown males were observed to feed their brood at a higher rate and to produce more offspring than white males. This observation lead us to hypothesize that white males may equalise fitness by investing more effort in extra-pair copulations. This hypothesis predicts that lighter coloured males produce more extra-pair young, have larger testes and higher levels of circulating testosterone. However, our results are not consistent with these three predictions. First, paternity analyses of 54 broods with a total of 211 offspring revealed that only one young was not sired by the male that was feeding it. Second, testes size was not correlated with male plumage coloration suggesting that white males are not sexually more active. Finally, in nestlings at the time of feather growth testosterone level was not related to plumage coloration suggesting that this androgen is not required for the expression of this plumage trait. Our study therefore indicates that in the barn owl colour polymorphism plays no role in the probability of producing extra-pair young.
25161508|The distribution of individuals among habitats that vary in quality (i.e. resource availability) may affect reproductive output at a population level. I compared indicators of habitat quality including the breeding experience ratios (inexperienced:experienced birds), turnover rates, pairing success, and densities of a forest songbird, the Eastern Yellow Robin Eopsaltria australis, in two small, food-poor forest fragments, with those in two large, food-rich fragments. I then evaluated the likelihood that the breeding experience ratio affected the reproductive output of populations. Inexperienced males occurred in small fragments eight times as often as in large fragments. Male turnover rates were 1.5 times higher in the small than large fragments, and 20% (10/50) of the male population were unpaired in the small fragments compared to 0% (0/25) in the large. None of these measures differed significantly for females. Experienced birds of both sexes produced almost all of the offspring compared with inexperienced birds. Despite these findings, reproductive output did not vary with fragment size for robins. Thus, while breeding experience clearly influenced the reproductive success of individuals, there were no obvious population consequences of having disproportionately more inexperienced males in the small fragments. I conclude that while male traits may be good indicators of resource levels within fragments (specifically, food availability), they may not be adequate predictors of population performance. Thus, the reproductive output of populations must be measured directly before conclusions concerning population performance can be made. Interestingly, breeding densities were not accurate indicators of either resource levels or population performance. Densities were two times higher in the smaller fragments, and I suggest that this result reflects problems with male dispersal among fragments caused by isolation.
3676931|Seasonal shifts in the diets of Garden Warblers Sylvia borin, Blackcaps S. atricapilla and Lesser Whitethroats S. curruca at a North German site were studied from samples obtained by flushing the digestive tract of the birds. The significance of seven species of berries and pulpy fruits in the diet of these species while feeding in riparian vegetation during the premigratory and migratory seasons was assessed and compared with the pattern of frugivory shown by the same species in southern Germany. Because of the short time span between hatching and onset of migration, first-year long- and medium-distance migratory Sylvia warblers from northern Europe are forced to accelerate their juvenile development. Presumably to meet the higher nutritional demands of an accelerated development, juvenile Garden Warblers and Blackcaps in northern Germany ate relatively more fruit during premigration than Blackcaps in southern Germany. Fruit occurred in about 90% of their diet samples during both premigration and migration. However, this might not hold true for experienced adult birds. Garden Warblers accelerated the rate of fattening and reduced the time needed to prepare for migration when feeding on a mixed fruit diet. There were indications that Blackcaps directly influenced the fruit choice of Garden Warblers when fruits preferred by both species were scarce. Blackcaps and Garden Warblers showed subtle differences in their seasonal preferences for black elder Sambucus nigra and woody nightshade Solanum dulcamara.
3677460|Many long-distance passerine migrants arrive with more fat stores than necessary to have reached their northerly breeding grounds. Researchers have argued for adaptive advantages associated with arriving with 'surplus' migratory fat, including increased breeding performance and insurance against adverse weather, and reduced food resources during the days following arrival. The objectives of this work were to document fat stores in American redstarts Setophaga ruticilla arriving to breed in northern Michigan and to test predictions associated with the hypothesis that arrival fat serves an insurance role. Results suggest that redstarts arrived in northern Michigan with fat stores sufficient to have continued migrating an additional distance greater than 1000 km. Significant yearly variation in arrival fat corresponded in part with environmental conditions measured at the breeding grounds. Birds arrived with the most fat in the year with the coolest temperatures and the lowest food abundance at the time of arrival to the site. Further, an inverse relationship between arrival fat and arrival day in males indicated that early arrivals carried more fat than later arrivals. Birds that arrived early faced cooler temperatures and lower densities of terrestrial invertebrates, and arrival fat may have provided a mechanism to overcome poor early season foraging conditions. However, our results are not entirely consistent with the hypothesis that arrival fat serves only as insurance. Arrival fat appeared important even during the most benign year of this study. Further, evidence suggests that females may have derived more benefit from arrival fat than males. These results highlight the connection between phases of a bird's annual cycle. Migrants that do well en route, arrive at breeding grounds in better condition, which may contribute to survival and reproductive success.
3677602|The intensity of parasite infections often increases during the reproductive season of the host as a result of parasite reproduction, increased parasite transmission and increased host susceptibility. We report within-individual variation in immune parameters, hematocrit and body mass in adult house martins Delichon urbica rearing nestlings in nests experimentally infested with house martin bugs Oeciacus hirundinis and birds rearing nestlings in initially parasite-free nests. From first to second broods body mass and hematocrit of breeding adult house martins decreased. In contrast leucocytes and immunoglobulins became more abundant. When their nests were infested with ectoparasites adults lost more weight compared with birds raising nestlings in nests treated with pyrethrin, whereas the decrease in hematocrit was more pronounced during infection with blood parasites. Neither experimental infestation with house martin bugs nor blood parasites had a significant effect on the amount of immune defences.
3676990|Most birds breed in pairs but at least 3% of passerine species are cooperative breeders, whereby more than two adults help to raise the young. The general rarity of cooperative breeding has led to the assumption that cooperative behaviour has evolved from the ancestral trait of pair breeding. However, it has been suggested that pair breeding may be the derived state in some taxa. The primary aim of this research was to test this suggestion using the genus Acanthiza, which contains examples of both cooperatively and pair breeding species. Mitochondrial DNA sequences were used to construct a phylogenetic hypothesis for the tribe containing Acanthiza, the Acanthizini. The breeding behaviour of the species sequenced was determined from records in the literature; where there were no such data the frequency of another social behaviour, flocking, was used as an indicator of breeding behaviour. The mapping of breeding systems onto the phylogeny led to the conclusion that cooperative breeding is the ancestral state in the Acanthizini, with pair breeding evolving twice in the genus Acanthiza. Models explaining the occurrence of cooperative breeding in terms of broad environmental factors or life history do not appear to be applicable to the genus Acanthiza. The pair breeding Acanthiza species cluster into two clades, suggesting some influence of phylogenetic history on the occurrence of the different breeding systems. Combining the results of this study with other data suggests the tendency to breed cooperatively could be ancestral in the superfamily Meliphagoidea.
3677415|In response to unpredictability of both food availability and core offspring failure, parents of many avian species initially produce more offspring than they commonly rear (overproduction). When parental investment is insufficient to raise the whole brood the handicap of hatching last means 'marginal' chicks are less likely to survive if brood reduction occurs. Conversely, if marginal offspring are required as replacements for failed 'core' chicks, or parental investment is sufficient to rear the whole brood, the handicap imposed on marginal chicks must be reversible if overproduction is to be a viable strategy. I investigated the ability of marginal offspring to overcome the handicap imposed by hatching asynchrony using a combination of a field experiment, designed to manipulate both the amount of total competition and the relative competitive ability of chicks within a brood, and data on the growth and survival of unmanipulated, three-chick broods from three consecutive years. The results indicate that, even when resources are abundant, marginal offspring do not begin to overcome the competitive handicap imposed by hatching asynchrony until the period of growth when energetic requirements reach their peak, and subsequent survival to fledging is almost assured. This is apparently a consequence of parents controlling allocation of early parental investment, so that any brood reduction 'decisions' can be left as late as possible. Marginal chicks initially channel resources into maintaining mass, relative to skeletal size, as a buffer against starvation. However this also means competitiveness is reduced, so if conditions are poor marginal chicks are rapidly out-competed, lose condition and die. Conversely, when food availability is good marginal offspring devote more resources to skeletal growth and quickly close the gap on their core siblings, meaning the handicap is reversible. The benefits of overproduction and hatching asynchrony as reproductive strategies to maximise success in Lesser Black-backed Gulls are discussed in relation to the reproductive alternatives.
10.2307/3677079|Nest density has been considered to affect the success of gull colonies. From 1984-1993 I studied the California Gull Larus californicus colony at Mono Lake, California, which has increased 30-fold since 1916 and attained nest densities that are among the highest reported for the species. I found that the Upper Critical Density (UCD) approximated
10.2307/3677253|When studying egg removal as a host defence against brood parasitism, most researchers have assumed that only females eject parasitic eggs. We examined the response of captive male and female Spotless Starlings to experimental intraspecific nest parasitism. Before their own egg laying started, females ejected all eggs during their first visit to the nestbox. Males ejected all eggs added between 10 and four days before laying, while in the last three days before laying ejection frequency decreased significantly. Eggs introduced after clutch initiation were never removed by either male or female Spotless Starlings. Our data provide further evidence against the long-standing assumption that only females eject parasitic eggs.
3677649|Theoretical models of short-term avian behaviour suggest that small birds adaptively balance the ecological costs and benefits of winter fat to maximize survival probability. When low starvation risk eliminates benefit but not cost of fat, birds are leaner than when under high starvation risk. Most models focus on single factors affecting starvation risk and subsequent choice of adaptive body mass; however, in complex environments, more than one factor affects starvation risk. To test for multiple interacting factors affecting fat reserves, long-term geographical data on winter fat in a ground-feeding finch, the dark-eyed junco Junco hyemalis were analyzed. Two measures of fat were used: (1) visible subcutaneous fat class, and (2) body mass residuals left after age, sex and wing length effects were factored out. Site means for fat measures were obtained from juncos visiting supplemental feeding sites in midwest and northwest North America. In backward elimination regression of fat class, the temperature-snowfall interaction term and its constituent variables, proximate temperature (averaged over capture day and the preceding ten days) and snowfall (frequency over the same time interval) were significant explanators of variation. Snowfall frequency is considered to be a surrogate measure of resource deterioration. The interaction term, also found in backward regression of body mass residuals, showed that as temperature declined at low snowfall frequency, less fat was deposited than when temperature declined at high snowfall frequency. Thus, in a recently cold environment suggesting relatively high resource predictability, perceived starvation risk is low, and less costly fat is needed to reduce starvation risk compared to a cold and unpredictable resource environment. The analysis of mass residuals also yielded a significant effect of daylength, suggesting an underlying fattening programme independent of proximate environmental conditions. A longitudinal study of junco fat stores indicated that individual environmental responses contributed significantly to midwinter fat peaks. These results agree with predictions of a synergistic model of adaptive fat regulation in small birds by suggesting that a ground-feeding bird may maximize winter survival probability by integrating multiple environmental factors affecting starvation risk.
10.2307/3677229| Since 1991, a trawling moratorium has been enforced in the provinces of Tarragona and Castell, NE Spain, where two Audouin's Gull Larus audouinii colonies are located 80 km apart: the Ebro Delta (on the mainland) and the Columbretes Is. (60 km off the coast). While the Columbretes Is. colony was established in 1973 and has grown only slightly (ca. 600 pairs in 1995), the Ebro Delta colony was established in 1981 and today holds 70% of total world population (ca. 10300 pairs in 1995). The trawling moratorium has coincided with the breeding season of the species, though the particular breeding stage affected was different each year. The lack of trawl discards caused by the moratorium and the likely decrease of clupeiform populations have affected both the feeding and breeding biology of the species. However, the effects of a reduced food supply were greater in the Columbretes Is., probably because of the lack of alternative food resources. When trawlers operated, the gulls' diet was very similar in the two colonies, but when the moratorium started, significant differences were found at both taxonomic and typologic levels. Prey from rice fields acted as a buffer for the Ebro Delta colony, whereas in the Columbretes Is. the gulls were forced to fish actively, probably at greater energy costs. In the moratorium years, breeding success was always significantly lower in the Columbretes Is. than in the Ebro Delta; extremely, no young fledged in the Columbretes Is. in 1993. Clutch size was also significantly lower in the Columbretes Is. colony, even when the moratorium did not coincide with the laying stage, suggesting that predation by Yellow-legged Gull Larus cachinnans could be an additional limiting factor at this locality, where the ratio of breeding pairs of Yellow-legged to Audouin's Gulls is much higher than in the Ebro Delta. In contrast to previous studies, the larger colony (Ebro Delta) had better breeding performance than the smaller colony (Columbretes Is.), suggesting that density-dependent effects may not operate in the Ebro Delta colony because of the large variety of foraging habitats (rice fields, lagoons, dunes, beaches) and the high productivity of the sea off this colony. While population size in the Ebro Delta colony suggested the absence of limiting factors until the establishment of the trawling moratorium, the size of the Columbretes Is. colony indicated a breeding site limitation, and probably competition with the Yellow-legged Gull. 
3677505| Optimal sex allocation for individuals can be predicted from a number of different hypotheses. Fisherian models of sex allocation predict equal investment in males and females up to the end of parental care and predict brood compositions based on the relative costs of producing males and females. The Trivers-Willard hypothesis predicts that individual females should alter the sex ratio of their broods based on their own condition if it has a differential impact on the lifetime reproductive success of their sons and daughters. The Charnov model of sex allocation predicts that females should alter sex allocation based on paternal attributes that may differentially benefit sons versus daughters. Because females are the heterogametic sex in birds, many recent studies have focussed on primary sex ratio biases. In black-capped chickadees Poecile atricapilla, males are larger than females suggesting they may be more costly to raise than females. Female condition affects competitive ability in contests for mates, and thus may be related to variance in fecundity. Females prefer high-ranking males as both social and extrapair partners. These observations suggest that females might vary the sex ratio of their broods based on the predictions of any of the above models. Here, we report on the results of PCR based sex determination of 1093 nestlings in 175 broods sampled from 1992 to 2001. Population-wide, we found a mean brood sex ration of 0.525  0.016, with no significant deviation from a predicted binomial distribution. We found no effect of clutch size, female condition, hatch date, parental rank or paternity. Our results reject the idea that female black-capped chickadees systematically vary sex allocation in their broods. 
30243884|Breeding success in ground-nesting birds is primarily determined by nest survival, which may be density-dependent, but the generality of this pattern remains untested. In a replicated crossover experiment conducted on 30 wetlands, survival of simulated mallard nests was related to "biome" (n = 14 mediterranean and 16 boreal wetlands), breeding "phenology" (early vs late nests), and "density" (2 vs 8 nests per 225 m shoreline). Local abundances of "waterfowl", "other waterbirds", and "avian predators" were used as covariates. We used an information-theoretic approach and Program MARK to select among competing models. Nest survival was lower in late nests compared with early ones, and it was lower in the mediterranean than in the boreal study region. High-density treatment nests suffered higher depredation rates than low-density nests during days 1-4 of each experimental period. Nest survival was negatively associated with local abundance of "waterfowl" in the boreal but not in the mediterranean biome. Effect estimates from the highestranked model showed that nest "density" (d 1-4) had the strongest impact on model fit; i.e. three times that of "biome" and 1.5 times that of "phenology". The latter's effect, in turn, was twice that of "biome". We argue that our study supports the idea that density-dependent nest predation may be temporally and spatially widespread in waterfowl. We also see an urgent need for research of how waterfowl nesting phenology is matched to that of prey and vegetation.
30243901|Two Australian species of teal (Anseriformes: Anatidae: Anas), the grey teal Anas gracilis and the chestnut teal A. castanea, are remarkable for the zero or near-zero divergence recorded between them in earlier surveys of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) diversity. We confirmed this result through wider geographical and population sampling as well as nucleotide sampling in the more rapidly evolving mtDNA control region. Any data set where two species share polymorphism as is the case here can be explained by a model of gene flow through hybridization on one hand or by incomplete lineage sorting on the other hand. Ideally, analysis of such shared polymorphism would simultaneously estimate the likelihood of both phenomena. To do this, we used the underlying principle of the IMa package to explore ramifications to understanding population histories of A. gracilis and A. castanea. We cannot reject that hybridization occurs between the two species but an equally or more plausible finding for their nearly zero divergence is incomplete sorting following very recent divergence between the two, probably in the mid-late Pleistocene. Our data add to studies that explore intermediate stages in the evolution of reciprocal monophyly and paraphyletic or polyphyletic relationships in mtDNA diversity among widespread Australian birds.
3677771|Migrating passerines moulting in the breeding quarters before autumn migration sometimes end up with less time than needed for a normal moult. To deal with this the birds could for example suspend moult or moult faster. In this paper we investigate the effect of an induced time-constraint on the moult of Lesser Whitethroats Sylvia curruca. The time-constraint was induced through a shift in light regime large enough to transfer the birds to a date when, under normal conditions, they already should have started moulting. Time-constrained birds moulted faster and also grew shorter wing feathers, resulting in a shorter wing, compared to control birds. Only one individual responded by interrupting moult and retained a number of inner primaries unmoulted. The observed adjustments of moult, and the higher fuel loads towards the end of moult, are consistent with the ideas that time is an important factor in bird migration, affecting not only migration but also the events preceding it.
3676991|In this study we used DNA fingerprinting to provide an accurate measure of paternity in a nest-box colony of Jackdaws. The species is a semi-colonial, socially monogamous passerine which establishes long-term pair bonds. Parents raise a single annual brood in which 50% brood reduction is commonplace. However, nest sites are a limited resource, non-breeding adults are also common around colonies and males are frequently separated from their incubating females during the fertile egg-laying period so that opportunities arise for extra-pair copulation. The parentage analysis, however, revealed no cases of extra-pair fertilisation (EPF) or intra-specific brood parasitism. Therefore fledgling output or survival is likely to be a good measure of individual reproductive success in this species. The lack of EPFs is not explained by nesting synchrony and we discuss the relative costs and benefits to females of seeking EPFs; the likelihood that paternal care and a life-history strategy similar to many long-lived non-passerines may also constrain the species to monogamy.
30243866|Dialects may signal social or population identity and increase tolerance within communities. We hypothesized that in European starling Sturnus vulgaris communal roosts, birds coming from the same breeding area, i.e. dialectal zone, might tend to stay together within the roost. Recordings were performed in the colonies, revealed in earlier studies, multiple dialects and small sectors where birds shared the same variants at the different levels. We also performed recordings in different locations within night roosts. The dialects recorded in the roosts were the same as those recorded at nest sites during the day and they were not distributed randomly within roosts: birds from the same geographical diurnal origin would gather and stay together, either because they arrived together or were attracted to their dialect. Although our results have to be confirmed by the study of identifiable individuals, we propose original lines of thought on roost structuring and on the role of song dialects.
