10.2307/1548901|Postecdysial modifications of the cuticle of Callinectes sapidus were evaluated by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) of soluble protein extracts. Gels stained with Coomassie blue and with silver demonstrated that major changes in protein composition or mobility occurred immediately after ecdysis. Electroblots of SDS-PAGE gels were probed with various biotinylated lectins. The patterns of lectin binding were also markedly different between blots of pre- and postecdysial cuticle extracts, demonstrating a change in glycosylation or glycoprotein mobility in the early postecdysial period. The dramatic alteration in cuticular composition is concurrent with the onset of sclerotization and mineralization of the preexuvially deposited layers of the cuticle.
10.2307/1548814|Uca tetragonon is an Indo-West Pacific species of fiddler crab in the narrow-front (NF) species group. Male Uca tetragonon used display by claw-waving to attract females into burrows of males for mating. Pairing attempts by male Uca tetragonon attracting conspecific females into their burrows occurred in 2 different ways. In type 1, males entered their burrows after their mates did, and, in type 2, males entered their burrows first and their mates followed. Both types occurred with similar frequencies. Rate of pair formation and spawning rate of paired females were not significantly different between the 2 types. Nine of 20 females spawned in the pooled data from both types. In Indo-West Pacific fiddlers, type 1 pair formation (female first) has been found in the 5 subgenera (NF and the broad-front species (BF) group) and type 2 (male first) previously only in the BF group, but now also in Uca tetragonon. Type 1 is common to all subgenera of Uca in the Indo-West Pacific, a criterion typical of ancestral characters. Since NF and BF groups are distinctly different in phylogenesis as well as in their ecology, type 2 pair formation is supposed to be a derived behavioral character in NF fiddlers, having evolved independently from the BF group.
1549352|The sequence of 18S rDNA was used to analyze the phylogenetic relationship of three thecostracans, Verruca spengleri, Paralepas palinuri, and Dendrogaster asterinae, with respect to other thecostracan crustaceans whose 18S rDNA sequences were reported previously. The ascothoracidan Dendrogaster is grouped with the other ascothoracidan, Ulophysema. Verruca, a representative of the Verrucomorpha, is located among Ibla, Calantica, and the four balanomorphs analyzed. Our finding that Verruca clusters within the Balanomorpha does not agree with the suggestion that the Verrucomorpha and the Balanomorpha evolved independently and that the order Sessilia is a biphyletic taxon. Paralepas, which belongs to the Heterolepadomorpha (pedunculate cirripeds lacking shell plates) that were regarded as presenting plesiomorphic features of the pedunculates, is placed internally within the Lepadomorpha. This raises the possibility that the Heterolepadomorpha do not represent plesiomorphic features of cirripeds. Accordingly, Paralepas may be regarded as a true lepadomorph in which the loss of shell plates is apomorphic. Our study emphasizes the importance of molecular data in understanding thecostracan evolution.
10.2307/1548799|Branchinecta mexicana, new species, a fairy shrimp from central Mexico, is described and figured. Its principal diagnostic characteristic is a squamate appendix on the median side of the basal antennal article. The proximal peglike part of this appendix extends into a posterodorsally directed tip, while its distal part shows 2-5 incisions. Differential features between the new species and the related species B. packardi Pearse are discussed on the basis of a SEM analysis. Branchinecta mexicana, new species, represents the southernmost record of a branchinectid in North America. No other phyllopod species were found at the time of its collection.
1549969|This study investigated the social behaviors of blind cave-adapted crayfish and compared them to the behaviors of sighted crayfish. Because blind cave crayfish display phototactic behavior, presumably mediated by the caudal photoreceptors in the sixth abdominal ganglion, we tested whether light, a disturbance in the crayfish's normal cave environment, altered their normal social behaviors. Observations were made in infrared or dim-white light to quantify social interactions. Exposure to white light reduced the amount of interaction time as compared to infrared light. The results revealed that blind crayfish did not exhibit behaviors usually associated with visual displays and posturing (i.e., the raised meral spread was absent). Same-sized individuals, previously housed in isolated conditions for two weeks, were paired. Both individuals tended to tail flip or move apart immediately after initial antennae contact. This is the same behavior observed within the natural cave environment. After repeated interactions between them, the rapid tail flip behavior became less frequent, while avoidance became an automatic reaction. Ethograms were constructed to determine the differences in the observed behaviors between the aggressive and submissive cave crayfish.
27753937|Inducible defenses are phenotypically plastic traits in which individuals or colonies develop a predator/herbivore-resistant trait in response to a cue. The barnacle Chthamalus fissus, commonly found in the upper intertidal of southern California and Baja California, Mexico, exhibits three morphs: one with an oval operculum, one with a narrow, slit-like operculum, and a relatively uncommon bent form with the operculum opening on one side. A previous study suggested that the narrow and bent morphs are defended from attack by the predatory snail Mexcanthina lugubris lugubris. In the present study, predator exposure and predator exclusion experiments revealed that operculum morphology of C. fissus is a plastic trait: individuals exposed to M. lugubris lugubris develop into the narrow operculum morph or, less commonly, the bent morph. While some species of marine invertebrates exhibit either a generalized plasticity response to various predators or plastic traits that are specific to the type of predator to which they have been exposed, the observation in this study appears to be the first demonstration of the occurrence of alternative inducible defenses to the same predator within a single species of marine invertebrate.
10.2307/1548504|Adult and larval forms of Chthamalus dalli and Chthamalus fissus are compared and distinguishing characteristics described. Adult forms of these species differ in malate dehydrogenase enzyme allozymes, in the setae of the second cirrus, and in shell characteristics. Larval forms are morphologically identical, although larvae cultured from adults collected at Monterey Bay differ in size at naupliar stages I-III and at the cyprid stage.
1549620|The amphipod Crangonyx floridanus and the isopods Caecidotea racovitzai and Asellus hilgendorfii were discovered in the Sacramento/San Joaquin Delta, California, U.S.A. We applied Chapman and Carlton's (1994) criteria for determining introduced species to test whether these species are non-indigenous to the delta. The majority of the attributes scored positive, indicating that these species are non-indigenous. These populations appear to be firmly established, as they occurred at a variety of freshwater wetland habitats throughout a one-year study. The species are briefly described, and distinguished from similar native and non-indigenous species known to exist in the surrounding area.
10.2307/1548902| In order to assess the food utilization of Chionoecetes opilio, we measured the activity of 5 enzymes in the digestive gland: 2 metabolize animal products (chitinase and phosphorylase-a), and 3 digest vegetal products (cellulose, alpha-amylase, and laminarinase). The analysis was made on 18 morphometrically mature males and 2 mature females. Chitinase had a high activity level (mean = 6.728  1.689 units/mg of protein). Phosphorylase-a had a much lower activity level (mean = 0.114  0.039 unit/mg). Alpha-amylase, while present in every crab, had a low activity level (mean = 0.102  0.031 unit/mg). Cellulase was present in 85% of the crabs (mean = 0.115  0.089 unit/mg). Laminarinase was hardly detected (maximum 0.002 unit/mg). The presence of active enzymes digesting vegetal products indicates that the snow crab is not a strict carnivore but is able to metabolize energy from various trophic sources, including vegetal detritus. 
1549338| Preliminary studies have shown that males and females of the freshwater crayfish Parastacus brasiliensis (von Martens, 1869) have an intersexed internal genitalia characterized by the existence of genital ducts of both sexes that connect to a gonad with male or female components, according to the sex. To determine the type of sexuality of this species, specimens (n = 92) from 11.7 to 40.0 mm carapace length were collected at Mariana Pimentel municipality, Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil (302039S, 512239W). Anatomical and histological analysis of the gonads disclosed the existence of three sexual forms: (1) intersexed males (n = 36), (2) transitionals between male and female sex (n = 8), and (3) intersexed females (n = 48). The transitionals present the following common morphological features: both genital apertures are present, but the female apertures are closed, as is usual in males; coexistence of oocytes and testicular acini in the same gonad (ootestis); and a longitudinal collecting tubule, large in diameter in the testicular region. The ovarian component of the gonad includes previtellogenic and primary vitellogenic oocytes. Of the 44 individuals classified as males by the analysis of the aspect of the genital apertures, 18.2% were transitionals, suggesting the existence of primary males that never change sex and a sexual system that is known as partial protandry. The existence of small females suggests that some females never go through a male phase. The histology of the gonads and genital ducts is described, and the germ cells are identified in each sex. The possible reasons for the existence of hermaphroditism in the studied population are discussed based on theoretical models. 
10.2307/1548958|Haplostoma humesi, new species, is described on the basis of females found in a compound ascidian (Aplidium sp.) collected in Madagascar. The female carries a single egg sac on the urosome. This feature has not been reported in any of the 12 named species of the genus Haplostoma; all those whose egg sacs have been described possess 2. In spite of its unique feature, H. humesi is closely related to H. canui, from the French Channel coast, described by Chatton and Harant (1924) and restudied by Ooishi (1994). Like H. canui, legs 1-4 of H. humesi have the endopods reduced (without a distal protrusion) and have the exopods armed only with bifurcate spines (lacking a lateral seta). Nevertheless, H. humesi can be distinguished from H. canui by minute differences in the legs, as well as by differences in the body form, rostrum, antennule, labrum, and caudal ramus. This is the first haplostomatin to be reported from the Indian Ocean.
10.2307/1548270|Four experiments were performed to determine the effects of external Ca<sup>++</sup>, L-cysteine, ammonia, and contact with glass surfaces on the acrosome reaction of spermatozoa of Homarus americanus. Few of the spermatozoa incubated in Ca<sup>++</sup>-free sea water or in sea water containing L-cysteine showed an acrosome reaction. Many acrosome reactions were observed among spermatozoa incubated in sea water containing Ca<sup>++</sup> or ammonia and also when Ca<sup>++</sup> was added to spermatozoa suspended in Ca<sup>++</sup>-free sea water. It is concluded that Ca<sup>++</sup> plays an important role in this lobster's acrosome reaction. Incidences of acrosome reactions were higher in suspensions of spermatozoa in Ca<sup>++</sup>-free sea water that were agitated than in those that were not agitated.
10.2307/1548713|This study provides information on the kinematics and water currents generated by the swimming appendages of three mysidan species: Antarctomysis sp., Neomysis rayii, and Acanthomysis sculpta. From the kinematic analysis, we determined that the moving thoracic exopodites were spatially segregated along two axes, which reduced the interference between the ipsilateral swimming appendages. The posterior thoracic exopodites, particularly the three posteriormost appendages, varied the orientation of their paths, thereby influencing the trajectory of the exhalent stream. The predominant trajectory of the paired exhalent streams was in a ventroposterior direction, but the exhalent streams could adopt more pronounced dorsal or ventral directions relative to those more commonly observed. The fact that only one exhalent stream emerged from each side of the animal suggested that the exopodites were propelling water in a synergistic fashion. Cannon and Manton (1927) claimed that the elliptical motion of the exopodites produced both swimming currents and feeding currents, the so-called "axial currents" that flow medially between adjacent basipodites, joining together with an anteriorly directed current between the eighth pair of endopodites in the food groove to transport food to the mouth. Although we presented fine streams of fluorescein dye to tethered animals, we never observed lateral feeding currents or food groove currents. We concur with Depdolla (1923) and Attramadal (1981) that food enters the feeding basket only from the front.
41315727|Among animals, conflicts are resolved through agonistic behavior, an expression of which embraces a range of fleeing behaviors, displays, up to the extreme of physical combat. This study aims to establish an observation protocol and to describe the aggressive acts of Aegla longirostri. Aeglids were collected in the field and kept for one week of acclimation in individual fishbowls with no contact with other animals. A total of ten pairs of males were paired, the members of each pair differing by no more than 1 mm in cephalothorax length. The behavioral acts were described from the combats videotaped for 20 minutes with each pair, of which 16 were considered aggressive acts. The animals took an average of 198 seconds to start combat. A table of aggression intensity was established, ranging from -2 (fleeing) to 5 (intense combat). There was a significant difference between winners and losers in the time spent in the different levels of intensity and in the duration of the acts performed. Aegla longirostri showed very intense aggression with defined aggressive acts and continued to engage in agonistic behavior for the entire duration that was recorded. This is the first report of aggressive behavior in aeglids, it will be possible to carry out more profound studies on the behavior of these animals.
10.2307/1548393| The larval development of the porcellanid crab Petrolisthes granulosus (Gurin, 1835) was carried out under laboratory conditions (15-16C, 34.4S). The complete development consists of a prezoeal stage, two zoeal stages, and a megalopal stage. The megalopa appeared after 26 days. All larval stages as well as the setation of appendages are described and illustrated. The zoeae of P. granulosus have affinity with P. platymerus, an eastern North Pacific Petrolisthes, and also have affinity with P. lamarckii, an Indo-west Pacific Petrolishes, but can be distinguished from both of these species of Petrolisthes by several morphological characteristics. The larvae of P. granulosus are compared and discussed in relation to other Petrolisthes described by previous authors. /// Se lleva a cabo el desarrollo larval del porcelnido Petrolisthes granulosus (Gurin, 1835) bajo condiciones de laboratorio (15-16C y 34.4 de salinidad). El desarrollo completo comprende un estado de prezoea, dos estados de zoeas, y un estado de megalopa. La megalopa aparece despus de 26 das. Se describen e ilustran todos los estados larvales y la setacin de los apndices. P. granulosus tiene afinidad con P. platymerus, un Petrolisthes del Pacfico nor-oriental, y tambin tiene afinidad con P. lamarckii un Petrolisthes del Indopacfico occidental, pero se distingue de ambos por varias caractersticas morfolgicas. Las larvas de P. granulosus se comparan con otros Petrolisthes descritos con anterioridad. 
10.2307/1548930|Short interval monitoring of isolated females of Streptocephalus dichotomus Baird, S. proboscideus (Frauenfeld), and S. torvicornis (Waga) revealed no resorption of unfertilized oocytes in the lateral pouches of the oviducts or in the ovisac. Oocytes expelled by the female disintegrate in the medium. This finding is in disagreement with earlier studies on S. dichotomus and S. proboscideus, but corroborates findings on S. vitreus (Brauer) and S. rubricaudatus (Klunzinger). Light and electron microscopic studies of unfertilized and fertilized oocytes show polar-body extrusion, vitelline-membrane formation, and egg-shell deposition in fertilized oocytes only. The streptocephalids studied here differ, in this respect, from two other anostracans, Tanymastix and Artemia, where unfertilized oocytes develop a vitelline membrane, and sometimes an egg shell.
1549899|I investigated mass wandering by the fiddler crab Uca perplexa on Okinawa Island, Japan. Many larger males wandered during the daytime low tide for four continuous days in their reproductive season. Just after exposure of their burrows they moved uphill, then returned to the burrow area before dead low tide without feeding. During the wandering phase, the males did not wave to females to initiate mating. Males resumed waving after the wandering phase. I discuss why the large males wander en masse in relation to the crabs' mating system and larval release.
1549384|To examine albinism, cheliped tissue was reciprocally transplanted into the autotomized stump of the walking leg (and vice versa) between albino and wild crayfish. Two of the 24 walking-leg stumps of albino crayfish formed a claw, and three of the 49 leg stumps of wild crayfish formed claws. Dactyl and pollex tissues of wild (and albino) crayfish were transplanted into an eyestalk stump and rostrum stump of 20 albino (and wild) crayfish, respectively. In albino crayfish, one normal claw and six abnormal chelipeds developed from the eyestalk stump, and seven abnormal chelipeds developed from the rostrum stump. In wild crayfish, one normal and seven abnormal chelipeds developed from the eyestalk stump, and four abnormal chelipeds developed from the rostrum stump. Dactyl tissue of wild (and albino) crayfish was inserted into the carapace near the eyestalk of 11 albino (and wild) crayfish. In six of each of the albino and wild crayfish, a dactyl-like structure developed from the graft. All of the regenerated structures were the same color as the host. These results suggest that the albinism in this crayfish is caused by a deficiency of some hormonal factor(s).
1549581|The panopeid crab Panopeus margentus is known to inhabit intertidal and subtidal temperate waters of the southwestern Atlantic Ocean, from Rio de la Plata to Mar del Plata, Argentina. The complete larval development of this species is described from laboratory-reared material and compared with known larvae of Panopeus, Eurypanopeus, and Hexapanopeus. A preliminary key for the identification of panopeid megalopae from the temperate waters of the southwestern Atlantic is provided.
4094209|The population dynamics, growth, and reproduction of the deep-water pandalid shrimp Plesionika martia were studied in the eastern Mediterranean Sea. Samples were collected monthly (July 1999-June 2000) at a depth range of 440-600 m between Zakynthos Island and Peloponnissos (eastern Ionian Sea, Greece). Additional samples were taken in April and May 2001. Size-frequency distribution revealed that mean female size consistently exceeded that of males throughout the year (CL range: 8-23.5 mm and 9.3-29.1 mm for males and females, respectively). Smaller individuals of both sexes occurred only at depths less than 500 m. Mean size of both sexes increased linearly with depth, whereas a less prominent trend of sex ratio in favor of females by depth was observed. The overall yearly and the monthly sex ratio were in favor of females except during winter, when the two sexes were equally represented. Carapace length-wet weight relationships showed negative allometry, for both males and females. Ovigerous females occurred year around, although the main reproductive season extended from April to October. The smallest ovigerous female was 11.8 mm CL, whereas the size at 50% sexual maturity
10.2307/1549151| Pachycheles velerae, formerly known only from an immature, recently molted female from the Galpagos Islands, is redescribed from additional material from Cocos Island, Costa Rica. This distinctive species is easily recognized by the strongly projecting teeth on the anterior margin of the cheliped carpus, the complex pattern of longitudinal and transverse ridges and granules on the dorsal surface of the cheliped carpus, the projecting, trilobate front, and setose pereiopods. A new morphological feature is described, an enlarged antennal membrane with a basal flap; though not previously reported, this structure appears to be present to varying degrees in other porcelain crabs. With the discovery of P. velerae from Cocos Island, the porcelain crab fauna of the Galpagos Islands loses its only strictly endemic taxon, but strengthens its already significant relationship to the porcellanid fauna of other eastern Pacific oceanic islands. 
4540270| Rudolph and Crandall (2005) found a high percentage (81.3%) of intersex specimens with supernumerary gonopores in the Virilastacus rucapihuelensis type series. To determine the sexual system of this species, the sexual characters of 734 specimens collected from 5 populations of V. rucapihuelensis were examined. Six sexual forms were initially identified, on the basis of the presence or absence of gonopores in the coxae of the third and fifth pair of pereiopods. Subsequently, anatomical and histological analysis of gonads, gonoducts and androgenic gland, made it possible to distinguish three basic sexual types: male, female and intersex specimens; the latter comprise a male phase and two forms in female phase, which would originate from male phase intersexes. Ovigerous females and secondary sexual characters associated with eggs incubation were identified in adult females and in the intersexes in female phase. Evidence gathered suggests that V. rucapihuelensis is a partial protandric hermaphrodite species, with primary males and females. The possible neurohormonal mechanisms responsible for this type of sexual system are discussed, as are the external factors that could have a modifying effect on them. /// En la serie tipo de Virilastacus rucapihuelensis, Rudolph y Crandall (2005) encontraron un alto porcentaje (81.3%) de especimenes intersexo con gonoporos supernumerarios. Para determinar el sistema sexual de esta especie se examinaron los caracteres sexuales de 734 especimenes colectados en 5 poblaciones de V. rucapihuelensis. Sobre la base de la presencia o ausencia de gonoporos en las coxas del tercer y quinto par de pereipodos, se identificaron inicialmente 6 formas sexuales. Con posterioridad, anlisis anatmicos e histolgicos de gnadas, gonoductos y glndula andrognica, permitieron distinguir tres tipos sexuales bsicos: machos, hembras, e intersexos, estos ltimos constan de una fase macho y dos formas en fase hembra, las cuales se originaran a partir de los intersexos en fase macho. Hembras ovgeras y caracteres sexuales secundarios asociados a la incubacin de los huevos, se identificaron en las hembras adultas y en los intersexos en fase hembra. Las evidencias reunidas sugieren que V. rucapihuelensis es una especie hermafrodita protndrica parcial, con machos y hembras primarios. Se discuten los posibles mecanismos neurohormonales responsables de este tipo de sistema sexual, como as mismo los factores externos que podran tener algn efecto modificador sobre ellos. 
1549348|Metopograpsus thukuhar is a very common grapsid in the Indo-Pacific mangroves but is found only occasionally in a non-mangrove environment. Field observations investigated its spatial and temporal strategies and clarified its predatory abilities. Gut-content analysis was used to assess its natural diet. Metopograpsus thukuhar was mainly active during low tide, although many crabs were seen at high tide moving on the mangrove roots above the water level. It lived largely among the roots of the seaward Rhizophora mucronata and concentrated its activity within a definite area of the root apparatus of a single tree, appearing to be faithful to one or two specific crevices. The diet of M. thukuhar was principally based on macroalgae; mangrove leaves were also present, but animal items were rare. However, direct field observations of the crab's predatory behavior indicate that this grapsid is an opportunistic feeder with a certain degree of behavioral plasticity.
10.2307/1548117|Two species of stenopodid shrimp of the genus Odontozona are here recognized from the eastern Pacific. Odontozona rubra, new species, a red shrimp from the Gulf of California, is described. A broken specimen, probably O. spongicola (Alcock and Anderson), has been collected off Santa Catalina Island, California.
1549918|The larvae of the mangrove sesarmid crab Neosarmatium trispinosum Davie, 1994, were reared in the laboratory. Five zoeal stages and one megalopa are described in detail and illustrated. Morphologically, the zoea larvae of N. trispinosum are similar to those of other species of Neosarmatium in that they share most of the following characters: no lateral carapace spines; 1+5, 5, and 0+1+6 setae on the endopods of the maxillule, the maxilla, and the second maxilliped, respectively; uniform setal formula on the basis of the first (2,2,3,3) and the second (1,1,1,1) maxilliped. The differences between the zoeae and the megalopae of N. trispinosum and those of its congeners are discussed briefly.
41315685|This study provides a systematic and phylogenetic overview of the extinct reptant decapod family Mecochiridae. Mecochiridae are distinguished from both their traditional out-groups, Glypheidae and Erymidae, using cladistic and geometric morphometric techniques. Cladistic analysis of 12 species using 21 traditional and new characters verifies the in-group genera Mecochirus and Pseudoglyphea. Glyphea emerges as a sister group to Pseudoglyphea, suggesting a re-assignment of the genus to Glypheidae. The genus Meyeria is recovered as paraphyletic, suggesting the establishment of a new taxonomie group for species of Meyeria that exhibit a posterior tuberculated ridge, a well-developed hepatic bulge or ridge, and unornamented pleura. Both relative warp and Eigenshape analysis of the carapace and groove patterns that have long been used as descriptive morphological features succeeded in highlighting modes of shape change that when subjected to a discriminant analysis proved useful in distinguishing members of Mecochiridae. This study shows that landmark geometric morphometric methods and eigenshape analysis can be used to investigate the fidelity of existing taxonomie groupings based on other methods, and that an integrated cladistic and morphometric methodology has the potential to aid in resolving relationships among other unknown or problematic fossil taxa.
10.2307/1548014|The purpose of this study was to discover whether the longevity of neonates of Daphnia magna was determined by the nutrition of the adults that produced them. The nutritional status was measured in terms of fat stores of a random population that began with the neonate stage and was permitted to grow for 28 days. Five diets were compared in their effectiveness in sustaining neonates for limited periods of time in the absence of food. These diets consisted of two media, one organic and one inorganic, supplemented with a vitamin mix. These were used to culture two green algae: Selenastrum capricornutum and Ankistrodesmus convolutus. The fifth diet was fish chow and alfalfa meal. The best diet in terms of body size, amount of fat, and longevity of neonates was S. capricornutum cultured in an organic medium. Statistical analysis revealed that the quantity of daphnid fat is significantly related to (1) algal fat (P < 0.0001) gained from consuming the diet, (2) longevity of neonates (P < 0.0001), and (3) adult body size (P < 0.1). Histological preparation of adults representing each of the five diets showed unsaturated fat globules in the eggs and in the body cavity. There is a significant relationship between body size and unsaturated fat content. The animals maintained on a synthetic diet (fish chow and alfalfa meal) contained more fat than predicted by their body size. Partial correlation analysis revealed that five generations on this diet were not sufficient to remove the chemical effect of previous algal diets. This hysteresis effect was not observed in any of the algal fed organisms.
10.2307/1549149| This paper examines the variation in the body-covering patterns of the spider crab Maja squinado in the Ra de Arousa (Galicia, northwestern Spain), as related to habitat, season, size, terminal molt, and migrations of the host. Individuals inhabiting shallow zones, generally characterized by their smaller size and more frequent molts (juveniles), showed a marked self-decorating behavior and a higher level of body covering than in adults inhabiting deeper areas. In adults, epibiosis was more common than self-decoration. The availability of material for decoration, primarily seaweeds, was greater in the spring and summer seasons, when the highest covering levels were reached. There was a negative correlation between the degree of covering and spider-crab size, with a decline in decorative behavior after the terminal molt. After the terminal molt, the animals migrate to deeper areas, where epibiosis is dominant, with a heightened presence of bryozoans, barnacles, and encrusting seaweeds, which require a stable substrate (absence of molts) in order to develop. In shallow zones, the erect seaweeds were dominant, occupying in many cases 100% of the body surface. In the deeper zones, the dorsal cephalothorax was the area with the greatest amount of cover. The legs were more sparsely covered and the ventral cephalothorax, affected only by epibiosis, was characterized by low levels of coverage. 
1549621|Notopoides latus is recorded from Ducie Island at the extreme eastern end of the Tuamotu-Mangareva-Pitcairn chain of island groups in the eastern South Pacific. Hence, N. latus is now known to be an Indo-Pacific species ranging from East Africa and the western Indian Ocean, through Indonesia and the Philippines to the Northwest and Central Pacific, to eastern Australia, Norfolk Island, and across to the eastern South Pacific. Henderson's original 1888 figure shows N. latus, in dorsal view, with an urn-shaped carapace rather than the symmetrically-ovate carapace seen in all modern figures. This puzzling anomaly has been resolved by examination of Henderson's type series, and other available material, showing that Henderson's artist had drawn his specimen with the carapace tilted backwards rather than in the conventional horizontal position. Henderson's figured male specimen in The Natural History Museum, London, is designated the lectotype.
4540280|The calanoid copepod family Ridgewayiidae, containing demersal and cave-dwelling forms, has representatives worldwide, but most have been known from the Northwestern Tropical Atlantic. Eight valid genera were hitherto known, most of them were described recently (Ridgewayia Thompson and Scott, Exumella Fosshagen, Brattstromnia Fosshagen and Iliffe, Placocalanus Ohtsuka, Fosshagen and Soh, Exumellina Fosshagen and Iliffe, Normancavia Fosshagen and Iliffe, Robpalmeria Fosshagen and Iliffe, Stargatia Fosshagen and Iliffe). Biological collections in cave environments in an island off the Caribbean coastline of Honduras, Central America, showed the presence of ridgewayiid copepods. These specimens were found to belong to an undescribed genus of the family. The new genus Hondurella is distinguished from the other eight known ridgewayiid genera by a combination of characters that include a simple rostrum with no filaments, maxilliped with modified setae, first leg with a modified exopod and a reduced endopodal armature, and most importantly, a female fifth leg with a slightly modified exopod and a 1-segmented endopod, plus a reduced right exopod of the male fifth leg, and the presence of spines on the middle segments of the male right antennule. As all other ridgewayiids, the new genus retains several plesiomorphic characters, thus confirming the primitive profile of this family. The distribution of Ridgewayiidae in the Caribbean region remains largely unknown, but it is suggested that distributional patterns and a relatively high degree of endemism are related to the geological origin and dynamics of the area. Aside the modified maxillipedal setae, mouthparts in the new genus,are normally developed; this, together with our observations of the gut contents, suggest that this ridgewayiid is more a particle-feeder than a carnivorous form.
10.2307/1548776|Potamonautes dentatus, new species, a fresh-water crab from the Mgeni River, KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa, is characterized by strongly denticulate anterolateral margins and the presence of a notch in the postfrontal crest posterior to the exorbital tooth. The new species is compared to other potamonautid species occurring in the region. Of the 12 morphometric relationships examined, 9 dimensions exhibited allometric growth: wet weight, anterior and posterior width of the carapace, body depth, and abdominal width in both sexes, length (in males) and width of the merus of pereiopod 2 for both sexes combined, and major cheliped propodus length and height in both sexes. Sexual dimorphism was demonstrated for wet weight, abdominal width, major cheliped propodus length and height, and length of the merus of pereiopod 2.
10.2307/1548431|The distribution of Inachus phalangium (Decapoda: Majidae) on the sea anemone Anemonia sulcata was investigated from 1982 to 1984 in the coastal region of Banyuls-sur-Mer (southern France). Most adult crabs (64.5%) were found alone on an anemone, but groups of 2, 3, and 4 adults sharing an anemone were decreasingly frequent. Spider crabs were randomly distributed on the anemones; 79.5% of the occupied anemones held only one crab. In cases of multiple occupation of a given anemone, (1) heterosexual pairs were more frequent than could be expected for random association, and homosexual pairs less frequent, (2) reproductive males were paired more frequently than expected with females ready to spawn, and (3) adult males pairing with females ready to spawn were larger than solitary males or those males with females not yet ready to spawn. In multiparous females 27% of the variance in the number of eggs per brood was explained by body size; egg number was positively correlated with body size but varied strongly within the same body-size class. Assortative pairing for body size in pairs was not found, probably because any fitness advantage accruing to males in choosing large females is offset by the costs of longer seeking time and the loss of mating opportunities with smaller females.
40665251|A population of the 'eyeless' hypogean shrimp Spelaeomysis bottazzii was studied over a three-year period in a shallow brackish-water well about 1 km from the Mediterranean coast. Mature males and immature females were numerous year round, whereas breeding females and juveniles were rare. The main stages of young in the brood pouch were embryos, nauplioids, and postnauplioids; all were unpigmented, unlike the postnauplioids in a congeneric species. In this well, the free-living stages fed mainly on autotrophic microorganisms. The accumulation of fat reserves was judged from the amount of subcuticular fat bodies and from body colour. Fat status improved with increasing body size in both sexes; seasonal variations were not significant. Only 'fat' specimens produced eggs. Females incubating eggs were fatter than those with larvae. Field and laboratory findings suggest that fat accumulation near the photic zone is necessary for egg formation, whereas larval incubation is very long and mostly occurs elsewhere, probably in deep groundwater under unfavourable nutritional conditions. The observed post-reproductive reduction of ostegites may indicate a peculiar strategy to avoid a new breeding cycle before reconstitution of fat reserves. The findings on feeding and reproduction, particularly regarding fecundity and natality, are interpreted as a combination of typically hypogean features along with epigean environmental adaptations.
10.2307/1548254|Fecundities of primiparous and multiparous female Tanner crab (Chionoecetes bairdi) from the eastern Bering Sea are compared. Primiparous females are approximately 70% as fecund as equal-sized multiparous females. Since primiparous females molt and grow before extruding eggs, whereas multiparous females do not grow, the lesser fecundity of primiparous females may be due either to the energetic cost of growth or to their having a smaller volume within the exoskeleton available for ovarian tissue at their premolt size.
1549351|Nucleotide sequences for a 315-base-pair segment of the mitochondrial COI (cytochrome c oxidase subunit I) gene were compared among 76 individuals from 29 populations of the genus Ishizakiella. Resulting molecular phylogenetic trees consistently supported both the species assignment based on morphological data and the closest relationship between I. miurensis and I. ryukyuensis. However, these trees were equivocal as to the position of I. supralittoralis among the four ingroup species, i.e., it clustered as either sister group of I. novaezealandica or of both I. miurensis and I. ryukyuensis. The close relationship between I. miurensis and I. ryukyuensis was further supported by the fact that the two species share serration on the copulatory duct. The phylogenetic relationship, fossil records, and geographical distributions suggested that the ancestor of I. supralittoralis was the first to have separated from the common ancestor of the three Japanese species and arrived in the Japanese Archipelago before the Pleistocene. Then, the ancestor of I. miurensis was separated from that of I. ryukyuensis, with the former having migrated to the Japanese Archipelago to dominate over I. supralittoralis. The Sea of Japan populations of I. miurensis formed a paraphyletic group, suggesting that ancestors of I. miurensis migrated to the Japanese Archipelago at least twice. The formation of landbridge was perhaps important in the separation and migration of the populations. The large genetic distance between two populations of isolated islands observed for I. ryukyuensis indicated that open sea also acts as a notable barrier preventing gene flow.
10.2307/1548678|Estatheroporus, new genus, belongs to the Chydorinae close to Rak and Ephemeroporus, but differs from these two genera in having minor headpores located posteriorly to the median pore but laterally instead of medially. This characteristic is interesting, because it was hitherto believed to occur only in the Aloninae. The new species Estatheroporus gauthieri occurs in western Spain and in Sardinia, where it inhabits temporary pools and flooded ditches with weakly mineralized water and abundant aquatic vegetation.
1549769|A new genus, Humesosquilla, is recognized for Squilla decimdentata Manning, 1970. It can be distinguished from all recognized species of Squilla sensu Manning, 1969, sharing a single lateral process of the fifth thoracic somite by the presence of 10-11 teeth on the dactylus of the raptorial claw.
10.2307/1549185| Mating of hard-shelled intermolt females was observed in the portunid Thalamita sima H. Milne Edwards in the laboratory. During SCUBA samplings over a 20-month period, specimens in copula were seasonally observed, but no pre- or postmolt guarding was seen. Females sampled from pairs in copula (N = 3) in the field were in intermolt. Captive males copulated readily with intermolt ovigerous and nonovigerous females, copulation being brief (1-2 min, mean 98.6  21.1 s, N = 11). Three females reared in isolation from immature instars after producing an initial sterile brood were able to mate while in the intermolt condition and subsequently produce fertile eggs. Field observations of the frequency of ovigerous females indicate that brooding occurs over an extended period, April-October, with females in the laboratory able to produce up to 7 broods. Reasons for this unusual mating strategy for a portunid are discussed in relation to possible predator interactions and the large number of broods in a single intermolt period in this species. 
10.2307/1549030|Calanoid copepods are predominantly marine, but numerous species occur in estuarine and inland waters. Most of the species that are found in nonmarine environments are referred to the superfamily Centropagoidea which also includes most of the abundant neritic marine species. Species within this superfamily can produce eggs which survive in the sediment and resist chemical and physical stresses. It is suggested that this has enabled them to maintain populations in shallow marine and estuarine habitats more readily than other calanoids and has preadapted them to colonize inland waters.
1549478|The stomatopod body plan is highly specialized for predation, yet the Superorder Hoplocarida originated from something other than the "lean, mean, killing machine" seen today. The fossil record of the group indicates that it originated early on from a non-raptorial ancestor, with the specialized predatory morphology developing much later. The Recent Hoplocarida have been variously positioned within the Malacostraca, from a Subclass equal in rank to the Eumalacostraca (= Caridoida) to being placed as a Superorder within the Eumalacostraca. Cosideration of the early fossil morphology, especially of the form of the carapace, of the position and functioning of the articles in the last three pairs of thoracopods, and of other features, suggests that hoplocarids are early derivatives of a basal eumalacostracan stock that was "shrimp-like" in form. The enhancement of an abdominal respiratory system most likely allowed the development of the anterior thorax into the specialized raptorial system present today.
40665221|We report on allozyme and mitochondrial DNA variation in 13 populations of the supralittoral amphipod Orchestia cavimana. The species colonizes fresh and brackish shores of Northern Africa, Near East and throughout Europe. Populations were sampled across a large part of the species range (Cyprus, Turkey, northern and southern Italy, United Kingdom and Germany), including the type locality (Cyprus). Both sets of molecular markers agree in identifying two divergent lineages. A first lineage includes populations from Cyprus and Turkey. A second genetically homogeneous lineage groups Italian, English and German populations. Genetic divergence between the two lineages is high (D Nei = 0.720  0.06 for allozymes and K2P = 0.191  0.001 for mitochondrial DNA) and comparable to that among morphologically distinct congeneric species reported for the same set of molecular markers.
10.2307/1549277|The genetic population structure of the fresh-water crab Aegla jujuyana (Anomura) was investigated by RAPD (random amplified polymorphic DNA) analysis. In northwestern Argentina 4 populations were sampled over a range of 120 km. DNA PCR (polymerase chain reaction) amplification of 47 individuals sampled resulted in 22 amplification products (15 of them polymorphic) which were generated by 3 primers selected after testing a total of 20 primers. Data were analyzed as both biallelic systems that behave as dominant markers, and as phenotype traits. The results suggest that the populations are not subdivided and that significant gene flow exists among them. Significant differences observed between the southernmost population and the others in either band frequencies or H' affecting some loci may be due to selective pressure.
10.2307/1548015|The behavior and metabolic rates of two burrowing shrimps, Upogebia major (de Haan) and Callianassa japonica (de Haan), which live on a tidal flat, were studied. The former is a filter-feeder and has a simple Y-shaped burrow. The latter is a deposit-feeder and continually burrows; this results in a complex burrow morphology. The respiration rate of U. major under saturated oxygen conditions was about twice that of C. japonica. With decrease in oxygen concentration, the respiration rate of Upogebia decreased, while that of Callianassa remained at about the same level until the oxygen concentration fell to <30% of the saturation value. The O:N ratio (respiration: NH<sub>4</sub> excretion) of U. major was significantly higher than that of C. japonica, suggesting a difference in food sources. Under anoxic conditions, C. japonica survived 3-4 times longer than U. major. The physiological characteristics of the two shrimps may be closely correlated with the differences in behavior of the shrimps within their burrows.
41315722|Heretofore, the pinnotherid crab, Afropinnotheres monodi, had been recorded only from African waters. The range is now extended into European waters with discovery of material in the Gulf of Cadiz. Furthermore, early collections of material had occurred only in open water; now three hosts can be assigned, the clams Scrobicularia plana, Ruditapes decussatus and Cerastoderma glaucum. Further discoveries of this pinnotherid may now be expected, especially along the coast of Portugal.
4094238|Two new monotypic genera of Cylindropsyllidae (Copepoda, Harpacticoida), Boreovermis and Bolbotelos, are described from subtidal sandy sediments in the Southern Bight of the North Sea. Boreovermis bilobata new genus, new species is primarily characterized by its conspicuous sexual dimorphism on P2 and P3. Bolbotelos longisetosus, new genus, new species is unique in its vermiform body morphology, bi-laterally compressed bulbous caudal rami, loss of inner basal spine on PI and secondarily elongated geniculate setae on both PI rami. Both genera are related to Navalonia Huys and Conroy-Dalton, 1993 and Willemsia Huys and Conroy-Dalton, 1993, with which they form a well supported clade of vermiform taxa within the Cylindropsyllidae. The relationships within this Navalonia-ciade are analysed and apomorphic character states for each internal node and terminal taxon are discussed.
10.2307/1548202|1. Norepinephrine produces dose-related pigment dispersion in the melanophores of intact and eyestalkless fiddler crabs, Uca pugilator, but has no effect on the melanophores in isolated legs. 2. The effects of agonists and antagonists of norepinephrine on the rates of melanin dispersion and concentration were determined. 3. The results are consistent with the hypothesis that norepinephrine exerted its effect by acting on the central nervous system to trigger the release of melanin-dispersing hormone.
10.2307/1548435|Isomolgus desmotes, new genus, new species, a lichomolgid copepod with a swollen prosome, is described from galls in Seriatopora hystrix Dana collected in Indonesia. This is the first report of a gallicolous poecilostome copepod from a scleractinian coral. The morphology and possible scenario for development of the gall are discussed, and a review of gall-inhabiting crustaceans of anthozoans is provided.
10.2307/1548908| Aspects of growth and reproductive cycle of the prawn Palaemon xiphias were studied in Alfacs Bay (Ebro delta, Spain) from December 1989 to December 1990. Growth is continuous throughout the year. Adult females are larger than males. Sexual differences related to length-weight were noted. Longevity was estimated to be 14-17 months. The growth equation estimated for males is: L<sub>t</sub> = 50[1 - exp{- 1.57(t + 0.31) - ((0.45)(1.57)/2)sin(2(t - 0.9))}] and for females L<sub>t</sub> = 70[1 - exp{- 1.92(t + 0.15)((0.6)(1.92)/2)sin(2(t - 0.9))}], where L<sub>t</sub> is length (mm) at age t (in units of years). Ovigerous females were recorded between April and October. They were most numerous in May and June. Some of the early specimens appearing in the benthic population in summer had already spawned at the end of the reproductive period. The number of spawnings by a single female was a minimum of two. The number of eggs (range: 318-2,750) carried by females was related to their size: y=0.000727x<sup>3.5868</sup>; r = 0.91752; N = 30, where y = egg number and x = total female length (mm). /// Dans ce travail sont exposs les rsultats de l'etude de la croissance et la reproduction de la crevette Palaemon xiphias de la rade des Alfacs (delta del Ebro, Espagne) entre dcembre 1989 et dcembre 1990. La croissance est constante pendant tout le cycle annuel, et les femelles atteignent une taille plus grande que les mles. Il a t observ aussi que des diffrences sexuelles existent dans la relation taille-poids. La longvit pour cette espce est d'environ 14-17 mois. L'quation de croissance calcule pour les mles est L<sub>t</sub> = 50[1 - exp{- 1,57(t + 0,31) - ((0,45)(1,57)/2)sin(2(t - 0,9))}] et pour les femelles L<sub>t</sub> = 70[1 - exp{- 1,92(t + 0,15) - ((0,6)(1,92)/2)sin(2(t - 0,9))}], ou L<sub>t</sub> est la longueur du corps (mm)  l'ge t (annes). On a constat la prsence de femelles ovigres entre les mois d'avril et octobre. Le pourcentage maximum a t observ pendant les mois de mai et juin. Quelques crevettes incorpores  la population benthonique en t ralisent leur premire ponte  la fin du mois de septembre. Le nombre de pontes pendant la priode de reproduction est, au minimum de deux. Le nombre d'oeufs transports (rang 318-2,750) est en relation avec la taille des femelles: y=0,000727x<sup>3.5868</sup>; r = 0.91752; N = 30, ou y = nombre d'oeufs et x = longueur totale (mm). 
10.2307/1548569|A new genus and species, Koror misticius, a shrimp belonging to a group of 6 monotypic genera within the Hippolytidae is described from a marine cave in Palau. It differs from Barbouria and Janicea in having arthrobranchs on the 4 anterior pairs of pereiopods and epipods on maxilliped 1, from Ligur in different placement of the "antennal spine" and in having the propodus of the 3 posterior pereiopods subdivided, and from Parhippolyte and Somersiella in having a slender rostrum and the appendix masculina distinctly longer than the appendix interna on the second male pleopod.
10.2307/1549558|The reproductive biology of Panulirus guttatus from northern Quintana Roo, Mexico, was studied as part of a large research program on the biology and ecology of this poorly studied species. Lobsters were caught with baited traps deployed on the coral reef throughout 17 months (May 1988-September 1989). A total of 870 lobsters (558 males and 312 females) were obtained. The strongly biased sex ratio may have been an artifact of the sampling method, but differential movements of males and females related to reproductive activity were not excluded as possible causes. Ovigerous females (40% of total females, i.e., 125) occurred throughout the year, but were more prevalent during the spring of 1988, and the spring and summer of 1989. The size range of ovigerous females was 40.0-73.5 mm in carapace length (CL). Brood size was determined for the 125 ovigerous females plus an additional 41 sampled during 1987. After excluding the data of females with eggs about to hatch (of smaller sizes than eggs in previous stages), seasonal log brood size--log CL relationships were examined. No significant differences were found either seasonally or interannually, indicating that the average brood size of females of equal CL remained fairly similar throughout the study period. Females between 55 and 65 mm CL had the highest indices of reproductive potential, and accounted for 54% of the total egg production of the population. These results were compared with others obtained from populations of P. guttatus in Florida and other parts of the Caribbean.
1549761|Setation sequences of the appendages, as well as other characters of cirriped nauplii reared in the laboratory, are invaluable in identification of nauplii taken from the plankton, and in the past few decades those of numerous coastal and a few oceanic species have been described. In addition, larval characters have provided insights into the relationships between various taxa, and it is now apparent certain clades exhibit unique patterns. However, setation sequence patterns of the sixth or last naupliar stage have not been used in phylogenetic studies. Therefore, we have compiled and attempted to standardize them for a preliminary cladistic analysis. Setal characteristics of 31 taxa are compared cladistically with a previously published matrix of largely other naupliar characters. While the results fell short of expectations, rank-order comparisons with a generally accepted classification demonstrates a moderately strong positive correlation between them, that between larval characters and setation sequencing being stronger than either set of larval characteristics was with the classification. Analyses of certain species groups run to test various hypotheses were eminently more satisfactory. Although the present database is limited by the reliability of the original data and our manipulations of them, the results indicate there is sufficient phylogenetic information in larval characters and setation sequences to allow comparisons with generally accepted phylogenies based on adult characters. Refinements of setation sequencing appearing in several recent studies, including recognition of additional setal types and more rigorous comparative approaches in establishing homologies, hold great promise for the future.
4094164|The diversity, abundance and spatial distribution of macro-epibionts colonizing the graceful crab. Cancer gracilis, the red rock crab, Cancer productus, and the Dungeness crab Cancer magister were examined. These three crab species were common in Barkley Sound, British Columbia, occurring sympatrically across much of their range. Twenty nine epibiont species, representing ten different phyla were found. Thirty three percent of Cancer gracilis, 49% of Cancer magister and 68% of Cancer productus possessed one or more epibiont species. Cancer gracilis was the least speciose, while Cancer productus exhibited the greatest diversity of epibiont species. Male crabs were larger than females and had a greater species richness and diversity of epibionts. Epibionts were largely absent on juvenile crabs; in adult crabs, occurrence increased with crab size. Barnacles were the most common epibiont; the majority were Balanus crenatus, which predominated on the dorsal surfaces of the cephalothorax of each crab species. Green, red and brown algae were also common, the majority of which (>80%) were found on the antennae of the crabs. Tube-dwelling polychaete worms were less abundant, showing a preference for the ventral surfaces of the crabs. Hydrozoan colonies were found on only 7% of all the crabs examined, mostly settling on the ventral surfaces and limbs. Bryozoans were only found on Cancer productus and Cancer magister. The majority were the encrusting Membranipora membranacea. Unlike the above taxa, bryozoans showed no clear preference for a specific area of the carapace. Organisms in the phyla Urochordata, Mollusca and Porifera were only found on a few individual Cancer magister and Cancer productus. The distribution of each epibiont species is discussed in relation to larval settlement patterns and ecological, morphological and behavioural differences among the three host species.
10.2307/1549547|Several peracarid species provide parental care for their growing offspring after these have left the brood pouch of the female. In this study, I examined the duration of extended parental care in 3 soft-bottom dwelling amphipod species: the epibenthic suspension feeder Dyopedos monacanthus (Podoceridae), the burrow-dwelling filter-feeder Leptocheirus pinguis (Aoridae), and the burrow-dwelling deposit-feeder Casco bigelowi (Melitidae). Juvenile D. monacanthus remained on the mud whip of their mother for time periods of 10-20 days, maximally 27 days. Many juveniles left their mother before a second clutch was released onto her mud whip, indicating that factors other than the appearance of a second clutch limit the duration of care for the first clutch of juveniles. Juvenile L. pinguis left the burrow of their mother in distinct batches, usually after a molting event. Some juveniles remained in the burrow of their mother for 40-60 days. Juvenile C. bigelowi commonly remained in the burrow of their mother for >80 days, and departed over a period that lasted 20-40 days until all juveniles had left. A literature review revealed that in many epibenthic peracarids with extended parental care, juveniles usually remain with their mothers for about 3 weeks. Females of species that carry their offspring during parental care usually do not produce a second brood while carrying one brood, whereas females that do not carry but guard their offspring often produce a second brood while caring for the first brood. Duration of extended parental care is much more variable in tube-/burrow-dwelling species, lasting from minutes in some species up to 3 months in others. It is concluded that tube-/burrow-dwelling species have a higher potential for long-lasting (>>20 days) extended parental care than epibenthic species. Ecological constraints, such as availability of space and food, predation, disturbance, and competition, are discussed as factors limiting the duration of extended parental care. It is hypothesized that the potential for extended parental care is high in marine peracarids, but advanced social behavior is restricted to species that are living in dwellings of biotic origin.
1548746|We observed Branchinecta gigas Lynch of a size known to feed by raptorial predation feeding on a clump of filamentous algae in the genus Spirogyra. A review of feeding in the Anostraca points to great diversity and suggests there is much yet to be learned.
10.2307/1548792|Changes in weight and water content of the hepatopancreas and ovary of Crangon crangon are described in relation to body weight and ovarian development. Percentage of water content of the organs in relation to ovarian stage was determined for 43 females; organ wet weight data were obtained from another 137 animals. All stages of gonadal development (oogenesis, previtellogenesis, vitellogenesis, and depleted) were represented in the sample population of ovigerous, nonovigerous, and postovigerous females. The ovary and hepatopancreas progress through cycles of progressive and retrogressive changes in weight and volume which are characterized by a phase shift between the two organs. This resembles a Volterra-Lotka system, for which equations were derived. Wet weight of the ovary increases by 69% through previtellogenesis, and by 282% from pre- to secondary vitellogenesis. This represents an increase of 5.5% of body weight occupied by the ovary during development. The hepatopancreas nearly doubles in size from early oogonial development through previtellogenesis, but decreases markedly during vitellogenesis. The net result is an increase from a minimum value of 4% to a combined organ volume occupying 9.5% of total body weight when the ovary is fully vitellogenic. Increase in ovarian mass during development is not due to water increase. Water content decreases from >70% in immature ovaries to 46% in vitellogenic organs. The hepatopancreas also loses water, but to a lesser extent: from 73% in oogenic individuals to 67% in vitellogenic animals.
1549926|Three new species of Parastilomysis, P. paucispina, P. prominula, and P. separata, are described from Japanese waters. Parastilomysis paucispina is different from the other species of the genus by the smaller body size and the uropodal endopod with the inner margin armed with fewer spines, P. prominula by two small protuberances on the mid-dorsal line of the carapace, and P. separata by the arrangement of spines on the lateral margin of the telson. Parastilomysis secunda is revised taxonomically, and a new genus, Hyperstilomysis, is proposed for the accommodation of this species.
1549914|Exploitation rates for legal-sized (> 159-mm carapace width) male Dungeness crabs, Cancer magister, often reach 90% in the northern California fishery, thus making large male crabs scarce and possibly reducing mating success particularly among large (> 140-mm carapace width) female crabs. Relying on known laboratory molting and presumed mating, we characterized temporal changes in proximal sperm plugs of female C. magister from four days through 323 days following molting and mating. Although sperm plug surface area decreased steadily with increased days following mating, we found that complete sperm plugs and/or sperm plug remnants were present through approximately 180 days post mating, a period exceeding the approximately four month duration of the mating season for Dungeness crabs in northern California. Based on dissection and identification of sperm plug presence, we assessed mating success of female Dungeness crabs at two locations in northern California during June and July 1997, following the February-May mating season. Among 590 female crabs (87-167-mm carapace width) classified as having definitely molted on the basis of shell condition observations, we found that 93% had complete sperm plugs or remnants of sperm plugs in vaginal tracts. Among the 336 large (> 140 mm) definitely molted female crabs, sperm plug presence was 98.5%. Thus, despite the intense fishery on large male Dungeness crabs, sperm plug data provide evidence of essentially 100% mating success among large female crabs that molted during 1997.
10.2307/1548818|Laboratory observations with functionally mature male Chionoecetes bairdi proved that they can molt. There were 46 males with carapace widths (CW) <119 mm that copulated with primiparous mates in the laboratory and then molted. Two of these males molted twice. After the molt the majority of these 46 males were not as large as males found grasping multiparous mates in nature. There were 23 males 110-139-mm CW that copulated with multiparous females in the laboratory and were held to see if they would molt. Seventy-four percent of them initiated molting after 26-27 months of captivity. The results of this experiment suggest that molting commonly occurs in males 110-130-mm CW, which are potential recruits to the fishery, and large enough to copulate with multiparous mates. Information on morphometric changes in carapace width and chela height is provided for the molting crabs.
10.2307/1549278|The caprellid amphipod Aeginina longicornis is a common species in coastal waters of the North Atlantic. Here, I report on aquarium observations of 2 females. After hatching from the brood pouch the juveniles remained on the bodies of the females for at least 2 weeks. Both females with all attached juveniles (N = 31 and N = 42) were collected 5 June 1995. One female with relatively large juveniles was ovigerous, the other was attended by a male. Aeginina longicornis belongs to the group of epibenthic peracarids with extended parental care, most members of this group being suspension feeders
1549908|We investigated the functional significance of intersexuality in the amphipod Corophium volutator, a key species in soft-bottom intertidal communities. Intersexes in this species possess morphological and anatomical characters of both males and females. Two broad types of intersexes were identified: those with nonsetose oostegites and two penial papillae (Type I), and those with setose oostegites and one or two penial papillae (Type II). We found little evidence that intersexes function as females, but some females housed experimentally with intersexes became ovigerous, indicating that intersexes can function as males. Females that mated with Type II intersexes produced smaller broods than those that mated with Type I intersexes or males, suggesting that this form of intersexuality may be costly to amphipods (most Type II intersexes possessed only a single testis). Male function of intersexes may be important in populations of C. volutator because males are frequently the limiting sex due to extremely female-biased sex ratios.
10.2307/1549331| Two new species of the family Notodelphyidae (Copepoda: Cyclopoida), Doroixys bispinosa, new species, and Pythodelphys illgi, new species, are described on the basis of females collected in the Puerto Peasco region, Sonora, Mexico. These copepods are associated with compound ascidians. Doroixys bispinosa differs from its 2 congeners in having 2 hornlike processes at each posterolateral corner of the cephalosome. Pythodelphys illgi is unlike the only other species in the genus in having a mandible that lacks the coxal masticatory portion. Both species are the first ascidicolous copepods to be described from the Gulf of California. The diagnosis for the genus Doroixys is broadened. Generic affiliations for the 2 new species are discussed. 
20487811|This study analyzed and described the sexual system of Exhippolysmata oplophoroides through the study of primary and secondary sexual characters at macroscopic and microscopic levels, to address the question of the existence of gonochorism or hermaphroditism in this species. The shrimps were collected in the Ubatuba region. So Paulo, Brazil. A total of 487 individuals were examined, sexed, and measured. They were dissected and their gonads were fixed, sectioned, and stained. All individuals had ovotestes, oviducts, ejaculatory ducts, appendices masculinae, and gonopores on the coxae of the fifth pereiopods. Female gonopores were found only in shrimp above 6.0 mm carapace length (CL). According to the characters studied, E. oplophoroides is a protandric simultaneous hermaphrodite with a male phase and a simultaneous hermaphrodite phase and these findings confirm some recent experimental evidence from mating pairs. The gonad of the male phase consisted of paired ovotestes with an undeveloped ovarian portion. In the hermaphroditic stage, most individuals had small appendices masculinae, both male and female gonopores, and ovotestes with vitellogenic ocytes and spermatozoa. The present study is the first detailed morphological description of the sexual system of Exhippolysmata oplophoroides. Our results are discussed in the light of new findings.
4540277|A new genus and species of Laophontidae, Spiniferaphonte ornata n. gen., n. sp., is described from the coast of Kenya. The new genus is closely related to Laophontina and Wellsiphontina as shown by the following synapomorphies: a denticulate operculum, a sexually dimorphic P4 exopod (reduced chaetotaxy of the ultimate segment in the male), and the absence of sexual dimorphism in the P2 and P3 endopods. The two-segmented exopod of P1 and the presence of a seta on the endopodal part of the male P5 are plesiomorphies indicating that the new genus represents a separate lineage within this group. The proposal of the new genus Spiniferaphonte is supported by the following autapomorphies: three smooth setae on the female P5 exopod and a robust, dorsally bent, and strongly sclerotised caudal seta V. Within the Laophontidae, it is striking that the presence of distinct, thorn-like processes on the caudal rami is limited to interstitial genera. Distinct processes on the proximal segments of the antennule and a proximally thickened caudal seta V also appear to be associated with this interstitiality. These structures may play a role in the movement and the anchoring of the animals in their interstitial habitat.
10.2307/1548279|Crayfish (Procambarus spiculifer) were studied for 8 years in 3 different study sites. During this period 2 droughts occurred. Consistent changes were observed in response to both droughts and in all study sites. The changes included reductions in both mean body size and abundance and an increase in the juvenile to adult ratio. In response to the first drought, one of the subpopulations changed to a smaller mean body size that was maintained for 5 years (nearly 2 generations) until the second drought caused a second reduction in body size. It is postulated that the reduced size can be maintained by a continued loss of the largest size classes coupled to an increased recruitment of small adults. Two other subpopulations became extinct, one following the 1981 drought and the other during the 1985 drought. The population changes appear related to habitat differences between study sites, differences between reference years and drought years, and the time since the last drought.
41315679|Burrow architecture of the ghost crab, Ocypode ceratophthalmus was studied at Sai Kaew beach (a pristine sandy habitat) in southern Thailand. The burrows of 131 individuals were cast with molten wax and carefully excavated. Only complete burrow casts with craboccupant (n = 67) were used in the data analyses. Burrows were grouped into categories according to their shapes: J, U or Y-burrows; and further classified into those excavated by juvenile and young adult crabs based on carapace width: juvenile, Juv, (CW < 20 mm; n = 53) and young adults, YgA (CW > 20 mm; n = 14). All J, U and Y-burrows have an ascending arm that opens on the surface of the substrate (= Open Arm, OA). The other ascending arm of U and Y-burrows terminates a short distance from the surface of the shore (= Blind-ending Arm, BeA). Y-burrows were predominant (66%) as compared to J and U-burrows (13% and 21% respectively). Juvenile Y-burrows had a steeper angle of descent of the OA which may provide better protection from predators through rapid retreat to deeper depths. Smaller  Juv (cf.  Juv ) indicates a gentler gradient that may facilitate escape.  Juv is also not significantly different from  YgA suggesting an optimal gradient for crabs to push through the last cm or so of sand above the BeA to escape from predators. The larger  in YgA burrows could improve maneuverability down the shaft as YgA have larger body volumes than Juv.  Juv and  YgA of J, U and Y-burrows and  of U and Y-burrows were not significantly different. The arm depths of juvenile J, U and Y-burrows were also similar. Comparison of the relationship between arm depth and shaft depth against the total depth in Juv and YgA Y-burrows indicates that the deepening of Y-burrows occurs mainly by the lengthening of the shafts. Results from this study provide evidence that the J and U-shaped burrows could be the precursors of Y-shaped burrows in the excavation process.
1549708| The mating behavior and season, with no form alternation, of the Japanese crayfish, Cambaroides japonicus (De Haan, 1841) (Cambaridae), was observed in Lake Komadome, Hokkaido, Japan, from 1993 to 1995. Mating pairs and females with spermatophores were found in September and October in all three years, when water temperature decreased from 20.0 to 12.5C. Females spawn the following year, and there are six months between mating and spawning. The lengths of each mating pair were similar for both male and female. Mean carapace length in males was 21.7 mm (range: 18.6-24.9), and in females it was 20.9 mm (18.4-22.9). The male lies ventral side up below the female. The male does not use his chelae to hold the female, but rolls his tail over the abdomen of the female. Cambaroides japonicus is placed in the family Cambaridae. All members of Cambaridae in North America have form alternation (cyclic dimorphism), but C. japonicus exhibited no form alternation in its natural habitat. 
1549760|We have restudied some of the material of a fossil anostracan originally discussed and illustrated by Palmer from the Middle Miocene, Barstow Formation, near Yermo, California, and we now recognize it as a new species, Branchinecta barstowensis. It is the best-preserved fossil anostracan known to date. The closest affinities of this species are with B. pollicifera Harding, 1940, collected from the mountains of Peru and Bolivia around Lake Titicaca.
10.2307/1547983|Fast green was used to stain selectively the reproductive system and ova of adult female Metridia pacifica. Reproductive maturity of adult females of M. pacifica in the subarctic Pacific exhibited a marked seasonal cycle during 1980-1981. Seasonal variation of female reproductive condition agreed well with that expected from the abundance of naupliar stages in plankton collections.
1549752|Some species of the genus Metaplax belonging to the family Grapsidae have occasionally been reported to perform waving display that is a characteristic behavior in the family Ocypodidae but uncommon in grapsids. The morphology and life styles of species of Metaplax are also quite similar to those of the ocypodid genus Macrophthalmus. To examine whether ecological and morphological similarities between Metaplax and Macrophthalmus are based on convergent evolution or their common evolutionary history, 841-bp nucleotide sequences from the 16S mitochondrial ribosomal RNA gene of 19 grapsids, 10 ocypodids, and 3 camptandriids, including four species of Metaplax and four species of Macrophthalmus, were analyzed. The resultant phylogenetic tree revealed that both families Grapsidae and Ocypodidae are polyphyletic. Macrophthalmus was distinct from any other ocypodid genera studied, forming a sister group relationship with grapsid species of the subfamily Varuninae, and Metaplax, Cyclograpsus, and Helice of the subfamily Sesarminae. Metaplax, Cyclograpsus, and Helice were found to be more closely related to Varuninae than to other Sesarminae species, indicating that the subfamily Sesarminae is polyphyletic. These relationships were in agreement with the distribution pattern of a tRNA<sub>Val</sub> gene rearrangement on the inferred tree. This molecular phylogenetic analysis suggests that the behavioral and morphological similarities observed between Metaplax and Macrophthalmus species are probably due to convergent evolution, despite a close phylogenetic relationship. The waving display in intertidal crabs of the families Grapsidae and Ocypodidae may have evolved several times in their lineages, associated with exposed semi-terrestrial habitat of the intertidal environment.
10.2307/1548187|The palaemonid shrimp Dasycaris kerstitchi Wicksten, 1983, is known only from the Mexican holotype specimen. The reexamination of this specimen has shown that this shrimp cannot be placed in the Indo-West Pacific genus Dasycaris Kemp, 1922, since it lacks flagellate exopods on all maxillipeds. On account of this and other morphological features, a new genus, Chacella, is proposed for its reception.
10.2307/1549540|One or two wounds were made on the first cheliped of the crayfish Procambarus clarkii at a right angle from the outer lateral edge to the middle of the width of the propodus. The proximal and distal faces of the wound were kept separate with a piece of plastic. A pair of outgrowths developed on 2 of 23 chelipeds on which 1 wound was made. The outgrowths were fused at the base, but were separated distally. On 2 of 13 chelipeds on which 2 wounds were made, an outgrowth developed from each wound. On one of these chelipeds, a pair of outgrowths developed at each wound site, and each pair was fused at the base. On the other cheliped, a single outgrowth developed at each wound site. Other chelipeds with or without a piece of plastic healed normally.
10.2307/1547932|A study of reproductive patterns exhibited by harpacticoid copepods collected from submerged wood surfaces in Los Angeles and Long Beach Harbors indicates that two reproductive patterns exist, those species that breed continuously and those that breed seasonally. Species with continuous breeding generally had maximum reproductive peaks at different times of the year. Total harpacticoid densities recorded from this subtidal study are higher than those previously recorded from the sediment meiobenthos and are comparable to densities recorded for intertidal biotopes. The literature suggests that continuous breeding of phytal harpacticoids is the result of an unlimited food supply and the opportunistic nature of the species and not temperature. The wood surface of harbor pilings, in addition to macroalgae, provides a substrate for microbiotic colonization which is grazed on by harpacticoids.
40665225|In this study we determined the rate of growth of juvenile Florida stone crabs (Menippe mercenaria Say, 1818) reared in the laboratory. We monitored carapace width and intermolt duration through the first 12 juvenile molts. Because all experimental crabs had been reared from eggs in the laboratory, we knew the exact age and molt dates for each individual. Mean carapace width of 1st stage juveniles was 2.0  0.2 mm. Juveniles reached the 13th juvenile stage (15.9  2.1 mm) in a mean of 297.6  32.7 d. The rate of growth in carapace width fit a linear model and was similar in pattern to that reported for juveniles of other brachyuran species.
1549960| The growth and reproductive biology of the freshwater shrimp Exopalaemon modestus were studied in Young-am Lake, Korea, from January to December 1999. Female maturity was determined by the size of ovigerous females and of females with maturing ovary. The size at which 50% of females are mature is estimated as 11.55  1.95 mm carapace length. Brood size was isometric functions of female body size. Based on dry weight, the reproductive output (mass of incubating eggs/mass of female) averaged 0.17. Ovigerous females occurred in May-September. Higher gonad index was observed from May-June (percentage ovigerous > 50%). Significant difference in ovarian weight between females with noneyed eggs and eyed-egg stage was found. This indicates that ovarian maturation occurs during the incubation time, suggesting that females were potentially consecutive breeders, capable of multiple spawning during a reproductive season. Spawning by a single female seems to occur consecutively in a single reproductive period. The length-frequency distribution showed that the population had two modal size groups per year, displaying similar pattern in both males and females. Parameters of growth were estimated using the von Bertalanffy growth function (VBGF). Females grew faster and reached a larger size at age than males (K = 0.58 yr<sup>-1</sup> and L<sub></sub> = 21.39 mm CL for females, and K = 0.62 yr<sup>-1</sup> and L<sub></sub> = 18.40 mm CL for males). Longevity was estimated to be 1.1-1.3 yr. 
1549637|Life cycle characteristics of the thalassinidean mud shrimp Upogebia major (de Haan), which is the deepest burrower among intertidal benthic animals in central Japan, were studied on a tidal flat along the northern coast of Tokyo Bay. Ovigerous females were observed from December to May. Females deposited eggs only once per breeding season, and eggs started hatching in March. Occurrence of the first zoea was observed in March and April, followed by benthic settlement in May. Growth over the first year was rapid, and females deposited their first eggs in the third breeding season, 31 months after their settlement. The data indicate that U. major has one of the longer immature periods among upogebiid shrimps. Adult shrimps live at least several years after maturation. Depth of the burrow increases with body length. The deep burrows of U. major provide refuge from predators and physical stress, allowing the shrimps to survive for a long time. The data from this study suggest that this species thus allocates more energy to rapid growth and adult survival than to quick reproduction.
10.2307/1548466|The communities of pelagic and benthic decapod crustaceans off Namibia (Southeast Atlantic) were studied. The samples comprised 97 species differing widely in their geographical and depth distribution. The analyses revealed distinct assemblages, with several well-defined boundaries. However, the barriers were different for pelagic and benthic species. The zonation of the pelagic species presented two clearly differentiated communities, an "inshore association" from the coast to about 70 miles (113 km) offshore, largely coinciding with the shelf, and an "offshore association" more than 70 miles off the coast. Both associations were present in the active (September-October) and quiescent (April) upwelling period, although during the active upwelling period the number of species clearly decreased. These results support the existence of different circulation patterns over the shelf and slope separated by a cross-shelf barrier. A third association seemed to be related to the seasonal intrusion of waters from Angola during the quiescent upwelling period. The communities of benthic species were mainly delimited by the depth, although several latitudinal boundaries exist. The bathymetric boundaries were well defined: the main boundary was located around 400 m, separating the shelf and slope-bathyal species. The latitudinal boundaries seemed to be related to different features of the Benguela upwelling and the circulation pattern in the region.
1549632| The relative growth of U. thayeri was studied for a subtropical mangrove population in the estuary of the Comprido and Escuro rivers, Ubatuba, So Paulo State, Brazil. The evaluation of the morphological sexual maturity of U. thayeri was performed using the allometric technique. Remarkable ontogenetic changes were observed in the allometric growth of the male major cheliped and the female abdomen, indicating that these structures are closely connected to the timing of sexual maturity. For males, the relative-growth analysis of cheliped propodus length rendered an estimate of 13.8 mm of carapace width for the size at onset of sexual maturity. A distinct growth pattern was observed for the abdomen of U. thayeri females. It has a wide puberty size range (from 10.7 to 16.8 mm of CW) compared to other brachyurans previously studied. Thus, the females' abdominal growth can be represented by three growth phases: immature, transitional, and mature. The major cheliped is the right one in 50% of males. The median length of the male major cheliped did not differ between right- and left-handed crabs. 
10.2307/1549077|The developmental stages of Pagurus caurinus Hart from first through fourth zoea and megalopa are described and illustrated. Intermolt durations of larvae from two females that were reared simultaneously under identical laboratory conditions were significantly different during most stages; however, morphological variations appeared to lie within the range of intraspecific variations observed in other species of Pagurus.
1549220|Shell resource utilization in two common species of hermit crabs, Calcinus latens (Randall) and Calcinus gaimardii (H. Milne Edwards), from intertidal and subtidal zones at Kenting, southern Taiwan, was studied. Field data were compared with laboratory results in shell-selection tests. Shell parameters examined included shell length, shell width, aperture length, aperture width, and weight in sea water. Crab parameters examined included carapace length, shield length, and wet weight. Most intertidal C. latens did not use the most abundant shell type in the field, but showed a strong preference for the most abundant shell type in shell-selection tests. The small size of the most abundant shell type in the field appeared to be responsible for this pattern. The results of shell-fit tests showed that most crabs lived in adequate shells at least in terms of internal volume. Shell-selection tests, however, proved that larger crabs (carapace length > 5 mm) are more shell-limited than smaller ones by SAI (shell adequacy index) values. Larger crabs would select much larger shells if they were available. Differences in shell utilization between the subtidal C. latens and C. gaimardii are discussed.
1549831|This study describes for the first time the ability of catecholamines to induce limb autotomy in the Dungeness crab, Cancer magister. Different concentrations of the biogenic amines dopamine (DA), serotonin, octopamine, norepinephrine, epinephrine, and tyramine, as well as L-dopa and catechol, were individually tested for their ability to elicit autotomy in C. magister. Only the catecholamines dopamine, norepinephrine, and epinephrine were able to stimulate autotomy, whereas the monoamines serotonin, octopamine, and tyramine were not. L-dopa and catechol were also not capable of stimulating autotomy. This suggests that the two phenyl hydroxyl groups on the catechol ring are necessary for ligand/DA receptor binding, whereas the particular biochemical properties of the ethylamine functional group confer ligand/DA receptor binding specificity. Dopamine-stimulated autotomy was concentration-dependent. The D1 receptor agonists and D1 and D2 receptor antagonists failed to respectively induce and inhibit autotomy, which may indicate the presence of a novel subtype of DA receptor in C. magister. Although the particular site of DA injection did not significantly affect the number of legs autotomized, it did appear to influence which legs autotomized. This suggests that DA acts locally, either as a neuromodulator or a neurotransmitter at local nerve synapses or neuromuscular junctions, rather than centrally through neurons descending from the central nervous system.
10.2307/1548508|Six new species of luminescent myodocopid ostracodes, Vargula psammobia, V. ignitula, V. noropsela, V. scintilla, V. micamacula, and V. lucidella, from the San Blas Islands, Panama, are described. Males of these species secrete pulses of luminescence in species-specific trains in the vicinity of shallow coral reefs at night. These species differ both in bioluminescent signaling patterns and in morphological characters. We hypothesize that these species form a monophyletic group, which we call Group H, and which also includes V. contragula Cohen and Morin, 1986, from the San Blas Islands, and possibly V. tsujii Kornicker and Baker, 1977, from California. We also hypothesize that V. psammobia and V. ignitula are sibling species, as are V. noropsela and V. scintilla. Two keys are given to the eleven known species of Vargula in the San Blas Islands, one based on morphology and the other based on bioluminescent display characters and habitat. Vargula psammobia produces a series of pulses in the shape of an "L," low over sand patches near reefs. Vertical downward displays are produced by V. ignitula, V. scintilla, and V. micamacula. However, they differ in a number of respects including train length and pulse number. Vargula ignitula displays over grass beds, V. scintilla over slopes or patches of coral, and V. micamacula at the edge of reef crests. Vargula lucidella produces vertical upward displays along reef crests. Vargula noropsela generates horizontal to long oblique trains over sand channels in the reef.
10.2307/1548175|Cryptic species are those which are difficult to recognize using traditional systematic methods. Among the decapod Crustacea, there are probably many unrecognized complexes of cryptic species because of dependence on preserved material. Electrophoretic and mating studies have been very useful in determining whether individuals that differ in ecology, behavior, life history, or color can potentially interbreed. Color pattern of living specimens is a particularly useful character, since it is easy to assess and appears to differentiate morphologically similar species in a number of decapod groups. Examples include species of Uca and various symbionts of coral reef organisms (e.g., in the genera Trapezia and Alpheus and the subfamily Pontoniinae). Although nonmorphological characters cannot be scored in most museum specimens, statistical analysis of morphometric data first collected for individuals of known identity can subsequently be used to identify preserved material. Electrophoretic analyses, such as those done for species complexes of Uca, Trapezia, and Alpheus, have also shown that cryptic species pairs may or may not be more closely related to each other than morphologically distinct congeners. For this reason the term "sibling" should be reserved for those species which have been shown to be very closely related using biochemical techniques. Various speciation patterns, including possible examples of host race speciation and speciation facilitated by sexual selection, occur within decapod species complexes.
10.2307/1548980|From plankton samples taken in coastal areas of the eastern Yucatan Peninsula, Mexican Caribbean Sea, two new species of Monstrilloida (Copepoda) are described, Monstrilla rebis and Monstrillopsis ciqroi. Monstrilla rebis is distinguished as a new species mainly by the location of the oral papilla and the presence of two setae on both rami of the fifth legs. Monstrillopsis ciqroi differs from all previously known species of Monstrillopsis by the combination of features of the structure and armature of the fifth legs, the armature of the antennule, the proportions of the ovigerous spines, and by its size.
1549491|A phylogenetic analysis of 106 representatives in the thalassinidean families Ctenochelidae and Callianassidae, based on 93 adult morphological characters, was performed to investigate the inter-relationships between the 25 currently recognized genera. The callianideid, Callianidea typa H. Milne Edwards, was used as the out-group. The two in-group families, Ctenochelidae and Callianassidae, were both shown to be monophyletic. Monophyly of the four ctenochelid subfamilies (Anacalliacinae, Callianopsinae, Ctenochelinae, and the recently suggested Gourretinae) was not supported. Three callianassid subfamilies (Callianassinae, Cheraminae, and Eucalliacinae) were found to be monophyletic but with species compositions different from those presently understood. The fourth callianassid subfamily (Callichirinae) is paraphyletic and ancestral to the other subfamilies. Several species described as species of Callianassa s.l. were found to belong to other genera. Recent diagnosis of several small genera from the Americas and Japan has left larger traditional genera such as Callianassa s.l. and Cheramus paraphyletic. Glypturus is apparently paraphyletic as presently diagnosed. The taxonomic position of some species remains enigmatic largely because of missing data. A listing of all valid genera and species of Ctenochelidae and Callianassidae at the time of publication is provided.
10.2307/1548163|Three morphological forms of the female of Neobrachiella robusta from three species of Sebastes are described along with the first description of the male. Three new species of parasitic copepods are described and illustrated. They are: Clavella embiotocae, new species, from the gill filaments of Embiotoca jacksoni, Rhacochilus vacca, and Phanerodon furcatus; Naobranchia microsoma, new species, from the gill filaments of Genyonemus lineatus, Citharichthys stigmaeus, C. sordidus, and C. xanthostigma; and Naobranchia scorpaenae, new species, from the gill filaments of Scorpaena guttata. All copepods collected parasitized fishes caught in benthic trawls at the Orange County sewer outfall, California, between October 1975 and August 1976.
10.2307/1547909|Size at maturity of fjord-dwelling golden king crabs, Lithodes aequispina, from northern British Columbia is 114 mm carapace length (CL) for males, based on chela allometry, and 105.5 mm CL for females, based on the presence of "eggs" (embryos) or empty egg cases on the pleopod setae. Females carried up to 27,000 "eggs." Fecundity (F), measured soon after egg extrusion, increases with carapace length according to: F = -18,760 + 294 CL. Embryo mortality, from egg extrusion until the appearance of embryonic eyes, decreases from 13% for 110 mm CL females to 8% for 140 mm females. Mean length of external "eggs" immediately before hatching is 2.4 mm. Based on the size limit at maturity and estimates of growth rate, a minimum commercial size limit of 163 mm CL (=181 mm carapace width, including lateral spines) would protect males for three years after maturity is reached.
10.2307/1548140| Postmarsupial development of the gastropod shell-inhabiting tanaidacean Pagurapseudes largoensis McSweeny is described and compared with that of Heterotanais oerstedii (Kryer) and Neotanais micromopher Gardiner. This is the first such study of an apseudomorphan based on experimentally reared animals. P. largoensis is gonochoristic; two manca instars are typical of all tanaidaceans so far investigated. In females, the mancas are followed by two or possibly three juvenile instars (=neutra), one or two preparatory instars characterized by rudimentary oostegites, and a copulatory stage with complete marsupium. Laboratory maintained animals pass through up to three copulatory stages, each separated by a preparatory stage of one or two instars. A preparatory instar, characterized by very small rudimentary oostegites often restricted to thoracopods VI, sometimes occurs between the juvenile and normal preparatory stages. The small number of such field-collected specimens suggests that it is an abnormality. Males develop either directly from the manca 2 instar or from the first juvenile instar. Pleopods and heterochelae either accompany initial appearance of genital cones or appear after one or two additional molts. Males retain a full set of mouthparts, feed, and molt throughout their lives. Variability in the pattern of instar succession may be construed as a primitive trait and supports the position of the Apseudomorpha as least derived of the three tanaidacean suborders. Males alone are heterochelous; the right chela is always major and its growth is allometric with respect to carapace length. Intermolt period increases with age, from a 2-week mean for mancas 1 to about 4 weeks for preparatory and copulatory females and 7 weeks for large males, although minimum intermolt periods are similar for all stages (11-29 days). Longevity is estimated at up to 15 months for males and 9 months for females. The sex ratio for field-collected specimens is about 1:1. Females bear 4-17 offspring per marsupium. 
10.2307/1549556| The population biology of Emerita brasiliensis (Decapoda: Hippidae) was studied by means of biweekly sampling from October 1990 through March 1993 at Praia da Fora Beach, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil (2257S, 4310W). Two transects were established in the swash zone, and divided into 4 strata parallel to the waterline. From each stratum, 4 replicates were taken with a 0.04-m<sup>2</sup> sampler. Highest population densities were observed at the end of spring and during summer. The presence of ovigerous females and juveniles during the entire sampling period indicated continuous reproduction of the population. The sex ratio was 1.82 for males: 1.00 for females. Batch size varied from 610-1,093 eggs, for females 10-23 mm long, respectively. Growth and mortality rates were higher for females than for males. Longevity for 99% of the population varied approximately from 6-10 months. 
10.2307/1548192|A review of the deep-water hermit crabs of the genus Parapagurus has shown that 10 of the taxa assigned to this genus, and an additional new species, represent a group of closely related species defined herein as the P. pilosimanus complex. Four species of the complex occur in the western Atlantic: P. pilosimanus, P. nudus, P. scaber, and P. alaminos, new species. These species are diagnosed or described and morphological variations evaluated and illustrated. Results of this study provide an indication of the range of variations that could be expected in species of the complex in general. Diagnostic characters at the specific level have been found in the branchiostegite, antennal acicle, left cheliped, propodal rasp of the fourth pereiopod, uropods, and telson. SEM micrographs of the scales constituting the propodal rasp are included. The right cheliped is shown to be affected by size and sexual dimorphism, and is not useful in distinguishing the species.
10.2307/1548798|Two new species of West African fresh-water crabs are described from specimens in the Zoologisches Staatsinstitut und Zoologisches Museum, Hamburg, Germany, and from material in the author's collection. The new species are distinguished by a combination of characters of the gonopods, chelipeds, and carapace. These species are found in the rain forest zone of southwest Cameroon and southeast Nigeria, West Africa. They are compared to Potamonemus mambilorum Cumberlidge and Clark, 1992, the type species of the genus, and to other fresh-water crabs in the family Potamonautidae occurring in West Africa. A key to distinguish between the three species in the genus Potamonemus is provided.
10.2307/1548490|Selected morphological traits were documented for megalopae of Cancer magister, C. oregonensis, and C. productus collected at three sites within the Puget Sound basin and at two offshore sites in the eastern Pacific Ocean. Variation in selected traits was compared among species, among individuals within species, and among regions sampled. Traits selected for measurement were those proposed in the literature as diagnostic for identification of species of Cancer. For each of three species of Cancer collected, substantial intraspecific variability in size and appendage setation was documented. Although individual megalopae differed in selected morphological traits from published reports, published values were within the range of those measured in the present study. Significant differences among regions were determined for size and setation in C. magister, with the clearest differences being those between megalopae collected offshore and within the Puget Sound basin. Results indicate that megalopae of C. magister can be separated from those of C. productus and C. oregonensis by size alone, but that the latter two species cannot be separated with certainty on the basis of features described in the literature as diagnostic. Differences between offshore and inland water populations of megalopae of C. magister may reflect hydrographic features of the region and the megalopa's site of origin. Variability in morphological traits must be included in any analysis of factors for species identification and may contribute to analysis of broader ecological issues.
20487734|The Caribbean spiny lobster (Panulirus argus) is the most widespread, commercially important, and extensively studied spiny lobster in the western hemisphere, yet until now it has never been successfully reared through all its planktonic (phyllosomal) stages from egg to early benthic juvenile. Here we describe the development of phyllosomal P. argus in culture including the growth, duration, and morphology for 10 distinct stages. Phyllosomata were cultured from egg to juvenile in two ways: 1) in individual cultures using small glass bowls (120 and 400 mL) to determine individual growth, and 2) in group culture using a 40 L elliptical tank to obtain samples for morphological descriptions. Six of the 20 phyllosomata cultured individually (at 25-27C) metamorphosed after 18-21 molts (mean=20) to the puerulus stage at 140-198 days (mean = 174 days). Body lengths of the final stage phyllosomata and pueruli ranged from 25.6 to 28.2 mm (mean = 27.0 mm) and 16.4 to 17.5 mm (mean = 17.0 mm), respectively. Of the 550 mass cultured (at 25C) phyllosomata, 146 were sampled for morphological examination and subsequently divided into 10 stages, each described and illustrated herein. This is the first of the five Panulirus species known from the Atlantic Ocean to be cultured completely from hatch to settlement. This success is crucial for future research on larval behavior and dispersal and may renew interest in aquaculture of this economically consequential species.
4094125|During deep-sea trawling in Taiwanese waters, four species of galatheids belonging to the genus Munidopsis were collected at two stations deeper than 3000 m. Three species represent new records from Taiwan: M. panamae Baba, 2005, M. profunda Baba, 2005, and M. teretis Baba, 2005, all recently described and known from very limited material. The other is a new species, Munidopsis tafrii, which resembles M. ceratophthalma Alcock, 1901, and M. orcina McArdle, 1901, but clearly differs in characters of the carapace. The specimens of M. profunda from 4430-4455 m are the deepest record for marine animals from Taiwanese waters.
10.2307/1548669|Motility of the gut in developmental stages of Penaeus setiferus (Linnaeus) was monitored in vivo with video microscopy. Oral drinking, anal drinking, and propagation of contractile waves in the midgut trunk (MGT) were observed in larval and postlarval stages. A gastric mill and functional gland filter were absent in larvae. In early postlarval stages, the gastric mill did not function in trituration. The gland filter appeared to function in emulsification rather than in exclusion of large-sized particles from the hepatopancreas. Chyme from within the peritrophic membrane, as far posteriad as abdominal segment 2, was moved at times anteriad into the hepatopancreas. Both antiperistaltic and peristaltic waves mixed and transported chyme within the midgut. Substantial ontogenetic change in function of the foregut and midgut occurred (1) at metamorphosis, (2) at onset of motility in the median tooth, and (3) with differentiation of hepatopancreatic tubules. We propose that antiperistalsis along the MGT, anal drinking, oral drinking, and contractions of the foregut maintain positive hydraulic pressure within the midgut. This pressure expands regions of the midgut following contractions of intrinsic muscles. Hydraulic pressure, particularly that propagated by antiperistalsis of the MGT, is responsible for expansion of contracted hepatopancreatic tubules. We further propose that the peritrophic membrane separates stored chyme and rejected fecal matter from water taken up by anal drinking and pumped anteriad by antiperistaltic waves. In P. setiferus hydraulic pressure in the extraperitrophic space of the midgut lumen, together with pressure exerted by constriction of the MGT in abdominal segments 3 and 4, compresses the peritrophic membrane around its contents. This compression expels fluids anteriad and compacts feces before the fecal strand reaches the hindgut.
10.2307/1547961|Periclimenes pilipes, new species, is described and illustrated. Shrimps of this species were associated with the crinoid Comanthina schlegeli at Enewetak Atoll, Marshall Islands, at 3-22 m depth. Aspects of the ecology of P. pilipes and its mimicry of host coloration are discussed. The species is most closely related to P. novaecaledoniae Bruce, also a crinoid associate, from which it may be distinguished by its characteristic ambulatory pereiopods.
10.2307/1548549| An intertidal population of Claudicuma platense, a cumacean that inhabits the Ro de la Plata bottom, was sampled for 15 months. This species produces 3 generations per year--overwintering, spring, and summer--instead of 2, as reported for other temperate shallow-water cumaceans. The spring and summer generations develop over a shorter period (about 2 and 3 months, respectively) than the overwintering generation (about 7 months). Lower abundances were observed in late winter (mean minimum abundance = 133 individuals m<sup>-2</sup>) when the population consisted mainly of adults, the survivors of the overwintering generation, whereas higher abundances occurred in early summer and early autumn (mean maximum abundances = 4,003 and 2,090 individuals m<sup>-2</sup>, respectively) when the population was composed primarily of mancas and juveniles. Claudicuma platense was also collected in the subtidal zone near the coast, where the temporal pattern of variations in abundance is apparently similar to that of the intertidal zone. Both the size of marsupial females and the fecundity decrease from overwintering, to spring, to summer generations. Each generation exhibits a linear, but different, female size-fecundity relationship. Hence, other factors, besides female size, influence the fecundity of C. platense. 
27920102|The rate of ammonia excretion in different stages of fed and starved krill, Euphausia superba, from Bransfield Strait was determined at 1.8C. Brief starvation induced a significant impact in depressing ammonia excretion in all stages of krill. Ammonia excretion rate in freshly captured krill is exceedingly high with peak levels reaching as much as 260 g NH3/g dry wt/h. This study also evaluates the krill excretion rate in relation to other planktonic species from temperate, tropical, and polar seas. This finding of high rate of catabolic activity in krill is in agreement with recent discovery of the unusually high feeding rate of krill.
10.2307/1549373|The stomatopods or mantis shrimps are malacostracan crustaceans of the subclass Hoplocarida. All extant hoplocarids belong to the order Stomatopoda and suborder Unipeltata. The Unipeltata comprises the extinct, stem-lineage sculdids, and the crown-group which includes the 19 extant families with more than 400 species. A cladistic analysis of all 20 families of the Unipeltata, rooted with four fossil outgroups, resulted in a single, fully resolved topology. The results largely support the existing five-superfamily classification. The Squilloidea, not the Bathysquilloidea, were the earliest derived crown-group superfamily. The Lysiosquilloidea and Erythrosquilloidea are derived as sister groups, which together are sister to the gonodactyloids. The Bathysquilloidea and Gonodactyloidea, however, were not monophyletic, supporting the erection of new superfamilies for the extinct Sculdidae and the extant Parasquillidae. The Bathysquilloidea is restricted to the Bathysquillidae and Indosquillidae, but, owing to incomplete fossil data, a new taxon is not erected for the sculdids. Instead, the Sculdidae is considered incertae sedis until more fossil data become available. The superfamilial affiliation of the Parasquillidae is also considered uncertain pending further research. Monophyly of the Heterosquillidae sensu Manning (1995) was unsupported. Paracoridon, presently a heterosquillid, is transferred to the Coronididae. Further study of coronidid relationships is necessary and may support the removal of both Acoridon and Paracoridon. The Tetrasquillidae and Heterosquillidae, as restricted here, are recognized as sister taxa, but further study may require their synonymy. Characters based on the modified male first pleopod are informative at superfamily level and further study may reveal characters useful down to the specific level.
10.2307/1548866| The red swamp crayfish Procambarus clarkii (Girard, 1852) is a native widespread aquatic species from the northern part of the state of Nuevo Len, Mxico (Rio Salado basin), but it is an exotic species in the central area of the state (Ro San Juan basin). There, P. clarkii appears to be replacing the native Procambarus regiomontanus Villalobos, 1954. At present, P. regiomontanus is known to occur in only two disjunct localities, Canoas Park, near Monterrey, and the spring pool, El Sabinal, at Cerralvo. The dwarf crayfish Cambarellus alvarezi Villalobos, 1952, as well as two endemic fish species, Megupsilon aporus Miller and Walters, 1972, and Cyprinodon alvarezi Miller, 1976, from Ejido El Potos, municipality of Galeana, are threatened with extinction, due to a severe habitat reduction. The taxonomy, distribution, and status for two additional and presumably undescribed crayfish species from central and south Nuevo Len need to be updated. /// El acocil rojo Procambarus clarkii (Girard, 1852) es nativo y ampliamente distribudo en la Cuenca del Ro Salado al norte del estado de Nuevo Len, Mxico, pero es extico de la cuenca del Ro San Juan al centro del estado. Ah, P. clarkii est remplazando al nativo P. regiomontanus Villalobos, 1954. Procambarus regiomontanus ocurre hoy en dia en dos localidades aisladas, El Parque Canoas, cercano a Monterrey, y en la poza del manantial del Parque Nacional El Sabinal, Cerralvo. El acocil enano Cambarellus alvarezi Villalobos, 1952, as como dos especies de peces, Megupsilon aporus Miller y Walters, 1972, y Cyprinodon alvarezi Miller, 1976, endmicos del Ejido El Potos, Galeana, estn amenazados con extincin debido a la severa reduccin de su habitat. La taxonoma, distribucin y estatus de dos especies de acocil pre-sumiblemente indescritas del centro y sur de Nuevo Len, necesita ser actualizada. 
1549858|For many organisms, chemoreception plays a key role in numerous aspects of daily life. Crayfish use chemical signals to find mates, warn conspecifics of predators, and relay social status. While many of these situations have been studied in detail, behavior of conspecifics toward chemical signals from molted individuals has not been thoroughly examined. The physiology of crayfish changes dramatically during molting (ecdysis), which in turn may change both the chemical content and concentrations of the chemical cues released into the water. We hypothesized that conspecifics are sensitive to chemicals released during molting. A Y-maze experimental design was used to test for differential responses to various molt-related chemical stimuli presented to intermolt male crayfish (Orconectes rusticus). The sources of chemical stimuli were recently molted male crayfish, intermolt male crayfish, control (aged tank water), and food (fish). Behavioral indices of response included initial arm choice, time spent in each arm, time spent at each nozzle, number of arm changes, and meral spread at each nozzle. Experiments were also conducted where crayfish were presented the same chemical stimuli in each arm to obtain measures of locomotor activity in the different stimuli. In addition, orientation parameters such as walking speed, walking speed to source, and distance to source were analyzed. Intermolt individuals spent more time in the presence of molt signals, although the food stimulus was more attractive than any other stimuli tested. Crayfish showed a significant initial arm choice when molt stimulus was paired with control. During the identical presentation of chemical stimuli, crayfish showed an increase in locomotor activity in the molt and food chemical stimuli than in the intermolt and control chemical stimuli. There were no significant differences in orientation parameters between chemical stimuli. These results show that crayfish can discriminate molted male conspecifics from the other chemical stimuli tested.
10.2307/1548883|We studied the clearance ability of hemolymph drawn from the tiger shrimp Penaeus monodon immersed in a viable cell suspension of Vibrio vulnificus. Results show that Vibrio cells were largely eliminated from shrimp hemolymph within 12 h following invasion and completely undetectable at 24 h. We also examined the anti-E. coli activity of plasma, phenoloxidase (PO) activity, as well as the production of superoxide anion (O<sub>2</sub><sup>-</sup>) by shrimp hemocytes following treatment with each of these 3 immunostimulants. Resultant survival indexes show that some plasma, but not all, exhibits anti-E. coli activity. However, such an activity in all plasma tested could be enhanced by beta-glucan or zymosan up to 24 h following treatment, and slightly enhanced at 6 h following treatment with a Vibrio antigen. PO activity and O<sub>2</sub><sup>-</sup> generation were stimulated by all 3 immunostimulants. Enhanced PO activities were observed from 5 min to 24 h following treatment, with the highest activity occurring at 3 h; the activity recovered to normal on day 3. Increased O<sub>2</sub><sup>-</sup> production was observed from 3-12 h in both glucan- and zymosan-treated shrimp, and at 6 h in shrimp treated with Vibrio antigen. These results show that: (1) some microbicidal reactions may be involved in the clearance of invasive V. vulnificus from shrimp hemolymph; (2) the 3 immunostimulants have the ability to enter shrimp via immersion treatment, thus leading to activation of both the plasma-related factors and hemocytes and the strengthening of PO activity and O<sub>2</sub><sup>-</sup> production; and (3) these enhanced microbicidal reactions exhibit a rapid response that is short in duration.
10.2307/1548774|The cover-seeking behavior of juvenile and adult crayfish, Orconectes rusticus, was examined in relation to the relative importance of darkness and thigmotactic cues. Crayfish (N = 12 per experiment) were observed in individual aquaria 5 times per day, with at least 30 min between observations, for a 3-day period. Their positions were recorded as either within or outside the provided cover(s). When presented with a choice between a clear thigmotactic cover or open area (Experiment Ia), adult crayfish were observed in the cover significantly more often. Juvenile crayfish were observed in the open area significantly more often, but burrowed into the gravel to provide a measure of darkness (shadow) and tactile sensation. Experiment Ib presented crayfish with a choice between a dark thigmotactic cover and an open area; both adults and juveniles were observed in the cover significantly more than in the open area. In Experiment II, crayfish were given a simultaneous choice among a clear thigmotactic cover, a dark thigmotactic cover, and open area. Both age groups were observed in the dark cover more often than the other 2 conditions and were never observed in the clear cover. Although a clear cover was acceptable to adult crayfish (Experiment Ia), it was not acceptable to juveniles. Adults appeared to prefer dark cover to clear cover; juveniles altered their environment to provide shadowed cover, rather than utilize a clear cover. Thus, juveniles also appear to prefer "darkness" and will alter their environment accordingly. In Experiment III, crayfish were given a simultaneous choice among: a reduced-thigmotactic dark cover; a clear thigmotactic cover; and open area. Adults chose the large dark cover significantly more than the open area, but not significantly more than the clear thigmotactic cover. Adults that used the clear thigmotactic cover pulled gravel into their shelters, thus providing a measure of darkness. Juveniles chose the large dark cover significantly more than either the clear thigmotactic cover or the open area. Darkness appears to be the controlling factor in cover-seeking of juveniles; adults will modify cover providing only thigmotactic cues when dark thigmotactic cover is absent. Darkness plus thigmotactic cues, however, is the most preferred cover for both age groups.
41315743|A new species of subterranean amphipod, Bogidiella veneris, from Venus Bay, South Australia is described. The species was found in a groundwater observation well drilled in an aeolianite limestone formation only 500 m from the seashore. The discovery of the new bogidiellid amphipod is one of the outcomes of a three year stygofauna survey in South Australia. Bogidiella veneris is the fourth species of Bogidiellidae from the Australian region.
10.2307/1547879| The distribution, abundance, and diet of Crangon franciscorum and C. nigricauda were estimated from 15 monthly samples from the channel and shallows of San Pablo Bay. Crangon franciscorum outnumbered C. nigricauda by an overall ratio of 10:1. The majority of the C. nigricauda (85%) were taken in the high salinity waters of the channel. Most of the C. franciscorum catch (68%) came from the low salinity shallows. This species concentrated only in the channel when reproductive in the winter. Crangon franciscorum and C. nigricauda ate prey in common, although relative abundance of foods in the diet varied between species. Crangon nigricauda concentrated its diet on amphipods, while C. franciscorum partitioned its diet more evenly among several prey. Amphipods, bivalves, and foraminiferans were eaten significantly more often in the foodrich shallows than in the channel. These foods and others varied seasonally in the diet. Ontogenetic shifts in types and sizes of prey taken were observed, with crangonid shrimp remains occurring in large C. franciscorum (40 mm). Neomysis spp., abundant in the diets of caridean shrimps of the upper reaches of the estuary, are notably rare in the crangonids of San Pablo Bay. The diets of C. franciscorum and C. nigricauda are heavily influenced by predator size, temperature-salinity preferences, and prey availability. 
10.2307/1549424|Two rarely recorded species, Petrolisthes masakii and P. celebesensis, are redescribed, based on specimens collected from the Ryukyu Islands. Petrolisthes masakii is found with blackish ophiuroids, Ophiocoma erinaceus or O. pica, on dead coral branches around the outer edges of reef flats, and P. celebesensis occurs near the bases of large blocks of dead coral branches in lagoons. A new species, Petrolisthes varicolor, is described from the Ryukyus and Phuket Island. This species closely resembles P. fimbriatus, but differs from the latter in the subparallel branchial margin of the carapace and the coloration of the body, verified by a comparison with syntypes and specimens of P. fimbriatus from Palau and the Philippines.
1549479|Four stomatopod species described in the 18th century, the names of which have not or not consistently been used in modern literature, are now identified. The name Astacus vitreus Fabricius, 1775 (fam. Lysiosquillidae), is a senior synonym of the well-known and widely used name Lysiosquilla scabricauda (Lamarck, 1818). As the reintroduction of the specific name vitrea will cause an undesirable confusion, it is advised to have this specific name suppressed by the International Commission on Zoological Nomenclature in order to save the name scabricauda. The other three names Squilla phalangium Fabricius, 1798 (fam. Nannosquillidae), S. ichneumon Fabricius, 1798, and Cancer neptuni Linnaeus, 1768 (both fam. Squillidae), are senior synonyms of respectively Acanthosquilla acanthocarpus (Claus, 1871), Cloridina microphthalma (H. Milne Edwards, 1837) and Alima alba (Bigelow, 1893). As neither of the three species is common or well known, there is no reason not to follow the International Code strictly here. For each of the three a neotype has been selected.
1549789|Female Porcellio laevis (Latreille) raised in the laboratory first reproduced when 7 months old and can breed up to 7 times during their life time irrespective of season. In that, this species differs from most other isopod species studied so far. After a single mating, a female can breed several times without the presence of a male presumably because she stores sperm. Females known to be virgins never became gravid, thus there is no evidence of parthenogenesis. Males are therefore essential for reproduction in P. laevis. Sex ratio in the laboratory population was found to be 1 male to 2.5 females. The average time intervals between consecutive broods is 7.7 weeks. Most females reproduce 3 or 4 times in their lifetime (e.g., until the age of about 1 year). The average number of broods is 3.1. Number of mancas in the brood is positively correlated to weight of the mother. The average number of mancas in a brood is 66.6. The average survival of mancas until they are 7 or 8 months old is 44.7%. The ovary of P. laevis is typical of an iteroparous isopod in that it contains both large and small oocytes. However, it differs from that known for all other isopod species by having a few large oocytes persisting in the ovaries at all times. Apparently, oocyte cohorts do not mature simultaneously as indicated by the fact that some large oocytes were present at all times but move a few at a time into the brood pouch at a continuous rate.
4126712|The presence of small trout together with fairy shrimp (Chirocephalus diaphanus) in isolated corrie lakelets in the French Pyrenees suggests that the fish might be agents of dispersal of the shrimp, if resting eggs could survive ingestion and freezing. Resting eggs in ovigerous females of Chirocephalus diaphanus can pass through the digestive tract of a trout and be subsequently frozen without losing their viability. Subsequently fecal pellets were collected from each fish. The gut passage time of C. diaphanus eggs were up to 4 days. Resting eggs recovered from fecal pellets were counted, frozen and then incubated. Hatching of nauplii began after 32 days, and 50.9% (sd. 29.4) hatched over the following 7 days. Ovigerous females of lab cultured C. diaphanus were administered to four trout Salmon trutta kept in separate tanks. Therefore, fish can aid upstream dispersion of these fairy shrimp.
1549493|The resurrected genus Lepidophthalmus defines a group of estuarine burrowing shrimp, western Atlantic members of which were until recently treated as a single homogeneous species. Individuals from fourteen Gulf of Mexico, two Caribbean, and one eastern Pacific localities were assayed by allozyme electrophoresis of 19 presumptive loci. Results were evaluated by principal components analysis of individual polymorphic allele data for definition of populations. Allozyme data were used to compare populations by F-statistics and measurement of pairwise genetic distances. Populations of Lepidophthalmus from within the Gulf of Mexico resolve into three distinct genetic lineages, pairwise genetic distances of which are comparable to congeneric species-level taxa in other invertebrate groups. The most widespread lineage defines L. louisianensis and consists of all samples from the northern through northwestern Gulf. This species is both geographically and allozymically separated from two other lineages (Lepidophthalmus sp. "a" and Lepidophthalmus sp. "b") that occurred sympatrically in a restricted area of the southwestern Gulf of Mexico, providing the first account of sympatric distribution in the genus. Taxonomic status for the southwestern Gulf lineages remains unresolved, but both are allozymically distinct from the Caribbean congeners, L. jamaicense and L. sinuensis, as well as the eastern Pacific species, L. nr. bocourti.
10.2307/1548742|Male Uca rosea copulate on the surface of the ground. The vertical type of waving is typical for this species. The claw was raised, stopped at the highest position, and lowered. Jerks were present for the upstroke and the downstroke. The display, however, is nonrequisite before surface mating. In this study, we found that some male U. rosea attracted females into their burrows for underground mating by waving. When a male U. rosea approached close enough to a wandering female, he waved toward her and walked back to his burrow. The male did not enter the burrow, but continued waving while passing his burrow, and, if she entered it, he then followed suit. When a male executed vertical waving toward a female, this behavior led the female closer to his burrow. Male leading of the female was present, but took different forms from that in the subgenus Celuca. The initiation of wandering of most females was associated with their eviction by wandering males. Wandering did not occur spontaneously, because most wandering females had stored sperm supplied from surface matings in their spermathecae. Female U. rosea sometimes descended into burrows during wandering. Pairing underground with a wandering female also occurred sporadically without her responding to waving. They occupied an empty burrow in which they formed pairs. If wandering females did not enter empty burrows, they entered male burrows, where no waving occurred. They need no sperm, but enter burrows probably for replenishing water. The male elicits copulation from the female in exchange for access to his burrow or a near empty burrow. Many pairs did not involve waving. The ovulation rate by female mates was similar between waving and nonwaving males.
40927855|This study describes the karyology of an isopod, Saduria entomon, and provides for the first time evidence of a XY/XX heterogamety for this species. The presented karyotype [56 (m + sm ) + 2 st + XX/XY] is characterised by the dominance of metacentric and submetacentric chromosomes and is considered as apomorphic. This is the first time a valviferan is described with an XX/XY system. Mitotic and meiotic heterogamety observed in S. entomon suggests more advanced evolution of sex determination within this species in comparison to other Isopoda. Based on Ag-staining the presence of secondary constrictions and satellites on the 22nd pair of homologous chromosomes was identified. Inter- and intra-individual variability in chromosome number (2n = 58, 2n = 59 or 2n = 61) was also observed. The between-species variation in heterogamety in isopods and the within-species variation in chromosomes numbers are discussed.
10.2307/1548699| Seven species of Mysidacea are associated with the sea grass Thalassia testudinum in Trminos Lagoon, southern Gulf of Mexico. The ranges of Siriella chierchiae, Bowmaniella floridana, Brasilomysis castroi, Mysidopsis almyra, M. bahia, and M. badius are extended. Four new reports from the southern Gulf of Mexico are presented. One new species, Taphromysis villalobosi, is described, increasing to three the number of known species of Taphromysis. 
10.2307/1548343|Ten orders of the subclass Copepoda were cladistically analyzed using 21 morphological characters. Platycopioida is the sister taxon of the Calanoida and this gymnoplean clade is the sister group of the podoplean clade, which consists of eight orders. Misophrioida is, in turn, the sister taxon of the clade that contains the rest of the podoplean orders. Interestingly, the four orders (Poecilostomatoida, Siphonostomatoida, Monstrilloida, and Cyclopoida) containing species symbiotic with aquatic animals are monophyletic. Harpacticoida, Mormonilloida, and Gelyelloida are monophyletic in a fully resolved cladogram. Comparisons were made between this newly reconstructed scheme of copepod phylogeny and the previously proposed schemes.
1549206|The mating behavior and fertilization capacity of three different ontogenetic stages of male rock shrimp Rhynchocinetes typus were examined. The first ontogenetic stage is the typus morphotype, which is similar in morphology to the female. The last ontogenetic stage, the robustus morphotype, is characterized by extremely long third maxillipeds and powerful chelae. During ontogenetic development between these two morphs, males undergo several intermediate molts, which are termed "intermedius." In mating experiments with pairs of single males and females, all ontogenetic male stages (types, intermedius, robustus) behaved in a similar manner. First, they followed the female, then embraced it with the second pereiopods and held it beneath their bodies, encaged by the pereiopods, the 3rd maxillipeds, and the abdomen. Various stimulating and checking behaviors preceded the placement of the first spermatophore, which usually coincided with the start of the spawning process. Most spermatophores were placed during the first 30 minutes of spawning. Following spermatophore placement, males guarded the females during almost the entire spawning process, which could last longer than 120 minutes. The number of spermatophore transfer events during the mating process varied significantly between the two extreme ontogenetic male stages, being typus greater than robustus. No significant differences were found in the percentage of eggs lost by females that were fertilized by the three ontogenetic male stages. These results suggest that all male stages have the same potential to mate successfully with females in a competition-free environment. However, we propose that male mating success may change drastically when different ontogenetic male stages compete directly for access to reproductive females.
10.2307/1548259|The daily movements of individuals of two species of hermit crabs (Clibanarius tricolor and Calcinus tibicen) were studied in St. Thomas, U.S. Virgin Islands. While C. tricolor moved significantly greater distances per day, both crab species tended to be site-attached and home ranges averaged less than 2 m in length. Species of shells occupied affected very significantly movement patterns, especially onshore-offshore movement by individuals of Calcinus tibicen. Movement patterns may be related to shell resource acquisition by individuals of both crab species.
4540324|Amurocrangonyx n. gen. is described on the basis of recently collected specimens of Crangonyx arsenjevi (Derzhavin, 1927), a very poorly known subterranean amphipod crustacean originally described from springs in the Khor River basin of the Ussury River drainage in the Russian Far East. The species is redescribed from specimens obtained from the type-locality, Orekhovy spring, and a neotype is designated. A careful examination of the newly acquired material, although closely similar morphologically to Crangonyx, suggests that it represents a new genus in Crangonyctidae. However, determination of the precise phylogeographic relationship of Amurocrangonyx to Crangonyx or to other crangonyctoid genera in East Asia is unclear and must await molecular analyses.
4540242|Leg 5 development is described for 10 species from 10 genera in 6 families of centropagoidean calanoid copepods. Segment homologies are inferred from the order in which arthrodial membranes, setae, and attenuations are added to ramal segments during late copepodid development. Among centropagoidean males, the grasping chela on the side opposite the male genital pore develops in three different ways. The fixed part of the chela may be a ventral attenuation of the basis, or of the proximal exopodal segment, or of the middle exopodal segment, suggesting that a male leg 5 chela is not a synapomorphy of the Centropagoidea because nonhomologous segments make up the convergent morphology. In like manner, a grasping subchela on the side opposite the male genital pore is expressed in three different ways: basis plus proximal, middle and distal exopodal segments; basis plus proximal and distal exopodal segments; or basis plus distal exopodal segment; so nonhomologous segments also result in a convergent subchela morphology. On leg 5 of adult females, a ventral attenuation of the middle exopodal segment, initially formed at copepodid stage V, is present on species of Centropagidae and Diaptomidae. A ventral attenuation of the exopod initially expressed at copepodid stage V on females of Temoridae is considered a homologous structure, although failure to express the proximal arthrodial membrane of the exopod complicates the interpretation of its origin. A ventral attenuation first appears on the exopod of Pontellidae and Acartiidae at copepodid stage V, but its homologies with the above families are more difficult to determine because neither proximal or distal arthrodial membranes nor setae are present on the adult exopod. The species of Tortanidae studied here does not express a ventral attenuation on the exopod at copepodid stage V or at the adult stage, but adults of some other species of Tortanus do. The ventral attenuation of the exopod of adult female leg 5, initially present at copepodid stage V, is a more likely synapomorphy for the superfamily although evidence for this homologous structure may be difficult to identify due to the secondary loss of setae and arthrodial membranes on the exopod of some species. Presence at copepodid stage V of the presumptive genital somite complex of the adult female is expressed among all centropagoideans studied here and appears to be an unambiguous synapomorphy for species of the superfamily.
10.2307/1548347| One ovigerous female of Dasella herdmaniae (Lebour) is reported from Inhaca Island, southern Moambique. It is the most southern and also the most western report from the Indian Ocean. The specimen exhibited minute hepatic spines and 2 terminal and 1 subterminal "club-shaped" spines on the ambulatory pereiopods. A new species, Dasella brucei, is established for the specimens of D. herdmaniae reported from Heron Island, Great Barrier Reef, Australia. 
1549929|Three new species of the genus Typhlatya from anchialine caves in Mexico (T. dzilamensis), the Bahamas (T. kakuki), and Honduras (T. utilaensis) are described. Typhlatya dzilamensis is the fourth species to be described from the Yucatan Peninsula, Mexico, and is morphologically similar to T. mitchelli. Typhlatya kakuki is the first species of the genus to be described from the Bahamas archipelago. Its morphology departs from the patterns showed by the Cuban species, which are the closest geographically. Typhlatya utilaensis is the first species described from Central America, and is found in Utila, one of the Honduras Bay Islands. Morphologically, T. utilaensis is related to T. monae from Mona Island, Puerto Rico, and Barbuda. A revised diagnosis of the genus and a key for the 17 known species are provided.
10.2307/1547873| Effects of temperature and salinity on growth in the ostracode Mytilocypris henricae were studied both experimentally and in the field. In the experiments, individual growth during postembryonic development was monitored at 4 different temperatures (10C, 15C, 20C, and 25C, all at a salinity of 8  10<sup>-3</sup>) and at 3 salinities (S = 4  10<sup>-3</sup>, S = 8  10<sup>-3</sup>, and S = 16  10<sup>-3</sup>, all at 20C). One hundred animals were subjected to each of 6 different treatments. Length and height of valves and the intermolt periods were measured. Growth was significantly affected by temperature, with animals growing more slowly at lower temperatures, but eventually attaining a larger size, except at 10C where animals grew at the slowest rate of all but remained smaller than those at 15C. Calculated length-height ratios (parameters for valve shape) were significantly different among the 4 investigated temperatures, but no clear pattern could be detected. No obvious effect of salinity on growth was observed. The length-height ratio, however, was significantly affected by salinity, and from stage 5 onward animals became more elongated at lower salinities. Measurements of valve length and height of the 8 larval stages and of the adult stage in 8 samples taken at different times of the year from Lake Bathurst (New South Wales, Australia), show that significant size differences exist in different seasons among animals in the same life stage. 
10.2307/1547860|Males of Leucothoides pottsi transform into males of Anamixis hanseni in one ecdysis, during which some of the mouthparts degenerate and in which gnathopod 2 changes from a small appendage to a giant form. Leucothoides is therefore a junior synonym of Anamixis. The families Leucothoidae (which continues to comprise Leucothoe and similar genera) and Anamixidae are, however, maintained separately by redefining Anamixidae on the basis of reductions in coxa 1 and the mandibular palp, and de-emphasizing the formerly important overall reductions in mandibles and maxillae of adult male Anamixis.
1549649|Management plans and stock assessment of exploited marine invertebrates should consider information on the genetic population structure of the species. In this context, the genetic diversity within and between populations of the commercially exploited hairy edible crab Cancer setosus was investigated using allozyme and AFLP (Amplified Fragment Length Polymorphism) markers, covering a range of approximately 2500 km along the Chilean coast. Genetic diversity estimates within populations, such as polymorphism and average expected heterozygosity, were low from two polymorphic allozyme loci, PGM-1 and EST-1 (P<sub>0.99</sub> = 8.7%; H<sub>E</sub> = 2.5%) but much higher for 190 AFLP loci (P<sub>0.99</sub> = 52%; H<sub>E</sub> = 18.7%). Nevertheless, differentiation among samples was statistically significant for allozymes (F<sub>ST</sub> = 0.026; P < 0.001), but not for AFLPs (AMOVA  <sub>PT</sub> = 0.007; P = 0.118). Several possible causes of these differences are discussed in an evolutionary and oceanographic framework. AFLP also identified a sex-linked marker, present in 96% of females but only 9% of males. Relatively little is known about sex-determination in decapods, but these data suggest that in C. setosus, the mechanism is primarily genetic and that females may be the heterogametic sex.
10.2307/1548541|To determine whether settlement microhabitat induces metamorphosis in the puerulus stage of the Caribbean spiny lobster (Panulirus argus) and to identify the specific features of the habitat that might elicit the response, we monitored the metamorphic progress of more than 200 pueruli exposed to 6 different settlement substrates: sea water alone (no substrate), red algae, sea grass, artificial algae, algae-treated sea water, and artificial algae plus algae-treated sea water. Initial pigmentation followed settlement by approximately 1 day and began 3-6 days (mean = 5 days) after the swimming pueruli were intercepted entering the Florida Bay nursery. Presence of red algae, Laurencia spp., a preferred settlement substrate, accelerated the rate of pigmentation, but by <1 day. Metamorphosis to the first benthic juvenile stage occurred 7-9 days (mean = 8 days) after pueruli entered the bay and was unaffected by any of the substrates tested. Rates of both pigmentation and metamorphosis varied by as much as 2 days among replicate experiments conducted during the summers of 1986-1988. These results suggest that metamorphosis of pueruli of P. argus is essentially determinant; thus, physiological constraints may limit the distance that pueruli can disperse into the nursery and may force many pueruli to settle in inappropriate habitats where survival is improbable.
10.2307/1549309| At Nha Trang, Vietnam, two species of colonial rhizocephalans of the family Thompsoniidae parasitize three species of Stomatopoda. Thylacoplethus squillae Heg and Ltzen is already known from Japan. Pottsia serenei, new species, may be differentiated from Pottsia plesionikae by its smaller size, relatively longer stalk, much larger eggs, and the presence of compound eyes in the cypris larvae. A third colonial species, Diplothylacus sinensis, is recorded from Portunus sanguinolentus at three localities in Vietnam 
10.2307/1548221|A new order, Mictacea, is proposed within the superorder Peracarida for Hirsutia bathyalis Sanders, Hessler, and Garner and Mictocaris halope Bowman and Iliffe. The new order is characterized by a unique combination of characters, most of which are not unique to the Mictacea, but are found in at least one other peracaridan order.
20487807|We present a comparison of the development of trunk limbs in Nebalia sp. (Leptostraca) and Limnadopsis parvispinus (Branchiopoda). The overall correspondence in specific developmental steps and morphology, e.g., size and orientation of limb anlagen, plus the resulting interpretation of adult limb part homologies lead to the suggestion that phyllopodous limbs in Leptostraca and Branchiopoda are homologous. In addition, our data allow the conclusion that the branchiopod limb forms a three-lobed rather than an undivided endopod. During early development of Nebalia sp. the pleopods form a transitory, putative, and vestigial epipod. The presence of this epipod on the pleopod lends support to the idea that the tagmatisation of the malacostracan trunk into thorax and pleon is the result of a secondary subdivision of an ancestral crustacean thoracic region.
10.2307/1548979|Scalpellomorph barnacles (Thoracica: Pedunculata) are stalked, with a capitulum bearing 6 or more calcified or partly calcified plates. They are poorly known and are rare in museum collections. Species descriptions are often based on 1 or few specimens. It is often difficult to assign species to many of the proposed scalpellid genera. This paper describes techniques being developed to provide comprehensive descriptions of recent rich Australian collections. Because some species are known by only a few individuals, emphasis has been placed on techniques which minimize trauma to the specimen. Conchological techniques are used to examine the calcareous capitular plates, since their arrangement is of systematic, ontogenetic, and phylogenetic significance. Consideration is also given to staining techniques, since descriptions of morphological details of trophi, cirri, and complemental or dwarf males (if present) are lacking for many species.
10.2307/1548816| Visually directed movements of juveniles of the mangrove crabs Aratus pisonii and Chlorodiella longimana and postlarvae (megalopae) of A. pisonii to black horizontal rectangles subtending visual angles from 5-350 were measured in a circular arena. The study tested the hypothesis that early stage crabs use visual cues for attraction to potential refuge sites represented by silhouettes of mangrove roots and for avoidance of large dark areas that represent predators. The habitats of the 2 species differ in that A. pisonii lives in the supralittoral/littoral area among the roots and branches of mangrove forests, while C. longimana lives sublittorally in this area and is rarely exposed to air. Megalopae and juveniles of A. pisonii were significantly attracted by relatively narrow rectangles subtending angles up to 30. In contrast, juvenile C. longimana exhibited attraction to all dark sectors, except a 5 dark rectangle. Orientation away from large dark rectangles subtending angles of 90-350 was exhibited only by A. pisonii. These different responses are interpreted to reflect the demands for shelter and predator avoidance in the habitat of each species. Chlorodiella longimana responded to all dark objects as if they were refuge sites, while A. pisonii differentiated between refuge and predators on the basis of horizontal extent. 
4540267|This paper describes the life cycle of the amphipod Jassa marmorata with data recorded over two years (from May 2002 to April 2004) in the Marine Protected Area of Portofino (Ligurian Sea, Italy). The population was sampled monthly at 5 m depth on artificial substrata. For each sample, the number of males, females, ovigerous females, and juveniles was recorded and related to water temperature. Two kinds of males, minor and major, were found, distinguishable by the presence of a thumb on the second gnathopod. The sex-ratio was significantly biased towards females (F:M = 5.6:1). The cycle revealed a female increase in mean body size during the cold season (late winter and early spring). This resulted in a peak in recruitment during the spring; females are fertile all through the year, but egg production is positively correlated with female size. During the summer of 2003, an anomalous increase in sea-water temperature was recorded. In this period the population completely disappeared, but the density during the next winter recovered again to usual values.
10.2307/1548568|A new species of bathyal pontoniine shrimps, Periclimenes ingressicolumbi, found on an echinoid, Palaeopneustes tholoformis, is described. The host was collected off San Salvador Island in the Bahamas by means of the Johnson Sea Link II submersible at a depth of 550-600 m. A morphological comparison with the closely related shrimp Diapontonia maranulus is presented.
1549207|Male size at maturity is important information for management of crab fisheries. Morphometric and/or gonadal maturity, which have been used to estimate size at maturity for many male crustaceans, were examined as potential indicators of functional maturity using small, unfished stone crab Hapalogaster dentata as a model species. Morphometric size of maturity as estimated by the change of the allometric relationship between carapace length (CL) and chela height was 5.2 mm CL. The size at gonadal maturity as estimated by histological examination of the gonad and vasa deferentia was 5.3 mm CL. The functional size at maturity as estimated by observing precopulatory guarding pairs in the field was 9.5 mm CL, much larger than the former two estimates. Size-assortative mating was observed between guarding males and guarded females. Female choice for larger males and advantage of the larger males in mating fights may be the reasons why such discrepancy between morphometric and/or gonadal maturity and functional maturity exist. We suggest that minimum legal size limit for decapod crustaceans should be determined by the functional maturity--actual size to participate in mating--and that the size of functional maturity is useful information for conservation-oriented management.
1549967|Fiddler crabs (Uca thayeri) on Florida's east and west coasts show temporally distinct hatching rhythms, correlated with differences in tidal form. Our purpose in this study was to determine whether these differences were fixed or could change in response to variation in the tides. West coast crabs (but not east coast crabs) showed seasonal variation in their hatching rhythms correlated with seasonal variation in the tides. In the spring, they released larvae at night. In the summer, hatching occurred during the day. West coast crabs transferred to Florida's east coast within four weeks released larvae at night in a rhythm similar to resident crabs but different from the spring nocturnal rhythm shown at their home beach. We conclude that this species has a flexible hatching rhythm that changes under natural, as well as under experimental, conditions. Such flexibility may permit the crabs to time larval release optimally over a range of tidal forms. This study and others published recently suggest that "plasticity" may be characteristic of behavioral rhythms shown by many intertidal crabs.
1549595|Fertilization is external in some crustaceans and internal in others. In the nineteenth century, it was reported that the American lobster (Homarus americanus) fertilized its eggs externally using spermatozoa stored in the seminal receptacle. Later investigators questioned this assumption, noting that the spermatophoric mass is sealed inside the seminal receptacle by an impervious sperm plug that prevents the spermatozoa from exiting the seminal receptacle via the orifice. This led to suggestions that fertilization in homarid lobsters is internal via transitory connectives that form between the seminal receptacle and the ovary/oviduct at the time of oviposition. Supporting evidence was obtained from studies in which fertilization occurred even when the orifice of the seminal receptacle was sealed with epoxy. We here report selective occlusion studies that resolve this conundrum. At spawning, spermatozoa leave the seminal receptacle not through the sealed orifice, but via two grooves located posterior and lateral to the orifice. Occluding these posterolateral grooves as well as the orifice of the seminal receptacle prevents fertilization, whereas occluding only the orifice does not. This explains why earlier attempts to prevent fertilization by occluding the orifice of the seminal receptacle were unsuccessful, and confirms that fertilization in the American lobster is external.
10.2307/1549542|Using an in vitro perfusion method, a morphofunctional study was made of single filaments isolated from the podobranch of the fresh-water crayfish Astacus leptodactylus. Each filament was fixed for transmission electron microscopy directly after an electrophysiological study. This procedure allowed us to distinguish 2 filament populations on the basis of the electrical potential differences and the superimposed ultrastructural analysis. When both sides of the preparation were perfused with Van Harreveld saline, the potential difference was either zero for a first population of filaments or different from zero for a second one. The filaments of the first population were selectively sensitive to [Ca<sup>2+</sup>] changes but insensitive to [Na<sup>+</sup>] and [Cl<sup>-</sup>] changes in the external perfusion medium. Their epithelia were of the respiratory type, i.e., they were thin and poor in mitochondria. The filaments of the second population were sensitive to [Ca<sup>2+</sup>] and [Na<sup>+</sup>] changes. Their epithelia were of the ion-transporting type, i.e., they were thick, rich in mitochondria, and showed a developed basolateral membrane system.
10.2307/1548451|The proximal portions of remipedian and cephalocarid trunk limbs were observed in detail. Some phylogenetically important structures have been formerly overlooked or ignored. The lobelike outer part of the bulbous structure on the proximal portion of the remipedian exopod is assumed to be a positional homologue of the pseudepipod in cephalocarid limbs. The remainder of the bulbous structure corresponds to the exopod segment from which the pseudepipod arises in cephalocarids. Aspects of remipedian limb musculature are preliminarily described. In limbs of some copepods, of which the endopod is 3-segmented, the inner portion of the basis closely resembles the endopod segments in appearance. Based upon these observations, a hypothesis is formulated to explain the origin of the basis in copepod limbs by lateral fusion of the proximal part of the original exopod and the first segment of the originally 4-segmented endopod, both rami having been attached to the coxa. This hypothesis may explain the origin of the basis in crustaceans in general. Possible ramifications of this hypothesis on the identity of limb parts and phylogenetic considerations in the Crustacea and some other arthropods are discussed.
10.2307/1548552|The Cirolanidae of western Africa, including a new species, Eurydice mauritanica, are reviewed and the distribution of this family on African sandy beaches is discussed.
10.2307/1549017|The complete set of copepodid stages of Hemicyclops japonicus Itoh and Nishida, 1993 (Poecilostomatoida: Clausidiidae), from Tokyo Bay, are described on the basis of specimens cultured in the laboratory from Saphirella-like copepodids. Many remarkable developmental changes, such as decrease in body length, reduction of the maxillipeds, and transformation of the labrum and the cephalosome occurred between Copepodids I and II. Sexual dimorphism first occurred in the maxilliped of Copepodid V. A comparison of morphological and ecological changes between Copepodids I and II supports the previous suggestion that Copepodid I of Hemicyclops spp. is primarily planktonic, while the later stages are more or less associated with the bottom or the host. The hypotheses on the status of Saphirella are reviewed and discussed.
4540249| A new Miocene decapod fauna is described from the Navidad Formation of coastal Chile. The fauna includes five callianassoid taxa, none of which is preserved sufficiently to identify to species level. New species include Calappilia? chilensis, Hepatus spinimarginatus, Proterocarcinus navidad, Pilumnus cucaoensis, and Pinnixa navidadensis. A possible rhizopine member of the Pilumnidae Samouelle, 1819, is described. Trichopeltarion levis Casado et al., 2004, previously known from the late Oligocene of western Argentina, was also recovered from these rocks. Calappa circularis Beurlen, from the lower Miocene Pirabas Formation in Brazil, is herein referred to Calappilia. This report greatly increases the known number of fossil decapods from Chile and sets the stage for paleobiogeographic comparison of the decapod faunas of Chile and Argentina. 
10.2307/1548255|Dehydrated Sesarma reticulatum first "test" water with their setose pereopods before immersing themselves in it. Water is then conducted from the substrate to the branchial chamber by capillary action of closely spaced plumed setae at the bases of pereopods 1-5. In contrast to the case of the ocypodid crabs Ocypode and Uca, there is no negative pressure in the branchial chamber to assist in water uptake. Branchial water flows out of the mouth primarily across the pterygostomial region of the branchiostegite where geniculate setae and pairs of cuticular ridges are present. The face of each ridge is covered by a thin cuticle beneath which is a pore opening to the spongy vascular epithelium of the dorsal branchial chamber. Staining with reduced methylene blue suggests that some gas exchange may occur across the cuticular ridges and that the spongy vascular epithelium may act as a lung. Stout comb setae on the medial surface of the cheliped clean the geniculate setae of the pterygostomial region. The morphology of the cuticular terraces of the lateral, dorsal surface of the carapace and the setae and ridges of the branchiostegal region both aid in returning water to the branchial chamber.
10.2307/1548810|Ovalipes catharus is a burrowing portunid which utilizes both forward and reverse ventilation. The proportions of time spent in each ventilatory mode depend upon burial state and activity. In forward ventilation, water enters the hypobranchial space of the branchial chambers at the bases of the legs, flows between the gill lamellae to the epibranchial space, and is exhaled anteriorly via the prebranchial apertures lateral to the mouthparts. This flow is countercurrent to the general hemolymph flow in the gills. In reverse-ventilating crabs, water enters anteriorly into the epibranchial space. Most of this water does not ventilate the lamellae, but passes between the epibranchial surfaces of the gills and the branchiostegites to be exhaled posteriorly between the fourth and fifth pereiopods. A variable (usually minor) fraction of the water exits from the Milne Edwards apertures, presumably taking a concurrent, epibranchial to hypobranchial, route. The arterial and venous circulations are described from vascular casts. From these the potential for the branchiostegal circulation to function as an alternative site for respiratory gas exchange was examined. Each branchiostegite is extensively vascularized with a sheet of interconnecting sinuses and lacunae. Hemolymph enters anteriorly from the hepatic sinuses and is returned to the pericardium laterally and posteriorly, thus forming a vascular shunt parallel to the branchial circulation. It is unclear whether the branchiostegite is important in gas exchange in this crab. Vascular casts of a number of other significant structures, including the heart, cor frontale, and antennal glands are described.
41315689|The mitochondrial gene cytochrome-c oxidase subunit 1 (COI) and the nuclear ribosomal DNA region known as Internal Transcribed Spacer 1 (ITS1) are used in a phylogenetic analysis of Ridgewayia from the Galapagos Islands and of a new species, Ridgewayia tortuga, from the Florida Keys. In addition, the phylogeny of Calanoida is reconstructed based on the 18S ribosomal RNA gene. The following characters exclude R. tortuga from the three recognized species groups of Ridgewayia: the presence of only 7 setae on the terminal endopod segment of leg 2; a 20-segmented male right antennule with two geniculations, the first between segments 9 and 10 and the second between segments 16 and 17; and details of the male fifth leg, in particular the elongate, unarmed, right endopod with a bifurcated tip. The molecular analysis shows that the first half of the COI gene not only fails to differentiate the various species of Ridgewayia, but it also fails to differentiate between the families Ridgewayiidae and Pseudocyclopidae. The second half of this gene and the ITS1 region are species specific. Molecular and morphological evidence suggest that the Galapagos ridgewayiids are the result of one colonization event and that the current phylogeography of these animals can be explained by a combination of vicariance and active migration models. The 18S ribosomal RNA gene proves successful in the reconstruction of the phylogeny of Calanoida with the following main conclusions: 1) Centropagoidea is the sister branch to all other Calanoida; 2) Ridgewayiidae and Pseudocyclopidae likely share a common ancestor with Augaptiloidea; 3) Ridgewayiidae and Pseudocyclopidae should be included in the same superfamily, the Pseudocyclopoidea; and 4) Spinocalanoidea likely needs to be included in Clausocalanoidea to recover the monophyly of the latter superfamily.
10.2307/1548890|New information on the life history and habitats of branchiopods in California vernal pools is presented. Pools were sampled biweekly during the 1992-1993 season. Branchinecta lynchi had 3 distinct hatches in 1 season which were dependent on pools drying and refilling with cold temperature water. Linderiella occidentalis and Lepidurus packardi were not observed after pools first dried and then filled a second time in 1 season. Physical habitat factors, including pool depth, surface area, and volume, were examined in relation to species presence. Pool area and volume are not as important as depth for pools in which these species occurred. Habitat duration for B. lynchi was between 3 and 14 weeks. Most pools containing B. lynchi had a duration of 7 weeks and females with shelled cysts in their brood pouches were observed after 6 weeks early in the season and after 2 weeks later in the season when temperatures were higher. Linderiella occidentalis and Lepidurus packardi require deeper pools with durations greater than 7 weeks.
1549643|We examined Ohio and Mississippi River specimens of Orconectes that had been identified previously as O. placidus and collected new specimens or examined types of Orconectes luteus, O. placidus, O. forceps, O. medius, and O. rusticus from Illinois and other states. Our analyses revealed the presence of three species of Orconectes in the Ohio and Mississippi rivers, Orconectes luteus, O. placidus, and O. sp. (undescribed), based on chela morphometrics, gonopods, carpal spines, chela denticles, and life colors. All the Mississippi River records of O. placidus were O. luteus, and many of the Ohio River records of O. placidus were O. n. sp. Distinguishing characteristics for all three species, along with an addition to the dichotomous key to Illinois decapods, were included. The ranges of O. luteus, O. placidus, and O. n. sp. in Illinois were amended. Several problems were noted with the syntypes of O. placidus such as erroneous locality, misidentification, and mixing of specimens between localities. The ratio dactylus length/palm mesial margin length, which has been considered a distinguishing characteristic between O. forceps and O. placidus, was invalidated as a useful discriminator for these species, whereas presence or absence of a distomedian carpal spine was reliable. We consider Orconectes luteus and O. n. sp. native inhabitants of Illinois, and the latter species likely occurs in Kentucky portions of the Ohio River as well.
10.2307/1548098| A new species of interstitial harpacticoid copepod, Forficatocaris schadeni (Parastenocarididae) is described from a wet campo (field) in central Brazil. Males of F. schadeni differ from all previously described species in possessing a subterminal hypophysis extending well past the end of the endopod of leg 4, together with a strong lateral spine on leg 5. Females are distinguished by the small, triangular, flat outer subterminal spine of leg 5. This is the first record of this genus on a highly organic substrate. The wet campo habitat is described; it seems similar in stability to the psammic habitats of other forficatocarid species. Keys to known species of Forficatocaris are furnished. /// Uma espcie nova de coppodo harpacticoide intersticial, Forficatocaris schadeni (Parastenocarididae)  descrita em um campo mido no Brasil central. Os machos de F. schadeni so diferentes de todas as outras espcies anteriormente descritas, por possuirem uma hipfise subterminal que ultrapassa bem o fim do endpodo da pata natatria 4, junto com um forte espinho lateral na pata 5. As fmeas so distinguidas pelo espinho subterminal exterior da pata 5, que  pequeno, plano e triangular. Isto  a primeira occorrncia de uma espcie deste gnero em um substrato de teor altamente orgnico. O habitat do campo mido  descrito; ele parece semelhante aos habitats psmmicos de outras espcies do gnero com respeito  estabilidade. Chaves de identificao das espcies do gnero so fornecidas. 
10.2307/1549073|In Calanus sinicus, a multiple-layered fertilization envelope is formed from materials sequentially released from the embryo after spawning and fertilization. The mature oocyte in the ovary does not have any envelopes, and contains spherical granules and yolk bodies in the cytoplasm. Just after spawning, a thin dense layer (L1) separates from the cell membrane of the fertilized egg. Then dense materials are released into the perivitelline space and form a flocculent matrix (L2). Before the first cleavage, spherical granules begin to be released, and form a dense layer (L3) and a thick striated layer (L4). Furthermore, an embryonic envelope (L5) appears during early cleavage stages. The layer 5 is composed of electron-dense and pale layers arranged alternately. Eventually, the fully developed envelope complex is made up of 5 layers. These 5 layers are in contact with each other. The cell surface of the embryo is extremely electron dense. Layers 1 and 2 together form foldlike processes (blisters) on the surface of the envelope.
10.2307/1548019|The heart wall of Anaspides tasmaniae consists of a single-layered epicardium and a singlelayered myocardium. The myocardial ultrastructure is advanced. The cardiac sarcomere has a full set of bands, and an M-line is present. The sarcolemma invaginates, mainly at Z-band levels, to form clefts and T-tubules. The abluminal T<sub>z</sub> penetrate deeply and are partly filled by epicardial processes. These reach far into the tubules and form desmosomes with the sarcolemma at Z-band levels. Longitudinal T-tubules combine with the sarcoplasmic reticulum to form interior couplings at H-band levels. Peripheral couplings are often found at this band level. Contractile elements are absent from the anterior and the posterior aorta and from the lateral arteries.
4094180| The growing demands and high costs of commercial Artemia cysts and the establishment of new shrimp hatcheries and farms have caused people to search for local sources of Artemia, putting special attention on their nutritional characteristics. As an essential step to determine the biochemical composition of Artemia, the fatty acid profiles of decapsulated cysts from six tropical salterns of southern Mxico [Campeche (1), Oaxaca (1), and Yucatn (4)], two of Cuba (Camagey and Guantnamo), and from a temperate site (San Francisco Bay, USA) (SFB) were analysed using direct transesterification and gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. Of 51 fatty acids identified, C16:0 (hexadecanoic), C16:l n5 (hexadecenoic), C18:l n9 (octadecenoic), C18:l n7 (octadecenoic), and C18:2 n6 (octadecadienoic) were the major compounds found. The SFB strain from a temperate area showed significant differences from the rest of the samples of tropical origin, having a greater concentration in the fatty acids 18:2 n5 (10, 13-octadecadienoic), 18:3 n3 (octadecatrienoic), and 18:4 n3 (6, 9, 12, 15-octadecatetraenoic). The SFB strain showed the lowest proportion of mono-unsaturated fatty acids. Based on the fatty acid composition, the Artemia strains studied can be assessed as "freshwater" type, except for the one from Oaxaca that had a "marine" type profile characterized by 3% to 4% of the fatty acid C20:5 n3 (eicosapentaenoic). 
10.2307/1549525|We describe the skeletomusculature of the trunk segments and their limbs, which power swimming (Kohlhage and Yager, 1994). Contrary to previous descriptions, the peduncle is composed of two podomeres, the coxa and basis. Except for the hinge lines adjacent to the coxa, all are along the anterior margin, making the muscles that pass across them flexors; extension is either passive or a result of hydrostatic turgor. Remipedian trunk musculature falls comfortably within the crustacean pattern.
10.2307/1547982|The first postlarval stage of Upogebia affinis (Say) is, for the first time, completely described. It is easily distinguished in the plankton by its rounded, densely setose rostrum and the strongly asymmetric fingers of its chelipeds, resembling those of the adult. Morphological characters which are most useful in distinguishing postlarvae of U. affinis from those of other species include: rostrum shape, spination, and setation; number of antennule endopod segments; number of antennal segments and nature of antennal scale; relative lengths of cheliped fixed and movable fingers; telson distal margin shape and spination. Seventeen postlarval specimens of U. affinis were identified from 1,320 plankton samples collected between June 1983 and August 1984 from 10 stations located approximately 10 km southwest of Calcasieu Pass, Louisiana, in the northern Gulf of Mexico. Postlarvae were rarely observed, although zoeal stages were regularly encountered. Postlarvae were collected more commonly at night, especially near the surface. Daytime occurrences were exclusively near the bottom. Zoeal stages of Atlantic and Gulf coast specimens of U. affinis were essentially identical except for slight size differences, suggesting that Atlantic coast postlarvae would be similar morphologically but slightly larger than those from the Gulf of Mexico.
10.2307/1547913| Fertilized eggs of Euphausia superba, collected over a 2-h period from gravid females, were subjected to electron microscopic examination. The zygotes were surrounded with a fibrous coat approximately 8 m thick. Immediately below that coat was a thin electron-dense layer that delineated the perivitelline space. The perivitelline space contained ring-shaped granules approximately 50 nm in diameter. These granules originated from cortical granules in the peripheral cytoplasm. Within the cortical granules the ring-shaped granules were in stacked arrays. Examination of numerous fertilized eggs revealed a probable sequence whereby the dehiscence of the majority of the cortical granules was followed by the appearance of annulate lamellae in the cortical cytoplasm. The annulate lamellae consisted of 5-15 layers of double membranes arranged in parallel arrays. The pores in the annulate lamellae were approximately 70 nm in diameter and were arranged in alternating rows. The cortical cytoplasm also contained numerous myelin figures, smooth endoplasmic reticulum, and abundant free ribosomes. The center of the centrolecithal egg was filled with yolk droplets and vast numbers of mitochondria. The cortical reaction in E. superba appears to be similar to that described for Carcinus maenas but also shares features with Penaeus aztecus. Consequently, generalities concerning the structure of crustacean eggs based on the diverse morphologies of the previously examined Reptantia and Natantia may be misleading. 
10.2307/1547904|This study reports the species of five families of terrestrial isopod crustaceans (oniscoids) from Florida. Twelve species including three each of Tylos and Ligia and one each of Ligidium, Vandeloscia, Sayoscia, Rhyscotus, and a new genus, Floridoscia (with a new species), are included. Another common species from Florida, Philoscia floridana Van Name, is placed in a new genus, Ocelloscia. Illustrations, notes on habitat, and distribution maps are included for all 12 species.
4094150| The complete larval development of a terrestrial crab from West Africa, Cardisoma armatum Herklots, 1851, was studied in laboratory rearing experiments carried out at various salinities ranging from 0.2 to 45. Six zoeal stages and one megalopa are described and illustrated. Our experimental results showed that zoeal stages of C. armatum are fairly euryhaline, zoea I to IV tolerating a salinity range of 15-45, and 15-35 during later development. However, salinity 15 tended to cause higher mortality and a significantly delayed development in most stages, while 25 allowed for maximum survival through metamorphosis. These observations suggest that C. armatum follows a limited export strategy, where the adults may live in brackish or even freshwater habitats, while a successful larval development is possible only in estuarine or coastal waters with higher salinities, presumbly with an optimum in the lower parts of estuaries with 25. Before this study, only an incomplete description of the first zoeal stage of C. armatum was available, and complete larval development had been known only for C. carnifex and C. guanhumi. In the present paper, the larval morphologies of these three congeneric species are compared. Within the Gecarcinidae, the complete larval development has been described also for Discoplax hirtipes and Gecarcinus lateralis, while only data for the morphology of the first zoeal stage are available for the other two genera of this family, Epigrapsus and Gecarcoidea. Hence, there are at present no sufficient data, in particular on megalopal morphology, to allow for conclusive intergeneric comparison and identification of familial characters. Gecarcinid zoeal morphology, as far as this is known, is briefly discussed in relation to that in other grapsoid families. 
1549750|We sequenced approximately 2,000 nucleotides of the 18S ribosomal DNA gene to test previous morphological hypotheses concerning family and superfamily relationships within the Anomura. Twelve new sequences from the superfamilies Galatheoidea, Paguroidea, Hippoidea (all Anomura), and Callianassoidea (Thalassinidea) were generated, and these were combined with three previously published sequences from GenBank to estimate phylogenetic relationships among these taxa. Our results show a clear separation of the Aeglidae from the other galatheoid families, which form a sister group with the Paguroidea. Within the Galatheoidea, chirostylids and porcellanids are sister groups. Hippoidea was revealed as the most basal taxon within the anomurans.
10.2307/1549326|Sacculina polygenea is a parasite of the intertidal crab Hemigrapsus sanguineus in Kyushu, Japan. Populations from 2 localities differing widely in prevalence (1.1-1.7% and 41.6-79.6%) were compared. When the parasite externae perish, they are replaced by new ones in almost every crab observed irrespective of locality. The abdomen of 29 parasitized crabs from both localities contained numerous internal tumors (primordial parasites). Their number varied between 10 and 92 per crab in the low-prevalence locality and 20 and 71 in the high-prevalence locality. We conclude that the tumors (and externae) of each crab arise by asexual reproduction through budding from the root system of the parasite. The parasites generally become external in crabs 1.5-2 years old. We estimate that the externae die and are replaced 1-3 times during the life of a crab, the host molting and growing between replacements. Concomitantly, the average number and size of the externae increase at each instar. Sacculina polygenea offers the first proven case of asexual reproduction in the family Sacculinidae.
10.2307/1548926|Purine bases are known as a major component of reflecting layers in aquatic animals. Guanine, xanthine, and hypoxanthine levels in 1 species of Copilia and 5 species of Sapphirina were measured by using HPLC to test for the presence of purine bases in the integument. Intact specimens of male S. nigromaculata showed a high peak corresponding to guanine, while those of females showed only a small guanine peak. The guanine peaks were conspicuous in all males of the species tested, but other purines were not. It is concluded that guanine is the major component of the reflecting platelets contributing to the iridescence of male sapphirinids.
10.2307/1549154|Tortanus (Boreotortanus), new subgenus, is established to accommodate the North Pacific/northwestern Atlantic species T. discaudatus and the taxonomy and ecology of the five subgenera in the genus Tortanus are discussed. Tortanus sensu stricto occurs in eutrophic waters in the Indo-West Pacific, Atortus in oligotrophic waters in the same region, Eutortanus in brackish waters in East Asia, Acutanus in eutrophic waters in the northwestern Atlantic, and Boreotortanus in eutrophic wates in the North Pacific and the northwestern Atlantic. Two new species are described: T. (Eutortanus) terminalis and T. (Acutanus) ecornatus. Phylogenetic relationships among the 5 subgenera were constructed based on cladistic and zoogeographical analyses. Boreotortanus may have originated in the Sea of Japan; Eutortanus in the East China Sea; Tortanus sensu stricto in the Indo-Malayan region. The final divergence is represented by the Atortus-Acutanus clade, which is characterized by reductions of elements on the antennule, the antenna, legs 2 and 3 of both sexes, and elongation of the left leg 5 of males. The ancestor of Acutanus could have colonized the northwestern Atlantic from the Indo-Malayan region through the Isthmus of Panama during the Middle Miocene to Pliocene. It appears that Atortus first succeeded in exploiting clear oligotrophic wates and in developing swarming behavior to avoid visual predators in such clear waters. These originally tropical copepods seem to have secondarily adapted to cold waters along the East Asian archipelagoes during the Pleistocene.
10.2307/1548200|Traditional views of eumalacostracan phylogeny are not in accord with current understanding of the fossil record. Another approach results from identification of basic morphotypes upon which radiations were built in the course of eumalacostracan history. Random association of characters (absence or varying conditions of the carapace, biramous or uniramous thoracopods, and presence or absence of subthoracic brood pouch of some form) yields an array of 16 morphotypes, of which 10 are recognized in the fossil and Recent record. The resultant "paper animals" combined with an analysis by cladistic methods yield six possible phenograms of eumalacostracan phylogeny. An evolutionary uncertainty principle precludes definitive choice among these patterns to produce a cladogram and taxonomy. However, a taxonomic system is advocated with the subjectivity associated with uncertainty clearly acknowledged.
10.2307/1548429|Specimens of a hyperiidean amphipod, Themisto japonica (Bovallius), were collected in the Sea of Japan off Wakasa Bay from different layers between 0 and 300 m depth in May 1982. Analysis of the specimens disclosed that: (1) juveniles were distributed in higher layers than adults during both day and night, and (2) both juveniles and adults were distributed in higher layers at night than in the daytime. Locomotor activity of individuals of T. japonica was observed in a laboratory aquarium. My observations indicated that: (1) any individual that had been swimming began sinking downward passively in the water as soon as it stopped its swimming motions, and (2) at night most of the individuals were swimming actively, separated from each other, while in the daytime they remained almost motionless near the bottom, in contact with each other, forming clusters. It is pointed out that the upward and downward migration, a phenomenon on the population level, and the rise and fall in the locomotor activity, a phenomenon on the individual level, are seen to occur simultaneously. This simultaneity is also reported in a fresh-water gammaridean amphipod, Anisogammarus annandalei. A suggested common mechanism which brings about the diel vertical migration of both of these two amphipod species is discussed.
10.2307/1548249|Two new species of the marine isopod genus Tridentella Richardson, 1905, are described from California. The monogeneric family Tridentellidae Bruce, 1984, is rediagnosed and a comparison to the original diagnosis is presented. A list of the ten described species of Tridentellidae is given, with synonymies and general distributional information. Notes on the ecology and biogeography of the family are presented, as well as a key to the genera of the closely related families Tridentellidae and Corallanidae.
10.2307/1548308|Recent observations of "compression filtration" in live euphausiids and unresolved historic controversies about filter feeding in euphausiids based mostly on inferences from preserved specimens suggest that reconsideration of the biomechanics of filter feeding is in order. Explanations of filter feeding in reviews by Mauchline and Fisher (1969) and Mauchline (1980) are incorrect. Here I review previous work and present new observations on the morphology and mechanics of the thoracic endopodites and exopodites of Euphausia superba. Movements of the endopodites are rapid and stereotyped. As the feeding basket expands laterally a pressure gradient is created which sucks water and particles into the basket from the front. Water and particles never enter the basket from the sides, below, or behind. Once inside the feeding basket, particles are retained on the filter and water is squeezed out laterally between the setae. During expansion of the basket the exopodites act as flapper valves which inhibit lateral entry of water, but during the compression stroke the exopodites lift for approximately 100 ms and permit expulsion of water. Comb setae loosen food particles trapped on the filter setae and the tips of the filter setae brush them to the mandibular palps. When phytoplankton is scarce, krill feed steadily with metronomic sweeps of the basket. When phytoplankton is abundant, they exhibit discontinuous feeding patterns. Filter feeding by compression pumping may occur in all those euphausiids that have thoracic appendages like those of E. superba and which filter feed on phytoplankton.
10.2307/1548095|Bimonthly crab trapping and tagging efforts off the central coast of California from August 1976 to April 1981 yielded data on over 9,000 adult Cancer antennarius, the northeastern Pacific rock crab. Female crabs were most abundant during autumn, the period of warmest water temperatures along central California, but males exhibited no clearly defined seasonal abundance trends. Ovigerous females were prevalent during winter, resulting in the subsequent dispersal of pelagic larvae during spring and early summer. Rock crabs attain sexual maturity about 2 years after settlement, at a size of 60-80 mm carapace width. Adult crab growth averages 16.7% in carapace width and 57.7% in body weight after a single molt, with intermolt periods of up to 16 months duration. Maximum size may exceed 150 mm in carapace width and 900 g in body weight after 5 or 6 years making C. antennarius a desirable sport and commercial fishery species. Tag returns averaged 6.3% while tag loss, as detected by a scar on the epimeral suture of recaptured crabs, was 14.4%. Nearly half of all recaptured crabs were recovered at their original release site after 2-18 months, although migratory distances of 7 km were recorded for several individuals.
4094195|An outbreak of shell disease in American lobster (Homarus americanus) over the past several years has generated a great deal of attention and concern regarding its causes and spread into New England coastal waters. An examination of the disease within Massachusetts state waters was conducted from 2000 through 2004. The overall average incidence observed in our data was 3% males and 8% females. Female lobsters were more likely to exhibit disease symptoms than males, and larger lobsters were more likely to possess disease symptoms than smaller lobsters. Disease incidence was highest in May and June, immediately prior to the molting period, and decreased dramatically through the molting season. We detected a north to south latitudinal gradient of increasing shell disease prevalence along the Massachusetts coast. Over the course of our study period, we found relatively constant low levels of shell disease in both the Gulf of Maine and Outer Cape Cod regions. However, a significantly higher level of shell disease was recorded in the Buzzards Bay region, indicating important differences in regional prevalence of disease. Our data suggest that this gradient in shell disease may be related to an interaction between water temperature, sexual maturity, and intermolt duration. There is a significant correlation between disease incidence in Buzzards Bay and a series of warmer than average water temperatures from 1999 to 2003, which suggests that temperature may be a primary factor related to the recent outbreak of epizootic shell disease.
10.2307/1548346| Clypeasterophilus, new genus, is erected to receive 4 species currently assigned to Dissodactylus Smith, 1870: D. rugatus Bouvier, 1917; D. juvenilis Bouvier, 1917; D. stebbingi Rathbun, 1918; and D. ususfructus Griffith, 1987. The new genus is characterized by (1) the continuous anterolateral margins of the carapace, (2) the palp of the third maxilliped slender and shorter than widest point of the ischium-merus, (3) the male telson subpentagonal, and (4) gonopods that narrow abruptly at their tips. Clypeasterophilus is an exclusive symbiont of irregular echinoids of the genus Clypeaster. /// Un nuevo gnero de cangrejo pinotrido, Clypeasterophilus, es nombrado para recibir a 4 especies actualmente asignadas al gnero Dissodactylus Smith, 1870: D. rugatus Bouvier, 1917; D. juvenilis Bouvier, 1917; D. stebbingi Rathbun, 1918; y D. ususfructus Griffith, 1987. El nuevo gnero se caracteriza porque (1) los mrgenes del caparazn son continuos, (2) el palpo del tercer maxilipedio es delgado y ms corto que el punto ms ancho de la articulacin isquiomeral, (3) el telson del macho subpentagonal, y (4) los gonpodos que se agudizan abruptamente en la punta. Clypeasterophilus es un ectosimbionte exclusivo de equinoideos irregulares del gnero Clypeaster. 
1549613|The life history and population structure of the amphipod Synchelidium lenorostralum were studied monthly for one year in the sandy shore at Dolsando, southern Korea. The life-history pattern was annual and iteroparous, with two dominant recruitments in fall (October to December) and spring (March to May). The sex ratio was female-biased, especially during breeding periods. The maximum size of females was 10.8 mm and 1.4 times larger than that of males. The mean body length of adults and brood size were greater in the spring breeding period than in the fall. There was a positive relationship between the brood size and body length of ovigerous females. The mean egg volume of stage I was more than 0.04 mm<sup>3</sup> in December and March, but in other months it was less than 0.03 mm<sup>3</sup> Egg volume was positively related to body length of ovigerous females and increased significantly at the phase between stage I and II. However, no significant relationship between egg volume and brood size was found. At any given female size, egg volume was significantly higher in the fall breeding than in the spring, whereas brood size was not different between the two main breeding periods, suggesting higher reproductive effort during the fall breeding period.
10.2307/1549027|We have used a multidisciplinary approach, using methods ranging from neurophysiology to field observations of natural behavior, to study the rapid backward escape-swimming of the Norway lobster Nephrops norvegicus. Escape-swimming involves a series of rapid power and recovery strokes of the abdomen, termed tail-flips. The initial tail-flip is mediated by giant fibers, and leads to a number of subsequent nongiant flips. The trajectory of the tail-flip depends on the particular giant fibers recruited, and also on the laterality of the stimulus, which influences steering and righting. The duration of swimming appears to be influenced by both neuronal and metabolic factors. By extending these laboratory studies to field trails, we have confirmed that the swimming performance of Nephrops is similar under natural conditions, and also in interactions between these animals and the trawl nets used to capture them.
1549635| Branchipus schaefferi and Streptocephalus torvicornis commonly co-occur in ephemeral ponds throughout the Mediterranean Region. We compared survivorship, growth, and reproduction. Our results show statistically significant differences in all three parameters under laboratory conditions at 25C, reflecting different life history strategies between these species. Branchipus schaefferi grows quickly to 18 mm body length, producing roughly 1700 cysts during an average lifespan of 24 days, while S. torvicornis lives an average of 120 days (length 24 mm), laying 2400 cysts. This suggests that S. torvicornis is better adapted to deep longer-lived pools, whereas B. schaefferi may survive in small, more ephemeral pools as formed from spring melt water and autumn rains. While the lifespan is equal for both sexes in B. schaefferi, the males of S. torvicornis live 2.8 times longer than females (325 days versus 114) compelled into a long postreproductive period by lack of females in their environment. 
10.2307/1549466|Growth and reproduction of the grapsid crab Plagusia dentipes were examined from February 1990 to January 1991 at Banda, Tateyama, Chiba Prefecture, Japan. Ovigerous females occurred from October-December. Small juveniles recruited from April-June. It was concluded that the duration of the larval stages was at least 6 months. After settlement, juveniles of approximately 7-mm carapace width reached 25-30-mm carapace width by October. A section of this cohort matured through a puberty molt in October-November of that year. At the puberty molt, secondary sexual characteristics, such as the elongation of the chela in the male and the enlargement of the abdomen in the female, occur. The brood size of these females ranged from 10,000-50,000 eggs. Growth stopped during the winter from December-February and progressed with a rise in water temperature after March. In autumn, both crabs that matured and those that failed to mature in the previous year participated in reproductive activity. Females recruited in the previous year breed probably twice in a season and spawn 100,000-200,000 eggs at a time. Females reproduced in their third autumn. However, further growth and reproduction after this were not clarified in this study.
27753942|On the Brazilian coast, ten species of fiddler crabs occur in the estuaries and mangrove systems. The larval development of only five of these species is completely known. Here we describe the first zoeal stage and megalopa of Uca (Uca s. str.) maracoani. Ovigerous females and megalopae were obtained at Jabaquara Beach, Paraty, state of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. The first zoeal stage was obtained from ovigerous females in the laboratory, and the megalopae directly from the field. Both zoeae and megalopae were raised in laboratory conditions. The megalopae survived until the eighth juvenile stage, when they could be identified to species. The larval morphology was analyzed and compared with the species already known for the Brazilian coast, and some other species, such as the southeast Atlantic fiddler crab, Uca tangeri. The comparison showed that U. maracoani has some characteristics that are more similar to U. tangeri than the previously studied species from the Brazilian coast. This is the first description of the zoea and megalopa morphology of a member of the genus Uca from the southwest Atlantic, of which the adult has a narrow front sensu Crane (1975), and it is helpful for taxonomic, systematic and ecological purposes.
10.2307/1549133|The fairy shrimp Branchinecta paludosa is a persistent resident of aestival ponds at high elevation in the Medicine Bow Mountains of southern Wyoming. These populations are far removed from the Arctic tundra habitat that typifies the distribution of the species, and appear to represent the southern margin of the range in North America. All of the records for the northern United States and southern Canada appear to lie along the Central Flyway that is a major migration route for waterfowl and shorebirds that nest in the Arctic. Passive dispersal probably provides for frequent colonization of marginal habitats and gene flow to established populations.
1549603|We examined the distribution of 44 morphological characters for 16 extant species of an ostracode genus, Gomphocythere, in Africa, to test hypotheses concerning character development and speciation patterns. Using heuristic searches conducted with the phylogenetic reconstruction program PAUP (beta version, 4.0), we found 2 trees of 98 steps (CI = 0.56). The skewness of tree length distribution reveals significant phylogenetic structure in the data. Nodes are supported by 1 to 11 character-state changes, and these character changes are sometimes reversed or paralleled elsewhere, accounting for much of the homoplasy in the reconstructions. By systematically removing both hard- and soft-part characters in separate analyses, hard-part characters were found to be far more homoplasious in their distribution across the phylogenetic tree, while soft parts are minimally homoplasious, suggesting that they are far more conservative while the hard parts are more prone to ecophenotypic variation. This phylogeny provides the basis for evaluating speciation mechanisms and the role of ecological factors in the diversification of ostracodes in this lake system.
4540293| Reproductive biology of the black land crab, Gecarcinus ruricola (Linnaeus, 1758), has been studied in the San Andres Archipelago in the Western Caribbean, on the islands of San Andres and Old Providence. Both sexes become mature at about 50 mm maximum carapace width, and very few specimens below this size take part in the annual breeding migration. In females the ovaries mature progressively from January to April, and laying occurs from May to July. There is no evidence that individual females lay more that once in a year. The breeding migrations were monitored in 2003 and 2004 by recording specimens crossing the coast road (running 50-100 m from the upper shore). On both San Andres and Old Providence migration was limited to specific stretches of the western shores. On both islands migration occurred from late April to July, intensity varying with time. Migration peaks were not consistent between islands or years, and could not be clearly linked to environmental factors. Migrating crabs were mostly female (> 80%), and a proportion were bearing ripe eggs: on San Andres ovigerous female predominated. Thus some females mated and laid eggs on the landward side of the coast road, others on the seaward side. Migrating females were on average larger than migrating males, in contrast to the situation in the nonmigrating populations. Log egg number varied isometrically with log carapace width (slope ~3.0): for 70 mm CW the calculated fecundity was 85,000 eggs. Percentage reproductive investment, based on dry weight, ranged from 1.7 to 9.8%, with a mean of 4.95%. Recruitment was only observed once, with a mass return of megalops to Old Providence in June 2004. All evidence points to very irregular recruitment. 
10.2307/1549520|The predatory patterns and spatial strategies of Epixanthus dentatus were studied in a mangrove creek on the Kenyan coast, together with laboratory analysis aimed at assessing the natural diet. This xanthoid fed on almost all the slowly moving invertebrates common in the forest and actively preyed at night, using an ambush technique. Epixanthus dentatus is faithful to individual dens among the roots and to well-defined feeding areas within a 3-m radius, which they shared with an average of 2 other individuals. The high density of E. dentatus seemed to affect the behavior of major prey species; various grapsid crab species reduced their climbing activity during the peak activity periods of E. dentatus. The density of E. dentatus among the mangrove roots was determined both by the number of suitable dens, and, more directly, by the density of prey species.
1549715| The major claw of male fiddler crabs, reaching up to 40% of the individual's total body weight, may impose a cost on males when escaping from predators. To test this hypothesis, 38 males (18 without the major claw) and 19 females were randomly captured and placed, individually, in a straight track. After a five-minute adaptation period, an observer walked toward the crab and triggered its escape reaction. Each crab was subjected to 10 trials with 5-minute intervals between them. The central area of the track was video-recorded with a camera from a height of 1.30 m, pointing to the ground at a 90 angle. Females ran significantly faster than males with claw, but the escape velocity of males without claw did not differ significantly from that of intact males or females. Speed was strongly correlated with air temperature. The distances at which males and females reacted to and hid from approaching humans did not differ. These results are discussed in an ecological and evolutionary perspective. 
1548953|Burrowing behavior of Procambarus clarkii in Portugal was investigated at 6 sites (3 rice fields, 2 reservoirs, and 1 marsh) from February 1991 to February 1993. Average burrow density (number of burrows/m<sup>2</sup>), relation between burrow density and substrate type, burrowing activity, burrow occupation (sex, size, and maturation of the animals), burrow morphology (burrow complexity, mean tunnel depth), and burrow distribution in relation to the water level were studied. Average burrow (b) density ranged from 0.013 b/m<sup>2</sup> to 6.28 b/m<sup>2</sup>, the highest density being in a rice-field drainage channel. A burrowing activity index was estimated, indicating that burrowing is mostly a seasonal activity, being most intense from May-October. Burrowing activity occurred only when the ratio of fine particles over coarser particles was higher than 0.1-0.2. Mean carapace length of burrowing animals varied from 35.3-43.8 mm. Most of the individuals in burrows were mature. Immature and juvenile animals occupied burrows in late fall, winter, and early spring, while mature crayfish were found in late spring, summer, and early fall. The burrow morphology was generally simple, but more complex burrows were also observed. Mean tunnel depth ranged from 0.28-0.58 m. The longer burrows measured approximately 4.20 m long. The burrows were generally located at the water level in rice-field sites and above the water level in marsh and reservoir sites. Burrows were observed only in a zone of Myriophillum sp. in marsh and reservoir sites.
10.2307/1547883|Mark-recapture data on individually marked adult Orconectes virilis living in a stream in southeastern Michigan were used to estimate growth rate and survivorship. Growth rates calculated for this population are markedly higher than those published for other populations of this species and are consistent with the exceptional size of these crayfish.
10.2307/1548305|We describe the seventh, eighth, and ninth members of the anostracan genus Dendrocephalus (Thamnocephalidae). Two of these occur beyond the continental limits of South America. All of the other described species are confined to South America. Dendrocephalus sarmentosus, new species, occurs on Santa Cruz Island, Galapagos Islands, Ecuador. Dendrocephalus cornutus, new species, is from near Liberia, Costa Rica, in Central America. Our third new species, from continental South America, is Dendrocephalus argentinus, new species, inhabiting Catamarca and La Rioja Provinces in Argentina and the Department of Asuncion in Paraguay. The Galapagos Islands species presents two features found in no other dendrocephalid. The first three endopods lack divergent outgrowths and small spines occur on antennal appendage branch 2V.
10.2307/1548067|Growth of fibers in a small proximal bundle of the extensor muscle in the third walking leg of the lobster Homarus americanus was determined by comparing animals in the intermolt and immediate pre- and post-molt stages. The fibers grow in length immediately after molting by the addition of sarcomeres which remain relatively constant in size. The fibers grow in cross-sectional area by the splitting of large myofibrils upon molting and by their subsequent enlargement during the intermolt. Stretch applied to the muscle fibers as the animal expands its cuticle immediately after molting may be the stimulus for the splitting of myofibrils and the addition of sarcomeres.
10.2307/1548764| The ability of lobsters to utilize dietary carbohydrates is dependant upon the nature and amount of carbohydrases present in these crustaceans. Since this is a potential species for culture, a knowledge of its ability to digest carbohydrates could usefully be applied in the formulation of inert diets. The aim of this study was to identify the activities present in the gut and to assess the digestibility of physically modified starches using midgut-gland extracts. A range of carbohydrase activities including -amylase (EC 3.2.1.1), maltase (EC 3.2.1.20), -glucosidase (EC 3.2.1.20), -glucanase (EC 3.2.1.39), -glucosidase (EC 3.2.1.21), - and -galactosidases (EC 3.2.1.22 and EC 3.2.1.23) were detected in the midgut gland and in the gastric juice of the European lobster Homarus gammarus. Optimal activity for the above enzyme activities was in the pH range of 4.5-5.5 and highest levels were generally located in the gastric contents. -Glucans were more readily digested than -glucans; hydrolysis of pentosans was minimal and chitin was poorly hydrolyzed. Polysaccharides and disaccharides were well digested by gastric extracts, whereas the predominant digestive capacity of the midgut gland was toward disaccharides. Molecular weights of the midgut gland -amylase and maltase activities were estimated by gel-filtration to be approximately 21 kDaltons and 63 kDaltons, respectively. Physical modification of starch granules enhanced their susceptibility to digestion by midgut-gland extracts and therefore pretreatment of dietary starches may be considered in order to increase their nutritional value in inert aquaculture diets. 
10.2307/1548446|Observations on the morphology and reproduction of a marine cladoceran, Podon schmackeri, were carried out on specimens sorted from the C.S.K. International Zooplankton Samples. Parthenogenetic females of Podon schmackeri ranged from 0.30-0.65 mm in standard length (SL) and from 0.34-0.87 mm in gross length (GL). The number of parthenogenetic embryos varied from 1-9 per batch, with a mean of 4.6. Some individuals exhibited paedogenesis, in that advanced embryos in the brood pouch contained their own embryos in the embryonic brood space. Two males of Podon schmackeri, measuring 0.42 and 0.43 mm in SL and 0.43 and 0.46 mm in GL, respectively, were detected, and described and illustrated for the first time.
1549575|The species of the genus Raymunida from the Pacific and Indian oceans are revised using morphological characters and the mitochondrial cytochrome oxidase subunit I sequences. Four new species are described (R. confundens, R. dextralis, R. erythrina, and R. insulata), and the status of R. bellior and R. elegantissima are revised. The species of Raymunida can be identified by subtle morphological characters, which match differences in mitochondrial nucleotide sequences. Therefore, the sequence divergences confirm the specific and phylogenetic value of some morphological characters (e.g., length of the mesial spine on the basal antennal segment, length of the walking legs). Furthermore, they confirm the importance of the color pattern as a diagnostic character. The widespread species (R. elegantissima), known from the Philippines to Fiji, shows minimal divergence between specimens from different localities (maximum of 3 nucleotide differences or 0.2% mean divergence). The phylogenetic reconstruction agreed with the monophyletic condition of Raymunida and its differentiation with respect to the genus Munida (in which Raymunida species had previously been included) and Agononida.
4540274|The brachyuran genus Titanocarcinus A. Milne-Edwards, 1864, is rediagnosed and restricted to six species. It is referred to the Tumidocarcinidae Schweitzer, 2005, based upon characters of the sternum, male pleon, and dorsal carapace, along with the closely related Lobonotus A. Milne-Edwards, 1864. Several species that had been referred to Titanocarcinus are herein referred to other genera, including two new ones, Nitotacarcinus and Lathahypossia, or to other families in indeterminate genera. One new species is described from the lowermost Eocene of Spain, Titanocarcinus decor. Titanocarcinus as currently defined ranged from the Cretaceous to Eocene in northern and central Europe. Lobonotus is known only from the Eocene of North and Central America.
10.2307/1548070|Striated muscle is incorporated within the wall of the dorsal abdominal aorta in the palinurid lobster Panulirus interruptus. This muscle apparently functions in vasomotion and is likely to be a remnant of the heart. Analysis of this system lends insight into the evolution of the eumalacostracan abdomen and the caridoid escape reaction.
1549900| Ovigerous females of Ucides cordatus were collected at different mangrove areas in Iguape, SP, Brazil, and reared in the laboratory in order to describe each embryonic stage. Accounts of the biometry, internal morphology, and coloration of the eggs were taken. The embryonic development took 19  1 d (27C, 12:12 h) with eight well-defined stages. A salinity test on embryonic development was conducted, and a better result was obtained in a rearing at 15. Eggs are slightly ellipsoid through development and undergo an increase of 13.9% in diameter to 91.7% in volume. Cluster analysis revealed three different groups for diameter (Stages I-II, III-VI, and VII-VIII) and volume (Stages I-III, IV-V, and VI-VIII), supporting the classification of embryos into initial, intermediate, and final stages, which are currently used in studies on the reproductive biology of decapod crustaceans. In this species, the identification of the different embryonic stages can be achieved only if biometric data are combined with information on the internal morphology of embryos and coloration of the eggs. 
1549930|During the past decade, quantification of the pigment lipofuscin in the olfactory lobe cell masses (OLCM) has been successfully used for age determination of crustaceans. The aim of the current study was to quantify the amount of lipofuscin in European lobsters (Homarus gammarus L.) of known age and to determine the accuracy of lipofuscin as an age predictor. Lipofuscin was quantified by confocal fluorescence microscopy and image analysis of histological sections. Our results showed that age and OLCM lipofuscin were closely and linearly related (r<sup>2</sup> = 0.88). Furthermore, in contrast to earlier studies, age was also closely, but nonlinearly, related to carapace length (r<sup>2</sup> = 0.78). Comparison of lipofuscin and carapace length as age predictors nevertheless showed that lipofuscin produced significantly more accurate estimates of age than carapace length. The relatively small difference in the precision of age estimation between lipofuscin and carapace length emphasies the importance of evaluating the relationship between age and carapace length/lipofuscin in studies of populations with variable environmental conditions or demographic processes. It is possible that age, in specific situations, could be satisfactorily predicted on basis of measurements of size.
20487723|The paired fronto-lateral gland pores and lattice organs (LO1, 2, 3, 4, and 5) of seven species of pedunculate barnacles belonging to two thoracican suborders, Heteralepadomorpha (family Heteralepadidae: Heteralepas sp. 1 and 2) and Lepadomorpha (families Poecilasmatidae: Poecilasma inaequilaterale and Octolasmis aymonini geryonophila; and Lepadidae: Lepas pacifica, Dosima fascicularis, and Conchoderma virgatum), were investigated by scanning electron microscopy (SEM). While the fronto-lateral gland pores exhibit slight variation among species, with only L. pacifica showing a different morphology, the variations in the arrangement of LOs are phylogenetically instructive. The lattice organs in the foregoing species correspond in general to the inferred advanced type (Type C), but the distinct keel in the pore field in P. inaequilaterale and L. pacifica is reminiscent of, but not necessarily identical with the less advanced Type B. The arrangement of the anterior LOs (1-2) is rhomboidal in the two heteralepadomorph species, the two poecilasmatid species, and two of the three lepadid species, as it is in all previously and presently known lepadomorph cyprids except D. fascicularis. In this last species, they are deployed linearly along the hinge line. A linear arrangement of all the lattice organs is presumably the plesiomorphic condition for the Thoracica; an obvious exception being the pattern seen in Ibla cumingi. The arrangement of the first two pairs of posterior LOs (3-4) in O. a. geryonophila and C. virgatum differs from that of all previously described Lepadomorpha in being rhomboidal rather than aligned linearly along the hinge line. This same arrangement of LOs 3 and 4 in the two heteralepadomorph species is notable since it is not known in other thoracicans. Our results concerning variation in lattice organs of the lower Pedunculata are more or less consistent with current phylogenetic speculations and genetic information that ally Heteralepadomorpha with Lepadomorpha. Significance of this variation at lower taxonomic levels is also evident in the two similar forms of Heteralepas.
10.2307/1547973| Description and illustrations are presented for Sicyonia martini, a new species ranging from SW of Isla Santa Margarita, Baja California Sur, and the Gulf of California southward to SW of Punta Ana Mara, Golfo de Panam. It occurs in depths between 9 and 242 m. Its closest relatives are S. affinis and S. aliaffinis, inhabitants of the American Pacific. Sicyonia martini differs from them in possessing a longer rostrum, which in the males is less elevated and bears 3 instead of 2 teeth; although in the females the rostrum bears 2 teeth, it is usually markedly convex ventrally along the midlength. In both sexes a prominent lateral angular ridge is borne on the terga of the second and third abdominal somites, and the apical part of the tooth on the first abdominal somite is hooklike instead of straight or slightly curved. Furthermore, in males the dorsolateral lobule of the petasma is bifurcate distally with sharp tips, whereas in S. affinis and S. aliaffinis it is truncate or only slightly emarginate. /// Se describe e ilustra Sicyonia martini, una nueva especie de camarn conchiduro que se encuentra desde el SO de la Isla Santa Margarita, Baja California Sur, y el Golfo de California, hasta el SO de la Punta Ana Mara, en el Golfo de Panam, a profundidades entre 9 y 242 m. Est estrechamente relacionada con S. affinis y S. aliaffinis, que tambin se hallan en el Pacfico americano. Sicyonia martini se distingue de stas porque en los machos el rostro es menos elevado y est armado de 3 dientes en lugar de 2, y en las hembras, aunque posee 2 dientes, es generalmente convexo en la mitad ventral, en vez de recto. Adems, en S. martini, tanto en los machos como en las hembras, las terga de los somitos abdominales segundo y tercero poseen una costilla doblada en ngulo abierto hacia la parte ventral, y el diente de gran tamao que se proyecta del primer somito abdominal, tiene la parte apical encorvada en gancho, en lugar de recta o ligeramente encorvada. Finalmente, en los machos de S. martini el lbulo dorsolateral del petasma est bifurcado distalmente en dos ramas cortas y agudas, mientras que en S. affinis y S. aliaffinis est truncado o slo presenta una ligera muesca. 
10.2307/1548081|Professor Dahl purports to overthrow the long-standing premise that the primitive malacostracan carapace extends freely from the back of the cephalon. If the premise were overthrown, a number of serious difficulties would develop in long accepted hypotheses concerned with evolution within the Malacostraca as well as with the affinities of malacostracans with other crustacean taxa. However, we reaffirm that the free carapace is cephalic in the most primitive of the living malacostracans, the leptostracan phyllocarids, and in the ontogeny of the eucarids having the most anamorphic development known to the malacostracans, the Dendrobranchiata. These facts allow the formulation of hypotheses concerning (1) the loss of the carapace without the necessity of "resegmentation" in various malacostracans, and (2) the origin of the Maxillopoda from a malacostracan-like ancestor.
10.2307/1547936|Diapontonia maranulus, a new genus and species of pontoniine shrimp, found in association with an asterostomatoid echinoid host, Palaeopneustes tholoformis, in the Bahamian region, at a depth of 240-309 m, is described and illustrated. The shrimps were collected by the Johnson Sea Link submersible.
10.2307/1548455|The species of Strengerianini are restricted to altitudinal levels between 900 and 3,000 m in the Eastern, Western, and Central Cordilleras, and the Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta in Colombia, and the Sierra de Perija in Venezuela. A cladistic analysis of the genera Chaceus and Strengeriana, including the new species Strengeriana risaraldensis, Strengeriana bolivarensis, Strengeriana huilensis, and Strengeriana taironae, using somatic and gonopodal characters, confirms the separation of both genera and suggests the geographic disjunction of 3 sister groups. Bridging of these disjunctions requires, within a dispersalist hypothesis, the establishment of migratory paths either across extensive areas of lowlands or through a very long stretch of continuous highlands, if the present geography is assumed. It is suggested that the group was widespread in the area by Miocene times. Later the uplifting and displacement of the Santa Marta Massif led to disruption of the ancestral Strengerianini stock to form the actual pattern of distribution and diversification. This model requires dating the first radiation of the Strengerianini before the end of the Miocene, after a previous splitting of the family into sister groups, in the Antilles and in the northern Andes, in Eocene times.
4540268| We investigated the value of microsatellite DNA markers to improve our knowledge of mating strategy with inference to sperm competition in particular, in the woodlouse Armadillidium vulgare. In terrestrial isopods, mature females develop a brood pouch or marsupium before egg laying, the pouch being formed by overlapping ostegites during a special moult called parturial moult. Under laboratory conditions, we show that Armadillidium vulgare females are able to mate during parturial intermoults, even in the presence of a physical barrier such as that represented by the ventral marsupial plates. Our results reveal that the contribution of a second male mating with a female between two parturial moults could represent up to 50% of the paternal alleles in the brood (mean = 28% 15). This contrasts with data reported in the literature concerning closely related woodlice species, where males are suggested not to be able to mate with the female during the parturial intermoult period. 
1549385|The purpose of this study was to determine the shell utilization pattern of Calcinus tibicen using the percentage of the different shell types that were occupied, the morphometric relationship between hermit crabs and occupied shells, as well as shell availability based on the empty shells and living gastropods observed. Specimens were collected at two-month intervals from January to November 1998 along the rocky shore of Praia Grande, Ubatuba, using a specific methodology adapted to the irregular surface of the area. Of 1,069 shells collected, empty shells were less frequent (4.11%) than shells occupied by either hermit crabs (23.11%) or living gastropods (72.78%). A total of 247 hermit crabs were captured occupying seven of the twelve shell species collected in the field. Only Stramonita haemastoma was occupied in significant numbers (71.26%). There was a differential shell utilization pattern between sexes; males were most abundant in S. haemastoma shells while the ovigerous females occupied Leucozonia nassa. Regression analysis showed a close correlation between the dimensions of the crabs and the utilized shells. In this study, shell occupation by C. tibicen varied as a function of shell type availability, with intraspecific differences in occupation patterns also occurring.
10.2307/1548802|Keys are presented for the identification of marine, benthic, crustacean nauplii belonging to the Ostracoda, Cephalocarida, Mystacocarida, and 15 families of harpacticoid copepods. Characters taken from the biology or habitat of taxa are considered. Key diagnostic morphological characters are illustrated. A key to stages allows the differentiation among the six naupliar stages of the Harpacticoida.
10.2307/1548387| Secondary production of the amphipod Gammarus mucronatus was studied in a sea-grass (Zostera marina) habitat and a macroalgal fouling community on old pier pilings. Populations of G. mucronatus were present in the macroalgal habitat during only 4 months of the year with a production of 10.2-12.9 g dry wt m<sup>-2</sup> yr<sup>-1</sup> compared with 5.0-6.5 g dry wt m<sup>-2</sup> yr<sup>-1</sup> in the sea-grass habitat, where populations were maintained throughout the year. Rapid growth to maximum size results in short cohort production intervals (CPI) with annual production to mean biomass ratios (P/B) ranging from 36.8-76.8. A modified instantaneous growth rate method gave production estimates that were approximately 25% higher than estimates using a size-frequency method. Production estimates using 4 different variations of the size-frequency method produced similar results. The sum of size-frequency estimates when males and females were considered separately results in slightly lower production values than combined calculations since dimorphic size biases are excluded. The results of this study indicate a need to evaluate carefully the productivity of tropical and warm and cool temperate habitats, since rapid growth of organisms such as amphipods could result in extremely high production estimates even where standing stock is low. 
10.2307/1548074|Melanophora roralis (L.), a rhinophorid fly, was reared from naturally infected sowbugs, Porcellionides pruinosus (Brandt) and Porcellio scaber Latreille, collected at several locations in the eastern United States, the majority from P. scaber. Aspects of the host-parasite interaction were studied in a large sample of isopods from North Carolina. The flies were sexually dimorphic for body size, and varied in size as a function of individual host size. Differences between the fly sexes were due to their differential utilization of a common range of host sizes rather than to the use of different host sizes; this result was directly confirmed with laboratory rearings of full sibships. Two potential indicators of individual fitness, adult longevity, and female fecundity, were direct functions of parasite, and hence host, size. The size dimorphism in Melanophora roralis, and physiological features associated with it, may reflect adaptations in this parasite for population persistence at low population densities.
41315706|Maintaining a sustainable egg bank through rapid maturation and the production of large clutches is an important strategy for large branchiopods surviving in ephemeral habitats, and such egg banks can only be replenished by the recruitment of hatched eggs as a function of fitness (F). The ability to reach a threshold F represents a key adaptation to selection pressures. We investigated daily changes in the population density/size and hatching numbers of fairy shrimp, Branchinella kugenumaensis, and estimated their F values in an ephemeral pool, Siangtian Pond, in northern Taiwan during 2005, and four cohorts were observed. The number of hatchings per cohort ranged from 1.97  10 to 5.54  10, representing a hatching density between 1.42 and 2.83 nauplius.L, and the number of newly produced eggs per cohort ranged from 2.47  10 to 1.19  10 , representing a high level of recruitment, ranging from 10,631 to 37,425 eggs.m in the sediment, which yielded a mean fitness of 2.05 produced eggs per hatching (CI = 1.82  2.35). The threshold F for replenishing the hatched portion of the egg bank was derived theoretically and ranges from 1.39 to 2.36, varying with the probability of reproduction failure and the rate of egg mortality. Because only a small fraction of the egg bank hatches during each inundation episode, the observed F may not be sufficient for replenishing the remaining egg bank. Therefore, additional strategies for long-term persistence are required, which may be achieved by exhibiting occasional indeterminate growth in addition to the regular determinate growth pattern of this species.
1549210| Rhizocephalan barnacles of the genus Lernaeodiscus Mller, 1862, are uncommon external parasites of galatheid and porcellanid crabs, and most species are poorly known. Based on a thorough review of the literature and examination of new material, we summarize taxonomic and biogeographic knowledge about this genus. We report significant geographic range extensions and new hosts and correct or complete several identifications of both hosts and parasites previously reported in the literature. We present evidence that L. crenatus Boschma, 1969, is synonymous with L. porcellanae Mller, 1862, and that Atlantic and Pacific specimens of L. porcellanae are probably different species. Lernaeodiscus tableta n. sp. is described from specimens parasitizing the porcellanid Aliaporcellana suluensis from Indonesia. 
10.2307/1548847| The breeding periodicity of the paddy field crab Oziotelphusa senex senex was determined by direct field observations, by calculating the percentage of ovigerous females, and by histological studies on the nature of the ovary in the crab population of Allur (Nellore District, A.P., India) for three years. The female of this crab is an annual breeder, showing a single peak in June. Vitellogenesis occurs from December to April, spawning from May to July, brooding from July to September, and release of juveniles from September to November. This coincides with northeast monsoons. The smallest ovigerous crab had a carapace width of 3.0 cm (245 eggs), and the largest crab a carapace width of 5.2 cm (445 eggs). The mean incubation period is 47  4 days. The different phases of the reproductive cycle synchronizes with seasonal variations such as temperature, humidity, and rainfall. 
1549505|Calcinus kurozumii, new species, is described and illustrated based on specimens from the northern Mariana Islands, Micronesia. It is a member of the group in which the dactyls and propodi of the third pereiopods have dense brush-like setae on the ventral face. The new species is distinguished from other Indo-West Pacific species of the group by the armature of the left cheliped. The new species is compared with a similar species from Polynesia, C. revi Poupin and McLaughlin, 1998. Calcinus revi is rediagnosed based on new material from the Izu-Ogasawara-Mariana Arc, and growth-related morphological variations and color are reported. A key to the Indo-West Pacific species of Calcinus with the brush of setae is provided.
10.2307/1549264|King crabs of the genus Paralithodes are hosts to a new genus and species of commensal pleustid amphipod off southern California. The dactyls of the walking legs of the amphipod bear a novel structure, a sucker, for adhesion to the host. The new genus is plesiomorphic in many aspects, but apomorphically modified as a commensal. Most (possibly all) specimens are found on crabs parasitized by the rhizocephalan Briarosaccus callosus, and the symbiosis seems to involve all three organisms. The new species is the first member of the subfamily Atylopsinae described from the Pacific Ocean. The family Pleustidae and subfamily Atylopsinae are rediagnosed to accommodate the new taxon.
1549816|The distribution and population structure of the neustonic isopod Idotea metallica were studied from samples collected on two consecutive plankton cruises performed in spring off the Catalan coast (western Mediterranean). On both cruises, high densities were observed along the oceanic side of the shelf-seas front, generally with lower numbers on each side of the front. High densities of the isopod were associated with samples with high quantities of flotsam. Size-frequency distributions were dominated by juvenile individuals, and no significant differences were found in size structure between the population on the oceanic side of the front and that on the coastal side. Temporal variability in the observed distribution patterns is attributed to the mesoscale variations in the inshore-offshore position of the shelf-slope front, which appears to act as a semipermeable barrier concentrating I. metallica, associated with other oceanic neustonic organisms, on its oceanic side.
4540313|Sand fiddler crabs, Uca pugilator, from North Carolina (NC) are two-times smaller than ones from Florida (FL). A water balance study was conducted to examine this size difference in relation to possible changes in habitat suitability. Like most crabs, U. pugilator are classified as hydrophilic, which is consistent with their preference for humid environments. In contrast to the North Carolina population, U. pugilator-FL loses water less rapidly and has higher percentage body water content, a water balance strategy that emphasizes retention. Conversely, the amount of body water required is less for U. pugilator-NC, enabling it to maintain water balance despite having a higher water loss rate. Both tolerated only about 1/4 loss of body water before succumbing to desiccation. Neither experienced a critical transition temperature, CTT. We concluded that water balance profiles of these two populations are complementary, representing trade-offs that permit survival in a moisture-rich habitat. Lower body water content, however, overlaps with features of arthropods that thrive at low temperature, suggesting that U. pugilator-NC may be more cold tolerant.
10.2307/1549252|The effects of GABA and two inhibitory neuropeptides were tested on the cardiovascular system of intact Cancer magister. A pulsed-Doppler flow meter was used to record heart rate and hemolymph flow rates through each arterial system in C. magister. Summation of arterial flow rates gave a value for cardiac output, and division of this by rate yielded stroke volume of the heart. The insect neuropeptides SchistoFLRFamide and leucomyosuppressin and the neurotransmitter Y-aminobutyric acid (GABA) were infused into the pericardial sinus of the crab so as to achieve final circulating concentrations between 10<sup>-12</sup>mol l<sup>-1</sup> and 10<sup>-5</sup>mol l<sup>-1</sup>. Both SchistoFLRFamide and leucomyosuppressin had similar effects. Neither hormone had an effect on heart rate, but stroke volume was significantly depressed, leading to a decrease in total cardiac output. Hemolymph flow through the sternal artery and anterolateral artery decreased. Effects on flow through the posterior and anterior aortae were slight and variable, while flow through the hepatic arteries remained stable. Threshold for these responses occurred at circulating concentrations of 10<sup>-8</sup>mol l<sup>-1</sup> and above, and the effects of SchistoFLRFamide were of longer duration compared with those induced by leucomyosuppressin. These peptides may play a role in digestion during quiescent periods, by diverting hemolymph away from locomotory structures and toward the digestive glands. GABA induced a large bradycardia with related decrease in flows, but induced no differential effects on flow through any arterial system. Effects of GABA were of short duration, with both heart rate and flows recovering quickly after infusion. Effects were seen at circulating concentrations of 10<sup>-6</sup>mol l<sup>-1</sup> and above. All these substances are reported to have inhibitory effects on isolated or semi-isolated heart preparations. Inhibition of stroke volume (by the peptides) was seen in the in vivo preparations used here, but heart rate was unaffected. Thus, opposing effects of "cardioactive" hormones, previously reported between in vitro and in vivo preparations is not consistent, and is dependent on the actual hormone and the pathway it acts upon in modulating cardiac activity.
1549667|Some reproductive features of Macrobrachium potiuna and M. olfersi females were compared, correlating brood pouch volume with the number and volume of eggs during the incubation period. These data contribute to the understanding of the diversity of reproductive strategies observed in the family Palaemonidae. Macrobrachium olfersi and M. potiuna were collected in Ratones basin, Santa Catarina Island, Brazil, and the total lengths of the ovigerous females were determined in the laboratory. The eggs were measured, and the individual fecundity was determined. Volume of the eggs, egg mass volume, and brood pouch volume were estimated. Females of M. potiuna had a mean body length of 34.9 mm, mean brood pouch volume of 71.3 mm<sup>3</sup>, mean fecundity of 35 eggs, and egg mass volume of 70.3 mm<sup>3</sup>. Macrobrachium olfersi females had a mean body length of 46.7 mm, mean brood pouch volume of 127.9 mm<sup>3</sup>, mean fecundity of 1917.2 eggs, and egg mass volume of 96.6 mm<sup>3</sup>. Differences of fecundity and egg volume in M. potiuna and M. olfersi indicate the adoption of different reproduction strategies. However, proportional egg loss and increase of egg volume during the embryogenesis reflect particularities of the reproductive process of the females in the Palaemonidae.
4094162| New decapod crustacean fossils collected from Eocene rocks of Algarrobo, Chile, have yielded a new genus and species of callianassid, Melipal chilensis. The large sample size makes it possible to recognize marked sexual dimorphism of the major cheliped and pronounced heterochely in the new taxon. Cretaceous fossils from Algarrobo are referred to Protocallianassa saetosa (Frster and Stinnesbeck, 1987) new combination. That genus is rather large and unwieldy as currently understood, but examination of type material will be necessary to revise it. 
10.2307/1547933| The complete larval development of an Atlantic Lepidopa from a known parental female is described for the first time. The ovigerous L. benedicti was collected at Horn Island, Mississippi (Gulf of Mexico). The larval development consisted of 4 zoeal stages, and one megalopal stage which was reached 14-17 days after hatching, at 25C and 26 salinity. Zoeae of L. benedicti are very similar to those of other known Atlantic Lepidopa; there are differences among the corresponding zoeal stages in abdominal spination, and in zoeae II and III, differences in setation of the antennule and exopods of maxillipeds 1 and 2. The megalopa of L. benedicti is compared with other known megalopae of Lepidopa, 1 from the Atlantic and 2 from the Pacific. All megalopae are separable using setation of the antennular ventral flagellum, and the megalopa of L. benedicti can also be separated from the other Atlantic species by segmentation of the antennular dorsal flagellum. The development of selected adult key characters of L. benedicti (carapace frontal margin, eyeshape and pigmentation, posterior dorsal carapace groove, and pereiopod 2 dactylus shape) is illustrated and described through crab 4. In crab 4, all selected characters became diagnostic except for the pereiopod 2 dactylus which has not yet attained adult shape. 
1549345|The Japanese freshwater crab Geothelphusa exigua Suzuki and Tsuda, 1994, is sympatric with Geothelphusa dehaani (White, 1874) in riverine habitats in Ohsumi Peninsula, Kagoshima Prefecture, southern Kyushu, Japan. We examined a number of biological characteristics of both crabs in two rivers in Ohsumi Peninsula to elucidate the factors maintaining their sympatric distribution. Results showed few biological differences between the two species, except for maximum body sizes and habitat preference. Geothelphusa exigua is smaller than G. dehaani in the maximum body size and lives mainly in water (aquatic), whereas G. dehaani may live both in water and on land (amphibious).
10.2307/1548826|Twenty-six specimens representing 2 genera, Alvinocaris of the family Bresiliidae and Lebbeus of the Hippolytidae, were found in samples collected from hydrothermal fields in the Okinawa Trough, Japan. Twenty-one specimens are described as Alvinocaris longirostris, new species, and the remaining 5 are redescribed as a very rare bathyal shrimp, Lebbeus washingtonianus (Rathbun, 1902).
10.2307/1549084|A single specimen representing a new species of a Cretaceous homolid crab occurs in the Notopocorystes Assemblage of the Cenomanian Britton Shale (Eagle Ford Group) at Garza-Little Elm Reservoir, Denton County, Texas. Homolopsis pikeae is characterized by an ovate carapace with well-developed grooves, a raised cephalic arch surmounted by spinose areolations, and prominent tubercles on the lateral margins. The holotype is preserved as an internal carapace steinkern enclosed in an oxidized, phosphatic concretion and associated with abundant invertebrates. Review of the stratigraphic and geographic distribution of Homolopsis shows a pattern of development along the northern margin of the Tethys Seaway in western and northern Europe, and possibly in Australia, during the Early Cretaceous, and immigration into, and evolution in, the opening Atlantic and Western Interior Seaways of North America and northern Europe during the Late Cretaceous. Homolopsis pikeae extends the geographic range of Homolopsis into the Gulf Coastal Plain and its stratigraphic range lower into the Mid-Cretaceous in North America, patterns consistent with previously hypothesized evolutionary development in North America.
41315755|Gut evacuation time is a very useful parameter that allows us to understand the daily trophic cycle of a predator. Macrobrachium borellii is an inhabitant of the littoral-benthic community of the Paran River system that preys on various organisms. In this work, three types of prey (cladocerans, dipteran larvae, and oligochaetes), which are different in shape and mobility, were offered to M. borellii to investigate the gut evacuation time of each one. All prey represent the natural diet of this prawn based on previous work. Results showed a faster digestion of cladocerans than mosquito larvae and oligochaete. These last two types of prey are cylindrical and may interfere with the maceration process in a stomach that lacks a gastric mill. In addition, the high mobility of cladocerans and mosquito larvae implies greater energy expenditure in their capture. However, cladocerans are the prey with the lowest caloric value per individual and therefore offers the lowest net energy to the prawn. This implies that a cladoceran diet would require higher daily consumption and more time foraging, and thus potentially exposing the prawn to greater prdation risk. All of these factors direct selection toward the more profitable prey (oligochaetes and dipteran larvae), in agreement with the natural diet observation, suggesting that the time of digestion may have little importance in prey selection.
10.2307/1549102|Manned submersible transects and synchronous trap-sampling were conducted in the eastern Gulf of Mexico along 5 depth contours on the upper continental slope, during September 1986 and 1987. Female golden crabs, Chaceon fenneri, were more abundant at 350 m and 445 m than at 550, 675, or 780 m. Male golden crabs were most abundant at 550 m. On the average, the largest crabs of each sex were caught near 350 m. More mated pairs (50%) were observed in situ along the deepest 2 contours than expected by chance alone. Within the bathymetric range of golden crabs, crab abundance may be related more to habitat type than to depth. The greatest density (36.5 crabs/ha) occurred on or near hard-bottom canyon features. Red crabs, Chaceon quinquedens, occurred only at 675 m and 780 m on heavily bioturbated soft sediments, with the largest of each sex at 675 m. Male red crabs outnumbered females, but depth did not affect the number caught. Golden and red crabs also differed in their refuging habits and responses to being disturbed. We suggest that bathymetric patterns in sex and size within geryonid populations reflect, in part, severe male-male competition for mates and alternative mating strategies for males.
10.2307/1547959|A new species of cyclopoid copepod (Halicyclops glaber) is described from the brackish waters of Pomonga River, Sergipe State, Northeast Brazil. H. korodiensis Onabamiro, 1952, a species from Nigeria which is imperfectly known only from females, is redescribed.
4094119|A total of 3142 specimens of Pagurus comptus (White, 1847) were collected on the kelp beds in the Beagle Channel, Argentina, during 1999-2001. Fifteen of these hermit crabs were infested by a bopyrid provisionally identified as Anathelges cf. hyptius (Thompson, 1902). Of these parasites, 10 were attached to their hosts' pleons, whereas the remaining five were found inside the branchial chambers of the hermit crabs. All branchial parasites were immature females though one of them harboured a male. This is the first time that a postlarval stage of Anathelges is recorded inside the branchial chamber of its host. Whether this location is normal or erratic is unknown. This collection of Anathelges has made it possible for us to describe and illustrate four sequential female stages of this parasite, to extend the geographic range of distribution of this genus to the southern tip of South America, and to discuss the taxonomic value of some of the characters used to distinguish species in this genus.
20487779|Measurement of density and thickness of cuticle of an array of decapod crustaceans indicates that cuticle tends to be thick and dense in benthic organisms and thinner and less dense in nektobenthic decapods. Thin section analysis of the cuticle under crossed polarized light documents a broad range of area of biomineralization. Cticle density is strongly correlated with area of calcification. One of the nektobenthic decapods in the study exhibited no calcification of the cuticle at all, and thus exhibited the lowest density. These data support the hypothesis that density and thickness of cuticle contribute to adaptation to benthic and nektobenthic lifestyles.
10.2307/1548499|DNA content and BrdUrd incorporation were compared to the area of the nucleus of epidermal cells of larval Artemia to test the suitability of nuclear area as a criterion for distinguishing the cell cycle phases in developing tissues in situ. Nuclei in cells in G1 increased in area without increase in DNA content. During the transition from G1 through S to G2, the nuclear area increased as the DNA content doubled. The nuclear area of S phase cells which had incorporated BrdUrd was also determined by measuring the quenched fluorescence of bisbenzimide or immunochemically with a monoclonal antibody to BrdUrd. With both methods, the transition from G1 to S phase could be predicted from the area of the nucleus. Initiation of G2 phase was not clearly defined by nuclear area and there was overlap of the nuclear area of cells in late S, G2, and early prophase. The cell cycle phase profiles of cells in the anteroventral, posteroventral, and dorsal regions of the developing thorax during the first 2 instars were determined using nuclear area. Each region demonstrated different cell cycle kinetics with the greatest amount of proliferation occurring in the region of the developing limb buds in the first segment. The posterior region of the ventral and dorsal surfaces contained cells that demonstrated slower cell cycle transit times as well as cells in G2 that did not proliferate.
20487733|Although most parasitic copepods produce free-living larvae, Caribeopsyllus amphiodiae and other thaumatopsyllid copepods have a parasitic larval stage (metanauplius) that inhabits an ophiuroid stomach. Metanauplii of C. amphiodiae collected from its burrowing host, Amphiodia urtica, and reared in the laboratory gave rise to ovigerous females that released free-swimming first nauplii (NI). We provide the first full descriptions for a thaumatopsyllid of the NI, parasitic metanauplii, and free-living copepodid I to copepodid VI of the female and male based on developmental stages obtained. Extraordinary features of C. amphiodiae NI are the presence of one pair of setae on the labrum, a character unique among Copepoda, and the presence of a maxillule represented by one seta, making the larva a metanauplius by definition. In most other copepods, the one-seta or one-spine maxillule appears no earlier than NII. The mandible of the metanauplius becomes massive, and a spiniform process from the first endopodal segment forms a chelate complex with the distinctly curved, clawlike second endopodal segment. Transient vestiges of the antenna and mandible remain in the CI, but maxillule, maxilla, and maxilliped are absent during the copepodid phase. Other body structures appear earlier than reported for other copepods: pediger 5 and the bud of swimming leg 4 are present at CI, and pediger 6 and the buds of legs 5 and 6 are present at CII. During leg development setal development is accelerated, but ramal segmentation is delayed. In addition, the major body articulation of the copepodid and adult stages occurs between the third and fourth pedigers, unlike the tagmosis of most gymnoplean and podoplean copepods. Such shifts in the timing of ontogenesis, atypical naupliar morphology, and unique adult body set apart the thaumatopsyllids from other copepods.
10.2307/1548936| Phylogenetic relationships among 30 species of the North American crayfish genus Orconectes were investigated by examining 56 presumptive enzyme-coding loci using the technique of horizontal starch gel electrophoresis. Specimens were obtained from each of the 10 recognized subgenera and represent 14 of the 15 species-groups. Specimens from 2 additional genera (2 species of Cambarus and 3 species of Procambarus) were also included as outgroups. The most striking result in this investigation is the clustering of the troglobitic species of the subgenus O. (Orconectes) in a group by themselves. The allozyme data indicate that these cave species are very divergent (Nei's D  0.3577) from other members of the genus and appear more closely related to the outgroup species of Cambarus (mean D = 0.3522). This result suggests that O. (Orconectes) is a monophyletic lineage that deserves generic recognition, as previously proposed by Creaser (1962). In addition, no monophyletic lineages were found that support the other subgenera or ally their species groups, a result consistent with recent DNA sequence data. However, a bootstrap analysis of these data suggests that the allozyme phylogeny is poorly resolved among the other subgenera of Orconectes. This indicates, perhaps, that the limits of the allozyme technique to distinguish phylogenetic relationships at the subgeneric level were reached (i.e., insufficient levels of variation were detected). The distribution of alleles at some loci, however, might provide insight into the evolutionary history and past dispersal patterns of these crayfish species. These data lend support to the thesis of Fitzpatrick (1987) that some ancestral orconectid stocks established themselves west of the Mississippi River where they eventually diverged from the stocks found to the east on the Cumberland Plateau. Unique alleles found only in species of the Ozark Highlands suggest also that this area played a pivotal role in the evolution and diversification of ancestral crayfish stocks. 
20487837|A panbiogeographic analysis of the distributional patterns of 196 species of eastern Pacific Isopoda led to the recognition of three generalized tracks, which correspond to major biotic components. The northern cold-temperate track extends from 62 to 35N, in the northern cold-temperate sub-region (Aleutian Islands, Gulf of Alaska and coast of British Columbia, Washington, Oregon and northern California). The 57 endemic species assigned to it belong mainly to suborders Flabellifera, Valvifera and Asellota, although species of Oniscidea, Epicarida, Anthuridea, and Gnathiidea are also present. The northern warm-temperate/ tropical track extends from 33N to 1S, covering the Warm-Temperate and Tropical sub-regions, i.e., southern California to about halfway south into Ecuador. The 27 endemic species assigned to it belong mainly to the Flabellifera, most of them Cirolanidae and Cymothoidae, and Sphaeromatidae, Valvifera, Anthuridea, Asellota, Epicaridea, Oniscidea, and Gnathiidea are also present. The southern warm/cold-temperate track extends from 19 to 52S, covering the Southern Warm and Cold-Temperate sub-regions, i.e., coast of Chile south to the Magellan Strait. The 27 endemic species assigned to it belong mostly to the Flabellifera, Asellota, and Valvifera.
41315710|Previous studies on two species of the genus Rhynchocinetes (" hingebeak" shrimps) have described mating systems in which large dominant "robustus" males, with hypertrophied cheliped and third maxilliped weaponry, guard and defend smaller females during copulation. The sexual system of these species is gonochoric (separate sexes). In this preliminary study on the sexual biology of/?, untai, we report observations indicating a very different sexual and mating system for Rhynchocinetes. A sample of R. uritai taken off Shimoda, Japan, revealed a population structure with small males and large females with no overlap in size. Two intermediate-sized individuals showed transitional sexual characteristics indicating sex change from male to female (protandrous sequential hermaphroditism). Transitional individuals had male sexual appendices but also were developing female "breeding dress" (incubatory) characters. Furthermore, these individuals had large vitellogenic oocytes in the gonads, typical of maturing ovaries. Mating observations were made on three receptive females to examine whether the smaller males employ the "pure searching" mating strategy. Matings occurred at night after female molting. Mating behavior was brief and simple: males approached and attempted to grasp the newly molted female, followed by a brief (~ 2 sec) copulation, with no evidence of the complex "caging" (guarding) behavior described in two other Rhynchocinetes species. These observations on R. uritai suggest a "pure searching" mating system, in which mating is brief with little pre-or postcopulatory interaction between male and female and little or no agonistic behavior among males. Such a mating system is characteristic of decapod shrimp species with small males and larger females, i.e., the population structure observed in our sample.
10.2307/1547985|Daphniopsis chilensis, new species, is described from the highest known body of fresh water in the world, Crater Lake, Licancabur Volcano, Chile. Significant morphological differentiation among the species of the genus exists with respect to: antennule structure, headshield shape, ventral carapace setation, postabdomen shape and armature (both female and male), postabdominal processes, and claw setation. In a comparison of Daphniopsis with other daphniid genera, the close similarity to Daphnia (but not to Simocephalus) is demonstrated using common features of external morphology, as well as limb structure. Diagnostic characteristics are provided for the genus, the most distinctive being the structure and orientation of the ephippium. The known distribution of the genus (Tibet, Australia, Antarctica, several Antarctic islands) is extended to include South America, strongly supporting its presumed Gondwanaland origin.
10.2307/1548425|Blue crabs, Callinectes sapidus Rathbun, were collected by beach seine from Gunston Cove and Dogue Creek, Virginia, during the summer and fall of 1985 and 1986. Ninety-one % of all crabs were males and the size range was 7-160 g wet weight. Almost all of the crabs were in premolt stages (D<sub>1-4</sub>) or had recently molted (stages A or B). A large fraction of the crabs were collected in or adjacent to a dense bed of submerged aquatic vegetation. Hemolymph samples were obtained from crabs after being brought to the laboratory where they were maintained under conditions as near natural as possible. Molting was accompanied by a wet weight increase of nearly 100%, approximately twice that of blue crabs molting in high salinity water. This weight gain did not seem to be size-dependent in crabs less than 100 g, and is presumed to be due to facilitation of water uptake resulting from the large osmotic gradient (approximately 600 mOsm). It is concluded that there must be an increase in the permeability of the epithelium to water in order to take advantage of the osmotic gradient. Molting was associated with an alkalosis of the hemolymph and an increase in total carbon dioxide, but the magnitude of both changes was substantially smaller than in blue crabs molting in high salinity water. Thus, the migration of blue crabs into the tidal fresh-water areas of the Potomac River results in significantly greater incremental growth and diminished acid-base disturbances during the molt.
10.2307/1547898| Twenty-nine species of the Infraorder Anomura were identified from invertebrate material recently collected from the coastal waters of El Salvador. Only 17 species that represent significant finds are treated here in detail; 3 species belonging to the genera Clibanarius, Paguristes, and Isocheles are undescribed, the ranges of 6 species are extended to El Salvador, and 7 other widely ranging species are new to the country. The remaining 12 species are listed with habitat information. A range map of the 37 known anomuran species of El Salvador and illustrations of the undescribed species are included. /// Veintinueve especies de la Infraorden Anomura fueron identificadas del material colectado en las aguas costeras de El Salvador. Slo 17 especies comunes son tratadas en detalle. Tres especies en los gneros Clibanarius, Paguristes, e Isocheles an no estn descritas. La distribucin geogrfica de seis especies se extende a El Salvador, y siete otras especies cosmopolitas no han sido encontradas previamente. Las doce especies que quedan son identificadas y se proporcionan datos sobre su medio ambiente. Se incluye mapas de la distribucin de las 37 especies de Anomura de El Salvador e ilustraciones de las especies an no descritas. 
1549381| The presence, distribution, and histological features of lipofuscin granules were investigated in brains of the dendrobranchiate decapods Marsupenaeus japonicus Bate, 1888, Melicertus kerathurus (Forskl, 1775), Parapenaeus longirostris (Lucas, 1846) (family Penaeidae), and Aristeus antennatus (Risso, 1816) (family Aristeidae). Autofluorescent lipofuscin granules were prominent in wax sections of olfactory-lobe cell masses (OLCMs) of all the species but P. longirostris, in which the pigment granules could be distinctly identified only in histological sections of samples embedded in resin. Although quantification was not carried out in this study, the amount of lipofuscin was visibly higher in larger and older individuals. Lipofuscin granules are secondary lysosomes of heterogeneous content that derive from autophagic vacuoles. In samples treated for electron microscopy, cytoplasmic inclusions assumed to be lipofuscin granules stained positive with Sudan Black B, whereas all brains processed for light microscopy (embedded in either paraffin wax or resin) were Sudan Black B negative. No acid phosphatase activity was evidenced cytochemically in lipofuscin granules of M. japonicus OLCMs. The variable histochemical properties of lipofuscins suggest that, as has been shown previously for other decapods, the most accurate method for localization and quantification of the age-pigment in dendrobranchiates is the one based on autofluorescence. This technique is thought to be valuable in assessment of the age structure of shrimp natural stocks. 
10.2307/1548916|Detailed descriptions of 2 intramarsupial stages, the juvenile stages, and male and female immature stages are given. Stage II shows an abundant yolk mass, 2 pairs of rudimentary antennae, and poorly developed mandibles. In stage III the yolk is absorbed and all the thoracic and abdominal appendages project freely. The juvenile stage starts when the larva leaves the marsupium. The antennulae, the antennae, and the mandibles assume the typical aspect of those of the adults. A statolith inside the statocyst appears in the endopod of the uropods. A morphological peculiarity of its immature stages (both in males and females) is described and referred to as sexual dimorphism.
20487782|The southern rough shrimp Trachysalambria curvirostris is a small-sized penaeid shrimp inhabiting coastal waters of the Indo-West Pacific and eastern Mediterranean Sea. It is commercially important as a target species mainly for small-scale bottom seiners and trawlers in Japan, Korea, China, and Taiwan. In Kagoshima Bay, southern Japan, this species is one of the most dominant species in the benthic community. The reproductive biology of T. curvirostris including ovarian maturation, size at sexual maturity, and spawning season was investigated in Kagoshima Bay. A total of 5,681 female specimens were collected during June 2002 through December 2005. Ovarian maturity stages were divided into three categories (undeveloped, developing, and early ripe or ripe) based on the visual observation of ovaries fixed with 10% formalin and ocyte diameter. The size at sexual maturity was estimated to be 17.3 mm in carapace length. The gonadosomatic index (GSI) showed a significant increase with progressing ovarian maturity stage and most of the females with GSI  6% were found to be matured. Percentage occurrence of mature females and inseminated females showed similar seasonal trends and the spawning season was estimated to last from May to November, with a peak during June and July.
1549602|Molecular data are used to test whether (1) Phreatoicidea are the earliest derived living isopods, and (2) the long-tailed isopod morphology is the derived condition within the Isopoda. Small and large subunits of the mitochondrial ribosomal genes (12S- and 16S rDNA), and cytochrome oxidase c subunit I (COI) are used as a case study for exploring the boundaries of applicability of these genes at this taxonomic level. I evaluate three data sets, compare three differently weighted alignments, test data partitions for congruence and phylogenetic structure, and evaluate the topologies of individual and combined data partitions. The 12S- and 16S rDNA partitions are not incongruent. However, the incongruence between ribosomal and COI partitions is significant. The study provides new data for addressing generic, familial, and subordinal relationships of this large, morphologically and ecologically diverse taxon. For the three data sets investigated here, the addition of taxa increases bootstrap values at nodes, more nodes have bootstrap support greater than 50%, and clade topologies are comparable when taxa are added. These mitochondrial genes corroborate isopod clades previously recognized on morphological grounds, and in other instances, suggest relationships not previously proposed, i.e., valviferans had a sphaeromatid ancestor, and oniscids and sphaeromatids may be more closely related than previously thought.
10.2307/1548030|Erythrosquilla megalops, known from one specimen taken on the outer shelf off Somalia in depths of 75 to 175 meters, is assigned to a new family in the Superfamily Lysiosquilloidea. It is the only lysiosquilloid with a distinct median carina on the telson.
27920106|This paper is a review of the large-scale features of distribution of krill (Euphausia superba) and the hydrography of the Southern Ocean, as determined from the major oceanographic research expeditions of the 20th century. It is intended for the biologist interested in the physical oceanographic literature of the Southern Ocean and includes some of the basic krill literature for the oceanographer engaged in multidisciplinary research programs. The broad features of krill distribution from an oceanographer's viewpoint are described, followed by a general account of the hydrographic methods and their possible application to krill research. A sector-by-sector excursion around Antarctic circumpolar waters describes the hydrography of each sector. The literature is primarily from those studies where basic physical oceanography was the major impetus for the study.
10.2307/1548666|Larval and adult morphology is studied in rhizocephalan parasites of the genus Ptychascus (Sacculinidae) infesting semiterrestrial crabs of the families Ocypodidae and Grapsidae. A parasite population from fiddler crabs (Uca) in Costa Rica represents a new species. Its cyprids have a sensory armament on the antennules that is distinct from that found in cyprids of Ptychascus glaber Boschma, the only previously described member of the genus. It is argued that larval characters will prove useful in rhizocephalan taxonomy. The main adaptations to life on semiterrestrial hosts in the genus Ptychascus are the lack of nauplii and the male cyprid's ability to settle and metamorphose almost immediately after release from the parasite. This abbreviated development probably ensures that the larvae can settle before being carried away from the habitat of the host crabs. Cyprid morphology is similar to that found in other sacculinid rhizocephalans. Furthermore, a TEM study shows that male cyprids metamorphose into a spine-covered trichogon as in other members of the Sacculinidae. It therefore seems that most features of the typical sacculinid life cycle are maintained.
10.2307/1549188|Thalamita crenata is one of the most common swimming crabs of the mangrove creeks of the East African coast. In Mida Creek, Kenya, this species inhabits the extreme seaward fringe of the mangrove swamp and the intertidal platform in front of the mangal, sheltering in small pools during low tide. Gut content analysis reveals that T. crenata is a generalistic predator, its diet being mainly composed of bivalves and slow-moving crustaceans. Both the stomach fullness and the relative presence of animal prey in the contents were significantly higher in crabs collected at sunset than in those caught at dawn. Stomach fullness seems to depend also on the tidal rhythm; in fact, it is higher during spring tide periods. Females had stomachs slightly fuller than those of males, while there was no difference in diet between juveniles and older specimens. Thalamita crenata forages more actively during daytime, thus differing from the majority of swimming crabs. Both the great abundance of this species and its diet, based on a wide range of slow-moving or sessile species, testify to the importance of the role played by this predator in the mangrove ecosystem of Mida Creek.
10.2307/1549469|In order to clarify the taxonomic status of Argis dentata and Argis ovifer, materials from various localities were compared. A species restricted to the Japan Sea, which has been referred to as A. dentata, is now assigned to Argis toyamaensis, a species known only by the original description. For 5 specimens from the Okhotsk Sea, including 2 specimens recorded as A. ovifer by Hayashi (1986), a new species, A. ochotensis, is described. The available material and literature indicate that A. dentata ranges geographically from the northern Okhotsk Sea to the northern North Atlantic and that A. ovifer is distributed in the northwestern part of the Okhotsk Sea and the Bering Sea, while A. toyamaensis and the new species are probably endemic to the Japan Sea and the Okhotsk Sea, respectively. Affinities of these 4 species are discussed and a key to species of Argis considered to be valid at present is provided.
10.2307/1548636|One new genus and four new species of Mysidacea collected from Californian coastal waters are described. Amathimysis trigibba, new species, is unique in having three tubercles on the carapace and is further distinguished from other species of the genus by the antennal scale, mandibular palp, fifth male pleopod, and uropod. This is the first record of the genus occurring on the Pacific coast. Acanthomysis californica, new species, is recognized as a new species by the smooth abdominal somites and the shape and armature of the telson. Acanthomysis brunnea, new species, is distinguished by the shape of the rostral plate, the slender antennal scale, the slender side lobe of the fourth male pleopod, and the shape and armature of the telson. The new genus Hippacanthomysis is distinguished from allied genera of the tribe Mysini by having an expanded and knife-shaped first segment of the exopod of the fourth male pleopod.
1549838|The maturity and reproductive cycle of female American lobsters (Homarus americanus) were investigated in the southern Gulf of St. Lawrence (sGSL), Canada. The onset of sexual maturity of female lobsters can be established by observations of the ovarian condition, either color or weight, and staging of cement glands but cannot be detected by the morphometry of their abdomens. Females reached 50% maturity between 68.7 mm and 73.3 mm carapace length (L<sub>C</sub>). There was a significant geographic difference (P < 0.005) in the size at 50% maturity established by the ovarian development techniques but not by the cement-gland staging technique. Also, there were no annual significant differences (P > 0.005) between the ovarian development techniques used at a single site between 1994 and 1997. To study the reproductive cycle of females, molt stage, ovarian development, and egg spawning were monitored by dissections at the laboratory and by tagging studies in the field. The majority (80%) of small mature females (L<sub>C</sub> < 120 mm) in the sGSL had a typical two-year reproductive cycle with molting (with copulation) and spawning in alternating years. However, up to 20% of multiparous females ranging between 65 mm and 109 mm L<sub>C</sub> could spawn in successive years instead of the generally accepted two-year cycle, and some could even molt and spawn during the same summer. Similarly, up to 20% of primiparous females could molt and spawn (for the first time) in the same year instead of spawning the following year. A small percentage (5%) of small mature females could also skip molting or spawning for a year. Temperature data suggested that the length of the female reproductive cycle, and possibility of molting and spawning in the same year, were related to the number of degree-days in a particular season.
10.2307/1548433|Phronima sedentaria is one of the most well-known and common hyperiid amphipods in the plankton, and its relationship with gelatinous zooplankton such as siphonophores, pyrosomes, and salps has been central to their invasion of the pelagic zone. These amphipods have adapted to the pelagic realm through various morphological, physiological, and behavioral specializations. Behavioral specializations include the formation of transparent barrels from salps, which they pilot through the water and on which they deposit their young (demarsupiation). Feeding behavior appears to vary with the consistency of the gelatinous organism being ingested. Pereiopods 3 and 4 are used to pick and pull soft-bodied prey toward the mouth, where the mouthparts may remove smaller pieces and push them into the esophagus. If the tissue is somewhat tough, pereiopods 1-3 hold the tissue across the mouthcone area where the mandible can bite and tear off small pieces. On the other hand, if the material is fairly fluid (e.g., salp stomach contents), the mouthparts flatten against the wall of the mouthcone and the contents are sucked into the foregut using the muscles of the esophagus and gut. The internal anatomy is roughly similar to other described amphipods but differs in certain respects. The digestive system differs from the generalized amphipod as depicted by McLaughlin (1980) in that the foregut is reduced and completely enclosed by a midgut chamber. The midgut caeca are reduced in size. The brain is circumesophageal and has four pairs of major nerves, which lead to the dorsal and ventral compound eyes, ventral nerve cord, and antennules. The reproductive and circulatory systems are described.
4094160|A single, well-preserved fossil specimen of a large macruran decapod from the Jurassic Redwater Shale Member of the Stump Formation in northeastern Utah forms the basis for description of a new species of Eryma von Meyer, 1840. The discovery documents only the third species of the genus, and one of very few decapods, to have been described from Jurassic rocks in North America.
10.2307/1547908|Female blue king crabs, Paralithodes platypus, from the Pribilof Islands, were sampled during each of four seasons to determine whether they spawn each year, as do red king crabs, P. camtschatica, or every other year, as reported for Asian blue king crabs. Based on seasonal changes in two indices of ovarian development (standardized ovary weight and mean oocyte diameter) we found the period between successive spawnings to be two years and the period of embryonic development to be 14-15 months. The fecundity of blue king crabs increases with size according to: E = 241,629-2,632,606 e<sup>-0.0280L</sup>, where E is fecundity and L is carapace length in mm. Mean length and width of new external eggs are 1.2 mm and 1.0 mm.
1549909|An immunological approach was used to elucidate whether trypsin is synthesized and stored as trypsinogen in the midgut gland of the shrimp Litopenaeus vannamei. Two peptides were constructed using sequences deduced from known shrimp genes: trypsinogen activation peptide and an internal sequence. These peptides were used as haptens to elicit antibodies in rabbits. Specific antibodies were used to detect trypsinogen by Western blot and in histological sections of the midgut gland. Trypsinogen was found by Western blot and was localized into the midgut gland B cells by using immunohistology. In fed shrimp, trypsinogen associated with food particles was found in the lumen of the midgut gland tubules as well. Our results show that regulation of shrimp trypsin activity is similar to that of frequent feeder species, in which trypsin is stored as a zymogen, waiting for secretion and activation.
1549697|The galatheid genus Raymunida Macpherson and Machordom, 2000, is reported for the first time from Taiwan, and the species collected is also new to science. The new species is most closely related to R. confundens Macpherson and Machordom, 2001, but differs in having a more robust cheliped and walking legs covered with distinct squammae. The coloration of the new species is probably unique in the genus by both the carapace and abdomen being uniform in color. Analysis of the mitochondrial cytochrome oxidase I gene sequences also supports the specific status of this Taiwanese form.
10.2307/1548303|Specimens of a new halocyprid belonging to the recently erected primitive subfamily Deeveyinae (Kornicker and Iliffe, 1985) have been taken at depths of 0-20 m in eight anchialine caves on Bermuda. The specimens, while showing some close similarities to Deeveya spiralis Kornicker and Iliffe, 1985, are sufficiently distinct to be ascribed to a new genus. While Deeveya has a carapace morphology typical of benthic forms, the carapace of Spelaeoecia is very similar to that of oceanic planktonic halocyprids and so may be close to their ancestral type.
10.2307/1549078|In Westernport and Port Phillip Bays, Victoria, Australia, copepods previously identified as Acartia clausi Giesbrecht or Acartia tranteri Bradford form polymodal length-frequency distributions at some times of the year. The three size morphs of Acartia ("large," "medium," and "small") closely resemble each other in characters other than size. Allozyme electrophoresis of medium and large morphs demonstrated that fixed gene differences occur between these morphs, confirming their diagnosis as separate species. Using comparative morphometrics, we provide taxonomic notes on A. tranteri sensu stricto, describe each of the large and small morphs of Acartia from Victoria, and describe the medium morph as a new species, Acartia fancetti. This new species exhibits morphological variability in size and pigmentation, depending on habitat.
1549893|Two types of sexual cannibalism, differing in the sex of the victim, were found among heterosexual pairs of the parasitic isopod Ichthyoxenus fushanensis Tsai and Dai, 1999, residing in the body cavity of the freshwater fish Varicorhinus bacbatulus (Pellegrin, 1908). In one type, categorized as sexual cannibalism, the male was consumed by the female before or after mating. In the other, reversed type, the female was eaten by her mate during or after breeding. Both types of cannibalism occurred during the breeding season from April to November, with female-on-male cannibalism occurring earlier on, and the reversed type later. Both types of cannibalism occurred in pairs inhabiting smaller hosts (<10 cm in body length), which suggests that resource limitation is an important factor triggering the cannibalism. Cannibalism may lead to rapid growth or sex change of the cannibal. The availability of free-living mancas during the breeding season enables a mating pair to be re-formed after cannibalism has occurred. Both types of cannibalism occurred in mating pairs with a low size ratio (below 1.6, female to male), and both resulted in a greater discrepancy between female and male sizes in the re-formed pairs. This increase in size ratio between paired individuals may ultimately lead to an increase in clutch size. Because an individual of I. fushanensis undergoes protandrous sex change, the cannibalistic behavior could not have evolved in response to selection on either the male or female sexuality. Rather, both types of cannibalism may be regarded as the result of competition between paired individuals, which appears to be a by-product in the evolution of a reproductive strategy rather than a consequence of sexual selection.
4126703|Ever since the first individuals of the class Remipedia were discovered, it has been suggested that these animals are capable of injecting their prey with a venomous or digestive substance using the fang on their maxillules. In this study, we investigate the functional morphology of the putative injecting apparatus of Speleonectes tanumekes. Serial sectioning of specimens shows a pair of well-developed glands in the anterior part of the trunk. Spatial interpretations of serial sections suggest that extensions of the glandular cells collectively continue as ducts that lead to the distal segments of the maxillules where a complex of apodemal muscles, associated with a bulbous reservoir, serve to facilitate injection. Different components of the supposedly injectable substance appear to be separated throughout the apparatus.
4126704|We describe Cryptocorynetes longulus n. sp. as the second species assigned to the genus. Cryptocorynetes longulus is a relatively large species (up to 34.5 mm long with 38-39 trunk segments) that occurs in sympatry with species of the two other remipede genera Speleonectes and Godzilliognomus. It was collected from Big Fountain, an anchialine cave on Cat Island, Bahamas. The new species is distinguished from Cryptocorynetes haptodiscus in particular by its larger size and more robust habitus, higher number of trunk segments, shape of the head shield, and number of antennular articles; moreover, the prehensile cephalic limbs differ remarkably in shape and size from those described for Cryptocorynetes haptodiscus.
10.2307/1548149|A bizarre commensal pandalid shrimp, known from a single specimen found in association with an antipatharian host at Enewetak, Marshall Islands, is assigned to a new species and genus, Miropandalus hardingi.
10.2307/1548973| The fiber-type composition of the paired antagonistic remotor and promotor muscles of the second antennae in the lobster Homarus americanus and the crayfish Procambarus clarkii was investigated using enzyme histochemical and electron microscopic techniques. Muscle fibers were classified either into a narrow category of fast fibers, or a much broader category of slow fibers, based on a close correlation between their enzymatic and structural properties. Thus, fast fibers have a much higher myofibrillar ATPase activity and a lower oxidative capacity denoted by staining for NADH-diaphorase than slow fibers. Myofibrils of fast fibers also have relatively short (3-5 m) sarcomeres and 6 thin filaments surrounding a thick filament. Slow fibers have longer sarcomeres (6-14 m) and 10-13 thin filaments surrounding a thick filament. Within the slow category, differential staining for ATPase and NADH-diaphorase together with a wide range in sarcomere lengths denotes further subdivision. According to these criteria the paired antennal muscles in the lobster are composed of fast and slow fibers in separate bundles. Their homologs in the crayfish have fast and slow fibers in the remotor muscle, but only slow fibers in the promotor muscle. Moreover, the large fast bundle in the lobster remotor muscle, capable of contracting at high frequencies to produce a buzzing sound, has 60% sarcoplasmic reticulum and 30% myofibrils compared to the more typical 15-20% sarcoplasmic reticulum and 70-80% myofibrils in all other muscles. 
10.2307/1548839|Arcturosaccus kussakini, new genus, new species, is a rhizocephalan parasite of the ultraabyssal isopod crustacean Antarcturus zenkewitchi Kussakin, collected off the east coast of Iturup Island, Kuril Islands, Russia. The morphology of the Rhizocephala Akentrogonida is reviewed and compared to this new species. Arcturosaccus has multiple layers of cuticle in the mesenteric canal, and a few spermatogenic islets floating free in the mantle cavity. By these characters, the new species seems most closely related to the genera Duplorbis and Cryptogaster, but differs from them by (1) the presence of the paired ovary, (2) the position of the mesentery, and (3) the mantle aperture, and by the shape of the externa. Naupliar instars are absent in the life cycle of Arcturosaccus kussakini and the larvae hatch as cyprids.
10.2307/1549227| The impact of sublethal concentrations of copper on the structure and ultrastructure of gills and epipodites has been studied in late juvenile Penaeus japonicus. The structural changes which occur in the gill and epipodite cells appeared to be a function of copper accumulation in these tissues. The gill cells of shrimps exposed to 100 and 10 g Cu l<sup>-1</sup> for 15 days did not display discernible structural changes. However, an increased number of nephrocytes was observed in some gill filaments, especially in shrimps exposed to 100 g Cu l<sup>-1</sup>. A profound alteration of the gill structure occurred after exposure to 500 and 1,000 g Cu l<sup>-1</sup> for 4 days. Exposure to 1,000 g Cu l<sup>-1</sup> resulted in gaps between the cuticle and the epithelium and in the disorganization of epithelial cells. The nuclear matrices were condensed and vacuoles were observed around the nucleus. Exposure to 10 g Cu l<sup>-1</sup> for 15 days did not result in perceptible structural changes of the epipodite cells. After exposure to 500 and 1,000 g Cu l<sup>-1</sup> for 4 days and to 100 g Cu l<sup>-1</sup> for 15 days, the epithelial cells of epipodites were completely altered. Basal infoldings were less numerous and apical microvilli were absent. The number and size of mitochondria decreased and their structure was disorganized. The nuclear matrices were condensed, with vacuoles around the nucleus, and the cells became extensively vacuolated. Pseudomyelinic structures were noted in epipodite cells of shrimps exposed to 500 g Cu l<sup>-1</sup>. The significance of the morphological changes of these organs after exposure to copper are discussed in relation to their physiological functions. 
10.2307/1548867|Nucleic acids (DNA and RNA), protein, lipid (triglycerides, phospholipid, and cholesterol), carbohydrate, and caloric contents of soft tissues of Procambarus clarkii were determined at intervals over the year to investigate whether seasonal changes in the biochemical composition and energy contents of P. clarkii in the lower Mondego River valley, Portugal, depend on nutritional or reproductive cycles. Total lipid, triglycerides, and total caloric contents significantly changed seasonally throughout the year. An increase was observed during the April/June (spring), followed by a decrease during June/October (summer) to levels maintained through the winter period (January/March). Therefore, P. clarkii does not store significant nutritional reserves for use during winter. Furthermore, the seasonal changes of total lipid, triglycerides, and total caloric contents of P. clarkii appear to be associated with the reproductive cycle of the species rather than with the nutritional cycle. Seasonal changes in the protein and carbohydrate contents were relatively limited and do not appear to be related to nutritional metabolism. Seasonal changes in the phospholipid, cholesterol, and nucleic acid contents were also observed in parallel with the main reproductive period of the species.
10.2307/1548722|The distribution of the internal root system, the morphology of several external stages, and the cypris larva are described for the rhizocephalan Thompsonia reinhardi, new species. The morphology and various events during the life cycle are compared to other species of Thompsonia.
1549164|We compared aggressive behavior among four crayfish species by measuring the number and duration of agonistic acts occurring in fighting bouts between intraspecific pairs of animals. Our study included 3 congeneric species from the family Cambaridae (Orconectes rusticus, Orconectes propinquus, and Orconectes immunis) and 1 from the family Astacidae (Pacifastacus leniusculus). Based on our measurements, crayfishes differed in their level of aggressiveness and differed in the extent to which they used particular agonistic behaviors. Contrary to previous reports, O. rusticus did not appear to be especially aggressive. Of the species in our sample, O. rusticus was clearly more aggressive than only 1 species, O. immunis. Orconectes propinquus was likewise significantly more aggressive than O. immunis. Pacifastacus leniusculus (Astacidae) appeared to be the most aggressive, differing from the other 3 species in the amount of time spent fighting and in individual behaviors, especially those associated with use of antennae. Understanding species-specific differences in aggressiveness may yield insights into species replacements in natural crayfish populations, and may contribute to the value of these animals as models for investigating the neural basis of aggression.
10.2307/1548434|The genus Talorchestia is redefined on the basis of new concepts advanced by Bousfield (1982). It comprises 4 Indo-Pacific species: Talorchestia gracilis, T. spinipalma, T. martensii, and a new species that is described from specimens from the Philippines and Queensland under the name of Talorchestia palawanensis, new species. This new amphipod is closely related to T. spinipalma, which is refigured.
1549168|Descriptions of the zoeal and decapodid stages of the ghost shrimp Callichirus islagrande were based on laboratory cultures from a population inhabiting the coast of Louisiana. Whereas morphological studies were based upon animals from mass cultures, 40-120 larvae from each of 8 parental females were reared individually to obtain stage-duration data. Larvae passed through 4 or 5 zoeal stages before molting to the decapodid stage. The proportion of individuals that molted to a fifth zoeal stage varied widely (9-89%) between clutches of different parental females. The first juvenile stage was usually reached 16-20 days after hatching, and durations of larval stages were similar in larvae from different females. Morphological comparisons with congeneric species revealed larvae of C. islagrande to be more similar to larvae of C. garthi, a species from the coast of Chile, than to larvae of a Gulf of Mexico population of Callichirus major.
10.2307/1548292|Lagoon crabs, Cardisoma armatum Herklots, collected from a mangrove swamp area near the small fishing village of Dzita about 200 km from Accra, Ghana, were maintained in the laboratory for a three-month period during which their mating behavior was observed. Females found mating were intermolts. For easier observation, crabs were not provided with soil in their holding tanks. Water was provided in small bowls which were visited by the crabs periodically. Courtship in the crab was not prolonged and consisted of appeasement displays and nonaggressive postures. Vision and chemoreception appear to play important roles during interactions between a male and a female, although the details of neither mechanism were fully investigated.
1549669|Instances of mutualism and commensalism between alpheid shrimp and other marine invertebrates and fish are common in tropical waters. In this study, we present evidence that the temperate alpheid big-clawed snapping shrimp (Alpheus heterochaelis) participates in a symbiosis with the black-clawed mud crab (Panopeus herbstii), which constructs and maintains burrows in salt marshes of mid-Atlantic states, U.S.A. We surveyed eight mid-Atlantic salt marshes and found that 11% of occupied crab burrows (n = 1042) also housed Alpheus. Feeding trials showed that whereas Panopeus readily consumes other marsh Crustacea (i.e., grass shrimp and fiddler crabs), it will not prey on snapping shrimp. Alpheus caged in the marsh without access to mud crab lairs could not construct burrows. These results suggest that alpheid shrimps, thought to be limited in distribution to unvegetated mudflats and oyster reefs, may expand their intertidal range by living commensally with Panopeus herbstii in salt marsh habitats.
10.2307/1549124|Producers and researchers have long suspected correlations between "runt deformity syndrome" (RDS), morphological anomalies, poor production, and viral infection for various penaeid shrimp species. Unfortunately, evidence has been circumstantial and little research has been focused on defining harvest size distributions as it relates to viral histopathology. The present study highlights these elements, in a factorial experimental design, using increased stocking density (60/m<sup>2</sup> and 100/m<sup>2</sup>) and decreased water exchange (100%, 50%, and 10% per day) as factors. Twelve 29.2-m<sup>2</sup> tanks were stocked with suspected IHHNV-infected Penaeus vannamei postlarvae from a Central American hatchery, and were harvested after 164 days. Low dissolved oxygen levels resulted in poor survival (43.5% and 53.6%) in tanks which were stocked at 100/m<sup>2</sup> and limited to 10% water exchange per day. Density and water exchange regimes had little effect on water quality, survival, or growth in other experimental groups. A "runt deformity syndrome" and other physical anomalies are described and the former is correlated with increased incidence of IHHNV associated Cowdry type A inclusion bodies in 4 organ systems. A trend toward decreasing incidence of inclusion bodies was found as exchange rates were increased from 50% to 100% per day. Distributions of size at harvest indicate less skewness and kurtosis as well as lower incidence of deformities in low survival tanks, suggesting increased mortality of more severely infected RDS shrimp.
4540325|The taxonomy of the rare Macrophthalmus leptophthalmus (H. Milne Edwards, 1852) is reviewed. On the basis of distinctive features of the carapace, eyes, and epistome, M. leptophthalmus is assigned to the subgenus, Euplax H. Milne Edwards, 1852, new status, a taxon that has been incorrectly synonymised under Macrophthalmus (Venitus) Barnes, 1967. A related species, Macrophthalmus (Euplax) dagohoyi, new species, is described from subtidal mangroves in Bohol, central Philippines. Macrophthalmus (Euplax) dagohoyi can easily be distinguished from M. (Euplax) leptophthalmus by different carapace, cheliped, walking leg and sternal characters. A key to the genera and subgenera of Macrophthalmidae is also presented.
10.2307/1549031|The blood cells of the stomatopod Squilla mantis were examined by light and transmission electron microscopy (TEM). Three hemocyte types were identified: hyaline cells (HC), small granule hemocytes (SGH), and large granule hemocytes (LGH). HC are the smallest cells and are easily recognized by their high nucleocytoplasmic ratio. TEM analyses show that these cells sometimes have a well-developed rough endoplasmic reticulum and always contain numerous small electron-dense granules. Two classes of small granule hemocytes (SGH-A and SGH-B) are distinguished. SGH-A have a dense cytoplasm which usually contains dictyosomes and numerous granules with a striated substructure. SGH-B are ultrastructurally very similar to the LGH, but their granules are smaller and less electron-dense. SGH are especially rich in lysosomes. LGH are characterized by a high content of large electron-dense granules and characteristic electron-lucent cytoplasmic masses. These scattered masses are also observed in SGH-B. The granules of SGH and LGH are rich in carbohydrates. HC is the predominant cell type in circulation (approximately 40%) while LGH (approximately 20%) and SGH (SGH-A 12% and SGH-B 28%) are less abundant. The total hemocyte number was estimated in males (23,430 cells/mm<sup>3</sup>) and females (35,760 cells/mm<sup>3</sup>). Most of the studies on the identification of crustacean hemocytes have been carried out in decapods. Studies on the blood cells of other crustacean orders, such as the stomatopods, are needed for the establishment of a more unified hemocyte classification within crustaceans.
40927840|Macrobrachium asperulum is a native freshwater prawn species in Taiwan, and is an ideal model for studying the reproductive biology of freshwater decapods. Also, this species may be a potential aquaculture species. This study was conducted to explore the ovarian development of female M. asperulum, as an important foundation for the knowledge of its reproductive biology. Specimens were collected in four seasons throughout the year to investigate the ovarian cycle and germ cell development, by examining the external morphology and histological structure of the ovaries. The breeding period of M. asperulum is probably from March to September each year. Developing ovaries and germ cells were characterized throughout the entire ovarian cycle. Differentiating germ cells were classified mainly into oogonia, primary ocytes, secondary ocytes, and mature ocytes. Among the four major germ cells, secondary ocytes were further divided into five types. Summarizing the above examinations and based on the relative frequency of germ cell types, six stages of ovarian cycle were identified, and this prawn is proposed as being a multiple spawning species. Observations of the present study provide important information on the reproductive biology of crustaceans and decapods in general, and also can serve as a significant foundation for the aquaculture of freshwater prawn species.
4540265| The role of cheliped autotomy in the territorial behavior of the freshwater prawn Macrobrachium lar was analyzed to determine whether or not prawns modified their defended territory size based on cheliped autotomy. Territory size measurements were recorded for captive prawns interacting in artificial tank habitats and were logged according to the locations where agonistic encounters occurred and aggressive pressures were equal. All prawns used in this study were mid-intermolt males in the size class 9.0  1.5 cm, with staged encounters occurring under three treatment conditions in which fully intact prawns were matched against animals possessing no chelipeds, one cheliped, or two chelipeds (fully intact). Separate experiments for each condition were completed with four prawns per tank per 14-day trial and were run a total of three times each. The defended territory size mean for the Control prawns (matched only against other intact animals) did not differ significantly from one quarter of the total tank area. The mean territory sizes for prawns within or between each treatment condition was significantly different. Prawns with one or two chelipeds autotomized each defended significantly smaller territories than other male prawns of equal size, but with both chelipeds intact. Our results show that the presence of chelipeds allowed the defense of larger territories compared with the territories defended by prawns with one or both chelipeds autotomized. 
41315686|We collected postlarvae (PL) and early juveniles of Farfantepenaeus aztecus and F. duorarum <7.0 mm CL from the Gulf of Mexico and verified their species identity using a multiplex Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) assay, which targeted the 16S rRNA mitochondrial gene. We examined young with >5 dorsal teeth (DT) for differences in morphology and used a General Discriminant Analysis approach and 'best' subsets model-building technique to help identify the 'best' characters to discriminate taxa and predict species membership. Farfantepenaeus duorarum with >5 DT and F. aztecus with >7 DT have spinules on the epigastric and first DT, a character not previously reported for these two species. Differences in antennal scale shape and sixth pleomere length discriminate >95% of Farfantepenaeus sp. with <7-8+2 rostral teeth. Farfantepenaeus duorarum has an antennal scale with an acutely rounded margin about twice the height of the adjacent lateral spine, and has a sixth pleomere length measurement <2.5 mm. In F. aztecus, the antennal scale has a more broadly rounded margin with a lateral spine that approaches or exceeds the tip of the scale, and has a sixth pleomere length measurement >2.5 mm. Species discrimination of Farfantepenaeus sp. with >7-8+2 rostral teeth requires body measurements. Classification models accurately discriminate >90% of Farfantepenaeus sp. from the western Gulf and increase the reliability of discrimination by >20% over characters that have been used for species discrimination, some of which are unreliable. The unsatisfactory performance of the models in discriminating Farfantepenaeus sp. from the eastern Gulf is consistent with the possibility of different ecological populations in the eastern and western Gulf that may warrant further study. Integration of molecular taxonomy and comparative morphology, as we did here, can provide insight into the patterns of diversity and ecological and evolutionary principles that encompass fisheries management.
10.2307/1548892|A new and relatively large species of leptostracan crustacean, Nebalia hessleri, is described from enriched sediments and detrital mats off southern California. The new species is characterized by its size, possession of "normal" (versus lobed) eyes, rectangular and unpaired subrostral keel, acute dentition of the posterior pleonite borders, and caudal furca approximately twice the length of the telson. Clark's Nebalia pugettensis (Clark, 1932) is herein declared a nomen nudum. The new species differs from specimens at Friday Harbor, Puget Sound, Washington, in the form of the epimeron of the fourth pleonite, the dentition along the posterior border of the fifth through seventh pleonites, the relative length of the telson and caudal furca, and size. Coloration may also serve to distinguish N. hessleri from other species if egg-bearing females are available; eggs of N. hessleri are cream or gold colored. The new species differs from a currently unnamed sympatric species that occurs in adjacent sand flats (Vetter, in press) primarily in the morphology of the first antenna, which is greatly reduced in the sand-flat species, and the eye, which has unique dorsal and ventral corneal protrusions in the sand-flat species. Selected aspects of the external morphology of the new species are illustrated via scanning electron microscopy, highlighting a previously unappreciated diversity of spines and setal types. Based on these photographs, some limbs are suggested as having sensory functions. Selected features of the Friday Harbor specimens also are illustrated via SEM. Limited notes on feeding behavior and oxygen level tolerances are provided, based on preliminary laboratory observations. Finally, we include a morphology-based key to identification of the currently recognized families and genera of the Leptostraca.
20487790|We obtained the first zoea stages of six grapsid crabs from laboratory-hatched material: Hemigrapsus penicillatus, H. sanguineus, H. longitarsis, H. sinensis, H. nudus, and H. oregonensis. They are re-described and illustrated in detail. Zoeal characteristics are compared among these species. The main difference between four eastern Asian species (H. penicillatus, H. sanguineus, H. longitarsis, and H. sinensis) and two American species (H. nudus and H. oregonensis) is the character of the antennal exopod tip, which is unarmed in the former and spinulate in the latter. In order to facilitate the study of plankton-collected material, we provide a key for the identification of the zoeae of Hemigrapsus from the northern Pacific.
1549392|To evaluate the suitability of using coded microwire tags (CWTs) to mark early-benthic-stage Caribbean spiny lobster, Panulirus argus, we compared the survival, growth, and feeding of tagged and untagged lobsters held in the laboratory through the first five juvenile molts. We also examined the growth of 65 microwire-tagged lobsters released into the wild as early-benthic-stage juveniles. Tag retention rates of lobsters held in the laboratory were 86% for those tagged as first-stage juveniles and 96% for those tagged as second-stage juveniles; virtually all tag loss was confined to the first post-tag molt. Survival and growth rates of tagged second-stage juveniles in the laboratory did not significantly differ from those of untagged lobsters, but first-stage-tagged juveniles had lower growth rates than untagged lobsters did and a 25% post-tagging mortality rate. The mean growth rate of juveniles released into the wild was 0.82 mm CL/wk, but growth differed by season; no sex- or habitat-specific differences in growth were observed. Data obtained from these recaptured lobsters provide the first detailed estimates of growth of P. argus under natural conditions during the earliest part of their benthic life and illustrate the potential usefulness of coded microwire tags in mark-recapture investigations of juveniles for this and other species.
41315756|Spatial and temporal variations in the diet of Crangon uritai were examined using stable isotope and stomach content analyses. The sand shrimp and its potential prey were collected from Yura Estuary (35 m), shallow coast (510 m), and deep coast (3060 m) stations of Tango Sea from April 2006 to February 2007. The measurements of the length (carapace and total lengths) and feeding habit (stomach content and stable isotope ratios) of C. uritai showed that this shrimp changed its diet during migrations between the estuary and marine environments. This species consumes a variety of food at the lower estuary: mysid Orientomysis japonica, small crustaceans particularly amphipod Melita hoshinoi, and bivalve Veremolpa micra. The abundant mysid O. japonica at the shallow coast and juveniles of unidentified bivalve species at the deep coast were the favored food throughout the year. The C and N variations in C. uritai confirmed the spatial and temporal diet shift in gut content composition as the sand shrimp grow and migrate along the estuary-marine gradient.
10.2307/1548131|Evidence is presented for the recent introduction of Cirolana arcuata, previously known from Australia and New Zealand, into San Francisco Bay, where it appears to be established. Thus far it has been found only at the Oleum Power Plant on San Pablo Bay near Rodeo. C. robusta Menzies, from Chile, and Chilean specimens identified as C. concinna by Menzies are shown to belong to C. arcuata. The species is redescribed and illustrated in detail.
40927856|Freshwater organisms with an amphidromous life cycle are generally thought to disperse widely through marine planktonic larval stages, but only few studies on genetic population structure of amphidromous shrimp exist. We used a 640-basepair region of the mitochondrial gene cytochrome c oxidase I (Cox 1 ) from the amphidromous river shrimp Cryphiops caementarius from five rivers in northern-central Chile to test whether large distances between estuaries (up to 700 km) limit gene flow between populations and result in genetic differentiation among populations. The results revealed high haplotype diversity with no significant geographical structuring, suggesting that gene flow occurs regularly over several hundreds of kilometres, also connecting populations north and south of the Atacama Desert. Seemingly, the terrestrial barrier is overcome by planktonic larval dispersal through the sea, suggesting wide dispersal rather than "stepping-stone" dispersal between estuaries. The population from the southern limit of the geographic distribution of C. caementarius (Ro Limari) revealed some weak differentiation in pairwise  ST comparisons, but larger sample sizes are necessary to confirm this. Additional studies are needed for a better understanding of factors that promote different life histories, like marine planktonic dispersal, larval retention in estuaries, or an amphidromous-freshwater transition towards a purely freshwater life cycle.
10.2307/1548717|Reproduction of the tropical spiny lobsters Panulirus inflatus and P. gracilis was studied in Guerrero, Mexican Pacific coast, from February 1979 to May 1980, from samples with bottom-set nets and from commercial divers' catches. Lobsters caught with nets were tagged, and some females were recaptured up to 4 times during the study period. The smallest ovigerous females measured 49.4 mm (P. gracilis) and 54.7 mm (P. inflatus) carapace length (CL). Reproductive females of both species were found throughout the year, but analysis of the percentage of reproductive females by size class showed that small lobsters (< 60 mm CL) had a shorter spawning season and started reproducing later than larger lobsters (> 70 mm CL). Females of both species > 70 mm CL were capable of producing at least 3 or 4 broods per year, those from 60-70 mm CL up to 3, and smaller mature lobsters 1 or 2. In addition, females between 65 and 80 mm CL had the highest index of reproductive potential, due to their highest numbers in the population and their number of broods per year. Fishery implications of these findings are discussed.
10.2307/1548933|Introduced populations of the spider crab Pyromaia tuberculata have become established in organically polluted bays in Japanese coastal waters. Pyromaia tuberculata is a predominant species in the epibenthic animal community in upper Tokyo Bay where summer hypoxia of bottom water causes a seasonal defaunation of the benthic community. Crabs recolonized the upper bay area after bottom oxygen recovered, settling in midfall, maturing in midwinter, and producing larvae from midspring until the return of hypoxia in summer. While all crabs in the upper part of Tokyo Bay were killed in late summer by the hypoxia, crabs, including ovigerous females, were found throughout the year in the lower part of the bay, where the hypoxia was not severe. Crabs in the lower part of the bay may be parents of recolonized crabs in the lower part of the bay. The purpose was to clarify the life cycle of P. tuberculata in a hypoxic environment. Crab growth and reproduction of P. tuberculata were studied by field surveys and laboratory experiments. Females reached maturity within 6 months after settlement, and the size of adult females tended to decrease when matured in higher temperatures. Developed eggs in which eye spots or eyes had appeared were found throughout the year. Puberty molt of the female could occur at ecdysis to the seventh crab instar. The final instar stage at which males reach maturity may vary individually from the sixth to eighth instars. This research, combined with earlier studies, demonstrates that P. tuberculata in Tokyo Bay reproduces throughout the year, and completes at least two generational cycles annually. These characteristics allow for the opportunistic exchange of larvae between temporary hypoxic and permanently healthy areas, and thus may be responsible for the ability of P. tuberculata to maintain its population in seasonally hypoxic waters.
41315749|External colour differences in crustaceans were examined using a non-invasive study of morphology and colour in epidermal chromatosomes. Three different phenotypes of the shrimp, Neocaridina denticulata (< 2 cm total length), differ in the quantity and dispersal of chromatosomes in the epidermis, with resulting differences in body colour. Also, pigmentation pattern is most pronounced in the anterior body parts. The exopod of uropod was the most suitable body area to monitor colour changes in this shrimp. This noninvasive method allows for the study of external pigmentation in crustaceans at different stages and may help to understand how these animals manipulate their chromatosomes under physiological and environmental variability in order to acquire the final external colour.
10.2307/1547859| Harpacticoida of the family Darcythompsoniidae from the mangal ecosystems of Sinai, Brasil, Netherlands Antilles, and Florida are analysed. A new genus and species, Kristensenia pallida, from Bonaire, as well as two new species, are described: Darcythompsonia radans from Sinai (also found in Brasil and Curaao) and Leptocaris mangalis from Sinai (also found in Brasil and Florida). Some general comments are made on the relation of these genera to the decaying mangrove leaves as well as on the family Darcythompsoniidae. 
10.2307/1548050|Four developmental stages are defined for the cement glands of mature female American lobsters. These "cement glands" are tegumental glands that cycle in phase with ovary development and secrete a substance that appears to be involved in the egg fertilization-attachment process. Since cement glands do not develop in male or immature female lobsters, they can be used to determine maturity in females that are not ovigerous. In wild populations, size at maturity is frequently based on sizes of ovigerous females, but this assessment is complicated by the existence of two different reproductive patterns in the Adult-I year, the fact that only half of the mature females are ovigerous in any year, and the fact that ovigerous females often are not adequately sampled by traditional trapping procedures. Cement gland development can be used to improve the accuracy of maturity assessments by providing information on maturity of barren females.
10.2307/1548522|An experimental study of intersexuality in Orchestia mediterranea and Orchestia aestuarensis shows that it is not related to hybridization between both species in overlapping populations. Interspecific crosses with individuals from populations of various geographic origin are either sterile or produce sterile individuals and an excess of males in the F<sub>1</sub> generation. Histological and ultrastructural study of the gonads of normal or intersex males reveals the presence of microsporidian cells attributed to the genus Nosema, and, in intersex males, of cells resembling Paramarteilia orchestiae, a parasite described in Orchestia gammarellus and responsible for intersexuality and sex ratio deviations in that species. Experiments of organ grafting between both species and Orchestia gammarellus demonstrate that this kind of intersexuality is inducible and related to the presence of Paramarteilia orchestiae, a transovarially transmitted parasite.
40927844|Although amino acid flux models have been developed in fish and other crustaceans, this is the first study to present an amino acid flux model for crabs. This study investigates the influence of different feeds and the deprivation of food on the free amino acid (FAA) pool, the rate of protein turnover and their relation to the growth and flux of amino acids in the shore crab Carcinus maenas. A model was developed for amino acid flux describing food consumption rates, assimilation rates, protein synthesis rates, growth and protein degradation, and losses. Crabs were fed frozen mussel (Mytilus edulis) tissue (Diet 1) or (fresh) white muscle from salmon (Salmo salar) (Diet 2) at 7% of their body weight per day while other crabs were starved for ten days. In the starved crabs, the amino acids partitioned into protein synthesis made up 36% of the free amino acid pool. There was a 50% reduction in the rate of protein synthesis in the starved crabs compared with the fed crabs. It was estimated that daily dietary amino acid intake might compose up to seven times the crabs' FAA pool. In addition, daily protein synthesis and degradation might respectively remove and return the equivalent of up to 4 times and twice the size of the FAA pool in the fed crabs, respectively. Specimens of C. maenas deposited in body proteins (as net growth) 14% in diet 1 and 40% in diet 2 of their amino acid consumption. The amino acid flux in the fed crabs suggested low protein conversion efficiency compared to other decapod crustaceans, including shrimps and lobsters.
27753972|This study was conducted to better understand the habitat requirements and environmental limiting factors of Syncaris pacifica, the California freshwater shrimp. This federally listed endangered species is native to perennial lowland streams in a few watersheds in northern California. Field sampling occurred in Lagunitas and Olema creeks at seasonal intervals from February 2003 to November 2004. Ten glides, five pools, and five riffles served as fixed sampling reaches, with eight glides, four pools, and four riffles located in Lagunitas Creek and the remainder in Olema Creek. A total of 1773 S. pacifica was counted during this study, all of which were captured along vegetated banks in Lagunitas Creek. Syncaris pacifica was most numerous in glides (64%), then in pools (31%), and lastly in riffles (5%). According to logistic regression analysis, S. pacifica was mostly associated with submerged portions of streambank vegetation (especially overhanging vegetation such as ferns and blackberries, emergent vegetation such as sedge and brooklime, and fine roots associated with water hemlock, willow, sedge, and blackberries) along with low water current velocity and a sandy substrate. These seemingly favorable habitat conditions for S. pacifica were present in glides and pools in Lagunitas Creek, but not in Olema Creek.
10.2307/1549052|The microstructure and mineral growth increments of juvenile barnacles have been studied by scanning electron microscopy. Specimens were reared in the laboratory under uniform conditions of day-length and temperature and were provided with food in amounts that were not growth-limiting. Growth increments were produced synchronously in the wall plates, scuta, and alae. In scuta, growth involved the deposition of many linear units, minor ridges, within a single growth increment. The size and number of scutal growth increments of 25-day-old barnacles raised under identical culture conditions showed variability. Increments of the radius were composed of a layer of parallel needlelike crystals. By growing laterally, the crystals of the radius strengthen the junction between the wall plates. The period required to form an increment in the scuta was 1.3-1.8 days and the number of increments increased linearly with age. It appears that a mechanism(s) other than environmental rhythmicity is responsible for incremental skeletal growth in barnacles that have experienced only constant culture conditions.
4094124|The taxonomic status of the six Japanese species of Caridina described by W. Stimpson (1860) is clarified on the basis of fresh specimens from the type localities. Caridina grandirostris, which has long been synonymized under C. longirostris H. Milne Edwards, 1837, is shown to be a distinct species; C. leucosticta is redescribed; C. multidentata is the senior synonym of C. japonica De Man, 1892; C. acuminata and C. brevirostris are regarded as junior synonyms of Atyoida pilipes (Newport, 1847); and C. exilirostris is synonymized with C. typus H. Milne Edwards, 1837. Neotypes for the six species are designated to stabilize their taxonomy, all of which are redescribed and figured. The various nomenclatural problems associated with these species are discussed.
1549934|Morphological heterogeneity of the pinnotherid genera Durckheimia and Xanthasia has long been recognised. In particular, the segmentation of the third maxilliped palp, whether 2- or 3-segmented, is presently regarded as a conservative and useful generic trait. Durckheimia and Xanthasia, however, both contain species with both types of third maxilliped palps. Prior to the present study, five species were placed in Durckheimia, four bearing a 3-segmented palp and one, D. besutensis, with a 2-segmented palp. Durckheimia is restricted to three species, D. carinipes (type species), D. caeca, and D. lochi. Durckheimia yokotai is synonymised with D. caeca. The aberrant D. besutensis is transferred to a new genus, Serenotheres. Xanthasia is restricted to its type species, X. murigera, which bears a 2-segmented palp. Xanthasia whitei, with a 3-segmented third maxilliped palp and only superficially resembling X. murigera, is made the type of a new genus, Tridacnotheres. All species are illustrated and diagnosed, and a key to the species of Durckheimia is presented.
10.2307/1549545|An investigation of reproduction in the shrimp Spongicola japonica, associated with deep-sea sponges, revealed that juvenile shrimps hatch directly from eggs without intermediate planktonic stages. Gross morphology and behavior of the newly hatched juveniles are similar to those of adult shrimps. The intermolt period is relatively long, requiring approximately 70 days from hatching to the first molt, and a further 80 days to the second molt. In larval and juvenile development of the family Spongicolidae, the shallow-water genus Microprosthema has planktonic larvae, while S. japonica shows direct development. The relationship between the direct development in Spongicola and the distribution of the host sponge is discussed.
10.2307/1548500|Maturation in Penaeus aztecus and P. setiferus was evaluated by visual, histological, and biochemical observations. Changes in carbohydrate, lipid, and protein contents were described in gonads and digestive glands of both males and females, and in the terminal portion of the male reproductive tract (terminal ampullae and vasa deferentia combined). During gonadal maturation of both species, carbohydrate, protein, and lipid contents of the ovaries increased. The largest absolute changes were in the amount of protein and the greatest relative increases occurred in the amount of lipid. In digestive glands of females, changes in biochemical composition differed between the species: in P. aztecus carbohydrate and protein contents of the digestive glands increased during maturation, but in P. setiferus the lipid content of the digestive glands decreased during maturation. Results suggest that mobilization of stored lipid from the digestive gland to ovaries may be more important in P. setiferus than in P. aztecus. The testes were relatively small and the terminal ampullae and vasa deferentia made up a larger portion of the male reproductive system than did the testes. In mature males, the protein, lipid, and carbohydrate contents of testes were larger in P. setiferus than in P. aztecus, but protein, lipid, and carbohydrate contents of combined terminal ampullae and vasa deferentia were larger in P. aztecus than in P. setiferus. In P. setiferus, protein contents of both testes and combined terminal ampullae and vasa deferentia were larger in mature males than in developing males. Protein and lipid contents of digestive glands of males did not differ between the species or among the maturation stages.
1549094|The ampithoid amphipod Peramphithoe stypotrupetes hollows and infests the stipes of the alga Laminaria setchellii after intense grazing of its lamina by gastropods. The intensity of gastropod grazing and subsequent levels of amphipod infestation appear to be correlated with calm ocean conditions. Once established in the stipe, a pair of adult amphipods produces multiple cohorts of offspring, which hollow and kill the plant. At a study site off northern California, an entire bed of the alga was infested and no plants survived. Aspects of the natural history of P. stypotrupetes are discussed.
40927842|Discovery of a single specimen of a shrimp fossil from the Devonian Woodford Shale in the Ryan Quarry, near Ada, Oklahoma, documents the oldest occurrence of a penaeoid decapod crustacean, Aciculopoda mapesi n. gen., n. sp. within the Aciculopodidae n. fam. The specimen lacks any diagnostic features of the primitive Paleozoic eumalacostracans, including caudal furca, but possesses the characteristic form and preservational style of the Superorder Eucarida, particularly the Superfamily Penaeoidea. The shrimp specimen is remarkably preserved; it has been phosphatized, and the muscles of the pleon have been preserved completely enough that discrete muscle bands are discernable. The cuticle of the cephalothorax is shattered into small fragments, whereas that of the pleon is absent except for the telson. Confirmation that this specimen represents a Devonian decapod documents only the second decapod taxon known from the Devonian and the third from the Paleozoic. It is the earliest known shrimp and one of the two oldest decapods, both from North America.
41315731|Maxilliped-setation in two Australian fiddler crabs, Uca perplexa (n = 104) and U. vomeris (n = 128) was studied and related to the habitats in which these crabs live. Both species were collected from the banks of Myora Springs, North Stradbroke Island, Queensland, Australia. We counted the total number of setae (both plumose and spoon-tipped) on: 1) the inner and outer surfaces of the first and second maxillipeds, and 2) the inner surface of the third maxilliped. In general, there is no distinct sexual dimorphism for both types of setae in the two species. For any given size of crab, significantly more spoon-tipped setae were present in U. perplexa than in U. vomeris, providing further quantitative evidence that fiddler crabs from sandy habitats possess more spoon-tipped setae (an adaptation for processing sandy sediments) than those living in muddy habitats. No significant difference in plumose setation between the two species was generally detected; perhaps plumose setation is of less adaptive significance in terms of habitat adaptation than spoon-tipped setation in these two species. There is generally no sexual dimorphism in the size of the three maxillipeds for both species. Uca perplexa males had longer minor chelipeds than females while U. vomeris males had minor chelipeds that are deeper in the centre than females. These results provide evidence that male fiddler crabs could compensate for their foraging handicap by having longer or deeper minor chelipeds which enable them to scoop larger amounts of substrate.
10.2307/1548359| To further elucidate the reproductive processes of the snow crab Chionoecetes opilio (O. Fabricius) the first and second gonopods of adult specimens were examined using scanning electron microscopy and histology. Surface features and setal types are described for both gonopods. The gonopods are highly modified compared to other brachyuran crabs and lower crustaceans. Suggestions for setal function are presented, based on size, orientation, location, fine structure, and cuticular insertion. Tubulation of the endopod is observed in both the first and second gonopods. Rosette glands are abundant in the basal half of the first gonopod, but are absent in the second gonopod. A duct network from the rosette glands terminates in cuticular pores that are restricted to the ejaculatory canal, indicating that the rosette glands function in copulation, probably contributing to the seminal fluids. A mechanism for transfer of seminal fluids is proposed, based on the relative sizes of the gonopods and the morphology of the second gonopod. /// Afin d'lucider davantage les processus reproducteurs du Crabe des neiges, Chionoecetes opilio (O. Fabricius), les premiers et deuximes gonopodes ont t examins  l'aide de la microscopie lectronique  balayage et de l'histologie. Les gonopodes sont trs modifis par rapport  ceux des autres Brachyoures et des Crustacs plus primitifs. La topologie superficielle et les types de soies sont dcrites pour les deux gonopodes. Des suggestions pour la fonction des soies sont prsentes, selon leur dimension, leur orientation, leur structure, et leur insertion cuticulaire. Une tubulation est vidente dans les premiers et deuximes gonopodes. Des glandes rosettes sont abondantes dans la moiti basale du premier gonopode, mais absentes dans le deuxime gonopode. Un rseau de canalicules provenant des glandes se termine dans des pores distribus uniquement dans la cuticule du canal jaculateur du premier gonopode, laissant prsager une fonction copulatoire, notamment en tant que contribution aux fluides sminaux. Un mcanisme pour le transfert des fluides sminaux est propos, bas sur les dimensions relatives et la morphologie des gonopodes. 
10.2307/1548813| The ecology and development of the mangrove crab Sesarma cuaracoense was studied in Jamaica. Salinity and temperature were measured in the natural habitat of this crab, and the effects of various salinities, different temperatures, and starvation regimes were studied in the laboratory. The crab inhabits mangrove swamps where salinity and temperature ranged from 8-45 ppt and 22.2-39.0C, respectively, and its larval stages were found in the mangrove area and in an offshore lagoon. Females produced relatively few (112-980) moderately sized eggs (mean diameter = 0.58 mm after spawning). Development was abbreviated and consisted of 2 swimming, morphologically advanced zoeal stages and 1 megalopa, and the first crab was reached after an average of 13.5-19.3 days when larvae were fed. Development to the first crab stage was completed at salinities ranging from 10-55 ppt. However, a high mortality appeared at the extremes of 10 and 55 ppt. When starved from hatching, yolk reserves were sufficient for development to the megalopa stage, during which food was required in order to molt to the first crab. Sesarma curacaoense had fewer larval stages, the larvae tolerated a wider range of salinities for development, and showed a higher degree of lecithotrophy than reported for other species of Sesarma outside Jamaica. Its mode of development is similar to that in the endemic Jamaican species (2 zoeae), and its degree of lecithotrophy is intermediate between its semi-terrestrial and truly fresh-water and terrestrial relatives. 
10.2307/1548000|The terrestrial crabs Gecarcinus ruricola and G. lateralis are sympatrically distributed in many areas of the Caribbean. Biometric analyses were conducted using four carapace dimensions and branchial volumes for both species throughout the Caribbean. Mean size of adult G. ruricola does not differ significantly among areas of the Caribbean. G. lateralis shows an increase in mean size from eastern to western localities. The carapace of G. ruricola lateral to the orbits is proportionally larger than the corresponding area of G. lateralis, but growth in both species is allometric. Thus, one should employ caution in using carapace ratios for taxonomic discrimination between the species. The branchial chambers of both G. lateralis and G. ruricola increase in size approximately as the cube of the carapace length. An expansion in the lateral carapace dimension of G. ruricola provides a small increase in branchial volume and a relatively larger increase in surface area which presumably facilitates gaseous exchange with the atmosphere. G. lateralis occurs most frequently in the presence of easily burrowed sandy substrate with at least moderate protection by vegetation. G. ruricola occurs almost exclusively under a forest canopy where it seeks protection in crevices, holes, or other retreats with minimal need for burrowing.
10.2307/1548365|The larvae of a newly described species of the provenzanoi group from the eastern Pacific have been reared in the laboratory from hatching through late juvenile stages. In this account, the 4 zoeal stages and 1 megalopal stage are described and illustrated. The larval characters of this species, the first of the Pacific species of the group to be reared, are compared with known larvae of the group from the Atlantic.
10.2307/1549412|Thoracopod development was analyzed for 25 species from 18 genera among the Cyclopidae. One species from each of 7 genera of presumed older cyclopoids, 5 poecilostomatoid genera, 3 harpacticoid genera, 5 calanoid genera, and a siphonostomatoid were studied to help establish ancestral patterns of thoracopod development. Ancestral character states were inferred from the presence of identical states in species from presumed older families, from the presence of states which show diverse and frequent occurrence among the Copepoda, or from the presence of states shared by serially homologous structures presumed to be determined by the same pleiotropic regulatory process. Developmental patterns of the 4 swimming legs were assumed to result from the action of 2 different regulatory processes. A pleiotropic process acting early in development determines the morphology of all 8 rami together and results in 3 states among cyclopids, ancestral, and the independently derived delayed and truncated patterns. A second set of up to 8 regulatory processes acts later and one of the 8 determines the morphology of each individual ramus. The ancestral states of the resulting individual rami are, by default, the morphology that results from the pleiotropic regulatory process. Variations in developmental patterns were used to generate a phylogenetic hypothesis. Cyclopids have separated into a lineage of 10 species which has delayed the development of the swimming legs or has modified some individual rami from the delayed condition, and a lineage of 8 species which has truncated the development of the swimming legs or has modified some individual rami from that truncated condition. Four species have retained the ancestral process regulating swimming-leg development and 3 species have modified development of some individual rami from the ancestral condition.
1549813|This study refers to the ecology of Lamproglena clariae. Specimens were collected from the Vaal Dam and Vaal River Barrage in the Gauteng Province, South Africa, for a two-year period. Data were analysed statistically. There was a positive correlation between the host's physical dimensions and the size of the parasite. Larger fish had larger parasites than smaller ones. Parasites from both sites preferred the fourth gill and the median part of the gill arch for attachment. There was no significant host gender preference by parasites. A similar seasonal pattern was observed in the prevalence, abundance, and mean intensity at both localities. This study shows that some aspects of the ecology of the parasite are influenced by the host to which it attaches. Its attachment-site preference was also determined by the position of the gill on the gill chamber. The parasite abundance and prevalence were neither dependent on the size of the host nor influenced by the water quality.
20487754|The Cambarus acuminatus complex is a poorly known group of crayfish species whose range has traditionally been assumed to extend from the Patapsco River drainage in Maryland southward to the Saluda River basin in South Carolina. During a recent crayfish survey of southeastern Pennsylvania, we collected a member of the C. acuminatus complex [Cambarus (Puncticambarus) sp.] from Valley Creek. Collections were made from several habitats [pools, riffles, shallow lateral areas (SL), main-channel areas (MC)], and dominant substrate classes, current velocity, and depth were recorded in each sampling area. These collections represent a new crayfish record for Pennsylvania and the first documented occurrence of the C. acuminatus complex north of the Patapsco drainage. Life history characteristics of the population of C. (P.) sp. inhabiting Valley Creek are provided and their variation among habitats and seasons is discussed. In pools, C. (P.) sp. density was negatively related to current velocity, depth, and % sand, and positively related to % silt. In riffles, C. (P.) sp. density was negatively related to current velocity. Comparisons among habitats indicated that C. (P.) sp. was abundant in SL but was scarce in MC. Although MC tended to have faster current, greater depth, more sand, and less silt than SL, other factors could have been responsible for the relative scarcity of C. (P.) sp. in MC. More conclusively, there was a positive relationship between C. (P.) sp. density and % cobble in MC of pools, suggesting that activities such as urbanization that result in sediment deposition and burial of rocky substrates may have a negative effect on density in MC. Since MC are important for large, reproductive individuals, reduced density in these areas may affect the reproductive potential of the population. These findings indicate that Valley Creek supports an unusual and potentially threatened crayfish population that requires further study and highlight the need for additional fieldwork in the region.
10.2307/1549319|Fresh-water atyid shrimps are an ancient group of carideans that uses "passive" cleaning mechanisms to protect their gills from fouling. We studied gill cleaning in Paratya curvirostris from New Zealand, and P. compressa, Caridina japonica, C. typus, C. leucosticta, C. serratirostris, Neocaridina denticulata, and Atyopsis spinipes from Japan. Gill cleaning in atyids involves epipod-setobranch complexes, associated with their pereiopods, and multidenticulate setae on the posterior end of the scaphognathite. Multidenticulate scaphognathite setae are particularly well developed in atyids and show a negative correlation with the number of setobranch setae in different species. At one extreme is A. spinipes, lacking setobranch setae but having the largest number of multidenticulate scaphognathite setae, which are relatively longer and have the maximum number of digitate scale setules. At the other extreme are P. curvirostris and P. compressa, with the largest number of setobranch setae but the smallest number of multidenticulate scaphognathite setae, which are relatively shorter and have a smaller number of digitate scale setules. In atyids, there is a compromise between these two gill-cleaning mechanisms. Mapping gill types and gill-cleaning mechanisms on a decapod cladogram suggests that phyllobranchiate gills represent a convergent derived state that evolved independently from trichobranchiate ancestors, in carideans, thalassinids, anomalans, and brachyurans. There are no particular associations between the type of gills and the mechanism used to clean them. "Active" gill cleaning, using pereiopods, has evolved independently in several lines. If the primitive gill-cleaning mechanism is setiferous epipods, then epipod-setobranch complexes must have been independently derived in carideans and the astacid-thalassinid group. Multidenticulate scaphognathite setae occur with both setiferous epipods and epipod-setobranch complexes. The multidenticulate scaphognathite setae may be the ancestral state for the Pleocyemata, or a synapomorphy of the Caridea, and the Homarida-Astacida-Thalassinida-Brachyura group, having been lost in the Anomala which have "active" gill cleaning.
10.2307/1548220|A new family, Mictocarididae, is proposed for Mictocaris halope, a new genus and species of peracarid crustacean from 4 marine caves on Bermuda. The Mictocarididae do not fit into any known peracaridan order, and a new order, Mictacea, is erected for it and for the Hirsutiidae of Sanders, Hessler, and Garner, 1985 (preceding paper in this journal) by Bowman et al., 1985 (immediately following paper). Mictocaris differs from Hirsutia in possessing eyestalks and a rostrum, an anteriorly rounded labium, marginal setae on the mandibular palp, nonsetose oostegites arising medially, and a pereiopod 2 that is not enlarged.
1549857|Eggs of 20 females were sampled to analyze lipid, protein, and carbohydrate content during the embryonic development of Cherax quadricarinatus. Sampling was performed on recently spawned eggs to first juvenile stage. Ten eggs were sampled every 48 h during the first two weeks and every 72 h thereafter for biochemical analysis. Total proteins, lipids, and carbohydrates were measured. Proteins were the most abundant egg component (63.2%), followed by lipids (32.3%), and carbohydrates (4.4%). A steady decrease of lipid content was observed (y = 895.38 - 9.93x, r<sup>2</sup> = 0.94; y = lipid concentration, x = days). For proteins, two different depletion rates were observed, with the initial rate maintained for 30 days (y<sub>1</sub>1,443.0 - 4.46x<sub>1</sub>, r<sup>2</sup> = 0.90) and an increased depletion rate after hatching (y<sub>2</sub>1,936.60 - 21.10x<sub>2</sub>,r<sup>2</sup> = 0.96). Carbohydrates were always present as a minor constituent, and its concentration did not change significantly. Water content increased from 52% in recently spawned egg to 85% in juveniles. Energy equivalents were calculated from each component, and the overall energy expenditure is represented by the equation y = 13.86 - 0.11x (r<sup>2</sup> = 0.95). Relevant morphological features for each sample day are indicated.
10.2307/1548144|Porcellidium tapui, new species, is only the second species of porcellidiid to be recorded as a paguridean associate. It departs markedly from other species in the genus primarily in the form and setation of the female caudal rami and the morphology of the male antennule. The species is common and widespread throughout New Zealand from the intertidal to depths of over 200 m. Within such an extensive geographic and bathymetric distribution, it exhibits the greatest range of morphological variation hitherto recorded for any species within the Porcellidiidae. Intra-, interpopulation, pathological, and even intra-individual variants are delineated and the magnitude of variability is assessed with morphometric data. Such a high degree of variation is suspected to be linked with the particular life style of this animal. Evidence is presented supporting the diagnosis of dimorphism in the male. Features such as size and the presence or absence of a pronounced acuminate process on segment 3 of the antennule consistently separate the two morphs.
1549205|Antibacterial activity of Fenneropenaeus indicus hemolymph was mediated by Agglutinin (Ag), a protein of molecular weight 181 kDa with two subunits 97 kDa and 84 kDa. Agglutinin was purified by gel filtration chromatography, PAGE, and SDS-PAGE, and polyclonal antibodies (anti-Ag) were raised in rabbits. In a double immunodiffusion test, single precipitin lines were found between the center well containing immune serum and surrounding wells containing purified Ag and crude hemolymph. The IgG fraction was purified from anti-Ag immune serum and used to develop ELISA. The Ag standard curve was linear over a range of 17.8-8,900 ng. The sensitivity of the ELISA was 178 ng/ml. Agglutinin-free hemolymph yielded background optical density values, confirming the specificity of the assay. Serial dilutions of agglutinin-rich hemolymph produced sample titration curves that are parallel to the Ag standard curve. Thus, the ELISA is suitable for quantification of Ag in hemolymph.
20487760|The Manicou or mountain crab, Eudaniela garmani (Pseudothelphusidae), is a freshwater land crab found at high elevations in the forests of Trinidad, Tobago, Margarita, and Eastern Venezuela. Anecdotal data suggest that the Manicou crab reaches sexual maturity at an unusually large size, and, by implication, at a relatively old age. Therefore, management and harvesting of this species need to be informed by accurate determination of the size and estimated age at maturity. Laboratory growth increment and intermoult period data were used to estimate the time for both sexes to mature. Breakpoint analyses and analyses of covariance (ANCOVA) of field-collected data were used to determine male and female morphometric or structural maturity while gross and histological examinations of ovaries were used to determine the size of onset of female sexual maturity. Morphometric maturity was initiated at about 42 and 47 mm carapace width (CW) in female and male crabs, respectively. Female morphometric or structural maturation ceased at about 67 mm CW, about the same size as the onset of female functional maturity (69 mm CW). It is estimated that female crabs attained functional maturity at about 3 years. A minimum capture size is thus recommended between 75 and 80 mm CW for female crabs. Patterns of allometric growth in the major propodus of males and the pleon width in females may be related to territorial and/or courtship behaviour in males and the use of the pleon as an incubation chamber in females.
20487740|We investigated four morphologically affiliated species of Macrobrachium in northeastern Asia (M. nipponense and M. formosense, which spawn many small eggs, and M. shokitai and M. asperulum, which spawn a few large eggs). Multi-locus allozyme analysis supported the hypothesis that M. shokitai, endemic to the southernmost island (Iriomote Island) of the Ryukyus, Japan, differentiated recently (approximately 1.0 Myr ago) from nearby M. asperulum populations in Taiwan. M. nipponense and M. formosense are inferred to have differentiated later (0.48 Myr ago). The group of M. shokitai and M. asperulum was presumed to have separated from the group of M. nipponense and M. formosense in several million years, evolving their characteristic reproductive traits. Some populations of M. shokitai and M. asperulum in upland streams show extremely low genetic variability.
10.2307/1548970| Y-organs are paired cephalic endocrine organs of higher Crustacea (Malacostraca). In lower groups (e.g., Entomostraca), they are absent. They were demonstrated as molting glands by Echalier in 1954. They originate from epidermis, and they may either remain attached to epidermis (e.g., in crayfishes) or become fully independent organs (e.g., in crabs); this is taken as an example of the formation of an endocrine gland from part of the target tissue of neurohormones (Bckmann, 1984). Their anatomical features show very large variations among species; these are extensively discussed here. Their ultrastructural characteristics were recently the subject of two excellent reviews (Birkenbeil, 1990; Spaziani, 1990) and are not fully described here. Y-organs secrete three different ecdysteroids, identified as ecdysone (E), 25-deoxyecdysone (25dE), and 3-dehydroecdysone (3DE). Usually these organs produce either E + 25dE or E + 3DE. The significance of these variations is unclear at the moment. These ecdysteroids are derived from dietary cholesterol, and our knowledge of the biosynthetic pathway is far from complete. Apart from the first step (conversion of cholesterol to 7-dehydrocholesterol) and the three last steps (hydroxylations at positions 25, 22, and 2), the reactions are still unknown, as is also the case in insects. The regulation of Y-organ activity is rather unusual, as it seems to be mainly exerted by an inhibitory neuropeptide secreted from the X-organ-sinus gland complex, the so-called moltinhibiting hormone or MIH. MIH, recently isolated and sequenced in two species, is a member of a new 7-9 kDa peptide family that appears unique to crustaceans. The inhibitory mechanism of action of MIH on Y-organs has been extensively investigated, but it still remains controversial concerning the transduction mechanism involved, and the regulated steps are unknown. More recently, it has been shown that xanthurenic acid (XA), a derivative of tryptophan isolated from eyestalks, displays also an inhibitory effect on ecdysteroid biosynthesis that would be caused by a direct inhibition of cytochrome P-450 monooxygenase(s). The elucidation of the regulatory mechanisms of Y-organ activity by MIH (and other factors) should contribute to a better understanding of fundamental aspects of the regulation of steroidogenesis in general. 
10.2307/1549253| The giant deep-sea isopod Bathynomus giganteus is common in deep waters of the Gulf of Mexico. Isopods store organic reserves both in the midgut gland and in adipocytes (collectively called the "fat body") that are found throughout the body. There is little information about isopod adipose tissue in general or about the organic reserves of B. giganteus in particular. Hence, biochemical composition (lipid, protein, carbohydrate, ash) of the midgut gland and the fat body was determined for this species. Water content was 68% and 78% for the midgut gland and fat body, respectively. On a dry weight basis, the midgut gland was 49.1% lipid, 34.2% protein, 4.8% carbohydrate, and 12.0% ash, whereas the fat body was 56.4% lipid, 29.0% protein, 2.8% carbohydrate, and 11.7% ash. The lipid: protein ratio for the fat body was 2.2:1, whereas it was 1.7:1 for the midgut gland. The most abundant lipid classes in the midgut gland were triacylglycerols (67%), sterol esters (14%), and polar lipids (9%); monoacylglycerols, free fatty acids, cholesterol, and diacylglycerols each contributed from 5% to <1% of the total lipid. The most abundant lipid class in the fat body was triacylglycerols, comprising 88% of the total lipids; the other lipid classes each contributed from 3% to <1%. Wax esters did not occur in this species. 
1549712| The present study was undertaken to establish the effect of salinity and acclimation time on the oxygen consumption of juvenile white shrimp Litopenaeus vannamei through evaluation of the mechanisms involved in adjustments of respiratory metabolism during acclimation and the effects on the apparent heat increment (AHI). Four experiments were conducted to assess the effect of acclimation time on oxygen consumption of shrimp exposed to salinity changes between 30 to 5. The effects of a change of salinity were recorded immediately in the first hour and 24 h after change. The results showed that L. vannamei juveniles are well adapted to tolerate salinity changes when they are subjected to sudden change in salinity or are acclimated to salinity change. The effect of salinity on the apparent heat-increment coefficient (AHI-%) in shrimp acclimated over time was also tested. The fasting and feeding oxygen consumptions were increased according to a reduction in salinity, with high values in 5 and lower values in 30. Although at 15 salinity the animals require energy to maintain homeostasis, we believe the juveniles acclimated at that salinity could be more efficient than those acclimated at 5 or 30 salinity because in that salinity shrimp consumed 1.22 and 1.69 more food than that observed in shrimp acclimated at 30 and 5, respectively, and without an excessive increase in the costs associated with AHI-%. 
41315765|Two new calanoid copepods, Pseudocyclops juanibali n. sp. and Pseudocyclops saenzi n. sp. are described from anchialine pools in the Galapagos Islands. Pseudocyclops juanibali n. sp. is similar to P. australis, P. mathewsoni, P. simplex, P. pacificus, and P. latisetosus. A deep cleft on the distal margin of the endopod of the left leg five of males separates these six species from all other Pseudocyclops likely forming a species group. Pseudocyclops juanibali differs from other members of this group in the shape and number of elements on the distal exopodal segment of the left leg five of males. Pseudocyclops saenzi n. sp. is most similar to P. rubrocinctus and P. steinitzi but differs in the presence of a posterior seta on the basis of the leg five of females, a sclerotized seta on the exopod of the maxillule, and several differences in the shape and ornamentation of the leg five of males. A 569-base-pair region of the internal transcribed spacer 1 ribosomal DNA region (ITS-1 ) was amplified from specimens of P. juanibali and P. saenzi, and from specimens of Pseudocyclops that were morphologically identical to P. juanibali but from two different anchialine pools. The phylogenetic analysis of the ITS-1 region shows that P. juanibali and P. saenzi are genetically different from each other and, furthermore, that the specimens from the two other anchialine pools are genetically isolated from the former species, a finding that suggests cryptic speciation. The morphological and genetic evidence presented here, including confirmation of a close sibling species of P. juanibali from the Ryukyu Islands of Japan, demonstrate that vicariance and active migration are responsible for the observed distribution of species, with faunal exchange occurring between the Galapagos and the Caribbean and Western Pacific Oceans. However, although these copepods are able to cross the entire Pacific, such long-range migration is not the norm. They tend to have restricted distributions with minimal migration and gene exchange, even between habitats that are very close to each other such as the anchialine pools in the Galapagos.
10.2307/1547972|Most of the genera in the important deep-sea isopod family Eurycopidae need revision. In this paper, the type-genus Eurycope is revised, and three new genera (Disconectes, Tytthocope, and Belonectes) are proposed to contain some of the species removed from it. The new genera are based on redescribed type-species, permitting more precise generic placement of other species. New records are given for Disconectes phalangium and Belonectes parvus.
10.2307/1548068| The biochemical composition of the embryos of Callinectes sapidus, spawned early in the reproductive season in North Carolina waters (water temperature 12-16C), is compared with embryos spawned later in the reproductive season (water temperatures greater than 24C). Embryos spawned early in the season (cultured at 16C) have initially greater lipid levels, an equivalent amount of protein, and a lower carbohydrate and caloric content than embryos spawned later in the season (cultured at 26C). During development of the 26C embryos, lipids are utilized at a significant rate, but in the 16C embryos protein is utilized to a greater extent. Overall, 45% of the lipid and 35% of the protein is utilized during the development at 26C versus 55% lipid and 34% protein in the 16C embryos. In the final stage before hatching the embryos at both temperatures have equivalent lipid, protein, and caloric contents. These results are compared with the results of previous studies on crustacean chemical embryology and possible explanations are given for the variations in substrate utilization with respect to seasonal temperature. 
10.2307/1548028| Commensal shrimps associated with echinoderms, molluscs, and coelenterates were collected in Tayrona National Park northeast of Santa Marta (1115N, 7413W). Twenty-nine species belonging to 4 families were found: 19 palaemonids, 6 hippolytids, 3 alpheids, and 1 gnathophyllid. The following shrimps are reported as commensals for the first time: Synalpheus townsendi and Alpheus cristulifrons (from crinoids), Latreutes parvulus (from an echinoid), and Periclimenes sp.? and Tozeuma serratum (from a hydroid). 
10.2307/1548977| Larvae of the fiddler crab Uca tangeri were reared from ovigerous females from the Gulf of Cadiz, Spain. Development consisted of 5 zoeal stages and a megalopa, with each zoeal stage lasting for approximately 3 days and the megalopa 10 days at preferred 25C. A detailed description of larval morphology is given, and comparison is made with other species of Uca for which partial or complete descriptions are available. The zoeal stages of U. tangeri are unique among previously described members of the genus in the possession of lateral carapace spines, the absence of lateral spines having been used previously to separate the zoeae of Uca from those of Ocypode. 
20487830|Until about 20 years ago, the well-established gammarid amphipod Gammarus roeselii, originating from the Balkan Peninsula, was widespread and often the dominant amphipod species in rivers, canals, and big lakes of Germany and adjacent countries. Since 1989 Dikerogammarus villosus, a Ponto-Caspian pontogammarid, has successfully invaded the aquatic systems of mid and western Europe reducing and even eliminating native and earlier established gammarideans including G. roeselii. Field observations and laboratory experiments indicate that these two gammaridean species have different feeding habits. In our SEM study we wanted to test the hypothesis that different modes of food acquisition are expressed in differences in the morphology of the mouthparts and other structures involved in feeding, such as the antennae and gnathopods, possibly are indicative of the success of D. villosus over G. roeselii. Although both gammarideans have tools for omnivorous feeding, comparisons indeed revealed obvious differences in appendages involved in food acquisition. In G. roeselii, the molar surfaces of the mandibles are structured like rasps, suggesting they are well suited for grinding firm plant material, whereas those of D. villosus are only weakly structured. In G. roeselii, the basipodal endites of the maxillulae are armed with chisel-like cuspidate setae, and the maxillipeds bear flattened cuspidate setae, possibly a specialization of these mouthparts for scraping off adherent food from the substrate. We did not find such modifications on the maxillulae and maxillipeds of D. villosus. Compared to D. villosus, the setation of the antennae and the gnathopods in G. roeselii is sparse and short. Therefore, filter feeding, one of the feeding modes of D. villosus, seems to play a minor role in the nutrition of G. roeselii.
1549775|The freshwater crabs of the genus Tiwaripotamon Bott, 1970 (Potamidae) are revised and the identities of two poorly known species, T. simulum (Alcock, 1909) and T. araneum (Rathbun, 1905), are clarified after a re-examination of the types. Tiwaripotamon, sensu stricto, is restricted to five species, T. annamense (Balss, 1914); T. araneum (Rathbun, 1905); T. pingguoense Dai and Naiyanetr, 1994; T. xiurenense Dai and Naiyanetr, 1994; and a new species, T. edostilus, from Vietnam. Tiwaripotamon simulum is transferred to the genus Kanpotamon Ng and Naiyanetr, 1993. Keys to the species of Tiwaripotamon and Kanpotamon are also provided.
10.2307/1548273|The sperm of species of Geryon are typical of brachyurans in having a complex acrosome, a membranous lamellar complex, uncondensed chromatin in the nucleus, and nuclear arms or spikes of varying lengths. There are no microtubular elements in the arms. The spermatophores are ellipsoidal or round and contain varying numbers of sperm. The wall of each spermatophore is two-layered and fairly impermeable to fixatives. Globules of seminal fluid surround the spermatophores in the vasa deferentia.
10.2307/1548191|Enoplometopus chacei is described from a single male taken from shallow water at Batan Island in the Philippines. The species, a member of the subgenus Enoplometopus, is characterized primarily by the possession of an overall orange-red integumental pigment with few color spots on the ventrolateral carapace, as well as by several more subtle features of the appendages.
10.2307/1548772|We describe the external morphology of the cypris larvae of Balanus amphitrite Darwin using scanning electron microscopy. The cyprid of B. amphitrite generally resembles that of Semibalanus balanoides, but differs in a number of morphological details. Cyprids of B. amphitrite carry fewer pores and setae on the carapace than Semibalanus balanoides. We found minor but consistent differences in morphology of the antennules and the caudal rami. The latter are 2-segmented and carry 6 setae. The thoracopods exhibit the most significant differences. The endopods and exopods are both 2-segmented, but with indications of an ancestral division into three segments in the endopod. The endopod carries a single plumose seta on the proximal segment and 3 plumose setae on the distal segment. In thoracopod 1, the exopod carries a short, sickle-shaped seta laterally on the proximal segment and on the distal segment 3 plumose setae and a single biserrate seta. Thoracopods 2-6 have an additional plumose seta on the distal segment. We emphasize the insufficiency of most existing descriptions and that only scanning electron microscopy allows the level of morphological detail needed for future comparative studies on cyprid morphology.
10.2307/1547951|The efficacy of culture systems for incubating eggs of the commercially important red crab Geryon quinquedens was investigated. Three artificial systems, two flow-through and one static, were designed and tested over a 60-day incubation period. During the incubation period, death was due primarily to the fungus Lagenidium and other diseased conditions reported herein. Although the long development time of Geryon eggs precluded hatching during the study period, development did proceed to the C<sup>+</sup> stage of Meredith (1952). A comparison of egg incubation techniques for decapod crustaceans shows that certain techniques are more successful than others, and the two alternative methods evaluated in the current study are among the most effective.
20487818|Delivery of live crustaceans to markets has the potential to increase profits for Alaskan fishermen, but the practice has been limited in part by mortality occurring during shipment to distant markets. Protocols that select crabs more likely to survive shipment would likely further develop this niche market and evaluating the physiological stress response in crustaceans provides a logical entry point to explore this area. This study measures oxygen consumption rates (MO; mgO g hr) of male Tanner crabs, Chionoecetes bairdi, following 15, 30 or 45 min of emersion at 8C or - 15C followed 12 h later by a uniform handling stressor (emersion at -15C for 10 min). MO increased immediately following 15, 30 and 45 min emersion at 8C (on average 1.5 times pre-treatment levels). All crabs survived emersion at 8C and MO returned to pre-treatment levels within 12 hours. These animals also responded similarly to a uniform second stress test by increasing MO. Crabs previously exposed to air at -15C for 15 min had an increased MO following a standardized handling stress in a pattern similar to the 8C groups. However, MO in crabs exposed to air at -15C for 30 min did not respond to a uniform secondary stress treatment with an increase in MO. Thus, a robust increase in MO to a uniform stress treatment indicates animals with a less severe stress history and likely an indicator of overall vigor.
10.2307/1548655|Because of the presence in the Phyllocarida of foliaceous thoracopods engaged in forward-directed ventral food transport, Schram (1986) removed the Phyllocarida from the Malacostraca and placed them in his class Phyllopoda. A reevaluation of the prevalence of malacostracan synapomorphies in the Phyllocarida once more proves beyond doubt their clearly malacostracan affinities. The single presumed phyllopod-phyllocarid synapomorphy referred to by Schram (l.c.), namely, the foliaceous thoracopods, is doubtful, for, as shown by Cannon (1933), it is more likely that the foliaceous shape developed independently within the phyllocarid line. The placing of the Phyllocarida among the Phyllopoda involves Schram in difficulties, forcing him to build upon unwarranted hypotheses of "loss" and "redevelopment" of various characters and materially reducing the degree of clarity and credibility of his most important phylogenetic cladogram.
10.2307/1547871|Several tissues excised from stage A individuals of Callinectes sapidus accumulated L-lactate and, to a limited extent, alanine when exposed to hypoxia in vitro. Succinate did not accumulate, suggesting that alternative pathways of anaerobic metabolism are not used in early postmolt stages. In premolt animals hexokinase activity rose in the epidermis but not in the swimming and heart muscles. Pyruvate kinase and lactate dehydrogenase decreased in swimming muscle but not in other tissues of premolt crabs. No changes in glucokinase activity, which was very low, were detected in any premolt tissues. The kinetic properties of the pyruvate kinase and lactate dehydrogenase found in swimming muscle of stage C animals were similar to those reported for other crustaceans. The lactate dehydrogenase is more suited for lactate production than utilization, which is correlated with the dependence on anaerobic metabolism during sustained motor activity.
10.2307/1548485|California has a diverse anostracan fauna of 17 species belonging to 6 genera. This is nearly 40% of all species currently described from North America. Six of these anostracans are endemic to California. This is the highest level of endemism among anostracans for any comparable geographic area in North America. The causes of this high endemism remain unclear except that they probably relate to the factors responsible for the high level of species diversity. Species richness within the state is attributable to the great variety of habitats occurring within the state. The distribution of each species appears to be controlled by geographical and seasonal variations in habitat water chemistry and temperature. Historical and ongoing land use practices have resulted in significant loss of anostracan habitats, particularly in California's Central Valley. As a result of this ongoing habitat loss, several of the state's endemic species may warrant consideration as threatened or endangered species under state and federal endangered species acts. We describe 4 new species, all endemic to California: Branchinecta conservatio, B. longiantenna, B. lynchi, and Streptocephalus woottoni.
4094122|A new family of stenopodidean shrimp, Macromaxillocarididae, is described from an anchialine cave in Great Guana Cay, Exuma Cays, Bahamas. Macromaxillocaris bahamaensis new genus, new species, is the sole representative of the family. The new taxon clearly belongs to the infraorder Stenopodidea. However, the presence of a massive third maxilliped, pereiopods that increase in length posteriorly, an epistome with two fang-like projections, and a reduced branchial formula distinguish the new family from the rest of the taxa in the infraorder. Moreover, a bifid palp of the first maxilla and an unsegmented palp of the first maxilliped, which are characters not present in the other two known families in the infraorder, support the separate status of the new family. Diagnostic characters of both, the Stenopodidae and Spongicolidae, are found in M. bahamaensis also, being the new taxon morphologically more similar to the Stenopodidae. Diagnoses for the infraorder and the three families, and a key to the families are presented.
10.2307/1548211|Alpheus inca, new species, is described from shallow rocky subtidal zones of Chile and Peru. This member of the macrocheles species group can be recognized by the locking notch of the dactyl in the palm of the major chela. The species lacks spines on the distal margins of the merus of the third pereiopods.
41315684|Declines in abundance of the commercially important blue crab Callinectes sapidus have led fishery managers to search for new management strategies. Assessing year-class strength at megalopal or early juvenile stages may contribute to this effort, but separation from co-occurring species is difficult in many areas because morphological characteristics vary with season and published descriptions do not adequately distinguish C. sapidus from C. similis and other related species. Callinectes sapidus and C. similis megalopae were collected monthly and cultured in the laboratory to a size at which positive identification could be made. Measurements on intact megalopae and early crab exuviae of both species revealed seasonal differences, with spring megalopae having larger carapaces, longer rostral spines and antennae and more setae on some mouth parts than fall megalopae. This seasonal pattern of morphological variability was verified through examination of samples collected from MS (1976-1979) and NC (2005) coastal waters. Rostrum length, total carapace length and rostrum length as a percent of total carapace length of NC megalopae were negatively correlated with water temperature 2-4 weeks prior to collection. Callinectes sapidus and C. similis megalopae can be rapidly separated within locations and seasons by: 1) the shape of the anterolateral carapace margin, 2) rostral length as a percent of total carapace length, and 3) the combined length of the distal eight segments of the antenna. Such rapid separation is essential for fisheries studies requiring identification of large numbers of individuals. Molecular analyses or more detailed morphological analyses remain necessary for definitive separation regardless of season. Keys to common coastal portunid megalopae and first crab stages were compiled to aid investigators in separating C. sapidus megalopae and early juvenile stages from co-occurring portunids.
10.2307/1548770|The mode of attachment was observed for 9 species in 4 genera of the Caprellidea (Amphipoda) which inhabit the Sargassum zone. Clinging behavior was classified as "moving," "upright," "bending," and "parallel." The dominant behavior of Perotripus sp., Paracaprella crassa, Hemiaegina minuta, Caprella brevirostris, and C. generosa was the upright posture. The other 4 species, C. penantis, C. danilevskii, C. okadai, and C. tsugarensis, attached principally in the parallel posture. The principal methods of feeding are filtering in the upright group and scraping in the parallel group. Upright species, like the podocerid gammarids, which are closest to the ancestor of caprellids, inhabit environments with little wave action, while parallel species inhabit large algae with filamentous or long thalli directly exposed to strong wave action. The parallel caprellids appear to have developed characters that specifically enable them to inhabit substrata subjected to heavy wave exposure.
10.2307/1548193| Odontoplax, new genus, is proposed for O. chacei, new species (Goneplacidae, Prionoplacinae), from Caleta La Cruz, Peru, from Cape San Francisco, Ecuador, and from La Unin, El Salvador. The new genus is distinguished from allied genera by its male sternal-abdominal-coxal configuration. 
10.2307/1548889| In an effort to explain distributional differences among 4 species of fairy shrimps (Anostraca) in southern California, we correlated their ionoregulatory abilities with ion levels in their native pools. Branchinecta sandiegonensis Fugate and Streptocephalus woottoni Eng, restricted to dilute coastal vernal pools in San Diego county, were strong hyperregulators that maintained constant hemolymph Na<sup>+</sup> (average = 82 mmol l<sup>-1</sup>, and 69 mmol l<sup>-1</sup>, respectively) when external Na<sup>+</sup> levels were below 60 mmol l<sup>-1</sup>. In higher concentrations, however, hemolymph levels rose significantly and mortality increased; no S. woottoni survived in 100 mmol l<sup>-1</sup> Na<sup>+</sup>. Similarly, both species maintained constant hemolymph levels in alkalinities up to 800-1,000 mg l<sup>-1</sup>, but did not survive higher concentrations. In contrast, Branchinecta mackini Dexter, which inhabits saline and alkaline pools, regulated hemolymph ion levels more loosely, but were tolerant of higher ion concentrations. Hemolymph Na<sup>+</sup> concentrations rose gradually from 50.0  3.0 mmol l<sup>-1</sup> in 1 mmol l<sup>-1</sup> water to 105.1  1.8 mmol l<sup>-1</sup> in 100 mmol l<sup>-1</sup> water, but there was no mortality. They could tolerate alkalinities up to 2,000 mg l<sup>-1</sup> (double that of the other 2 species), although hemolymph Na<sup>+</sup> fell from 88.8  1.5 mmol l<sup>-1</sup> to 78.0  3.8 mmol l<sup>-1</sup>. The fourth species, Branchinecta lindahli Packard, which is found in both types of pools, exhibited intermediate ionoregulatory abilities. In high external Na<sup>+</sup> concentrations they allowed internal levels to rise, but in low external concentrations (<20 mmol l<sup>-1</sup>) they were able to maintain elevated hemolymph levels. These results indicate that the distributions in southern California of the 4 species of fairy shrimps examined here were greatly influenced by the water chemistry of the pools due to different ionoregulatory capabilities. 
10.2307/1547867|The increase in body volume due to the uptake of water during molting is associated with more than a fivefold elevation of hemolymph hydrostatic pressure. Hydrostatic pressures begin to increase prior to exuviation (stage D<sub>4</sub>), rise to a maximum in stage E, and then quickly begin to decline (stage A<sub>1</sub>). This decrease, which precedes the termination of water uptake, may be due to the elevated rate of urine formation permitted by the large excess of hydrostatic over colloid osmotic pressure. By stage A<sub>2</sub>, hydrostatic pressures have returned to intermolt (stage C) levels. Slow pressure pulses initiated late in stage D<sub>4</sub> provide the mechanism of separating the old from the new carapace. The heart continues to beat at a variable but clearly lower rate, compared with stage C, throughout the cycle. Although ventilatory flow decreases significantly during stage A<sub>1</sub> and at least early stage A<sub>2</sub>, it does not cease, and the period of hypoventilation is relatively brief.
10.2307/1548342|Pseudojanira investigatoris, new species, differs from P. stenetrioides, the only other species in the Pseudojaniroidea, in proportions and setation of the body, mouthparts, pereiopods, and pleopods. The interaction of the penes and male pleopods 1 and 2 in sperm transfer is deduced. The spermatheca opens through a short cuticular organ into a furrow which it shares with the prospective oopore and stylet receptacle on the anteroventral surface of pereionite 5 of the preparatory female. The spermatheca attaches at a single point to the ovary. The spermatheca, cuticular organ, and stylet receptacle are lost in the molt to ovigerous female and only the enlarged oopore remains.
1549746|Sediment samples were taken during a short-term study of the distribution of meiofauna from a coastal lagoon in Sinaloa (northwestern Mexico). Several species of harpacticoids (Copepoda: Harpacticoida) were observed among the taxa recovered. Some of these species are new to science, whereas some others are new records for Mexican brackish systems. Three species of Apodopsyllus (Harpacticoida: Paramesochridae) are described herein. One of them, A. alejandrovillalobosi sp. nov. proved to be closely related to its northern congener A. vermiculiformis known from California and British Columbia. Apodopsyllus samuelgomezi sp. nov. and A. pseudocubensis sp. nov. constitute new records of the neotropical arcuatus-chilensis-cubensis lineage. Apodopsyllus samuelgomezi sp. nov. is unique within this clade in the male P6 with two long inner setae. Apodopsyllus pseudocubensis sp. nov. was found to be allied to its Cuban relative A. cubensis. These two species share the general shape of female P5 and male P6.
10.2307/1549233| The purpose of this study was to determine egg production by Calcinus tibicen, as well as the influence of shell type on fecundity using morphometric relationships. Ovigerous females were collected at 2-month intervals for 2 consecutive years (from January 1993 to November 1994) along the rocky shore of Ubatuba. The number of eggs carried by individuals of several sizes (shield length), condition of development, and egg size were determined. A total of 89 specimens were analyzed. Individual fecundity ranged from 193 (SL = 5.12 mm) to 6,785 eggs (SL = 4.25 mm) and mean fecundity was 1,719.25  1,199.43 eggs. The lowest mean fecundity values were observed during the spring. The number of eggs produced per female was large and varied widely among size classes. This fact may probably be attributed to multiple or fragmented spawnings and primiparous or multiparous females during the reproductive cycle. Shells of 5 gastropod species were occupied by ovigerous females of C. tibicen. Stramonita haemastoma was the most occupied shell, although Tegula viridula presented the best associations, calculated by regression analysis between the dimensions of the shell and of ovigerous females and fecundity. This shows that shell type can influence the reproductive potential of ovigerous females, but not to the point of interrupting it. 
10.2307/1548402|As much as 60% of the muscle in the propodus of both chelae of some brachyurans atrophies during proecdysis and is restored during metecdysis. We describe here the structural changes that occur during atrophy of such chelae muscles as well as atrophy of somatic muscle from a number of species of Crustacea in response to one or more of several physiological stimuli. Atrophy is not random and whole fibers are not lost; the remaining cellular structures provide a framework into which newly synthesized myofibrillar proteins are packed during metecdysis. As seen in electron micrographs as well as in gel electropherograms, more thin filament proteins (actin, troponin, and tropomyosin) are degraded when compared to those from thick filaments (chiefly myosin). We also describe the properties of cytosolic proteinases isolated from muscle of land crabs and lobsters that degrade the myofibrillar proteins. Four of the five proteinases are activated by calcium and therefore are designated CDPs (calcium dependent proteinases). In addition to the CDPs, we summarize information about the first MCP (multicatalytic proteinase) to be isolated and characterized from Crustacea. Atrophy occurs only in chelae and not in walking legs during proecdysis; atrophy is twice as extensive in the major chela as in the minor chela of fiddler crabs. Clearly, the controls of this selective atrophy are fine-tuned. Some possible mechanisms that might provide the controls that determine which muscle fibers and which of their components are targeted are also discussed.
1549391|The fiddler crab Uca arcuata (De Haan, 1835), which lives on intertidal mud flats, occasionally builds a cylindrical mud chimney that encircles its burrow entrance. Chimneys were more often found with burrows of females than with those of males (22% versus 10%). For both sexes, smaller individuals were more likely to construct chimneys. Chimneys were more abundant during the periods of male waving activity (May-August), but their abundance was unrelated to the semilunar tidal cycle. We experimentally demonstrated that individuals without burrows more often entered burrows without chimneys than burrows with chimneys. Because individuals compete for burrows, the function of chimney construction may be to decrease the likelihood that an individual loses its burrow to an opponent. The seasonal variation in chimney construction as well as differences in the probability of construction among various sex and size classes also support this conclusion.
10.2307/1548518|A recombinant library was constructed from genomic DNA of Menippe adina and characterized by Southern blot analysis. Cesium chloride/ethidium bromide equilibrium centrifugation of testes lysates yielded high molecular weight DNA of sufficient purity for restriction endonuclease digestion. The library was constructed in the plasmid pUC19 from genomic DNA of Menippe that had been partially digested with the restriction endonuclease Sau3A I. A Southern blot of nine randomly chosen clones from this library was hybridized with total genomic DNA to assess relative abundances of these sequences in the genomes of M. adina and M. mercenaria. These assessments were consistent with the results of genomic Southern blot analysis in which specific clones were used as hybridization probes on blots of total genomic DNA. Potential applications of these cloned sequences as hybridization probes for evolutionary genetic studies are discussed.
1549694|Breeding and recruitment patterns were described and analyzed in a population of Palaemon gravieri inhabiting warm-temperate waters of southern Korea. Breeding period was seasonal, beginning in March, peaking (89% ovigerous females) in May, and then ending by August. Females with embryos near hatching had ovaries filled with vitellogenic oocytes ready for new spawning, indicating successive spawning. Laboratory observations on females incubating embryos confirmed that they spawn again after incubated embryos hatch; the female then underwent a post-hatching molt and then never had further ovarian development and spawning, indicating that the female has just two broods per year. Breeding period was constrained by temperature, and release of larvae coincided with a plankton bloom in the sampling area. Females reached sexual maturity and produced a brood in their first year, overwintered, and produced a brood again the following summer. Reproductive output (effort) of the female was rather high. No significant relationship was found between female size and embryo size. Embryo volume was relatively small, indicative of small amount of energy allocation to each embryo. Embryo loss during incubation was not high. Recruitment of juveniles was closely linked to the breeding period, beginning in July and ending in September. Reproductive life history traits for P. gravieri seem to be closer to stochastic (bet-hedging) models in which adults live in stable environments but in which juvenile (= larval) mortality is variable.
10.2307/1549032|Grooming behavior as an antifouling mechanism is documented for the first time in a mysid crustacean. Behavioral observations and a scanning electron microscope (SEM) survey of the setae reveal that Mysidopsis bahia uses specialized setae to remove fouling epizoites and particulates from vital areas of the body. Various combinations of appendages are used in different grooming activities. The mandibular palps are highly modified for brushing the antennae. The second thoracic endopod is the most active appendage functioning in grooming the antennae, setae of the marsupium, and other thoracic appendages. The third through eighth thoracic endopods are slender, flexible, and have long comblike setae that are used to clean the natatory exopods and other structures. Quantitative observations show that more grooming activity is focused on the antennules than on the antennae. Cleaning of the telson and outer marsupial walls was also observed. Although young mysids possess all appendages when released from the marsupium, the appendages of newly emerged M. bahia lack important setal types and numbers necessary for effective grooming. The juveniles appear to be dependent on ecdysis associated with growth to counter fouling. A comparison of fouling between adults and juveniles held in turbid water confirms the effectiveness of grooming behavior and associated structures.
1549873| Four species of portunid crabs from South Brazil were studied by allozyme electrophoresis. The morphological and genetic distinction of C. sapidus subspecies (C. s. sapidus and C. s. acutidens) was studied by multivariate analysis of 10 morphometric characters and by allozyme electrophoresis of eighteen enzymes. The genetic relationship among Arenaeus cribrarius, C. sapidus, C. danae, and C. ornatus was assessed by these enzymes in order to test previous hypotheses based on morphological similarity. The morphometric and genetic evidence showed that there is no reason to justify the subspecific status of C. c. sapidus and C. s. acutidens, showing that their slight morphological differences are determined by the environment. Arenaeus cribrarius showed low genetic similarity to Callinectes spp., which justified its generic status (I = 0.252-0.396). The most closely related species within Callinectes were C. danae and C. ornatus, as previously suggested by their general morphology, showing a genetic identity of 0.762. According to the "sloppy molecular clock," their divergence happened before the elevation of the Isthmus of Panam, at the end of the Pliocene, about 3.8 Myr, which is in accordance with the fossil record. 
1549500| This paper surveys occurrence of five thalassinidean species recorded from the Norwegian coast. All five species occur along the coast of Southern Norway. Calocaris macandreae, the most abundant of the species, and Calocarides coronatus are found north to Northern Norway (6930.1N and 7020N respectively). Upogebia deltaura is recorded north to Sognefjorden (6104N), whereas the known ranges of U. stellata and Callianassa subterranea extend to the fjords around Bergen (just north of 60N). The study is based on both published and unpublished data. 
10.2307/1548332|The central nervous system of the cephalocarid Hutchinsoniella macracantha is well developed, although missing several structures which are characteristic of the general crustacean plan. There are no signs of eyes either in the adult or in the larva. The organ of Bellonci, central body, protocerebral bridge, and paracentral lobes are absent. The mushroom bodies occur in the central nervous system in a form different from that found in malacostracan crustaceans and are unexpectedly well developed. They are connected to the olfactory lobes, which in this species are displaced ventrally into the clypeus (anterior part of the so-called labrum), extremely large, and of hitherto unseen construction. The central nervous system of Hutchinsoniella does not conform to a paradigm of overall primitiveness and must have evolved separately in the cephalocarid line for a long period.
41315759|Few studies have compared oyster habitat use with adjacent vegetated and non-vegetated habitats. We investigated habitat use by six common, estuarine, invertebrate species. In order to better understand the species-specific use of oyster and adjacent habitats within the salt marshes of Grand Bay NERR, MS, we examined the abundance patterns and size distributions among oyster, vegetated marsh edge (VME), and non-vegetated bottom (NVB) for three seasons (Fall 2003, Spring 2004, Summer 2004) for the following species: blue crab Callinectes sapidus, brown shrimp Farfantopenaeus aztecus, white shrimp Litopenaeus setiferus, daggerblade grass shrimp Palaemonetes pugio, fiatback mud crab Eurypanopeus depressas, and oystershell mud crab Panopeus simpsoni. Three main trends emerged concerning habitat use: 1) the three crab species (juvenile C. sapidus, E. depressus, P. simpsoni) occupied oyster and VME habitats in higher abundances relative to NVB with minor to moderate fluctuations in seasonal abundance. Smaller crabs tended to use oyster habitat (although differences were not significant for all three species) and this may be related to the higher abundance of smaller refuges in oysters; 2) for one species, P. pugio, abundance in VME was significantly higher than in the other habitats, which may be related to P. pugio reliance on VME stems, and associated flora and fauna for refuge and food; and 3) the estuarine-dependent species F. aztecus and L setiferus had relatively equal use of VME and oysters, which both species selected for structured habitat over NVB and both species were significantly larger in oyster habitat. Additional investigation is needed to determine the mechanisms responsible for the species-habitat relationships documented in our study.
10.2307/1548056|Cheus annae, new genus, new species, is described and figured. Comparisons with the Phoxocephalidae, Urothoidae, Platyischnopidae, Haustoriidae, and Pontoporeiidae show many characters in common, particularly with the first three families. The combination of a hoodlike rostrum with a presumed glandular apex, and low morphological diversification of peraeopods 5-7 requires the erection of a new family, the Cheidae.
1549744| Examination of 32 species from seven families of marine asellote isopods (Crustacea, Malacostraca) showed that 15 of these species were infested with ciliate epibionts. The diversity of the ciliate epibiosis was fairly high (mean = 3.8 epibiont ciliate species per host species; range 1 to 10 species). Ciliates were absent from species of the family Janiridae and were rare on desmosomatids. The prevalence was high ( 37%) on two ischnomesid species (Ischnomesus norvegicus and Heteromesus frigidus), and on three munnopsid species (genus Ilyarachna). Mean intensity was fairly low (1.3-10.5) overall, but high on I. norvegicus (29.2). Some ciliate species showed host preferences. Predatory ciliates (subclass Suctoria) were most common on host species of the families Munnidae and the Nannoniscidae and some of the Ischnomesidae species, whereas suspension-feeding ciliates (subclass Peritrichia) were found on six host species only, belonging to the family Ischnomesidae or the subfamily Ilyarachninae (Munnopsidae). Grooming, body texture of the isopods, and their burrowing or their use of pits and holes in the substrate may shape the pattern of ciliate epibiosis. Abrasion during burrowing or redox conditions found within the sediments may explain the absence or near absence of ciliates from Haploniscus bicuspis and the desmosomatids. By contrast, suspension- or detritus-feeding epibionts live on hosts which use shallow open pits or holes in the substrate (ilyarachnids, some ischnomesids). 
10.2307/1548130|Laboratory and field studies of Hemigrapsus nudus reveal that both sexes perform at least 15 social and 12 maintenance behaviors. Social behaviors are used during defense of food, space, and mates. These aggressive interactions usually begin after contact. Aggression in the laboratory is more variable and involves more contact than confrontations in the field. Pairs of equal-sized H. nudus behave more aggressively than pairs of unequal-sized crabs. Males display more behavior resulting in contact than females. Resident crabs defend their space against invasion by nonresident crabs. Nonresidents leave the site of an encounter more frequently than residents.
10.2307/1549318| Motor giant neurons (MoGs) of the crayfish are identifiable motor neurons that innervate abdominal fast flexor muscles. The role of L-glutamate as a neurotransmitter at the neuromuscular junction between MoG and the abdominal fast flexor muscles was investigated using electrophysiological and pharmacological techniques. Local application of L-glutamate to a fast flexor muscle induced a depolarization of the muscle fibers. This glutamatergic depolarization was dose-dependent and was associated with a conductance increase. Bath application of L-glutamate caused a reversible reduction in the amplitude of the excitatory junctional potentials (EJPs) of the fast flexor muscles evoked by MoG stimulation. Twenty micromole L-glutamate was sufficient to reduce the amplitude of MoG-evoked EJP. The effect of depression was dose-dependent and MoG stimulation elicited almost no response in flexor muscle fibers under 1 mM L-glutamate application. Joro spider toxin, an L-glutamate antagonist, reduced the amplitude of EJPs elicited by MoG stimulation at a concentration of 0.1 M. The response of the flexor muscle to MoG stimulation did not recover completely after washing. When 5 M Joro spider toxin was applied, the EJP evoked by MoG was completely blocked and no recovery was observed after washing. These results strongly suggest that L-glutamate is the neurotransmitter at the neuromuscular junction between MoG and the abdominal fast flexor muscle in the crayfish. 
27753985|Specimens of the deep-water macrourid Nezumia liolepis were caught during a survey of the effects of the oxygen minimum layer on the vertical distribution of crustaceans, polychaetes, and fishes in the Gulf of California. Two specimens were each carrying one parasitic copepod each, initially judged to be identical to Lophoura tetraloba in almost all respects. An additional specimen of N. liolepis carrying one copepod was collected in the San Pedro Channel between San Pedro and Santa Catalina Island (southern California), and another specimen of N. liolepis carrying another copepod, collected between Cabo Corrientes (Jalisco) and Manzanillo (Colima), Mexico, was found in the collection of the California Academy of Sciences. Detailed inspection revealed several important differences between L. tetraloba from the South China Sea and Tosa Bay (Japan), and the new material, which along with the different depth and distribution, support the hypothesis of a new sphyriid species, described here as L. brevicollum. Lophoura tetraloba and L. brevicollum can be separated by the length of the neck, the number of dorsal and ventral depressions of the genito-abdomen, the length of the egg sacs, and by the general shape of the posterior processes. Finally, a new record and a new host for L. unilobulata, as well as some comments on the systematic position of Driocephalus are given.
10.2307/1548043|Systematics and distributions for three genera of Arctic Ocean oncaeid copepods are reviewed: two species of Lubbockia, one a new record from the Arctic Ocean; seven species of Oncaea, with only one recorded earlier from the Arctic Ocean, two new species, and records of four species recently described from the subantarctic and antarctic southwest Pacific Ocean(Heron, 1977); and five species of Epicalymma, two new species, two with a new combination, and two species known from the southwest Pacific Ocean. Arctic Ocean oncaeids appear to have broad geographical distributions. Thirteen of the Arctic Ocean oncaeids that are discussed in this study were found in samples from at least one other area: seven species in the northeast Pacific Ocean, including one from Puget Sound, Washington; twelve species in the Norwegian Sea; and six species in the southwest Pacific Ocean. Oncaea englishi Heron, 1977, was found in all of these areas except Puget Sound. The fourteenth species, Lubbockia brevis Farran, 1908, was originally described from the North Atlantic Ocean.
1549923|Sacculina sinensis (Cirripedia: Rhizocephala) is a parasitic barnacle first reported in Hong Kong by Boschma (1933) to infect the intertidal crab, Leptodius exaratus. Since then, no studies have been conducted to investigate its distribution and morphology, which are important in providing background information for further taxonomic and ecological studies. In the present study, S. sinensis has shown to have a limited distribution in Hong Kong, being confined to only four out of the nine sheltered boulder shores sampled and with a mean infestation rate of 11.3 percent. The localized distribution of S. sinensis in Hong Kong is probably due to its short larval development times (four naupliar stages and one cypris stage, completed in about six days) and hence limited larval dispersal distance. The externa of S. sinensis is ovoid in shape with two distinct shoulders, and the outer cuticle surface is spinous. From histological studies, the male receptacles are located posteriorly in the visceral mass, and each male receptacle is globular in shape. The receptacle duct is folded and connected to the receptacle via a small tube with a thick cuticle lining. The larval morphology of S. sinensis was investigated using a scanning electron microscope. The appendages bear setulate setae in all naupliar stages. In the cyprid, segment III of the antennule consists of the attachment disc in both sexes, and the male has a large posterior aesthetasc which is absent in females. On segment IV, male cyprids have a large terminal aesthetasc, a subterminal aesthetasc, and three terminal setae. Segment IV of female cyprids has a subterminal aesthetasc which is smaller than that on the male cyprids. The larval sex ratio showed seasonal variation with 100 percent males in summer and 80 percent females in winter. Such seasonal variation in sex ratio would allow the female cyprids to infest the host crabs in winter, producing virgin externae by summer for the male cyprids to settle, and allow the externae to mature.
20487737|The morphological characteristics of the zoeas and crabs of the false spider crab Elamenopsis ariakensis are described and their habitats are documented, with an emphasis on their symbiosis with the burrowing sea cucumber Protankyra bidentata. The 16 zoeas and 91 crabs were collected from the Ariake Sea and adjacent Yatsushiro Sea, Japan. Zoeas have no lateral spine, whereas the rostral and dorsal spines are extremely long. In all zoeal stages, the pleon consists of six segments, including the telson. Adult crabs have fused pleons, with five segments in males and three segments in females, including the telson, but six segments are found in young male crabs. All crabs were collected from P. bidentata burrows. In addition to E. ariakensis, seven commensal species were collected from P. bidentata burrows: two crabs, four bivalves, and one scale worm. The microhabitats in the burrow of P. bidentata were divided somewhat among species.
10.2307/1549098| The occurrence of protandrous hermaphroditism is demonstrated in the alpheid shrimp Athanas indicus (Coutire), a species which lives in symbiosis with the sea urchin Echinometra mathaei (de Blainville) in Indo-Pacific coral systems. Protandry is partial (true males persist in the population), and male sexual types (true males and sex-changers) do not differ in their external morphological characteristics. The female reproductive success is enhanced by increased body size (clutch size is positively correlated with body mass). In males, however, the effects of body dimension on reproductive success are contradictory. On the one hand, size seems to be uninfluential, because sperm production commences when the males are still very small, female-male pair formation was not observed, and mating occurs during a brief encounter; on the other hand, fighting, where the largest individual is more likely to win, is frequent. One scenario based on the socioecological milieu of A. indicus suggests that the smallest male in a group must exhibit great plasticity in his behavior to achieve reproductive output. Several options, including leaving the group, changing sex, waiting for some misfortune to strike the dominant males, or else sneaking copulations, are possible, but none are totally rewarding. The resulting behavior will therefore depend on "making the best of a bad situation." 
10.2307/1548951| Details on the location and ultrastructural organization of 2 intracerebral ocellar regions in the giant Antarctic slater Glyptonotus antarcticus are given. Each ocellar region measures approximately 120  45 m and consists of 2 overlapping ocellar subunits inserted under the neurilemma in the median part of the protocerebrum. One subunit comprises 2 retinula cells; the second 3. Small rhabdoms, made up of typical microvilli, are formed by both subunits. Lipid droplets, but no screening pigment granules, were present in all 5 retinula cells together with a host of intracellular organelles characteristic of membrane-turnover processes. It is concluded that direct photostimulation of the intracerebral ocelli is likely and that functionally they could be analogous to the pineal organ of lower vertebrates. Evidence is presented that, at least anatomically, the intracerebral ocelli are independent from other sensory complexes in the head of G. antarcticus, such as the compound eyes, the organ of Bellonci, and the sensory pores. /// La localisation et l'organisation ultrastructurale des deux zones ocellaires intracrbrales de l'isopode de l'Antarctique Glyptonotus antarcticus sont dcrites. Chaque zone ocellaire d'environ 120  45 m, situe de part et d'autre de la partie mdiane du protocrbron, est forme de deux units ocellaires insecres sous le nurilme; l'une de ces units est constitues de deux cellules rtinuliennes alors que la seconde en comporte trois. Au sein de chaque zone ocellaire deux petits rhabdomes forms de microvillosits typiques sont observs. La prsence de gouttelettes lipidiques ainsi que l'absence de pigment cran sont deux caractristiques des cinq cellules rtinuliennes au sein desquelles diffrents organites sont impliqus dans le turn-over des membranes rhabdomriques. La photostimulation directe des ocelles intracrbraux est suggre et une analogie fonctionelle avec l'organe pinal des vertbrs primitifs est envisage. L'accent est mis sur la sparation anatomique de ces ocelles intracrbraux vis  vis des autres organes sensoriels contenus dans la tte de G. antarcticus tels que les yeux composs, l'organe de Bellonci, et les pores sensoriels. 
4094203|This study has shown that Pontogammarus robustoides has a multivoltine life cycle in central Poland, with three generations per year (spring, summer, and autumn). Reproduction lasts from March/April until October, when the last breeding females are found. The first juveniles appear in May and are present in the population until the end of October. Spring and summer generations mature in a very short time (4-5 weeks). Females born in May and July start breeding at a body length of 8.5 mm, whereas the length of overwintering females breeding in spring ranges 11-18 mm. The number of eggs laid is exponentially correlated with the size of a female
10.2307/1547922|Orchomene limodes, new species (Amphipoda: Lysianassidae), recently discovered in Scripps Canyon, California, is described and compared to other species within this genus. Intraspecific analysis of morphological variation was performed in order to determine which characters would be appropriate for the description. Thirty-five potentially diagnostic characters were grouped into three types: qualitative, meristic, and morphometric, and analyzed for variation between individuals. The characters found invariant or slightly variable in this study were then used in the diagnosis of the species description. A discussion is presented on this study's relevance to present and future taxonomic work on this genus.
1549218|We compared seasonal patterns of habitat use by the prawn Palaemonetes paludosus and the crayfish Procambarus alleni in Blue Cypress Marsh Conservation Area, Florida. Prawn densities were similar to those found in other oligotrophic wetlands of southern Florida, whereas crayfish densities were much greater than reported previously for other wetlands in the area. Prawns and crayfish had strikingly different patterns of habitat use. Prawn density and biomass were similar in wet prairies and sloughs, whereas crayfish density and biomass were significantly higher in wet prairies. Within habitats, the abundance of prawns and crayfish generally increased with increasing structural complexity and the abundance of crayfish generally decreased with increasing water depth. Differences in risk of predation, frequency of agonistic encounters, food availability, and other factors likely contributed to observed patterns of habitat use. Because of differences in their ability to burrow and avoid concentration into dry-season refugia, prawns and crayfish responded very differently to seasonal variation in hydrologic conditions. Prawn densities were initially low (following a severe drought) and then increased during much of the study period, whereas crayfish densities were relatively stable throughout the study period. Overall, it appears that prawns are more responsive to antecedent hydrologic conditions and crayfish are more responsive to the availability of suitable habitats such as wet prairies.
10.2307/1549332|A new subterranean amphipod species, Bogidiella (Medigidiella) arista, found in the mesopsammic ground waters of southern Anatolia, Turkey, is described, together with Bogidiella (Bogidiella) calicali Karaman, the latter being recorded for the first time in the eastern Mediterranean. A cladistic analysis of 37 Mediterranean species of the family Bogidiellidae is performed, using 4 species from the Canary Islands as an outgroup. Alternatively, 2 cladistic software packages, PAUP 3.1.1 and HENNIG86, are employed to calculate consensus trees of minimal length. The resulting trees show more or less identical robust clades, characterizing a central, a central-eastern, and an eastern Mediterranean group. Apart from this pattern of major geographical clusters, all species of the subgenus Medigidiella appear as a robust, monophyletic clade as well. This initial attempt to analyze the phylogeny of Mediterranean bogidiellids forms a useful basis for further, extended studies, using either different outgroup taxa or additional morphological data.
4540316|We investigated geographic variation in size and stage (instar) at maturity of snow crab (Chionoecetes opilio) on the eastern Bering Sea shelf. Size-frequency distribution analysis showed that females can reach maturity at four different instars, presumably Instars VIII to XI. Geographic variation in instar structure generates clinal variation in size at maturity, from small size at high latitudes (colder) to large size at low latitudes (warmer). Different pieces of evidence support the hypothesis that geographic variation in mature female size is a phenotypic response to environmental conditions governed by a single reaction norm. Clinal variation conforms to the "inverse Bergmann's rule". We argue that a single macroecological rule should not be expected to explain all latitudinal size gradients observed in marine invertebrates. Size at maturity fluctuated cyclically, and was negatively and significantly cross-correlated with strength in the recruitment of females to the mature population. Cycles in the latter were manifested as four commensurate and regularly spaced pulses over the last three decades. Mechanisms that may underlay this intriguing phenomenon, including density-dependent growth rate, require further scrutiny.
4094196|A shell disease epizootic is described for the American clawed lobster (Homarus americanus) populations in southern New England. This paper presents a conceptual model for examination of shell disease and presents evidence to support three hypotheses. Hypothesis one proposes that epizootic shell disease prevalence has increased in wild lobster populations; hypothesis two proposes that there are population-level effects of shell disease and hypothesis three explores the relationship between shell disease, and environmental and anthropogenic disturbances. This conceptual model links environmental stressors to physiological upsets and disease to population level impacts and can serve as a general model of disease in the marine environment.
1549591| Few animals of marine origin are found living successfully in the high littoral fringe of tidal shores, which thus can be regarded as an extreme environment for such animals. In Iceland, a notable exception is the semiterrestrial Orchestia gammarellus (Pallas, 1766) (Amphipoda: Talitridae). The discovery of the harpacticoid Itunella muelleri (Gagern, 1922) in cultures of O. gammarellus prompted us to investigate the harpacticoid further. Qualitative samples were obtained from a number of locations around Iceland, as well as from Norway and Scotland. The samples were collected from habitats where O. gammarellus was present or at similar tidal levels where this species was absent. Two of the sampling sites in Iceland were under the influence of warm freshwater springs. Itunella muelleri was generally common in the upper part of the littoral fringe of rocky shores in Iceland and was found in similar habitats in Norway and Scotland. To estimate the vertical distribution of I. muelleri, a transect was taken along the shore in Hvassahraun, southwestern Iceland. On the transect, I. muelleri was restricted to the uppermost stations, being the only identifiable harpacticoid found at the highest station, well above the level of highest predicted tides. Animals living successfully in the high littoral fringe must be able to tolerate a degree of desiccation and a wide range of salinities and temperatures. Laboratory experiments showed that I. muelleri thrived in high humidity out of water and also in 8 ppt and 32 ppt seawater, at both 7 and 20C. The animals survived for months in fresh water, but they only fed sparsely and did not reproduce. The tolerance of I. muelleri to extreme environmental conditions could make this species useful for experimental purposes or as food for fish larvae in aquaculture. 
4540296|Larval development time is a critical factor in assessing the potential for larval transport, mortality, and subsequently, the connectivity of marine populations through larval exchange. Most estimates of larval duration are based on laboratory studies and may not reflect development times in nature. For larvae of the American lobster (Homarus americanus), temperature-dependent development times have been established in previous laboratory studies. Here, we used the timing of seasonal abundance curves for newly hatched larvae (stage I) and the final plankonic instar (postlarva), coupled with a model of temperature-dependent development to assess development time in the field. We were unable to reproduce the timing of the seasonal abundance curves using laboratory development rates in our model. Our results suggest that larval development in situ may be twice as fast as reported laboratory rates. This will result in reduced estimates of larval transport potential, and increased estimates of instantaneous mortality rate and production.
4126720|Chalarostylis elegans Norman 1879 was described in 1879 from a single adult male specimen collected in the Porcupine Bight off the coast of Ireland. Recent collections in this area retrieved an additional specimen, a sub-adult female. The original specimen is in poor shape, soft with the first and second pereiopods broken. The original description (Norman, 1879) did not include any figures, although the holotype was deposited in the British Museum of Natural History. Chalarostylis elegans is redescribed and illustrated based on the new female material and reexamination of the male holotype. The new female specimen is entire with a robust first pereiopod (missing on the holotype) with a group of long setae terminally, identical to the first pereiopod in Dasylamprops Reyss 1978. Based on these observations Dasylamprops is considered a junior synonym of Chalarostylis. Dasylamprops guanchi is transferred to Chalarostylis becoming the second species within the genus.
10.2307/1548726|Sternophysingidae, a new family of gammaridean amphipods, is described on the basis of the genus Sternophysinx from subterranean ground waters of southern Africa. In addition, S. calceola, the seventh species recorded in the genus, is described from a cave in Transvaal, South Africa. Probably the most remarkable character of the new species is the presence of small phonoreceptors, called calceoli, on antenna 2, the first occurrence of this structure in the genus. The calceolus of Sternophysinx appears to be the same type as that of several other crangonyctoid genera from both Northern and Southern Hemispheres. Joint possession of this character, combined with overall morphological similarity, might be viewed as further support for the hypothesized phylogenetic affinity among members of the superfamily Crangonyctoidea from different continents.
10.2307/1548080|The distribution of fiddler crabs (genus Uca) in the semiarid zone of south Texas and northeastern Mexico was studied. Up to five sympatric species of Uca can be found in intertidal habitats with salinities below 45 ppt. Each appears to exploit specific segments of the environment by its special ability to use a portion of the available resources. In higher salinity habitats, only one species is found, Uca subcylindrica. It lives at the extreme upper edge of the supralittoral zone and has evolved specializations for a terrestrial existence. In these habitats, Uca subcylindrica burrows to a depth of 1.8 m. Since the feeding apparatus is rarely used in sediment sorting, massive feeding has superseded particulate processing on the desiccated soils. Activity patterns in nature are timed by daily solar events. The phasing of diurnal activity periods varies throughout the year to permit foraging under optimal temperature and humidity. This behavior reflects adaptations of a fiddler crab for occupying one of the more terrestrial arid environments inhabited by a member of the intertidal genus.
10.2307/1549290|The gill-cleaning mechanisms of the mud lobster Thalassina anomala were examined. The gill complement consists of 12 arthrobranchs and 5 podobranchs, both having cylindrical flattened filaments. Morphological inference suggested passive gill-cleaning mechanisms involving various setal systems; multidenticulate setae (on scaphognathite, setobranch, distal epipod), pappose setae (on coxae, proximal epipod), serrate setae (short setal tufts on limb coxae), and plumose setae (on carapace fringe). Smooth setae were found on the thoracic epimeron (inner wall of the branchial chamber) and inner branchiostegal margin. Small lamellar protrusions on the pereiopodal arthrodium were noted bearing dense pappose setae. The multidenticulate scaphognathite and epipodal setae were serrate distally. The digitate scale setules of multidenticulate setobranch, epipodal, and scaphognathite setae shared similarities: (1) digitation pattern gradually changes distally from angular to linear, (2) proximal setules incline toward the base while distal setules incline toward the tip with overlapping inclinations in a transition zone, and (3) setule density increases distally on the setal shaft. The multidenticulate scaphognathite setae have a V-form spiral arrangement on the distal part of the shaft, which is atypical in decapods. Aquarium observations did not show active gill cleaning by thoracic limbs, but general body grooming and respiratory reversal were observed. The phyletic relationships of gill-cleaning mechanisms, with notes on branchial morphology, are discussed.
10.2307/1547868|No significant changes in hemolympha Na<sup>+</sup> and K<sup>+</sup> concentrations occurred during molt stages of Callinectes sapidus acclimated to high salinity, despite uptake of large amounts of water at molt. Free Mg<sup>+2</sup> concentrations increased in the hemolymph of late premolt and early postmolt crabs, and free Ca<sup>+2</sup> levels decreased as calcification of the cuticle progressed in postmolt animals. Significant increases in branchial and epidermal Na<sup>+</sup>+K<sup>+</sup>-ATPase activities in late premolt and postmolt animals suggested that this enzyme might play an important role in establishing local osmotic gradients to support water influx across these epithelia, and in producing transmembrane Na<sup>+</sup> gradients which would drive epidermal Ca<sup>+2</sup> efflux during postmolt calcification.
20487771|We describe homosexual pairing and spermatophore transfer from the calanoid copepod Pseudodiaptomus annandalei. The sexually dimorphic right first antenna of a male clasped another male's caudal setae followed by grasping of the urosome by the fifth swimming leg (P5). The P5 transfered the spermatophore. The observation of spermatophore transfer between males is discussed in the light of copepod reproductive biology.
10.2307/1548815|Since 1993, Heterosaccus dollfusi has been a very common parasite on the crab Charybdis longicollis along the Mediterranean coast of Israel. It accompanied from the Red Sea this Lessepsian migrant crab. The parasite is more common on male than female crabs, where it becomes external on hosts of many sizes shortly after a molt and undergoes characteristic growth stages. The parasite usually causes the complete loss of pleopods in both sexes and a feminine broadening of the abdomen in male crabs. Parasite survival is the same in both sexes of the host. More than one parasite per host is frequent, each probably originating from an individual cypris larva rather than from asexual budding. Hosts with single parasites outlive those with multiple infections.
10.2307/1548143|The position of the monotypic family Lomidae within the hermit crab superfamily Coenobitoidea is reviewed and rejected. Evidence is presented for an independent lineage of the Lomidae and the appropriateness of its elevation to the rank of superfamily Lomoidea within the infraorder Anomala.
10.2307/1547980|The heart of Tanais cavolinii is tubular and consists of an epicardium and a myocardium. The heart myofibers run from the dorsal to the ventral part of the heart tube. They are connected dorsally and ventrally by intercalated discs. The sarcolemma invaginates mainly towards the Z levels where a Tz-system is formed. Longitudinal tubules branch off from the Tz-system and expand as junctional cisternae at the H level. A few invaginations directly to the H level have been found. The sarcoplasmic reticulum forms a fenestrated sheath around the myofibrils, and it is modified at the H level where it participates in couplings. This arrangement of the membrane systems in T. cavolinii is similar to that of other eumalacostracans with the exception of isopods. This fact suggests a reshuffle of the traditional eumalacostracan systematics, where the tanaidaceans and the isopods are classified close to each other.
4540243|The copepodid phase of development of Euryte longicauda Philippi, 1843, is described from six stages associated with the bryozoan Flustra foliacea Linnaeus, 1758 Distinctive character states of the species include: distal teeth of mandibular gnathobase perpendicular to proximal teeth; distal seta of maxillular praecoxa with multiple cusps is perpendicular to proximal setae with one cusp; coxa of maxillule as a gnathobase perpendicular to praecoxa; maxillular palp comprised of two setae; fluted setae medially on the distal segment complex of both rami of swimming legs 1-4. The segmental homologies of the maxilla of E. longicauda are an unarmed syncoxa, a basis with two setiferous lobes, and a ramus of three segments. A re-examination of type specimens of E. bellatula Humes, 1991, and E. verecunda Humes, 1992, revealed a 2-segmented protopod for leg 5, confirming their inclusion in Euryte. Euryte longicauda retains the ancestral state for development of swimming legs 1-4. Development of the maxilliped suggests that E. longicaudata shares with Troglocyclops janstocki Rocha and Iliffe, 1994, and Neocyclops vicinus (Herbst, 1955) more states expressed during endopodal development of primitive cyclopoids, while endopodal development of the maxilliped of the remaining Cyclopidae is truncated. Euryte longicaudata, T. janstocki, and N. vicinus appear to belong to a monophyletic lineage at the base of the Cyclopidae; T. janstocki is most closely related to E. longicaudata.
10.2307/1548112|The heart of Daphnia pulex lacks epi- and endocardium. The myocardium, covered by a thin basal lamina, is not polarized. In relaxed sarcomeres, Z-, A-, I- and H-bands are present. Invaginations of sarcolemma, forming Tz tubules and clefts, are limited to Z-band levels at both sides of the myocardium. Longitudinal tubules branch off from the Tz tubules. The sarcoplasmic reticulum is regular, with transverse tubules at Z- and A-I-band levels which are interconnected with longitudinally directed tubules. Interior couplings of "tubule-to-tubule" type are located at Z- and A-band levels and peripheral couplings mostly at A-band level. Intercalated discs are present.
27920089|Twenty-five MOCNESS (Multiple Open/Closing Net and Environmental Sensing System) tows were taken in and around a large swarm of Euphausia superba near Elephant Island. Krill from all 25 tows (201 samples) and the copepods from 9 tows (63 samples) have been analyzed. Significant agreement in rank order of abundance is found for both krill and non-krill fractions. Most copepod species show significant covariation; there is less significant covariation among euphausiid categories. Larvae of E. superba and Thysanoessa spp. co-occur and show strong positive covariation. There are large day-night differences in catches of both adult and, to a lesser degree, larval euphausiids. Vertical boundaries between larval and adult E. superba are often sharp, and larvae may occur either above or below significant adult concentrations.
1549400|We redescribe Speocyclops yezoensis Ito on the basis of specimens from Japan and from Alaska and Tennessee, U.S.A. The combination of the segmentation of the swimming legs; the lack of dimorphism in the structure of the swimming legs, except for the modified terminal spine of the leg 3 endopodite in the males of some populations; the partly fused proximal segment of leg 5; and, in the female, the peculiar structure of the seminal receptacle provide grounds to propose a new genus Itocyclops to accommodate this taxon. A new record from Tennessee is the first from the eastern U.S.A.
10.2307/1548195|Anomuran decapods in the family Aeglidae are ecologically and morphologically distinct from other members of the Galatheoidea (Galatheidae, Chirostylidae, Porcellanidae). Among the morphological characters distinguishing aeglids from other galatheoids are several characters seen in the hermit crab families (Paguroidea). The hypothesis that aeglids are members of the Paguroidea rather than the Galatheoidea was tested using numerical phenetic and cladistic methods. Fifty-four morphological and ecological characters were scored for all families that are now or have been previously included among the Anomura. Aeglids are shown to be primitive members of the Galatheoidea, in accordance with traditional classifications of the Anomura, although other traditional groupings within the Anomura are questioned. A proposed hypothesis of anomuran phylogeny separates thalassinoids from Anomura sensu stricto, places aeglids with other galatheoids, and removes lithodids and Lomis from the paguroid line. The need for increased and improved basic morphological monographs of decapod families is stressed.
10.2307/1548762|Allometric relationships were derived for calcium, inorganic contents, and organic contents of the crayfish Procambarus clarkii (0.012-33 g) at various stages in the molting cycle. Whole body parameters were measured at intermolt, ecdysis, and postmolt (1 week); determinations were also made on shed exuviae and gastroliths. Significant linear relationships on log-transformed data were obtained for all parameters. Scaling exponents for mineral content varied from 0.93-1.27, agreeing closely with scaling of supportive tissue mass in a range of species possessing both exo- and endoskeletons. Regression relationships were interpolated for hypothetical 1-and 30-g crayfish. Larger crayfish demineralize their cuticle more effectively prior to ecdysis; even so, exuviae constitute an avenue for significant mineral loss (30 cf. 50%). They also store less mineral between molts, excreting increasing amounts into the external water. Gastroliths are the major form of mineral storage especially in small crayfish (74 cf. 57%). Large postmolt crayfish are more mineral deplete (15%) than small crayfish (35%). Within 1 week of postmolt, 1-g crayfish have surpassed intermolt mineral content, by branchial uptake from external water. Their rapid rate of remineralization is commensurate with their increased molting frequency. In the same time period, larger crayfish have recovered only 30% of their intermolt mineral content. Continued branchial uptake, together with ingestion of shed exuviae or other food sources, would restore mineral balance. Irrespective of size, crayfish lose 15% organic matter in the exuviae at ecdysis. In the absence of food, postmolt crayfish draw on organic reserves for energy.
10.2307/1548017|Morphological trends or clines in a variety of morphometric, meristic, and two-state characters are described and analysed for the caridean shrimp genus Heptacarpus. One objective of this study was to determine the evolutionary polarity (ancestral to derived) in these various morphoclines. Evidence from functional morphology and out-group comparison strongly support the hypothesis that a high epipod (epipod-setobranch complex) number is primitive in Heptacarpus and related genera and that a lower number represents the derived or advanced condition (epipod loss). The evolutionary polarity in epipod number is used to hypothesize the direction of evolution in morphoclines that are significantly correlated with epipod number. Using this criterion, Heptacarpus species with high epipod number, a short high caparace, short and high abdominal segments, a short rostrum, large first chelae, a high number of antennular spinules, and a branchiostegal setal fringe are considered primitive with respect to these characters. Heptacarpus species which are farthest from the hypothesized ancestral form show a reduced epipod number, a slender or elongate carapace shape, elongate abdominal segments, a proportionately long rostrum, small first chelae, a reduced number of antennular spinules, and no branchiostegal setal fringe. Species groups are formed on the basis of morphological similarity from the 16 Heptacarpus species examined in detail. An index of affinity, based on 17 characters, was calculated for all possible pairs of species. A group is formed by species which show a significant morphological similarity (index of affinity greater than 0.5) to all other members of the group. The phylogenetic validity of species groups formed by this phenetic method was tested by examining the concordance in epipod number among members of a particular group. Evidence is given that epipod number is an indicator of phylogenetic relationships.
10.2307/1549441| Larvae of the Aesop shrimp Pandalus montagui Leach (Decapoda: Caridea: Pandalidae), were reared in the laboratory at 5 different temperatures (6, 9, 12, 15, and 18C), and their growth patterns were analyzed in terms of molting frequency, size increments (total length, TL, carapace length, CL), and increase in larval dry weight (W). Pandalus montagui passed through 6 zoeal and 2-5 decapodid stages. While 2 of the latter occurred consistently (obligatory stages), up to 3 additional (facultative) decapodid stages were passed before metamorphosis to the first juvenile. Molting occurred at regular intervals, with little interstage variation, so that the instar number could be described as a linear function of the time of development, with an increasing molting frequency at increasing temperatures. A nonlinear relationship (power function) was found between average intermolt duration and temperature; this regression was linked with data for water temperatures measured during the spring near Helgoland (southern North Sea), in order to predict the approximate duration of larval development and peak settlement in the field. From instar I-VIII, larval size increased as a linear function of the number of molting cycles, but no significant growth and no further morphological changes were observed in later (facultative) larval stages. The morphometric relationship between TL and CL remained linear throughout larval development, with an increasing trend in the TL:CL quotient. W increased exponentially with the number of instars, and as a power function of larval size. The overall patterns of larval development and growth in P. montagui are compared with those known from other pandalid species and in other caridean shrimps. 
10.2307/1549072| A study of the primary culture of hemocytes of Penaeus was conducted to examine growth and maintenance of these cellular populations. Hemocytes rapidly attached to flask surfaces and could be maintained for approximately one month. A medium consisting of 2 L-15, 20% Cellect Gold fetal calf serum, 20% AKN salt solution, and other supplements was suitable for long term hemocyte maintenance. Initial cell counts were found to be more representative of monolayer confluency than volume of hemolymph collected. Bacterial contamination of cell cultures was common, but could be controlled by the addition of antibiotics to the growth medium. Contaminants were identified as members of the genera Vibrio, Pseudomonas, Flavobacterium, Aeromonas, or Proteus. Attempts to subculture hemocyte monolayers using enzymatic and mechanical methods were unsuccessful. Additional investigations concluded that hemocyte cryoprotection by DMSO was poor when cells were frozen at -20 or -70C, that monolayer integrity was optimal at a temperature range of 25-32C, that hemocyte populations appear to contain heterologous surface residues, and that only 1-2% of fresh hemocytes are in an active proliferation cycle at the time of collection. 
10.2307/1548442|Excitatory and inhibitory junctional potentials (EJPs and IJPs, respectively) were recorded with intracellular electrodes along the length of the opener muscle of the claw of the lobster Homarus americanus. The most proximal EJPs and IJPs were larger than those in any other axial region for both the initial impulse and the largest impulses in a 4-Hz pulse train. EJPs also facilitated more than IJPs at various test frequencies, although their degree of facilitation did not vary along the length of the muscle. Distal IJPs facilitated more than proximal ones. Since EJPs were always larger than IJPs, a minor role for postsynaptic inhibition in regulating claw opening is suggested. In contrast, presynaptic inhibition was found in all fibers along the muscle where, almost without exception, it was extremely effective in preventing the appearance of EJPs in the muscle. When the inhibitor and excitor were stimulated together at given frequencies, EJPs and IJPs frequently became unsynchronized. Escaped EJPs appeared as variously attenuated impulses having a frequency-dependent periodicity. Both EJPs and IJPs were larger in cutter than in crusher claws, in keeping with differences in their morphology, muscle fiber composition, and behavior.
27753980|The southern rough shrimp Trachysalambria curvirostris is one of the dominant, small-sized penaeid species in the benthic community of Kagoshima Bay, southern Japan. The growth pattern and longevity of T. curvirostris were estimated from monthly length-frequency distributions of 11,345 specimens collected from June 2002 to December 2005. Carapace length (CL) ranged from 6.2-21.8 mm in males and 3.3-27.4 mm in females. Both males and females were first recruited in August or September with modal sizes around 9.0 mm CL. The growth of T. curvirostris was best described by the Pauly and Gaschtz equation as Lt = 19.04[1  exp{ 1.201(t/12 + 0.372)  (0.562/2)sin(2(t/12  0.723))}] for males and Lt = 28.89[1  exp{ 1.306(t/12 + 0.051)  (0.761/2)sin(2(t/12  0.797))}] for females. Females recorded higher growth performance indices compared to males of the same age group. The monthly growth rates and the percentage occurrence of soft-shelled individuals in both sexes tended to decrease with progression of age. The relationship between carapace length and body weight showed negative allometry, for both males and females. The longevity of this species was estimated to be around 18 months for both sexes.
10.2307/1548119|A synopiid amphipod, Tiron triocellatus, new species, is described from shelf waters off North Carolina, West Florida, and Alabama. The new species, which occurs sympatrically with Tiron tropakis Barnard, 1972, is characterized by having three ommatidia in the accessory eye and lacking spines on the telson. Tiron triocellatus appears to be most closely related to T. brevidactylus Pillai, 1957, and T. spinifer (Stimpson, 1853), and ranges from Wilmington, North Carolina, to Mobile in the Gulf of Mexico on substrata of coarse sand.
1549938|The spatial distributions of two grapsoid crabs, Helice tridens and Parasesarma plicatum, overlap broadly in salt marsh habitats in the Yoshino River Estuary, Japan. In order to clarify factors influencing the coexistence of the two species, resource utilization was compared between the two species in space, time, and food, and intraspecific and interspecific predation was evaluated. The two species showed similar distributional patterns along the length of estuary with respect to elevation and sediment, reed, and debris conditions. Most crabs of both species dwelled solitarily in burrows. Parasesarma plicatum was most active during daytime low tide, whereas the activity of H. tridens did not differ between daytime low tide and other periods. Although both crab species had broad omnivorous diets (e.g., feeding on plants, brachyurans, insects, and detritus), H. tridens tended to consume more animal food items than P. plicatum. Laboratory experiments revealed that adults of both species preyed on subadults of the same species and different species. Adults of P. plicatum preyed on more subadults of H. tridens than conspecific subadults, whereas adults of H. tridens preyed on subadults of conspecifics and P. plicatum in similar frequency. Differences in resource utilization in conjunction with effects of predation and cannibalism, which would tend to reduce resource limitation, likely contribute to the coexistence to these two ecologically similar brachyuran crab species.
10.2307/1548937|The external morphology of the adults of both sexes and of the late male copepodid of Nucellicola holmanae, new genus, new species, parasitic in a gastropod mollusc, Nucella lapillus, is described. A new family within the order Poecilostomatoida is erected to accommodate this monotypic genus. The adult parasite is found within the viscera of the host and is presently recorded only on the North Sea coast of England.
4540240|Androdioecy (mixtures of males and hermaphrodites) is a rare mating system in both the plant and animal kingdoms. Androdioecy has been described in three branchiopod species, and is best known from the clam shrimp Eulimnadia texana Packard. Herein we describe sex ratio, genetic and histological evidence from the clam shrimp Eulimnadia agassizii Packard that suggest androdioecy is also found in this species. The E. agassizii population sampled had all-females, and when these females were isolated and allowed to produce eggs, those eggs yielded 100% female offspring in 15 out of 15 cases. Additionally, the originally isolated females proved to be completely homozygous at each of the six allozyme loci scored. The offspring from these isolated females also proved to be homozygous for the same alleles as their parent. Tissue sectioning of the gonad found that the "females" actually produced testicular tissue in the posterior portion of the gonad. Taken together, these data are entirely consistent with those of the androdioecious E. texana, and thus indicate that E. agassizii is also an androdioecious species, bringing the total number of branchiopod species with this form of reproduction to four.
10.2307/1549234| The gonadosomatic index (GSI), ratio of area of the lumen to that of the seminiferous tubules, and sperm density were analyzed against body size and season in male spiny lobsters, Panulirus japonicus, sampled off Oshima Island, Tokyo, Japan. For functionally mature individuals (54 mm carapace length), regressions of GSI and area of the lumen against body size were significant only before the spawning season. GSI showed no clear seasonal changes. Germinal cells at all stages of spermatogenesis were found in the testis, and sperm were present in the vas deferens throughout the year. However, seasonal changes in the 3 reproductive indices indicate that P. japonicus has a distinct seasonal pattern for spermatogenesis and storage of sperm. The ratio of the area of the lumen to that of the seminiferous tubules was highest before the spawning season. Sperm density during and 1 month after the spawning season (from June to September), however, was significantly lower than in other months. 
1549617|Morphological variation in resting-egg pattern is examined in 43 populations of Chirocephalus diaphanus carinatus from the Balkan area and is discussed in relation to geographic location. In spite of a great variation in male and female key-characters, even at the individual level, distinct and apparently constant resting-egg patterns was revealed for each population, irrespective of distribution. Such a contrasting situation stresses the need for further research at genetic or molecular level in order to ascertain the validity of the subspecies ranking, previously put into question by Belk and Brtek.
4540241|Tetraclita japonica is a common barnacle in Hong Kong, occupying a wide vertical zonation on exposed to semi-exposed shores. The length of the exopodite of cirri IV-VI of T. japonica varied with different degrees of wave exposure and tidal levels. Barnacles on exposed shores had shorter cirri than those on semi-exposed ones. Barnacles at the low intertidal also had shorter cirri than those at the high intertidal zone. Differences in desiccation and heat stress, the length of the immersion period for feeding, and predation pressure along the tidal gradient may be additional factors affecting the cirral length of T. japonica. Compared with Balanus glandula in temperate waters, the proportional difference in the cirral length of T. japonica between wave-extreme locations is much smaller (4%) than that of B. glandula (80%). Differing from B. glandula, which actively beat their cirri to feed, T. japonica exhibits prolonged extension of the cirri for feeding, which may not favour long cirri even on semi-exposed shores. Barnacles with different cirral activities, therefore, appear to have different degrees of cirral responses to environmental stimulus.
10.2307/1548571|Alona iberica, new species, belongs to the A. karua complex and differs from an Australian population and previous descriptions of A. karua (King) G. O. Sars, 1888, in having: (1) the posterodorsal corner of carapace higher, (2) the preanal angle of the postabdomen higher, (3) the postanal portion of the postabdomen longer, (4) the PP/IP ratio greater, (5) the tip of the labrum rounded, and (6) the ridges on carapace more prominent. Alona iberica inhabits temporary and weakly mineralized waters over sandy or rocky substrates in semiarid regions. This new species is endemic to the western part of the Iberian Peninsula and Minorca.
4094163|Fiddler crabs demonstrate a wide range of simple and complex behaviors in both mating strategies and defense mechanisms. During investigation, five species of fiddler crabs were observed engaging in immobility or catatonic behaviors after being turned upside down. While crabs were observed in a rigid, immobile posture for mean ranges of 45-171 seconds, several crabs were recorded to remain immobile for more than two hours. Fiddler crabs are often preyed upon by birds that use crab movement as a cue. Other crustacean species, such as lobsters, have been observed in this upside-down, immobile position after having their abdomens rubbed. Consequently, immobility may be an anti-predator strategy when escape is not feasible or a byproduct of tactile stimulation.
1549610|Migrations play a key role in the life history of the spider crab Maja squinado (Herbst, 1788) and affect fishery catches. Migrations involve important changes in depth and in the environment. Ultrasonic telemetry has a number of drawbacks due to the difficulties in the continuous tracking of crabs while they are moving to deep waters. The recent introduction of electronic data storage or archival tags permits continuous monitoring of depth and temperature in crab's habitat and reconstruction of the movement patterns using baseline data on habitat characteristics. On the Galician coast (NW Spain) we calibrated and used electronic tags as a tool to study spider crab migrations. In the summer of 1996, 17 crabs were tagged with both ultrasonic transmitters and electronic tags. Tracking was carried out discontinuously at intervals of approximately 1 wk. We obtained a recapture rate of approximately 70%. The information provided by telemetry and electronic tags indicates autumn migrations along the bathymetric gradients (from <10 m down to 100 m) within short periods (mean = 5.7 d, range = 1.3-13.6). During these movements crabs travel through habitats characterized by different temperatures and substrates. Bathymetric and oceanographic data as well as localisation records from the electronic tags make the reconstruction of the animal tracks possible.
10.2307/1548002|After autotomy of 1 to 4 appendages, Pagurus longicarpus regenerated and molted rapidly. There was no significant difference in regeneration rate or time to ecdysis in crabs with differing numbers of limbs removed. This is different from many brachyurans studied in which regeneration rate and ecdysis are accelerated by multiple autotomy. Emerita talpoida exhibited a very weak autotomy reflex and very poor regenerative ability. The few crabs which developed limb buds did so after molting. These findings are discussed with reference to adaptive value of autotomy and regeneration, and likelihood of limb loss in nature.
1549506|Paralomis manningi, new species, is described and illustrated from two immature males recovered from remains of a whale carcass sunken at a depth of 1,922 m in the San Clemente Basin off southern California. While studying the ecology of whale-fall communities on the California margin with the aid of a remotely operated vehicle, we (CRS and ARB) collected the lithodid specimens from the organic-rich axial skeleton of an 11.7-m long juvenile gray whale, Eschrichtius robustus (Lilljeborg, 1861), that had been experimentally placed at the San Clemente floor for 39 months. In general outline of body, spination, and other ornamentation, the new species seems most closely related to four species of Paralomis that were described and figured by Macpherson (1988): P. pectinata Macpherson, P. serrata Macpherson, P. cristulata Macpherson, and P. africana Macpherson. The closest resemblance is to P. cristulata. A key to identification of these species is abridged from Macpherson (1988). Five species of squat lobsters, Galatheidae, were associated with the whale skeleton; Munidopsis cascadia Ambler, M. yaquiensis Ambler, M. verrilli Benedict, M. quadrata Faxon, and a possibly undescribed species of Munidopsis.
1549759|The circulatory system of Hutchinsoniella macracantha consists of a tubular heart in thoracic segments 1-6, a dorsoposterior channel, and body fluid ("haemocoelic") sinuses. The heart, which is possibly closed anteriorly, has three paired ostia dorsolaterally in thoracic segments 2-4. The heart wall is formed by two cellular layers: an inner myocardium and an outer epicardium. The myofibrils are oriented in various directions within the cells. Hutchinsoniella differs from all other crustaceans by lacking a tubule system in the myocardium. The connections between the myocardial cells, called intercalated discs, also differ from those of other crustaceans. The construction of the dorsoposterior channel is unlike that of a typical blood vessel. The body space is organized into a dorsal and ventral haemocoel separated by a thick, cellular, multifunctional, horizontal septum. There is no dedicated pericardial septum. Additional septa and openings between the body cavities channel the circulation of haemocoelic fluid. Resting on the horizontal septum and filling the space between the intestine and the dorsal longitudinal muscles are large cells, here called balloon cells, with few organelles and an otherwise undetermined cytoplasmic content. The function of this new cell type remains obscure.
20487732|There are six stages in the naupliar phase of development of Tegastes falcatus (Norman, 1869). The labrum is expressed as a simple fold which does not cover the mouth. A poorly-sclerotized mouth tube was observed on some specimens of all stages except NI (= naupliar stage 1); NI and NII are the only stages without an anus and presumably do not feed. The antennal endopod is a subchela against itself at NII; its distal endopodal segment becomes bifurcate at NIII. A chela on the naupliar mandible consists of the endopod opposite a distoventral attenuation of the basis on NII-NVI. The segmental elements of a chela are present at NI, although the endopod does not oppose the basis at this stage. The maxillule is a unilobe bud with one seta at NIII that gains a second seta at NV and is transformed into a simple bilobe bud with three setae at NVI. The maxilla and maxilliped are each an asetose, ventral attenuation at NVI. Naupliar stages, found in large numbers along with all six copepodid stages of T. falcatus, apparently feed on suctorian ciliates growing on colonies of the bryozoan Flustra foliacea (Linnaeus, 1758). This is the first description of six naupliar stages for a species of Tegastidae Sars, 1904.
10.2307/1549366|The myodocopine furca is redefined as a composite of 3 or 4 highly sclerotized structures: furcal sclerites I and II, or I-III (basal sclerites), and the paired furcal lamellae. These components are connected to form the furcal complex. Furcal sclerite I bears the "globus" (sclerotized ball) and paired "radii" (sclerotized rods), termed herein. This study shows that the furca has several major functions in the feeding process of scavenging cypridinid (Myodocopina) ostracods, which include the cutting and holding of small food sections from an animal carcass, helping to hold the ostracod firmly in position on a carcass, and removing small fish scales. These functions are made possible by the rotation of the furca in an anterior-posterior vertical plane, the arrangement of the claws on each lamella, and by varying the angle between lamellae. The central adductor muscles allow areas of the carapace to open differentially. Thus, the body of the ostracod remains relatively well protected, even during the extension of body parts through the carapace aperture (the carapace may open only in the region necessary for this protrusion). The area of hardened body wall just anterodorsal to the furca in Myodocopina is termed the sclerosome and its functions probably include support for certain furcal muscles and protection of the body, exposed when the carapace valves are open. The basal furcal sclerites probably provide similar protection. The sclerosome has highly sclerotized longitudinal margins, forming the gird. The gird and the radii pivot on the Y-sclerites to form a fulcrum for vertical furcal movements in an anterior-posterior plane. The sclerosome is unique to Myodocopina.
10.2307/1548627|The authors report on the seasonal fluctuation of the poecilostomatoid copepod Modiolicola insignis associated with Mytilus galloprovincialis, living in Lake Faro (Messina). The copepod has four generations a year, seasonally succeeding each other. The cycle that takes place during summer has the highest number of individuals. By examining the sex ratio, we noticed a prevalence of males from May to August and of females from October to April, with the exception of November. It is possible to find ovigerous females as well as males all year. The largest number of females corresponds to that of males, occurring a month earlier than that of copepodids.
4094182|Immunolocalization and ontogenetical changes in
1549702| The reproductive performance of two Varunidae crabs, Cyrtograpsus angulatus and C. altimanus from Jabal Island (4032S, 6215W), Argentina, were compared. The following reproductive variables were measured in the laboratory for fixed females of each species: realized fecundity (number of eggs/female); EW: egg dry weight (egg dry weight/number of eggs); RO: reproductive output (egg dry weight/female dry weight); RF: relative fecundity (number of eggs by female/female dry weight); and RSOM (relative size at the onset of maturity). Cyrtograpsus angulatus showed a greater realized fecundity than C. altimanus, in accordance with the greater size of the former (20.88  0.66 mm and 8.52  0.12 mm carapace widths, respectively). The EW, RO, and RF presented similar values for both species, whereas C. altimanus had a greater RSOM than C. angulatus. 
10.2307/1548285|A new species very similar to Hirsutia bathyalis Sanders et al. (1985), the only other member of the Hirsutiidae, is described from 1,500 m off southeastern Australia. The single specimen has oostegite-like appendages with long, plumose marginal setae. Their posterior position is compared with a similar position in siphonoecetine amphipods. Pereiopod 1 has the usual number of articles. The terminal position of the anus on the telson is contrasted with the position in Mictocaris, the only other mictacean known. The structure of the limbs and mouthparts of Hirsutia suggests a selective deposit-feeding habit.
10.2307/1549555|In the Province of Ontario, Canada, the two closely related crayfish species, Cambarus bartonii bartonii and Cambarus robustus, appear to have similar habitat requirements and similar, asynchronous life cycles, but largely nonoverlapping distributions. The analysis of the interspecific agonistic contests between size-matched males of these two species showed that C. robustus were clearly dominant over C. b. bartonii of similar size. At the same time, C. robustus performed significantly more Lunge and Claws Raised initiation behaviors than C. b. bartonii, during these contests. These two initiation behaviors were strongly indicative of dominant status during intraspecific contests of C. robustus. Cambarus robustus behaved more aggressively toward C. b. bartonii than toward other conspecifics. Cambarus b. bartonii performed significantly more tail-flip escape behaviors than C. robustus. Juvenile C. robustus were dominant over adult C. b. bartonii in a majority of these contests. The clear dominance of C. robustus over C. b. bartonii during agonistic contests, and the apparent recent expansion of the range of C. robustus in Ontario, sometimes at the expense of C. b. bartonii, suggest that C. robustus has the potential to competitively exclude C. b. bartonii, if the two species are in competition for limited resources such as shelters.
1549947|The intertidal barnacle Balanus zhujiangensis Ren, 1989, is reported from Okinawa, Japan, for the first time. A supplementary description of this species is provided, and the specimens are compared to those from the Zhujiang River estuary which empties into the South China Sea. Several morphological characteristics of the shell, mouthparts, and armature of cirrus III suggest that B. zhujiangensis is related to the B. amphitrite complex rather than to B. trigonus by consistently having but a single row of pits on the external surface of the scutum and lacking an adductor ridge. The presence of scutal pits is interpreted as a means of facilitating the transmission of light through the valve thereby allowing the photoreceptors to detect changes in light intensity while the operculum is closed.
10.2307/1548743|Characteristics that define the habitat of the leptostracan Paranebalia belizensis Modlin, inhabiting the waters of Twin Cays, a group of Belizian mangrove-covered islands, are described. A primary component of the habitat of this species appears to be Halimeda opuntia. The complex structure of this macroalga creates a filter that traps waterborne detrital particles; thus it collects the food of leptostracans. It also functions as a refuge from predation because its natural defenses discourage herbivory. From field observations and collections made within the habitat, information on the spatial and temporal distribution, population structure, and fecundity of P. belizensis is presented. Females and juveniles predominate the population. Males are rare and primarily occur in immature stages. Mature males were collected only in spring, when population size was largest. Reproduction is highest in early spring and continues throughout the year. Fecundity is not correlated with the total length of a female. Factors affecting the lack of ecological information on the leptostacans are discussed.
10.2307/1549080| Deep-sea crabs (Chaceon sp.) were discovered in French Polynesia. Most of the catches were made around the Marquesas islands at depths ranging from 370-1,050 m. In this archipelago, two trapping surveys caught 628 kg (709 crabs). Males outnumbered the females by 610 to 99. The mean carapace width was 13.19 cm (940.8 g) and 10.99 cm (547.4 g) for the males and females, respectively. The mean catch rate was 1.4 kg (1.6 crabs)/trap/night. Catch rate was mainly affected by the depth, with greatest catches obtained between 700-800 m. The highest result for a single trap was 11.5 kg (13 crabs)/trap/night. The mean weight of the catches (0.9 kg) and the yields obtained are high enough to initiate a small-scale fishery but severe management rules should be taken to protect the species. /// Des crabes de profondeur (Chaceon sp.) ont t dcouverts en Polynsie Franaise. La plupart des captures ont t faites aux les Marquises,  des profondeurs comprises entre 370 et 1,050 m. Dans cet archipel, deux campagnes de pche aux casiers ont permis de capturer 628 kg (709 crabes). Les mles dominent largement dans les captures avec 610 prises contre seulement 99 pour les femelles. La largeur moyenne de la carapace est de 13.19 cm (940.8 g) et de 10.99 cm (547.4 g) pour les mles et les femelles respectivement. Le rendement moyen est de 1.4 kg (1.6 crabes)/casier/nuit. Il est principalement influenc par la profondeur, les rsultats les plus levs tant obtenus entre 700-800 m. Le meilleur rsultat pour un seul casier est de 11.5 kg (13 crabes)/casier/nuit. Le poids moyen lev des captures (0.9 kg) et les rendements obtenus permettent d'envisager une exploitation commerciale  petite chelle mais des mesures strictes de gestion doivent tre prises pour protger l'espce. 
10.2307/1548183|Five species of atyid shrimps are reported from the Pacific slope of Colombia, four not previously reported from Colombia and one new to science. Of the single new species a description and illustrations are provided.
10.2307/1549259| The spatial distribution, seasonal abundance, life history pattern, and production of the mysid Mesopodopsis slabberi are described from a warm-temperate estuary on the western coast of Portugal. Mysids were sampled from June 1996 to July 1997, using zooplankton and suprabenthic nets. The higher densities and biomass of M. slabberi were found in upstream areas from the south arm of the estuary. These areas consist of shallow waters with low circulation rates and high residence times, richer in phytoplankton than the rest of the estuary. Mesopodopsis slabberi was abundant in October, November, and December and again in May, June, and July. No mysids were found in January and February, when salinity decreased to values below 5 and water temperature was below 10C, and also in August, when oxygen levels declined and the water temperature reached values above 24C. Morphometric relationships in M. slabberi were determined from freshly caught specimens. Significant positive correlations between total length (TL) and cephalic length (CL) (TL = 2.5 CL + 0.012) and between dry weight (DW) and total length (LnDW = 3.0298 LnTL - 6.0229) were found. All size classes, from 0.95-11.36 mm, were equally represented throughout the year. Moreover, juveniles, immature females, mature ovigerous females carrying eggs or embryos, and mature resting females were found throughout the sampling period. As a whole, this pattern suggests that reproduction is continuous rather than seasonal. This, together with migrations, made identification and tracking of population groups impossible from the analysis of size-frequency diagrams. The secondary annual production of M. slabberi was therefore estimated by the Hynes average cohort method. The annual production was 16.02 mg m<sup>-3</sup>year<sup>-1</sup>, and the P/B ratio was 2.57. 
1549762|Doridicola similis n. sp. (Poecilostomatoida, Rhynchomolgidae) is described from specimens found on the gills of a squid (Sepiotheuthis lessoniana Lesson) caught in the Gulf of Thailand. It is close to its congeners D. longicauda (Claus, 1860) and D. sepiae (Izawa, 1976) but can be distinguished from them by the possession of longer caudal rami. A cladistic analysis of the genus revealed that the 12 species of Doridicola associated with mollusks (Gastropoda, Bivalvia, and Cephalopoda) are on the same clade that diverged early in cladogenesis from those species occurring mostly on the octocorallian (alcyonacean) cnidarians. The three species occurring on cephalopods are monophyletic and closely allied with D. agilis Leydig, 1853, occurring on nudibranchs in Europe.
20487819|The cytochrome c oxidase subunit I (COI) gene plays a pivotal role in a global effort to document biodiversity and continues to be a gene of choice in phylogenetic and phylogeographic studies. Due to increased attention on this gene as a species' barcode, quality control and sequence homology issues are re-emerging. Taylor and Knouft (2006) attempted to examine gonopod morphology in light of the subgeneric classification scheme within the freshwater crayfish genus Orconectes using COI sequences. However, their erroneous analyses were not only based on supposed mitochondrial sequences but also incorporated many questionable sequences due to the possible presence of numts and manual editing or sequencing errors. In fact, 22 of the 86 sequences were flagged as "COI-like" by GenBank due to the presence of stop codons and indels in what should be the open reading frame of a conservative protein-coding gene. A subsequent search of "COI-like" accessions in GenBank turned up a multitude of taxa across Crustacea from published and unpublished studies thereby warranting this illustrated discussion about quality control, pseudogenes, and sequence composition.
10.2307/1548702|Bythognathia yucatanensis is described from a single male collected in the Yucatan Channel, Caribbean Sea, at depths greater than those recorded for any other gnathiid, 3,700-3,800 m. The new genus is closely allied to Akidognathia Stebbing, 1912. The pylopod of the new species is unique. A list of nominal species of Gnathiidae described since Monod's 1926 monograph includes type locality, depth of occurrence, and length of each species.
10.2307/1548381|A swarm of raninid megalopas occurred at Barbados in July 1975, ten days prior to a similar mass occurrence at St. Lucia already reported by Chace and Barnish (1976). The same species, and possibly even the same swarm, was probably involved in both cases. It is suggested that the larvae may have originated from adult populations along the coast of northeastern South America and were transported offshore and into the eastern Caribbean in lenses of relatively low salinity water associated with the outflows of the Amazon and Orinoco Rivers.
10.2307/1548753| The genus Eriopisella is recorded for the first time from the Mediterranean Sea (Chafarinas Islands, southeastern Alboran Sea), and a new interstitial species, E. ruffoi, is described and illustrated. Numerical taxonomic methods are utilized to identify the Eriopisella line. Among the 10 known species of the Eriopisella line, the new species appears closest to E. chieregoi and E. madagascarensis. These 3 shallow-water, interstitial species share morphological features, such as coxa 1 anteriorly blunt, rami of uropod 1 without lateral spines, and thick-set rami of uropod 2 with rounded apical spines. Eriopisella ruffoi, new species, is considered as an intermediate species between E. chieregoi and E. madagascarensis. Morphological characters, ecology, and distribution of eriopisellids are compared and discussed with findings in the literature. The eriopisellid line is redefined, and a key to the identification of all known genera and species is provided. /// El gnero Eriopisella se seala por primera vez en el mar Mediterrneo (Islas Chafarinas, SE Mar de Alborn), con la descripcin de una nueva especie intersticial, E. ruffoi. Se han utilizado mtodos de taxonoma numrica para identificar la lnea Eriopisella. Entre las 10 especies que se conocen de la lnea Eriopisella, la nueva especie est prxima a E. chieregoi y E. madagascarensis. Las tres especies son intersticiales y de aguas poco profundas, compartiendo caractersticas morfolgicas tales como la coxa 1 anteriomente redondeada, ausencia de espinas laterales en las ramas del urpodo 1, ramas del urpodo rechonchas, provistas de espinas apicales redondeadas. Eriopisella ruffoi se considera una especie intermedia entre E. chieregoi y E. madagascarensis. Se comparan los aspectos morfolgicos, la ecologa y la distribucin de los Eriopisellidos, redefiniendo la lnea Eriopisella. Finalmente se incluye una clave para todos los gneros y especies de la lnea Eriopisella. 
10.2307/1549529|Despite illustrations in Garman (1926) clearly showing the different antennal appendages of Eubranchipus vernalis and Eubranchipus neglectus, Creaser (1930) published erroneous drawings of the antennal appendages of these two species that led to more than 65 years of taxonomic confusion between them. We untangle this confusion, and show that these species have nonoverlapping areas of occurrence with E. vernalis to the east and E. neglectus to the west of the Appalachian Mountains. In addition, we present evidence supporting the use of resting-egg (cyst) morphology in studying evolutionary relationships among anostracan species. An important part of this usefulness is due to the independence of cyst morphology from sexual selection. Since the primary taxonomic characters of anostracans are all strongly influenced by sexual selection, cyst morphology can supply a reasonably independent set of characters for testing hypotheses of species relationships.
10.2307/1549241|The ostracod fauna of the three main rivers of the central Mediterranean slope of the Iberian Peninsula was studied, with special attention being paid to ecology and distribution. Forty-six stations were sampled in spring and autumn 1995 and thirty ostracod species were collected, two of these (Trajancypris serrata and Heterocypris reptans) new to the Iberian fauna. The most common species were Ilyocypris bradyi, Herpetocypris brevicaudata, Cypridopsis vidua, and Limnocythere inopinata. Cluster analysis showed that these species, together with Ilyocypris inermis and Sarscypridopsis spp. form the most widespread ostracod assemblage in the area, although its widespread distribution is not related to any of the environmental variables monitored. However, factors such as altitude, mean January air temperature, distance from source, flow discharge, water quality, and degree of organic pollution play an important role in explaining the occurrence of less common species. One species group was linked to high elevations and BMWP' biotic index values and low winter temperatures. Candona neglecta best characterizes this assemblage. In the opposite part of this environmental gradient, Ilyocypris gibba, associated with lower altitudes, epitomizes the third species group. Heterocypris salina and Heterocypris incongruens were the species that were most tolerant of organic pollution. Our results are compared with those reported in studies from different habitats (e.g., springs) and latitudes. The implications of our findings for paleoenvironmental reconstruction and water resources management are discussed.
20487788|To consider effective resource management strategies for the coconut crab, Birgus latro, we determined the size of males at sexual maturity by histological methods and investigated an optimal method to estimate the number of sperm in spermatophores. The size of 50% sexual maturity in male coconut crabs was estimated at 22.2 mm thoracic length (TL) on the Hatoma Island, Japan. We established a procedure to soak spermatophores for more than 120 min in a 20% NaOH solution before mixing, and to count the sperm within 24 h after mixing, thereby enabling us to assess the number of sperm per individual and estimate male reproductive potential. Using this method, we investigated the relationship between male size and number of sperm retained by males. Larger male coconut crabs have a higher number of sperm in both the vasa deferentia and testis. The relationships between male size and spermatophore volume also increased with increasing male size, and the sperm quantity packed in a spermatophore increased with increasing spermatophore volume. Thus, male coconut crabs display a size-dependent reproductive output, as is reported for other species of anomurans.
10.2307/1549242|Anostraca are recorded for the first time from Belize, and for the second time from Central America. The Belizean Streptocephalus similis occupies a thermal refuge from insect predators. Cystshell morphologies in the New World members of the Streptocephalus sealii species group are described. They indicate a closer relationship between S. sealii and S. woottoni than between either species and S. similis.
10.2307/1548157|Petrarca okadai, new species, an ascothoracican crustacean from Lizard Island, Australia, endosymbiotic within the solitary coral Heteropsammia michelina Milne-Edwards, is described. It is compared to its only described congener, P. bathyactidis Fowler. Discussions of internal anatomy, sexuality, and ecology are included. The biogeographic importance of this new species, in light of its shallow habitat and other recent finds of Petrarca-infested corals, is notable.
20487820|Phylogenetic relationships among 13 species of Clausocalanus (Copepoda: Calanoida) were examined based on morphological, quantitative (morphometrical), and molecular characters. This study builds upon monographic analysis by Frost and Fleminger (1968) and seeks to determine whether three described species groups are monophyletic evolutionary lineages. DNA sequences were determined for portions of three genes: mitochondrial cytochrome oxidase I (mtCOI; 639 base-pairs), nuclear internal transcribed spacer region (ITS-2; 203 base-pairs), and nuclear ribosomal gene (5.8S rRNA; 73 base-pairs). Phylogenetic analysis was carried out based on morphological, molecular, and combined morphological and molecular data using maximum parsimony, maximum likelihood, and Bayesian algorithms, with evaluation of best-fit models of nucleotide evolution. Phylogenetic reconstructions based on morphological characters provided strong support for species groups I and II; group III was not well-resolved. Analysis of the concatenated sequences of the three genes resulted in a tree resolving three of five group II species, with weak support for two pairs of group I species; the remaining species were not clearly resolved into groups. Although ITS-2 was statistically incongruent with the other data sets, the combined analysis of morphological, quantitative, and molecular data by maximum parsimony resolved all four group I species and four of five group II species; group III was not well resolved. All molecular and combined analyses consistently paired C. arcuicornis (group II) with C. parapergens (group III). This study provides independent evidence that some elements of Clausocalanus species groupings reflect evolutionary lineages. Additional genes and longer sequences may help resolve remaining questions about the evolutionary relationships among species of Clausocalanus.
10.2307/1548483| Understanding those factors that modify the sensitivity of the zooplankter Ceriodaphnia dubia to toxicants is of vital importance to the interpretation of chronic toxicity data generated for the purpose of granting industrial permits. Early reports of high sensitivity of Ceriodaphnia to brief pH excursions led toxicologists to question the use of C. dubia as a routine toxicity test organism. Acute and chronic toxicity of pH and heavy metals, pH acclimation to acidic and alkaline conditions, and the role of pH in modifying heavy metal (copper and zinc) toxicities were investigated. Ceriodaphnia dubia acclimated near neutral pH had acute (48-h) LC<sub>50</sub>s of 4.6 (acidic) and 10.3 (alkaline) SU (Standard Units). Using a Mount-Norberg design, reproduction and mortality were not impaired between pH 6.14-8.99 regardless of pH acclimation history, but beyond these extremes, reproduction was significantly impaired ( = 0.05). Acute (48-h) exposures to both heavy metals at pH 6, 8, and 9 and in water hardnesses of 180, 110, and 100 mg/l showed C. dubia was consistently most sensitive in low pH, low hardness waters and was least sensitive in high pH, high hardness waters. However, reproduction and mortality of C. dubia were not so affected by pH in chronic exposures. Similar concentrations of metals at all pH levels resulted in equivalent reductions in offspring per female. The results strongly suggest that effluent guidelines for pH at 6-9 are sound, and that, for this important test species, toxicant activity in chronic time frames (i.e., exposures spanning several or all life stages) is directed primarily by concentration and water hardness, not by pH. 
1549890|Individuals of the brackish water ostracod species Ishizakiella ryukyuensis are found sympatrically with those of the closely related species I. miurensis at the Kii Peninsula, western Japan, and possess a projection on the male copulatory duct. By contrast, individuals of this species recovered from the Nansei Islands, southern Japan, do not have such a projection. Molecular phylogenetic trees based on mitochondrial COI sequences consistently indicated that the populations at the Nansei Islands formed a paraphyletic group outside of a cluster consisting of the population at the Kii Peninsula. Thus, the development of the projection in the male copulatory organ is considered as a derived character for the individuals at the Kii Peninsula, and this feature may have been brought about by the sympatric distribution and a process of character displacement.
10.2307/1548291|Qualitative and quantitative observations on G. oerstedii show that its grooming behavior consists (in order of decreasing frequency) of antennae (A1 and A2), eye, subcarapace, gill, and general body grooming. As in decapod crustaceans, there is an inverse relationship between bout frequency and bout duration of grooming behaviors in this stomatopod. The only appendage observed in grooming, the first maxilliped, has grooming brushes of rasp, multiscaled, and scaled serrate setae; the microstructure of these setae is described and illustrated with SEM. In the Stomatopoda, low diversity of specialized grooming structures reflects a conservative stomatopod body plan, while the high diversity of cleaning characters in the Decapoda reflects the group's high variation in body morphology. Analysis of the functional morphology of G. oerstedii's fifth maxilliped (M5) propodal brush suggests that it is a reduced and vestigial grooming character. It is concluded that a vestigial M5 grooming brush is a synapomorphy that supports the hypothesis by Jacques (1983) that the Gonodactylidae, Odontodactylidae, and Protosquillidae are closely related. Amputation experiments were performed to test the hypothesis that grooming behavior is an antifouling adaptation. Members of the experimental group had the first maxillipeds amputated; in control groups, exopods of the third pereiopods, a nongrooming appendage, were ablated. Experimental and control animals were exposed to fouling on sea-water tables for 2 weeks. Fouling was quantified by counting strands of Leucothrix, a filamentous bacterium. Both gill filaments and antennular aesthestascs of experimental (nongrooming) stomatopods were heavily fouled by Leucothrix and other bacterial growth after 2 weeks, while those of controls remained clean. The low fouling on eyes and lack of fouling on most other body surfaces in experimentals raises the possibility that some parts of the exoskeleton may be protected from microbial fouling by the secretion of antifouling compounds.
27920098|A number of different species of krill have been subjected to analysis of possible correlations between selected environmental variables (niche descriptors) and enzyme heterozygosity. With a large-scale commercial fishery of the Antarctic krill Euphausia superba probable, it is imperative to elucidate this species' population structure. Potential correlations between enzyme polymorphism and niche descriptors will contribute to understanding the mechanisms behind the existence of genetically different stocks. Niche descriptors such as temperature variation, vertical migration, and trophic diversity (phyletic diversity of food eaten by the animal) exhibited pronounced correlations with allelic variation in several gene loci coding for selected enzymes. Correlations between niche descriptors and average heterozygosities over groups of enzymes (central metabolic, peripheral) instead of individual enzymes, were less pronounced. These results are discussed in terms of two hypotheses that both ascribe an adaptive role to enzyme variation. The correlation data lent support to both hypotheses without favoring one over the other.
1549955|The spider crab Pyromaia tuberculata was introduced into southeastern Brazil; ovigerous material was collected and reared in the laboratory. Morphologic changes and growth patterns of postlarval development are reported. Results show that within-stage size variation is lowest in mature stages, especially in the case of females in which there is an apparent size threshold for the last juvenile stages to undergo the puberty molt. A prepuberty molt taking place at the fourth crab stage is indicated by analyzing the allometric growth of the abdomen in females. In contrast, the same procedure using the allometric growth of chelae failed in detecting both the prepuberty and puberty molts in males. Conversely to females, which develop a complex brood chamber at the puberty molt, the enlargement of chelae was not consistent in all postpuberty males. The short instar sequence of this species, in no case exceeding nine stages, is marked by conspicuous morphologic alterations achieved at each molt. Almost all stages can be identified by examining diagnostic features of rostrum, abdomen, sternum, and pleopods.
10.2307/1549554| Abundant material referred to Schizotrema atlanticum was recently collected with a suprabenthic sled on the outer continental shelf of the southeastern Bay of Biscay, allowing a detailed redescription of this poorly known cumacean from well-preserved specimens. After a morphological analysis, it is proposed to transfer Schizotrema atlanticum to the genus Nannastacus. Similarities of Nannastacus atlanticus, new combination, with the most closely related species are discussed. In the southeastern part of the Bay of Biscay the depth range observed of N. atlanticus extends from 90-390 m, living on superficial sediments in muddy sand in temperatures between 11.2 and 11.7C. Abundance in the study area was low at its shallow and deep bathymetric limits, whereas higher values were recorded all along the western limit of the continental shelf (maximum abundance: 54 ind./100 m<sup>2</sup> in July at about 170 m). The benthic habitat of this cumacean is mainly on the outer shelf/upper slope and probably linked with the higher energy level of such a neritic environment. 
10.2307/1548059|Thorella cobourgi, new genus, new species, a small free-living hippolytid shrimp from intertidal reef pools of the Northern Territory, Australia, is described and illustrated. The systematic position of the new genus and its relationship to the hippolytid shrimp genera Thor, Thoralus, and Hippolyte is discussed.
10.2307/1548093|During winter months on Seven and One-half Fathom Reef, reproduction is attenuated in populations of Synalpheus fritzmuelleri and S. apioceros. Some ovigerous specimens occur throughout the year, but much lower percentages of both populations carry normal eggs in winter months, and broods of these eggs appear to be smaller. A seemingly wasteful production of nonviable, minute, chalky eggs by S. apioceros during winter months and the absence of such eggs in S. fritzmuelleri under the same ambient conditions could relate to the more tropical restriction of the former species. On Seven and One-half Fathom Reef, S. apioceros is probably near the northernmost extreme at which it can successfully reproduce.
10.2307/1548668|Cyprid settlement and host invasion was studied in the rhizocephalan Clistosaccus paguri (Clistosaccidae) using transmission electron microscopy. Male and female larvae appear to be morphologically identical. The infestive kentrogon instar known from the Peltogastridae, Lernaeodiscidae, and Sacculinidae is absent in the Clistosaccidae. Instead, the cyprid itself uses an antennule to penetrate through the host integument. This is the same mechanism used by functional male cyprids to implant spermatogonia into juvenile female parasites, and it is the first demonstration of "akentrogonid" host invasion in the the Rhizocephala. The primordial parasite is not preformed in the cyprid, but develops from injected, undifferentiated cells almost directly below the site of settlement. The full clistosaccid life cycle without kentrogons is described in detail, and compared to that found in the "classical" kentrogonid rhizocephalans. It is concluded that the traditional classification of the Rhizocephala into the suborders Kentrogonida and the Akentrogonida should be reconsidered, since the Clistosaccidae was previously included in the former.
20487787|We describe the reproductive period, fecundity, and average size at the onset of functional maturity of female Aegla franca, the northernmost distributed aeglid species. The reproductive period is markedly seasonal and takes place from May (austral mid-autumn) to August (late winter). Ovigerous females appear quite abruptly in the population by May, and this condition is observed in all adult females sampled regardless of their size. The average size at the onset of functional maturity in females, at which 50% of the females sampled during the reproductive period were considered adults, was 12.75 mm CL. The smallest post-ovigerous female measured 12.06 mm carapace length (CL). Mean fecundity (S.D.) from 41 females bearing early and intermediate eggs was 129.1  32.2 and corresponded to a mean female CL of 14.11 mm. The elliptical-shaped eggs exhibited significant increase in size along the development stages. The third pair of pleopods bore higher number of eggs than the others. Compiled information regarding the reproductive period reported for aeglids revealed an increase in the breeding period length with latitude. The reproductive period tends to be shorter in localities under larger rainfall variation and smaller temperature variability than in sites with opposite climate conditions. Eggs tend to be fewer in number and larger in size towards lower latitudes. We present an hypothesis that stream water velocity might act as a major selective pressure during the early life history of fluvial aeglids with direct effect on the reproductive pattern.
1549725| Descriptions are provided for Athanas dentirostris, new species, and Chelomalpheus crangonus, new species, two alpheid shrimps collected from the burrows of the upogebiids Upogebia aff. takaoensis Sakai and Trkay, 1995, and Upogebia edulis Ngoc-Ho and Chan, 1992, respectively. Athanus dentirostris, known only from northern Vietnam, is unique among all Alpheidae in having the superior margin of the rostrum dentate. Adult males of C. crangonus are immediately recognizable by the peculiar, subcheliform first pereiopods, which show superficial resemblance to the chelipeds of Crangonidae. 
10.2307/1548880|The physiological response of the Australian supratidal crab Leptograpsus variegatus (Fabricius) to breathing air was investigated in laboratory simulations. Crabs were held overnight and the hemolymph respiratory gas values, acid-base, and ionic status were assessed during 12-h air-breathing and for 6 h on return to the original conditions, in which the crabs had access to water. Emersion elicited only a small, transient hypercapnia which did not show as an increase in total CO<sub>2</sub>. Analysis revealed that venous PCO<sub>2</sub> was significantly greater than arterial only during the first hour of emersion and that venous CO<sub>2</sub> content at no time exceeded arterial. The buffer capacity of hemolymph of Leptograpsus was relatively low ( [HCO<sub>3</sub><sup>-</sup>]/ pH = -5.59) and thus changes in CO<sub>2</sub> would have marked changes in acid-base state, but there was no significant acidosis. Similarly there was no significant change in either PO<sub>2</sub> or CO<sub>2</sub>, with a large arterial-venous difference being maintained throughout emersion and recovery. L-lactate in the hemolymph remained below 1 mmol l<sup>-1</sup>. Upon emersion, there were transient increases in osmotic pressure, Na and especially Cl concentration, with smaller increases and decreases in the concentration of Mg and Ca, respectively. Examination of in vivo oxygen equilibria clearly revealed that there are no changes in the functioning of hemocyanin of Leptograpsus associated with enforced air-breathing and that arterial and venous Hc-O<sub>2</sub> saturation remains unchanged after 12-h air-breathing. Leptograpsus does not experience any major disturbance of CO<sub>2</sub> or acid-base status during 12-h enforced air-breathing and maintains O<sub>2</sub> delivery without recourse to modulation of hemocyanin functioning. Thus Leptograpsus maintains respiratory and acid-base status in air similar to that observed in animals with access to water.
10.2307/1549270| The intent of this study was to determine the location and functional influence of the branchial O<sub>2</sub>-sensitive receptors of the crayfish on cardiac and respiratory parameters. Crayfish (46.6  1.7 g [SD]) were divided into 3 groups (A) control (gills intact), (B) posterior gills removed, and (C) anterior gills removed. Animals were exposed to hypoxic water (1 h; 15 mm Hg O<sub>2</sub> followed by left branchial injection (10 ml over 10 min) of hyperoxic water (400 mm Hg O<sub>2</sub>). The time course to changes in cardiorespiratory parameters (heart rate, cardiac output, stroke volume, arterial flows, ventilation rate, and branchial pressure) were monitored. Intact animals showed a rapid cardiovascular response to injection of hyperoxic water (2.5 s) with group C animals showing a similar response time. Group B animals exhibited a significantly longer response time (13.0 s). Ventilatory response time was similar for all 3 groups (75 s), the duration of the ventilatory response was 51.0 s in control and group C animals. Animals lacking posterior gills showed a significantly shorter response time (42.0 s). Time-course evidence may indicate the existence of 2 populations of O<sub>2</sub> receptors, one responsible for modulation of cardiovascular functions on the posterior gills or in their cardiobranchial veins, the other responsible for ventilatory modulation located more centrally. 
1549751| The status of Austropotamobius berndhauseri (Crustacea, Decapoda) was re-examined by the combination of two recent genetic studies based on the analysis of the mitochondrial 16S rRNA gene obtained from sampling across the entire range of the white-clawed crayfish species complex. From the phylogenetic tree obtained, the results clearly demonstrate two clusters (A and B) separated by a strong genetic divergence (5.0  1.0%) corresponding to A. italicus and A. pallipes species. Within A. i. carsicus. Austropotamobius berndhauseri specimens are not genetically distinct from A. i. carinthiacus distributed in Austria. This group is more closely related to A. i. italicus (1.4  0.5%) than A. i. carsicus (3.6  0.7%) which is concordant with allozyme data. These data support the redefinition of A. berndhauseri as being A. italicus carsicus. 
10.2307/1547935|The amphipods Ischyrocerus commensalis and Gammaropsis inaequistylis were found on the spider crab Chionoecetes opilio collected in shallow water in Bonne Bay, Newfoundland. The first and second gnathopods have similar morphologies in these two species.Gammaropsis inaequistylis was also found on another spider crab, Hyas araneus, in Bonne Bay and Conception Bay, Newfoundland.
10.2307/1549435|Photoperiodic effects on the duration of embryo development and on early growth rate in juveniles was carried out in a population of Idotea baltica. Two biological parameters showing seasonal fluctuations in the field were investigated in (a) individuals (G<sub>1</sub>) born from females collected in nature during mating and then bred in the laboratory, and (b) individuals (G<sub>2</sub>) born from females of group G<sub>1</sub>, which had been mated in the laboratory. A longer light period (LD 16:8) reduced embryo development duration, while a shorter one (LD 12:12) increased it. Under the same laboratory conditions, the growth rate in juveniles until the sixtieth day of life was increased by long daylight and reduced by a shorter light period. Seasonal variations observed in the field appeared to depend essentially on day-length regime, since the ecological conditions of the habitat did not show remarkable changes in biotic factors, particularly in the quality and quantity of food available during the year. Sensitivity to photoperiod may represent a strategy used by this species to overcome unfavorable environmental conditions.
10.2307/1548733|Patterns of exoskeletal abrasion on the carapace of long-clawed males of the spider crab Libinia emarginata appeared to follow specific sequences throughout the year. The degree of abrasion coincided with the enlargement of the reproductive system and increased levels of methyl farnesoate in the hemolymph. The patterns of abrasion apparently marked the time elapsed since the last molt, and when the abrasion extended beyond the midcarapace, it appeared to indicate increased reproductive readiness.
10.2307/1547870|Carbonic anhydrase (CA) activity in the epidermis of the blue crab Callinectes sapidus increases significantly during ecdysis, and remains elevated during the postmolt stages. Branchial enzyme activity increases prior to the molt in the posterior gills; in the anterior gills CA activity parallels that in the epidermis. Calcium deposition, as measured by the incorporation of <sup>45</sup>Ca into the cuticle, begins in the late premolt stages and increases thereafter. Acetazolamide did not inhibit Ca uptake by the isolated epidermis over a 4-h period in our experiments. Thus, while CA appears to be important to the molt cycle in general, the role of CA in shell deposition is not clear.
10.2307/1548327|The general physiology of two species of deep-water crabs, Chaceon fenneri and C. quinquedens, found in thermally stable environments at moderate depths, was investigated. Structure-function relationships of the gills indicate animals that are typical of environments characterized by high and stable salinity. The gill lamellae are composed entirely of respiratory epithelium; no ion-transporting "chloride cells" were observed. Carbonic anhydrase, a marker enzyme for ion transport in the gill, was present in very low levels of activity, and blood osmotic and ionic concentrations were not different from ambient at salinities of either 35 or 20 ppt. Animals failed to survive in salinities lower than 20 ppt. Oxygen uptake values were typical of cold-water, benthic species, regardless of habitat depth. Chaceon quinquedens appears to have both a higher rate of oxidative metabolism and a higher rate of protein metabolism than C. fenneri, which may be indicative of a higher rate of growth. Both species, however, appear to be physiologically similar to stenohaline marine decapods from cold, shallow-water habitats.
10.2307/1548396|Two species of Columbia River estuary mysids, Neomysis mercedis Holmes and Alienacanthomysis macropsis (Tattersall), were found with a parasitic nicothoid copepod infesting the marsupium of the female mysids. The relationships between the life histories and the spatial and seasonal distributions of the mysids and the ectoparasitic copepod are examined. The remarkably high incidence of parasitism remained stable throughout the year in spite of seasonal fluctuations in the two mysid populations. Neomysis mercedis is an important component in the diet of fishes in other estuaries along the Pacific coast; however, it does not appear to be as important a food resource in the Columbia River estuary. This may be due to the parasite which probably has a significant effect on the population of the mysid hosts.
10.2307/1548592|The ischyrocerid amphipod genus Jassa should comprise 19 species. Eight species that have been assigned previously to this genus should be transferred to other genera. Past taxonomic confusion is attributed to a failure to recognize that in the males of Jassa the development of a distinct secondary sex character, a thumb on the propodus of the second gnathopod, is delayed to the last molt, that production of the thumb signals the onset of sexual activity, and that thumbed males are dimorphic. It is suggested that the two thumbed male morphs may have different strategies for mating. Species of Jassa belong to one of two categories, depending on the size relations and proportion of the two thumbed male morphs in the species. In type 1 species, males exhibiting the small-thumbed "minor" morph are the smallest of the thumbed males, and therefore are rare. In type 2 species, minor form males are smaller than the large-thumbed "major" form males on the average, but considerably overlap the size range of major form males, and therefore are frequently found. In type 1 species the alternative mating strategy may be conditional; in type 2 species the alternative mating strategy may be evolutionarily stable. Jassa is the only genus of mate-guarding amphipods known to dissociate sexual activity from physiological maturity and to have dimorphic secondary sex characters in the male. It is suggested that delay in sexual activity and dimorphism at maturity are responses to competition among males for mates. These adaptations may have developed in response to increased coloniality, which is promoted by a sedentary life within a tube and restriction to hard substrates.
10.2307/1548027| Tanaids collected at four stations by the United States Navy's Antarctic Expedition 1947-1948 comprise three species. Two of them (Nototanais antarcticus, N. dimorphus) are widely distributed in Antarctic waters, and the third one (Mirandotanais vorax) is recorded for the first time since its description in 1974. /// Tanaidaceen wurden von der United States Navy Antarctic Expedition 1947-1948 auf vier Stationen nachgewiesen. Sie stellen Vertreter von drei Arten dar. Zwei von ihnen (Nototanais antarcticus, N. dimorphus) sind in antarktischen Gewssern weit verbreitet und die dritte Art (Mirandotanais vorax) wird zum ersten Mal seit der Beschreibung wieder gemeldet. 
1549583|Although fiddler crabs (genus Uca) have been among the most widely studied organisms with respect to sexual selection, agonistic behavior, asymmetry, and visual and acoustic signaling, the phylogenetic relationships within the genus have remained largely a mystery. After reviewing the systematic history of the genus and its species, including a discussion of the systematic conflicts between two alternative proposals of subgeneric division, a phylogenetic analysis was performed for 88 species on a data matrix of 236 discrete morphological characters. These results were compared to a previously published molecular analysis of 16S ribosomal DNA for 28 species. To a large extent, the uncertainty in the proper taxonomic names for the subgenera can be resolved with these results. The biogeographic history of the genus is discussed, although these results do not provide enough support to allow complete resolution of the deep divergences between Indo-West Pacific and American clades. There is strong morphological evidence to support the monophyly of the broad-front taxa; molecular evidence suggests biogeographic subdivisions.
10.2307/1547850|The compound eye of the cypris larva of Balanus crenatus comprises about 10 ommatidia. The ommatidia possess a crystalline cone formed by three cone cells, two distal pigment cells, and six retinular cells that together form the rhabdom. The compound eye of the cypris larva of Balanus exhibits similarities to that of branchiurans and ostracodes, but the latter two groups share more common characteristics.
10.2307/1548527| The family Leuconidae currently contains 99 species. With the exception of Epileucon, all genera in the family were established by 1907. All new species have been subsequently assigned to those genera, gradually producing genera distinguishable on the basis of single characters. In this paper Epileucon is reduced to a subgenus of Leucon as proposed by Bcescu (1988), and the species of Leucon are further apportioned among the subgenera Leucon Kryer, Macrauloleucon, new subgenus, Crymoleucon, new subgenus, and Alytoleucon, new subgenus. In addition, the new genera Ommatoleucon, Austroleucon, Nippoleucon, and Bytholeucon are proposed, and the genus Coricuma Watling and Breedy is added to this family. The new genus Americuma, with unclear family affiliations, is proposed for a species previously assigned to Heteroleucon. Complete diagnoses are provided for all genera and keys are given to all genera and species. 
10.2307/1548972| The relationships of filtration and ingestion rates at different food concentrations were analyzed in individuals of different sizes in the fairy shrimp Streptocephalus proboscideus and ingestion rate determined in relation to sex, animal density, light and darkness, culture medium, and water quality at one food concentration. Maximum ingestion rates of about 1,000,000 cells animal<sup>-1</sup> h<sup>-1</sup> in adult males (13-14 mm) were measured for food concentrations between 50,000 and 500,000 algal cells (Selenastrum capricornutum) ml<sup>-1</sup>. At higher food concentrations, ingestion rates dropped. For the largest size class tested (13.7 mm), maximum ingestion rate (about 820,000 cells animal<sup>-1</sup> h<sup>-1</sup>) was more than 10 times higher than in the smallest size class (4.4 mm) and was reached at a lower cell concentration (about 80,000 cells ml<sup>-1</sup>) than in the smallest animals (about 280,000 cells ml<sup>-1</sup>). Significant sexual differences in ingestion rates were observed in SRW (P < 0.05) and EEC (P < 0.01) synthetic fresh-water media for the 12-h measurements and in SRW medium for the 3-h experiments (P < 0.05). These results, however, were not confirmed by a third series of 3-h experiments in SRW medium. Significant influences of culture medium on feeding rates were observed in females only. The ingestion rate in darkness (1,435,000  1,118,000 cells animal<sup>-1</sup> h<sup>-1</sup>) was not significantly different from that in light (1,120,000  812,000 cells animal<sup>-1</sup> h<sup>-1</sup>). Increasing the density to more than 10 animals in 500 ml of medium had a negative effect on the feeding rate. High NH<sub>3</sub>-N and NO<sub>2</sub>-N concentrations had an inhibitory effect on food uptake; interpolated EC<sub>50</sub> values were approximately 4 mg l<sup>-1</sup> and 60 mg l<sup>-1</sup> respectively. 
1548436|Parapseudoniphargus baetis, representing a new monotypic genus closely related to Pseudoniphargus Chevreux, is described from hyporheic ground waters. The new taxon appears to be another endemic ground-water crustacean of the basin of the Guadalquivir River in the south of Spain. The morphological features of Parapseudoniphargus baetis suggest special adaptations to an interstitial life. The genus Allomelita Stock is hypothesized as the most plausible sister group of Parapseudoniphargus and Pseudoniphargus.
1549485|The oceanic sergestid shrimp Sergia robusta (Smith, 1882), originally described on material collected off the East coast of U.S., was subsequently reported from the whole Atlantic Ocean, including the Mediterranean Sea. Specimens collected off West Africa south of the Canary Current are characterized by a smaller size and have the clasping organ of the male antennula different from specimens collected in the Northern hemisphere and in the Mediterranean Sea. Other minor differences are also observed in the armature of petasma lobes. The constancy of the shape of the clasping organ with absence of intermediate forms suggests the existence of two species: S. robusta, restricted to the North Atlantic gyre (Gulf Stream, Canary Current, North Equatorial Current) and the whole Mediterranean Sea, and S. manningorum, new species herein described, recorded from northern Namibia to Gulf of Guinea and Senegal. The two species seem to occur sympatrically in the Cape Verde Frontal Zone.
10.2307/1549258|Females of the red-claw crayfish Cherax quadricarinatus do not undergo external changes that may indicate receptivity. To study mating behavior and develop a behavioral assay for female receptivity, pairs of size-matched males and females were housed in aquaria each divided in two by a transparent partition, with a tube-shelter on each side. Observations on shelter occupation were conducted daily at 30-min intervals. In addition, each pair was allowed to interact daily for 10 min after lifting the partition. The female almost invariably initiated the mating activity. Though infrequently observed prior to copulation in this study, the male performed a stereotyped courtship action, namely, sudden thrusts of his chelipeds toward the female. Unlike most crayfishes, the male did not use the claws to grasp, position, or hold the female during copulation, and positioned himself on his dorsum underneath the female. The percentage of observations in which the female was outside the shelter was much higher on the day of mating than on any other day prior to, or following, mating. No behavioral clues for female receptivity were detectable during the daily encounters prior to the day of mating. The level of shelter occupation by females reliably indicates receptivity; it is limited, however, to the day of mating.
10.2307/1548136|Pueruli of spiny lobsters, Panulirus argus, observed at Manchoniel Bay, Carriacou, Grenada, swam only at night. Swimming was in a linear, straightforward manner within a few centimeters of the surface, at speeds up to 10 cm/s. Swimming, sinking, approach, and retreat postures are described. Pueruli did not detect motionless objects prior to contact, but reacted to turbulence caused by waves or current acting upon objects. Pueruli in the laboratory usually swam only within 3 h after sunset; swimming behavior was the same as in the field and confirmed the inability to detect motionless objects prior to contact. Individuals with more than 2 days of pigment development never swam. During daylight, pueruli buried themselves in sand or hid in algae or crevices. Pueruli seldom exhibited any attraction to light. Reliability of recruit monitoring with artificial floating habitats is discussed.
4540315|Little is known about sperm allocation patterns in crustaceans, especially in anomuran crabs. We investigated whether male stone crabs, Hapalogaster dentata, change the number of ejaculated sperm depending on risk of sperm competition, and whether the pattern of sperm allocation to females of different body size varies with male body sizes in laboratory experiments where the male:female sex ratio (SR) and body size of both sexes in mating pairs were controlled. The number of ejaculated sperm differed significantly between matings under SR of 1:1 and 2:1, and males showed an increase in number of ejaculated sperm in the presence of a potential rival male. These results suggest that sperm competition may occur in the stone crab, and superiority in number of ejaculated sperm relative to rival males would be important for increasing male reproductive success in this species. Larger males showed a significant increase in the number of ejaculated sperm with increasing female size, while smaller males did not. The size of the ejaculate passed to larger females by smaller males was significantly reduced, resulting in low fertilization rates of larger females. The ability of males to provide sufficient sperm for fertilization may be one factor resulting in preference of female stone crabs for larger males.
10.2307/1548302|Abbreviated development in the hermit crab Paguristes frontalis is recorded and the glaucothoe described and illustrated. The glaucothoe is compared with that of Paguristes abbreviatus, one of only three other hermit crab species known to display abbreviated development.
1548935|The rhizocephalan barnacle Loxothylacus texanus parasitizes the blue crab Callinectes sapidus in the Gulf of Mexico. In Tamiahua Lagoon, Mexico, although 4 species of Callinectes co-occur, only C. sapidus is parasitized. Parasite prevalence, number of parasite externae per host, host size, and host sex ratio were recorded during 5 sampling trips from November 1984 to October 1985. Overall parasite prevalence in Tamiahua Lagoon (13.3%) can be considered high, compared to values reported for other areas along the northern Gulf of Mexico, and contrary to what previous studies had suggested.
1549963| The aim of the present study was to characterize the total and seasonal fecundity of the hermit crab Paguristes tortugae as well as the influence of shell type on fecundity using the morphometric relationship. Ovigerous females were collected monthly from January to December, 1998, in the infralittoral region of Anchieta Island. Samplings were performed using SCUBA. The hermit crabs and the gastropod shells were measured. Hermit wet weight and shell dry weight were recorded. For the fecundity analysis, only ovigerous females with the eggs in the early phase of development were selected. The number of eggs carried by individuals of several sizes (shield length), condition of development, and egg size were determined. A high percentage (69.88%) of ovigerous females with eggs in the early phase of development were captured, with a low frequency (4.29%) of females with eggs in the final stage of development. Size-frequency distribution during the months showed two peaks in the ovigerous female population (2.5 to 3.4 mm and 4.0 to 5.4 mm of SL). Mean  SD fecundity was 132  102 eggs and tended to increase with increasing SL. No significant difference in fecundity occurred among the various seasons of the year. The results showed continuous and elevated reproduction of P. tortugae, with a high reproductive potential for the population. The pattern of the frequency distribution of ovigerous females tending to bimodality may be characteristic of a population with a two-year life cycle. Considering the four shells most occupied by P. tortugae (Pisania auritula, Cerithium atratum, Morula nodulosa, and Leucozonia nassa), the highest fecundity was observed for ovigerous females occupying larger shells (P. auritula and L. nassa). The reproductive aspects of P. tortugae were related to strategies developed to compensate for interspecific competition, i.e., high and continuous reproductive effort, early maturity, low fecundity, and larger eggs produced. 
4094240|Two new species of Axioidea were found amongst the deep-sea material recently collected from New Caledonia. Meticonaxius dentatus sp. nov. is unique among members of the genus by the presence of the teeth on the rostrum and the merus of the large cheliped. Oxyrhynchaxius tricarinatus sp. nov. is the third species known in the genus and is unique in bearing three dorsal ridges on the abdomen.
10.2307/1548846|The amphipod and isopod crustaceans associated with colonies of the sabellariid worm Phragmatopoma lapidosa were sampled monthly from rock jetties at Sebastian Inlet, Florida, for 1 year. Six isopod and 10 amphipod species were collected. The isopods were strongly dominated by 2 species, Paradella dianae and Sphaeroma walkeri, which composed 98% of total isopod abundance. The amphipods were dominated by 3 species, Hyale perieri, Elasmopus pectinicrus, and Ampithoe pollex, which together made up 91% of total amphipod abundance. Densities of the dominant isopods showed 2 seasonal peaks, in early spring and in fall, associated with recruitment of small individuals to the habitat. Amphipod seasonal abundance patterns were species specific and generally less clear than for the dominant isopods. Maximum estimated abundances of both isopod species (35,000-50,000 m<sup>-2</sup>) and amphipod species (4,000-22,000 m<sup>-2</sup>) were high relative to maximum abundances recorded from other peracarid habitats in the region.
10.2307/1548318|Reproduction and anatomy of the reproductive tracts of males and females of the golden crab Geryon fenneri were studied for one year (1984-1985) in specimens collected from deep water of the eastern Gulf of Mexico. The male crab is larger than female. Their reproductive tracts are typical of brachyurans. Light and electron microscopic studies of the testes and vasa deferentia at various times during the year indicate that G. fenneri has a single reproductive season. Spermatogenesis begins in the fall. By January, many acini of the testes are filled with mature sperm and spermatophores and seminal fluids accumulate in the anterior and middle vasa deferentia. In March all portions of the vasa deferentia are swollen with seminal products. Mating occurs during March and April. The reproductive organs of males are reduced in size from May through September. The fully developed ovary of golden crabs is purple in color. Females oviposit in September and October. Females undergo vitellogenesis at the same time that they carry eggs undergoing embryonic development. Females with broods have ovaries which vary in color and size. They release their larvae during February and March. Females may be reproductive for several seasons and appear to be capable of mating while in the hardened condition.
1549791|Lysmata debelius is a territorial species, characterised by forming long-term pair bonds between individuals. This species is popular in the aquarium trade, and although it has culture potential it is not yet raised on a commercial scale. These coral reef inhabitants are considered to be key species in the natural habitat, and their culture is of conservation interest. One of the main causes of death in captivity is due to a disturbance of the pair bond, which results in one individual killing the other. However, the factors that induce this behaviour are not understood. A three-chambered apparatus was constructed to test binary individual recognition. One individual from a pair and one outsider (a stranger), both in similar reproductive state and size, were placed in different chambers. The other individual of the pair was placed in the remaining space, and its behaviour continuously recorded with a video camera during 3 h. The number of visits and the total time spent in the chamber of its mate over a 30-min interval, analysed with a two-way ANOVA, were significantly higher than for the time spent in the stranger's chamber. These results suggest that Lysmata debelius is able to distinguish a partner from a stranger, and this ability appears to remain for at least 3 h after separation.
27753943|Discovery of a single specimen of cirolanid isopod from the Late Cretaceous of Lebanon permits definition of a new species, Cirolana garassinoi. Preservation with the ventral surface exposed is unique among isopod fossils. The evidence of a thin, apparently transparent cuticle and three pairs of dermoliths suggests that the specimen died while in the pre-molt condition. The ability to sequester calcium and possibly other mineral salts in a marine isopod may indicate a preadaptation to terrestrial lifestyles where the process is common in extant forms.
4540289|Methods for the identification of individual crustaceans are needed in many types of studies. Snow crab (Chionoecetes opilio) individuals have distinctive natural patterns of tubercles and spines on the carapace. The results of a double-marking experiment using these natural markers along with genetic (microsatellite) markers confirm that natural markings are a reliable means of recognizing individuals within groups of tens to hundreds of snow crabs. These natural markings are persistent through at least two molts. They have already demonstrated their usefulness in laboratory studies of molting and mating and could be applied to a wider spectrum of investigations. A cursory examination suggests that similar carapace features could be used to identify individuals in other crustacean species as well.
1549743| I quantified relative growth of the walking legs of the Japanese mitten crab Eriocheir japonica (de Haan) in the Saigo River, Fukuoka Prefecture, Japan. By plotting the third walking leg merus length (LML) against carapace width (CW), I could distinguish four growth phases for both sexes; I then fitted a regression line of allometry (Log Y = a Log X + b) to each phase. In the first phase (not sexed, CW < 4 mm), growth was positively allometric, and relative length of legs increased (a = 1.37). In the second phase (4 mm  CW < 20 mm), growth was nearly isometric, and legs remained relatively longer (a = 1.05 for males and 1.04 for females). In the third phase (20 mm  CW < 40 mm for male, and 20 mm  CW < 37 mm for female), growth was negatively allometric, and relative leg length decreased (a = 0.82 for males and 0.70 for females). In the fourth phase (CW  40 mm for males and CW  37 mm for females) including adult crabs, growth was negatively allometric, and the legs become relatively shorter; for males, relative growth was more negative than for females (a = 0.82 for males and 0.92 for females). These patterns reflect the migratory habit in the life cycle of E. japonica. The first phase occurred just after settlement and metamorphosis (instars 1-3) before starting upstream migration and was preparatory for the migration. The second phase coincided with the period of upstream migration and dispersal. Relatively longer legs increase locomotor activity against the flow and help crab dispersion to the wide area along the river. The third phase is the growth phase after active migration until crabs attain maturity. The fourth phase is the maturity phase, during which adults participating in reproduction emerge and sexual dimorphism becomes evident. There was a morphological variation in fourth phase males (relatively long legs in smaller males and relatively short legs in larger males). The possibility of variation of mating strategy is discussed. 
20487756|The rusty crayfish, Orconectes rusticus, has spread from its original range throughout much of northeastern North America, often completely replacing native crayfish. I tested the hypothesis that reproductive interference is a mechanism of the rusty crayfish's invasion of streams of the upper Susquehanna River watershed, where O. rusticus is replacing the native O. propinquus. I collected females from allopatric and sympatric sites during the spring reproductive period to measure size-specific probability of reproduction, fecundity, and the frequency of nonviable eggs. The predicted size at which females had a 50% probability of reproducing at sympatric sites was slightly larger for O. rusticus and considerably smaller for O. propinquus compared to allopatric sites, but O. propinquus also differed in size among site types. There were no differences between site types in average clutch size or the frequency of nonviable eggs. The differences in reproduction between allopatric and sympatric sites did not strongly support the reproductive interference hypothesis; instead, they may be a result of differences in O. propinquus size structure, possibly related to environmental differences between upstream allopatric and downstream sympatric sites.
10.2307/1549528|Approximately 350 base pairs (bp) of the mitochondrial 16S rRNA gene were used to study the phylogenetic relationships among 5 genera of the clawed lobster family Nephropidae (infraorder Astacidea), including Homarus, Homarinus, Metanephrops, Nephrops, and Nephropsis. Maximum-parsimony analysis, using a hermit crab, Pagurus pollicaris (infraorder Anomura), as an outgroup, produced a tree topology in which Homarus and Nephrops formed a well-supported clade that excluded Homarinus. The same tree topology was obtained from both neighbor-joining and maximum-likelihood analyses. Some morphological characters that appear synapomorphic for Nephrops and Metanephrops may be due to convergence rather than symplesiomorphy. The current taxonomy, therefore, does not reflect the phylogeny of this group as suggested by the molecular data. More molecular data and studies using homologous morphological characters are needed to reach a better understanding of the phylogenetic history of clawed lobsters.
27753938|Species assemblages of Alpheus of similar morphology occur along the tropical and subtropical margins of all world oceans. We studied sympatric populations of Alpheus belonging to three color morphs recognized along an intertidal gradient at Cabo Branco beach, State of Paraba, Brazil. Morphological measurements of populations sampled monthly during a year were used to obtain indexes of size and fluctuating asymmetry. Standard statistical analyses were used in order to verify if the stress gradient established along the intertidal region affects spatial distribution, size and body symmetry in these three sympatric populations. Alpheus armillatus sensu stricto, the most frequent species, was predominant in the upper meso-littoral zone, being significantly smaller in the lower zone. A. cf. angulosus was predominant in the middle zone, while A. cf. heterochaelis was restricted to the upper zone. Individuals of A. cf. angulosus were significantly smaller than those of the other two morphs. Males were larger than females in all morphotypes, while cheliped dimensions show allometric growth. Couples invariably belong to a same morph. We obtained indications that competition between morphs are favoring the establishment of larger individuals in the most disputed zones of the middle and upper meso-littoral, although we were not able to confirm whether wave action was the main environmental factor responsible for these gradients in body size and symmetry along the intertidal region. Our data provide further ecological and biological evidence for the three color morphs representing distinct species, whose sympatric populations may be further recognized by additional morphological criteria. However, we are unsure about the constancy of these auxiliary distinguishing characters for allopatric populations from throughout their full western Atlantic ranges.
20487708|We describe a new species of remipede crustacean from an anchialine cave system in the Exuma Cays, Bahamas. Pleomothra fragilis n. sp. is the second species assigned to the genus Pleomothra Yager, 1989. It is a relatively small species that occurs in sympatry with other remipedes, copepods, ostracods and amphipods. Pleomothra fragilis can easily be distinguished from Pleomothra apletocheles by the shape of its head shield, relatively long caudal rami, differently shaped, smaller maxillules, and a completely reduced lacinia mobilis on the left mandible. The reduction of the left lacinia and the sixth maxillular segment represent unique features that are only found in Pleomothra. At present, interpretations of these reductions are purely speculative since developmental data of remipedes are largely lacking. However, our recent collection of five larvae included a postnauplius that could be identified as belonging to the genus Pleomothra. The postnauplius exhibits transitional morphologic features that facilitate to evaluate autapomorphies in Pleomothra.
4094113|The microstructure of denticles in paired extant and fossil specimens of Callinectes Stimpson, 1860, and Scylla de Haan, 1833, is examined and compared to the cuticle from the remainder of the claw. Denticles of Scylla serrata and Callinectes sapidus are differentiated from the surrounding cuticle by differences in the number of pore canals, tegumental canals, density, microhardness, and phosphorous content. Differentiated denticles can be observed in fossil Scylla and Callinectes on the basis of structure and phosphorus content. Increased hardness of denticle-type cuticle functions to resist abrasion encountered during durophagy and to resist the high forces generated by the denticles as a result of their geometry. Infolds along the lateral margins of the denticles are hypothesized to allow denticles to develop beneath the old cuticle before the molt, and then to emerge and expand after the molt. Future chemical and mineralogical work involving crustaceans should take into account the presence of denticle-type cuticle and not treat the cuticle of chelae as homogeneous tissue. Because denticle-type cuticle can be recognized in the fossil record, the emergence, variation, and phylogenetic trends of this adaptation can be tested. The increased calcification of claw tips and denticles may make them even more durable than the chelae.
10.2307/1548340|Four lines (3 selfing and 1 sexual) of the tadpole shrimp Triops longicaudatus (LeConte), reared in the laboratory, exhibited significant reductions in growth and egg production with increasing density (5, 10, and 16 shrimp per 40-1 aquarium). Growth and fecundity were similar within the 2 morphologically distinguishable forms (long and short), whereas the long-form shrimp grew larger but produced fewer eggs than the short-form shrimp. Growth and age at death did not differ between the 2 reproductive classes. The sexual shrimp showed lower average egg production than the 3 selfing lines. Life-history trade-offs were not apparent between egg production, growth, and survivorship within any of the 4 lines examined. However, a nonsignificant negative correlation was found between mean egg production and growth among the 4 shrimp lines. These ecological results, combined with electrophoretic and morphological measures, reveal a consistent pattern of differences between the long and short forms of T. longicaudatus.
1549885|The Rhizocephala is a group of extremely reduced parasitic crustaceans, that exclusively parasitize other Crustacea. In the family Sacculinidae, the external sac-like part (externa) of the adult parasite contains the reproductive apparatus and is attached beneath the abdomen of the host crab. Hosts with more than one externa may occur and are in most cases believed to have arisen from multiple cyprid larvae. However, in three species of the genus Sacculina, multiple externae have been shown to originate by asexual reproduction from a single parasitic cypris larva. We present a phylogenetic analysis of ten species of Sacculina and outgroups based on partial sequences from the cytochrome oxidase 1 (CO1) and the entire 18s rDNA gene. A separate parsimony analysis from the 18s rDNA and CO1 genes resulted in two trees with almost identical topologies. Both genes strongly support a monophyletic, asexually reproducing clade and fail to support a monophyletic Sacculina genus. As a consequence we have established a new genus, Polyascus, to accommodate three members of this clade which also share a number of common morphological features.
10.2307/1548838|The digestive tract of the cephalocarid Hutchinsoniella macracantha begins with an atrium oris, posterior to the mouth. The esophagus loops up through the head and ends with a valve to the midgut. The epithelial cells and cuticle of both these structures are connected with long, winding, apically distended microvilli. The midgut is a straight tube with a pair of diverticula anteriorly. Midgut epithelial cells have microvilli, light vesicles, and a peculiar endoplasmic reticulum that is produced into a palisade of extensions toward the apical surface. Outside the basal lamina are muscle and peri-intestinal cells which send fingerlike projections into the basal portion of the midgut epithelial cells. The rectum joins the midgut near the end of the eighteenth segment and consists of unspecialized epithelial cells. In spite of the simple gross morphology the digestive tract has a complicated musculature. Circular muscles follow the whole tract including the diverticula. Radial muscles attach to the esophagus and rectum. Many longitudinal muscles are found inside the circular muscles in the anterior part of the midgut but only a few outside posteriorly. Gland cells occur in the labrum and diverticula. Absorption of nutrients seems to be limited to the midgut epithelial cells. Metabolites are transported via their endoplasmic reticulum to that of the peri-intestinal cells.
10.2307/1548602|Aflagellate sperm of the crayfishes Cherax tenuimanus and Cherax albidus are composed of an acrosome, subacrosomal region, collar, and nucleus. The acrosomes are helmet-shaped and PAS positive. In C. tenuimanus, they can be subdivided into a granular inner region and a homogeneous outer region. A series of electron-translucent canals runs through the acrosomes of both species. In C. albidus, these canals are arranged in whorling patterns, while in C. tenuimanus they are present near the base of the acrosome and contain a small electron-dense component. The subacrosomal regions are metachromatic when stained with methylene blue and contain a network of fibrils and granules. The collars are composed of granular material, which is positioned immediately subjacent to the subacrosomal region, and of highly convoluted membrane lamellae. Mitochondria and microtubules are associated with the membrane lamellae. The nuclei contain uncondensed chromatin and are bounded by a complete nuclear envelope. Sperm are surrounded by a moderately electron-dense matrix containing granules and filaments. Sperm of Cherax tenuimanus have large deposits of an electron-dense material on their surface. In contrast, sperm of C. albidus have long extracellular lamellae associated with the extracellular surface of their plasma membrane, and these lamellae are also found in the extracellular matrix surrounding the sperm of C. albidus. In both species, the sperm and extracellular materials are surrounded by a moderately PAS-positive primary spermatophore layer which is in turn surrounded by a secondary spermatophore layer secreted from the wall of the vas deferens. This layer includes dense granules which are supported in a matrix. In C. tenuimanus, this matrix is homogeneous, while in C. albidus, this matrix contains light and dark staining areas. The darker regions often have a fibrous appearance. A comparison is made between sperm of C. tenuimanus and C. albidus and the sperm of other pleocyematan species.
1549865| Ceratonotus pectinatus Sars, 1909, the type species of Ceratonotus Sars, 1909 (Copepoda: Harpacticoida: Ancorabolidae), is redescribed on the basis of females collected from southern Norway and by re-examination of extant material from the collections of Sars (Oslo, Norway), Lang (Stockholm, Sweden), and Drzycimski (Bergen, Norway). Some morphological characteristics of C. pectinatus males are provided from direct observations of the male copepodid V stage. Re-examination of Por's (1965) material from Raunefjord, Norway, did not provide any conclusive evidence to maintain C. pectinatus elaphus as a valid subspecies; it is considered here a junior subjective synonym of C. pectinatus. The validity of C. coineaui Soyer, 1964, is confirmed. Two new species of Ceratonotus are described, each based on a single sex, C. thistlei () from the San Diego Trough (northeastern Pacific) and C. concavus () from the eastern Mediterranean. An updated generic diagnosis for Ceratonotus is provided and intergeneric relationships discussed. Dendropsyllus thomasi, new genus, new species, is described from the San Diego Trough, northeastern Pacific. The new genus is characterised by the distinctive pattern of dendroid body processes (lacking on abdominal somites), lateroventral margins of cephalothorax with well-developed conical process, P1 exp-2 with 4 geniculate setae, P1 enp-2 with 1 apical seta, complete absence of P2 endopod, P3 exp-3 with 1 inner seta, and loss of the inner seta on P4 exp-3. Ceratonotus magellanicus and C. antarcticus, previously isolated as a distinct clade through parsimony analysis by Conroy-Dalton (2001), are both transferred to Dendropsyllus because they deviate significantly from the revised diagnosis for Ceratonotus. Ceratonotus and Dendropsyllus share a close sister-group relationship strongly supported by eight synapomorphies. The general phylogenetic relationships within the Ceratonotus-group are reinforced. 
10.2307/1548413|For the first time a hermit crab has been found inhabiting a truly fresh-water environment. This new species of Clibanarius is described, illustrated, and compared with its estuarine relatives.
1549670|A new genus and new species of pandalid shrimp, Calipandalus elachys, is described on the basis of the specimens from Taiwan, Solomon Islands, and New Caledonia in the western Pacific Ocean. Calipandalus new genus resembles Bitias Fransen, 1990, in the lack of an exopod on the third maxilliped, the short rostrum, and the presence of arthrobranchs on the four anterior pereopods. It is distinguished from Bitias by the presence of tegumental scales, the moderately spaced, fixed dorsal teeth on the rostrum proper, the short antennular stylocerite, and the peculiar structures of the mandibular palp and the chela of the second pereopod. The new species also bears similarity to particular species of Plesionika Bate, 1888, although the absence of an exopod on the third maxilliped sets the new species apart from Plesionika.
1549343| Two new Cletocamptus species, C. axi and C. schmidti, collected from lagoons of the Islands of Santa Cruz and Floreana, Galpagos Archipelago, are described and illustrated. A careful morphological analysis established a close relationship, or even the identity, with the widely distributed species C. deitersi. The two forms differ slightly from each other in their body ornamentation and in the chaetotaxy of the exopodites of pereiopods 3 and 4. Nevertheless, they fit well in the oftendocumented variability of C. deitersi. Their co-occurrence at one study site, however, suggests the existence of two distinct species, without intermediates, in the Galpagos Islands. A map showing the distribution of both species known so far in the area of investigation is provided. 
10.2307/1549119| A molecular characterization of yolk proteins in Squilla mantis is presented and their specific features are compared with the characteristics of crustacean yolk proteins as described by other authors. Two immunologically unrelated proteins, A and B, are identified in mature animals by means of immunoelectrophoresis, both showing a different mobility (A and B) in early maturing animals when compared with mature forms. Correlation with maturity stages is based on morphological parameters such as total length, cement gland, and ovarian size. Shifts in electrophoretic mobility also occur when hemolymphatic (vitellogenins--VTGs) and ovarian (lipovitellins--LVs) forms are compared in the same individual. The results are compared with those obtained from other decapods and the practical application of VTG quantification techniques in aquaculture is stressed. 
10.2307/1549444|The early life history is described and compared in the estuarine callianassid shrimp species Lepidophthalmus sinuensis from the Caribbean coast of Colombia and L. louisianensis from the northern Gulf of Mexico, on the basis of laboratory larval cultures and wild plankton collections. Both species have an abbreviated larval development of 2 zoeal stages usually transcended within 3-4 days, with that of L. sinuensis being the shorter and exhibiting greater advancement in the zoeal stages. Development in both species is markedly shorter and morphologically more advanced than in comparable callianassid species for which stages have been described, including most of those known to have only 2 zoeal stages. Larval duration in Lepidophthalmus is nearest that of the ecologically comparable Callianassa s.l. kraussi from southern Africa and suggests possible convergence in early developmental strategies. On the basis of presently known larval histories, genera allied to Lepidophthalmus within the Callichirinae appear to either have long larval histories of 5 zoeal stages, or, if of 2 stages, to bear a morphological resemblance as zoeae to comparable stages in some of the non-Callichirinae. The decapodid (first postlarval) stage is imaginal in form and exhibits burrowing behavior, though appendage development is far short of adult form. Successive early postlarval development and behavior beyond this stage remains unknown. Detailed illustrations of zoeal and decapodid stages are provided to support comparative discussions and for use in larval identifications.
10.2307/1548562|Morphological lipofuscin was specifically demonstrated in the central nervous system of a crustacean for the first time. It was primarily associated with neuroglia and axons within cell masses in the brain, particularly the olfactory nuclei. It exhibited fluorescence, staining, and ultrastructural properties similar to the lipofuscin of other invertebrates and vertebrates. Pigment was quantified using morphometric image analysis techniques and shown to be more concentrated in larger animals than smaller ones. The conclusive demonstration of the presence of lipofuscin in a crustacean brain should facilitate the refocusing of crustacean age-determination studies.
10.2307/1549076| Eighteen species of sergestid shrimps are found in the upper 1,000 m of the eastern Gulf of Mexico (27N, 86W). Species composition of the assemblage is most closely allied with that of subtropical western North Atlantic. Most of the group migrate into the epipelagic zone at night. During the day the mature stages of all species center below 200 m. Seven species have bimodal distributions at night with early juvenile stages occurring in the upper 50 m, and the older stages between 100-200 m. Two species retain bimodal distributions during the day. The genus Sergia is centered deeper in the water column than Sergestes. Standing stocks in the upper 1,000 m are 1.14 10<sup>6</sup> individuals km<sup>-2</sup> and 41 kg dry wt. km<sup>-2</sup>. The three most abundant species are Sergia splendens, Sergestes pectinatus, and Sergestes atlanticus; the principal biomass species are Sergia splendens, Sergestes henseni, and Sergia robustus. Sergestids are zooplanktivores, with crustaceans as the predominant food. Important individual diet categories are copepods, ostracods, euphausiids, coelenterates, chaetognaths, and olive-colored debris. The latter, possibly marine snow, contains a spectrum of phytoplankton and protozoans. Comparisons of vertical distributions and diets suggest resource partitioning among sergestids. One species pair, Sergestes henseni and Sergestes paraseminudus, members of the "corniculum" group, had closely overlapping diets and vertical distributions. In terms of the two major niche parameters, food and space, they appear to be ecologically the same, and given their minute morphological differences, may represent different morphs of the same species. 
4094229|The distribution of the prawn species belonging to the genus Palaemonetes is not well defined in the Mediterranean, especially in the south of France where controversy exists concerning taxonomic identification at the species level. A molecular diagnostic technique allowed us to determine without any doubt the presence of Palaemonetes varians in the Camargue. These basic results allowed us to undertake the ecological study of the species, which took place in the context of a massive 100-year flood during the winter 1993/94, leading to a rapid and major fall in salinity that remained low until 1997, before increasing. The impacts of low salinity on the catch and life history traits of Palaemonetes varians in the lagoon were investigated from 1993 to 1999. There was a positive correlation between catches and salinity. Although we observed a major decline in recruitment between the years 1993 and 1994, reproduction parameters and growth did not seem to be affected by low salinity. A comparative study of various life history traits between Mediterranean and northern environments populations was also conducted.
4540245|We present an inventory of the free-living freshwater copepod crustaceans recorded from the state of Florida, U.S.A. The list is based on previously published information and on new data collected during recent research on surface- and groundwater-dwelling copepods in Everglades National Park, and a few collections in temporary and permanent surface waterbodies elsewhere in the state. We provide information on the ecology and taxonomy of some of the species, and a key for the identification of all the taxa. A total of 65 taxa of freeliving copepods: 9 calanoids, 41 cyclopoids, and 15 harpacticoids are now known from the peninsula. Forty-four of these are known from Everglades National Park and adjacent areas; we add four species to a previous checklist for this region. The historically more intensive sampling here has resulted in the discovery of five new named taxa and six that remain in open nomenclature, 10 of which have so far been found only in the Everglades. Of the species collected so far in central and northern Florida, two calanoids and one cyclopoid have been found only in the state so far, whereas all the others are widespread in North America and beyond. Among the predominant North American fauna is a small neotropical component consisting of one calanoid, six cyclopoids, and five harpacticoids. One cyclopoid species is considered to be introduced.
10.2307/1548565|The morphology of the frontal knobs of sibling species of Artemia is analyzed in comparison with previously described Artemia franciscana (Tyson and Sullivan, 1979; Wolfe, 1980) by means of optical and SEM microscopy and discussed. According to the overall morphology of the knobs, we can distinguish two main patterns: (1) New World bisexual species (subspherical knobs), and (2) Old World bisexual species (subconical knobs). Further differences are outlined in the number and arrangement of spines, though their significance is still unknown at present.
4126705| We report on the morphology and occurrence of the "mystax," an overlooked cephalic structure found in males of certain Notostraca. The mystax is a conspicuous, protuberant, dark-brownish sclerodermal stripe located on the anteroventral flange of the carapace. Histological sections show the mystax as an expansion of the exoskeleton formed by the exocuticle. Examination of exuviae revealed that the old mystax remains intact in the shed cuticle. In some Triops populations of Mxico and Japan, large individuals bearing ovisacs exhibit a "pseudomystax," which consists of a dark-brownish band in nearly the same position as the mystax, but it does not form a protuberant stripe. A total of 661 males and 6402 ovisac-bearing individuals from four continents were examined. The mystax was found in males of Triops australiensis from Australia, T. granarius from Japan, Triops sp. from North America, Triops sp. from Africa, and Triops sp. from Asia. The mystax is absent in all ovisac-bearing individuals of all species analyzed and in all males of Triops cancriformis (Africa, Europe, and Japan), and in all males of the genus Lepidurus. Practical and systematic implications of the mystax are discussed. 
10.2307/1549055|Food detection and acquisition behavior and associated chemosensory structures were studied in shallow- and deep-water species of scavenging amphipods belonging to the superfamily Lysianassoidea. The morphology and distribution of chemoreceptors were examined in 12 amphipod species with light and scanning and transmission electron microscopy. Behavioral observations were made on two species from the genus Orchomene, one shallow- and one deep-water form. Chemoreceptors were classified as olfactory or gustatory on the basis of functional and morphological criteria. The largest concentrations of olfactory receptors occurred in callynophores, patches of aesthetasc setae on the first articles of the antennular flagella, while gustatory receptors were widely distributed on the thoracic appendages, particularly on the gnathopods. As in other crustacean groups, these two groups of chemoreceptors appeared to be employed in different ways, with olfactory receptors operating in the detection of water-borne stimuli and gustatory receptors functioning in the sampling of substrate-bound chemicals. Olfactory setae were typically more abundant than gustatory setae, although this was not true in all cases. Based on behavioral observations of Orchomene abyssorum and O. limodes, the food detection and acquisition process was separated into 4 stages, each with a characteristic suite of behaviors and each employing a specific set of sensilla. The first two stages, detection and localization, primarily involved olfactory setae, while the third, chemical characterization of the food item, was gustatory in nature. The fourth stage, ingestion, appeared to be largely mechanical, although a chemosensory component may also have been involved.
10.2307/1549074|This paper reports the first observations of podding behavior (aggregation) for the Pacific lyre crab Hyas lyratus near Kodiak Island, Alaska. Pods containing approximately 2,000 crabs of both sexes were observed on 2 separate occasions during dives in the 2-person submersible Delta in April 1991. The pods appeared to be mating aggregations. The pods occurred in an average depth of 115 m.
4540290|The male gonopores, internal male reproductive apparatus, and spermatophores of the Mediterranean hermit crab Clibanarius erythropus are described, using interference phase microscopy and scanning electron microscopy. A discussion on the relationship between the gonopore morphology and the different kinds of setae accompanying them, and the reproductive biology of these crabs is presented. Each testis merges into a tubular duct made up of four zones: 1) the collecting tubule with free sperm; 2) the proximal zone, where the ampulla of the spermatophore starts to be formed; 3) the medial zone, where the ampulla is completed, the stalk lengthens and the pedestal is formed; 4) the distal zone, where the mature spermatophores are stored. In the mature spermatophore the two halves of the ampulla meet at the distinct lateral ridge. Sizes of the different parts of the spermatophore are given and their morphology described. The importance of the morphology of the paguroid gonopore, male reproductive system, and spermatophore is confirmed for phylogenetic studies within the Paguroidea and Anomura.
10.2307/1548800|The crustacean-dominated zooplankton community that lives in the upper 5 m of water in one of southeastern Alaska's bays was monitored before and after spring pycnocline formation. Zooplankton abundance and wet weight biomass in the upper 5 m of the surface layer reached peak values of 50,000 m<sup>-3</sup> and 2.5 g m<sup>-3</sup>, respectively. Surface populations were dominated by barnacle nauplii, with substantial contributions by the copepods Pseudocalanus spp., Acartia spp., and Centropages abdominalis. Barnacle nauplii were only a minor component of the zooplankton in whole water-column samples. Surface zooplankton abundance and biomass were higher at night than during the day in April and early May, prior to stabilization of the water column. The day versus night differences were primarily due to diurnal vertical migration by barnacle nauplii. Obvious diurnal differences in abundance and biomass of zooplankton at the sea surface were not detected after pycnocline formation. After pycnocline formation, copepod biomass in the upper 5 m was about 5 times higher than that of the integrated water column. This may explain why many young fishes congregate in the surface layer to feed.
10.2307/1548272|Examination of more than 100 individuals of Procaris ascensionis revealed a sex ratio of eight females to one male. Sexes can be determined by the presence of genital apertures on the coxal surface of the third pereiopod in females and the fifth pereiopod in males, as is typical in caridean shrimp. No other secondary sexual characteristics were noted. The mature spermatozoan, a typical "inverted umbrella" consisting of a cell body, cap, and spike, is described and compared to those of other shrimp taxa. A single female was discovered in the laboratory carrying approximately 60 bright orange eggs (diameter 0.83-0.93 mm) on the endopods of the pleopods. These observations confirm the placement of the Procarididea in the suborder Pleocyemata (infraorder Caridea).
1549792| Hermit crabs depend on gastropod shells that influence many characteristics of their life histories. The relationship between shell utilization patterns and biological attributes enables comparisons among populations and discussions of the influence of the environment (shell supply) on hermit crab biology. This study was undertaken in a cobble/boulder low slope rocky shore in Grande Beach, So Sebastio, So Paulo State, Brazil. Crabs were randomly sampled, measured (shield length), and their sexes were determined. Shells were identified, sized (height, width, and aperture length), and weighed. Four hermit crab species were registered: Clibanarius antillensis, Paguristes tortugae, Pagurus criniticornis, and Calcinus tibicen. Shell use was influenced by shell availability, despite the selection of certain shell types and sizes by hermit crabs. Shells were not considered a limiting resource to this hermit crab assemblage, and shell availability was dependent on shell type and size as well as on individual size and species composition of the hermit crab assemblage (presence of competing species). Shell partitioning among crab species was recorded and associated with species coexistence in this area. Differential shell use was recorded among size and reproductive classes of C. antillensis. There was a tendency toward high numbers of ovigerous females in relatively lighter (smaller) and small-aperture shells, such as Cerithium atratum and Morula nodulosa, which was associated with growth restriction and low fecundity imposed by shell morphology. 
10.2307/1549305|Zoeal and first postlarval stages of the Gulf of Mexico and Florida Atlantic populations of the ghost shrimp Callichirus major were obtained from laboratory cultures. Forty to sixty larvae from each parental female (8 from the Gulf population, and 4 from the Florida Atlantic population) were reared individually to obtain stage-duration data, while morphological studies were based on animals from mass cultures. Durations of larval stages were similar in larvae from different females and different populations. The Florida Atlantic population of C. major passed through 4 or 5 zoeal stages before molting to the decapodid stage. In contrast, the Gulf population almost always passed through 4 zoeal stages, and rarely had 3 or 5 zoeal stages. In both populations, duration for each of the first 3 zoeal stages was about 2 days. Duration of the fourth zoeal stage was, as in the decapodid stage, typically 3-4 days. When present, the fifth zoeal stage was usually 3-4 days in duration. Larvae from these populations were morphologically similar, with the persistent exception of the outermost spines on the posterior margin of the telson and the dorsal spine on abdominal segment 2, both of which were longer in the Gulf of Mexico population. Comparisons with other species in the genus Callichirus showed that the 2 populations of C. major were morphologically closer to the Brazilian Callichirus sp. (formerly referred to as C. major) than to C. islagrande and C. garthi.
1548997| Virgin female Chionoecetes opilio were paired with males, in a noncompetitive laboratory setting, less than 12 h after molting to maturity. The quantity of sperm that females received and stored was measured as ejaculate weight and number of sperm cells. Females copulated 1-4 times prior to spawning; the first and second intromissions lasted an average of 34.4 and 37.7 min, respectively. On the whole, the weight of ejaculate and number of sperm cells did not differ between the left and right spermathecae. The number of sperm cells received or stored in spermathecae was independent of male and female carapace widths. Morphometrically mature (large claw) males transmitted an estimated 10.8 10<sup>6</sup> sperm cells to each spermatheca, and an estimated 2.1 10<sup>6</sup> sperm cells from each spermatheca were used to fertilize the first egg clutch (70 sperm cells per oocyte). Females did not extrude eggs when fewer than 1.9 10<sup>5</sup> sperm cells were delivered to at least one spermatheca, resulting in a ratio of <7 sperm cells per oocyte. A median of 10.2 10<sup>6</sup> and 8.7 10<sup>6</sup> sperm cells were stored per spermatheca by females that extruded eggs after mating with morphometrically immature (small claw) and morphometrically mature males, respectively. The ratio of number of sperm cells to ejaculate weight was significantly greater in stored ejaculates from morphometrically immature males than in those from morphometrically mature males. Both male morphs mated successively with 5 different females over a period of 14-33 days, with no significant change in the weight of ejaculate or the number of sperm cells stored by females after spawning. 
10.2307/1548714| The effect of infestation by an ectocommensal gill barnacle, Octolasmis muelleri, on gas exchange in the blue crab Callinectes sapidus was assessed by comparing respiratory parameters of infested crabs with those of uninfested controls. Infested crabs maintained their oxygen uptake (MO<sub>2</sub>) at the same level as controls (28 mol O<sub>2</sub> kg<sup>-1</sup> min<sup>-1</sup>); however, heart rate (F<sub>h</sub>) and scaphognathite rate (F<sub>sc</sub>) increased 1.4 and 1.8, respectively. Heavily infested crabs did not differ from uninfested crabs with respect to prebranchial hemolymph pH (7.5), CO<sub>2</sub> concentration (6.6 mmol l<sup>-1</sup>) PO<sub>2</sub> (1.9 kPa), or to postbranchial pH (7.4), PO<sub>2</sub> (4.1 kPa), and O<sub>2</sub> concentration (0.1 mmol l<sup>-1</sup>). This suggests that these crabs can compensate for the presence of the barnacle in their ventilatory stream. However, moderately infested crabs exhibited lower prebranchial hemolymph pH (7.2) and CO<sub>2</sub> concentration (4.5 mmol l<sup>-1</sup>) and an elevated PO<sub>2</sub> (3.23 kPa). These values are similar to those of blue crabs during exercise. Compensation is achieved by increasing ventilation volume (1.7) and cardiac output (1.4). Concomitant facilitation of oxygen delivery at the tissues would be necessary for complete compensation. Circulating lactate levels were similar for all crabs, indicating that an increase in anaerobic metabolism is not necessary for compensation. Although heavily infested crabs (> 20 ectocommensals) appeared to compensate for barnacle presence, extremely heavily infested crabs (> 50 ectocommensals) did not survive the experimental stress. Because median natural infestation levels are low, the barnacle probably does not pose a serious threat to the blue crab population. 
10.2307/1548766| Production of the euphausiid Nyctiphanes simplex Hansen in Vizcano Bay was 1,736 mg m<sup>-2</sup> yr<sup>-1</sup> as determined from size-class distributions through 9 sampling periods during 1966. The production: biomass (P:B) ratio for this period was 17.0. Production due to growth was 74.7%, exuviae 23.4%, and only 1.9% due to eggs. Most reproduction was in the fall. Maximal recruitment and spawning female aggregations (containing > 50 ind m<sup>-2</sup>) occurred in September, with a mean batch fecundity per spawner of 46 eggs. Maturation time for the eggs was estimated at 30 days, and 3 spawning events seem to be the usual quota per female. The reproductive pattern during fall in Vizcano Bay seemed to be related to local eddy development in which adults were retained. 
1549175|Macrobrachium vicconi, new species, from a rain forest of southeastern Mexico is described. It is similar to Macrobrachium quelchi and Macrobrachium atabapense in total length, partially abbreviated larval development, and cornea not reduced. Macrobrachium vicconi differs from those species in the size-ratio of the articles of the legs, the spinous ornamentation, and the length of the second pereiopods. Macrobrachium vicconi is more closely related to the inland South American complex of Macrobrachium in bearing few large eggs, than to other epigean species described in the genus from the Americas. The new species is the first epigean species of Macrobrachium with partially abbreviated larval development described from North America, Central America, and the Caribbean.
10.2307/1548274|Small lesions were made in the integument of Cambarus bartonii, Crangon septemspinosa, Gammarus oceanicus, and Idotea baltica. Examination by light and transmission electron microscopy of tissue removed at several intervals up to 8 weeks after injury demonstrated that all species produced repair cuticle across the wound. While there were differences in the organization of this material in the four species, none of the repair cuticles contained an epicuticle. These observations, together with others reported in the literature for Crustacea and other arthropods, suggest that the absence of epicuticle is a general property of arthropod repair cuticle.
41315716|The freshwater amphipod Gammarus pulex is widely distributed in freshwater streams and rivers of Europe. This amphipod also has isolated hypogean populations, which are transparent in appearance, suggestive of adaptation to their cave environment. Since cave habitats are often food limited, physiological adaptations have been observed that reduce the energy expenditure of cave organisms. Osmoregulation is an energetically expensive mechanism that allows gammarids to survive in fresh water. This study tested the hypothesis that differences in osmoregulation existed between hypogean and epigean populations of G. pulex. The osmoregulatory parameters measured were haemolymph cation concentrations, water and sodium fluxes and gill Na/K-ATPase activity. The hypogean G. pulex had significantly lower haemolymph sodium and potassium concentrations, but had a significantly higher haemolymph ammonium concentration than the epigean G. pulex. The low food availability in the hypogean environment was considered to be the underlying cause for these differences in haemolymph ion concentrations.
10.2307/1547941|Sewellina subtilis, new species (Crustacea, Copepoda, Harpacticoida), from the coast of Sri Lanka, is described and characterized as follows: a small 1-segmented P<sub>1</sub> exopodite; a strong seta on the first segment of P<sub>1</sub> endopodite in both sexes; P<sub>5</sub> showing sexual dimorphism, formed in the holotype by a narrow and elongate lamina ending in a strong spine, accompanied by a short spur and an external seta. A comparison of the new species with Sewellina reducta Krishnaswamy, 1956 (including the publications of Krishnaswamy, 1957, and Rao and Ganapati, 1969), required a review of the genus. Parasewellina prima, new genus, new species, also from Sri Lanka is placed in the Psammopsyllinae since it has a 2-segmented exopodite and a 1-segmented endopodite in P<sub>3</sub> and P<sub>4</sub>. Remarks on the subfamily Psammopsyllinae and data on ecology and sampling sites are given.
4094228|This study investigates the influence of gender on feeding and habitat niches in the ocypodid sentinel crabs Macrophthalmus convexus and M. definitus feeding on a mudflat in the Wakatobi Marine National Park, Indonesia. Male M. convexus possess sub-equal chelae that are considerably larger than those of females and of those of both genders of M. definitus. Habitat location, food (Chl a) biomass index in microalgae and seagrass mats on muddy sediments, faecal material, and feeding rates were analysed in females and males of both species throughout the lunar cycle in July and August 2002. Food biomass content was significantly higher in the upper than in the lower mudflat (P = 0.008). The particle size of faecal material did not vary between species or between genders of M. definitus, but the faeces contained larger particles in males of M. convexus compared with females and both gender of M. definitus. Macrophthalmus convexus predominantly inhabited pools on the upper and mid mudflats, whereas M. definitus was found in muddy sea-grass substrates on the mid and lower mudflats. Crabs were observed to emerge for feeding only on ebb tide during daylight. Macrophthalmus convexus showed significantly higher scoop rates than M. definitus (P < 0.05) during full and new moon. Feeding rates in male M. convexus were also significantly lower than of females (P < 0.001) throughout the lunar cycle. In contrast, feeding motions in M. definitus were generally variable and not gender-specific. However, males showed significantly reduced scoop rates in this species on the lower mudflat during the first quarter moon (P < 0.001). Scoop rate is not the only process affecting potential ingestion rate, however, in that several 'pinches' of sediment may be made by the chela before it is lifted towards the mouthparts.
10.2307/1548212|A wide ranging western Atlantic species of Ogyrides having a crest of 3-14 postrostral spines is recognized as O. alphaerostris (Kingsley) after reassessment of the authenticity of its type-specimen in the U.S. National Museum of Natural History. A companion species having a single postrostral spine, long erroneously known as O. alphaerostris, is recognized as a new species, O. hayi. A short review of each species includes synonymy and diagnosis.
1549203|Four large (Type I) interneurons with cell bodies in the anterior cluster of the brain and decussating axonal processes in an oesophageal connective initiate antennular withdrawal behavior in Callinectes sapidus. Recurrent neurites from the oesophageal process of each interneuron project into antennal and lateral antennular neuropils. These recurrent processes have varicosities on their terminal processes that are hypothesized to possess output synapses onto antennular withdrawal motoneurons. Secondary neurites of Type I interneurons in the medial antennular neuropil receive tertiary branches from antennal and lateral antennular neuropils. These secondary neurites in the medial antennular neuropil also receive short latency, excitatory input from mechanosensory afferent fibers from the antennule base. Intracellular depolarization of Type I interneurons produces antennular withdrawal ipsilateral to the descending axonal process. Intracellular recordings from identified withdrawal motoneurons during depolarization of Type I interneurons produces excitatory postsynaptic activity in these motoneurons that is of short latency. Hyperpolarization tests of Type I interneurons during stimulus-evoked fictive antennular withdrawal show that each is sufficient but not necessary for the production of withdrawal. Type I interneurons in Callinectes are morphologically and physiologically similar to interneurons previously described in Carcinus maenas.
1549840|The objective of the present research is to study the seasonal morphometric variations of the secondary sexual characters of Aristaeomorpha foliacea and Aristeus antennatus males. Samples were collected from December 1996 to November 1997 using a commercial bottom trawl in a depth range of 446-728 m in the southeastern Ionian Sea (Mediterranean Sea). This is the first attempt to resolve the morphometry of the appendix masculina and appendix interna of these species. Carapace length and lengths and widths of appendix masculina and appendix interna were measured in both species. The relationships between the surfaces of the two appendices and the carapace length in both species were studied. There is a positive allometric growth of these structures in both species. Temporal and bathymetric variation of the above variables are also presented. The possible role of the two appendices in copulation of these two species is discussed.
10.2307/1548241|Members of the amphipod families Phoxocephalidae and Haustoriidae are small, mobile, efficient sand-burrowers. Three species are particularly dominant in the crustacean zone on subtidal sands of Monterey Bay. Life history traits of two phoxocephalids and one haustoriid characterize them as annual, univoltine, and producing a few, large eggs. However, the two families differ in several significant ways: time of year that they reproduce, sex ratios, swimming behavior, and diet. These contrasts reflect greater specialization, including method of reproduction, in the haustoriids. These differences suggest that the phoxocephalids retain typical gammaridean amphipod reproductive methods which compromise their burrowing life-style through disadvantageous morphological and behavioral characteristics.
4094146|Ambiguity in the purported diagnostic attributes utilized to identify species of the poorly known "Troglopagurus group" of the hermit crab genus Diogenes prompted a review and critical reassessment of the morphological characters used to differentiate the nine recorded taxa. For this, an analysis was conducted based on 122 individuals including the majority of type specimens. The data clearly showed that the intraspecific variation inherent in these taxa rendered the presumably diagnostic characters ineffective in differentiating among the seemingly distinct species. As a result of the investigation, Diogenes setocristatus and Diogenes stenops were found to be junior subjective synonyms of Diogenes jousseaumei. Similarly, Diogenes platyops proved to be a junior subjective synonym of Diogenes jubatus. The incorrectly interpreted D. manaarensis was reappraised, based on the remaining syntype, herein designated the lectotype, and variations in the morphologies of the inadequately described D. persicus and D. mercatoris were explicated. Diogenes crosnieri has been retained as a valid taxon in the "Troglopagurus group", at least until such time as more material becomes available.
10.2307/1549527| Recruitment and mortality patterns in an intertidal population of Balanus amphitrite were studied for 4.5 years close to a sewage outfall near Quequn, Argentina. Recruitment occurred mainly during summer, although a small proportion of the population recruited in autumn. As a consequence of the failure of 4 successive annual recruitments, population density decreased almost steadily from 130 to 6 indm<sup>-2</sup>. With the exception of the postsettlement period, which was not considered in the present study, mortality was gradual during benthic life. The number of barnacles dying per unit time decreased as annual cohorts grew older. Mean longevity was estimated to be 22 months. Maximal longevity attained 5-6 years. Between 4 and 6 cohorts coexisted during the study period. The percentage of dead barnacles found with empty shells still attached to the substratum was higher in winter/spring than in summer/autumn, and increased with age. The causes of the extended life history of B. amphitrite at Quequn may be related to low temperature, low population density, and near absence of intraspecific competition and predation. The population studied seems to be regulated by recruitment and physical disturbance. 
4094232| Overlap was found between habitats of Helice tridens, primarily an occupant of the upper and lower part of the intertidal areas between MTL (mean tidal level) and MHWS (mean high water spring), and H. japonica, usually restricted to the lower part of the intertidal area of the Shigenobu River Estuary, in southwest Japan. While immature individuals and large-sized adults of H. tridens occurred over the intertidal areas, the young adults of H. tridens were found only in the upper part of the intertidal area. This difference in the pattern of distribution between the young adults and the immature individuals of H. tridens seemed to be derived from interspecific competition or intraguild predation between H. tridens and H. japonica and/or intraspecific interactions within each species. These two species have the same of detritivore and carnivore food habits, and conspecific predation within and/or intraguild reciprocal predation between them were frequently observed in the field. In the present study, we performed field caging experiments to examine the dependence of predation ability on size between the two species. When individuals were 7.0 mm carapace width (CW), H. japonica had a higher ability to prey on members of H. tridens of the same size than H. tridens had on those of H. japonica. When individuals were 8.0 mm CW, there was no difference between the two species in terms of predatory ability, and the predation rate itself decreased. Therefore, H. japonica can exclude H. tridens from the lower habitats. However, the large sized individuals of H. tridens may intrude into the lower part of the intertidal area from the upper part. They can be against H. japonica, and can prey on the small sized individuals of H. japonica. However, thick sediment set in the cages increased the survival rate of the small individuals of H. japonica, because burrows dug in the sediment could be refuges for those of H. japonica from the intraguild predation by the large sized individuals of H. tridens. These refuges for the small individuals of H. japonica can be refuges also for those of H. tridens. However, burrows cannot be refuges from intraguild predation between similar-sized individuals of two species of the genus Helice. We can conclude that intraguild predation by H. japonica excluded the immature individuals of H. tridens in the lower habitat and restricted the young adults of H. tridens to the upper habitats in the estuary. 
10.2307/1548950|The morphology of the foregut of the spider crab Notomithrax ursus is described from stereomicroscope and SEM examination. The foregut is divided into 2 parts: a large, anterior, cardiac chamber and a smaller, posterior, pyloric chamber. The cardiac chamber is well supplied with muscles and is lined with chitin thickened in places to form a complex, articulating set of ossicles. Some of these ossicles are developed into teeth which grind up the food. Other ossicles and setae inside the cardiac chamber appear to direct the movement of food through the cardiac chamber and sort the food according to particle size as digestion takes place. The pyloric chamber acts as a filter to separate digested liquid, which is directed to the hepatopancreas for absorption, from solid particles which are directed to the midgut for excretion. The morphology of the foregut of N. ursus, in particular, ossicle structure, supraampullary folds, and degree of setation, suggests that it is adapted to an unspecialized, macrophagous diet.
4094157| This paper is concerned primarily with the taxonomy of two species of the copepod genus Botryllophilus (Ascidicolidae: Botryllophilinae) collected from compound ascidian hosts in Golfo di Napoli (= the Gulf of Naples). Both copepods belong to subgroup 2 of female morphotype A of the genus. The female of B. banyulensis Brment, 1909, living in the type host Parascidia areolata (Delle Chiaie), is redescribed, and the male is described for the first time. In the case of B. neapolitanus n. sp., living in Aplidium sp., the female is described. In subgroup 2, consisting of four species including the new species, the leg armature formulas are of pattern II, in which additional armature elements (setae, spines, etc.) are found on most legs; this differs from the armature formula of pattern I. Six species of subgroup 1 of morphotype A have pattern I. In this paper, it is shown that the four species of subgroup 2 exhibit four different formulas of pattern II; B. banyulensis has pattern II-1, and B. neapolitanus has pattern 11-3. The original concept of morphotype A is revised in order to accommodate all the species of subgroups 1 and 2. 
10.2307/1549272|All adult Octolasmis live permanently fixed to animate hosts by a basal attachment disc. The peduncle connects the disc to the plated capitulum. The area of the capitular plates and the capitular perimeter bordered by plates is assessed for 28 species of Octolasmis. A hypothesis that the species of Octolasmis that live inside decapod gill chambers will have smaller, more variable plates than those species that live on the exposed external surface of their hosts is articulated and tested. The data support the hypothesis under general conditions and also reveal an array of special circumstances suggesting that several aspects of host morphology and habits may also impact on the intensity of selection on capitular plate size and distribution.
10.2307/1548956|Fifty-one slimy sea plumes (Pseudopterogorgia americana Gmelin, 1791) were sampled for caridean shrimps at Guana Island, British Virgin Islands, during one week in July 1992. Sampling depth ranged from 3-22 m. Nine species were collected: Hippolyte nicholsoni Chace, 1972; Latreutes sp.; Neopontonides chacei Heard, 1986; Perclimenes cf. patae Heard and Spotte, 1991; Periclimenes cf. pauper Holthuis, 1951; Periclimenes sp.; Pseudocoutierea antillensis Chace, 1972; Tozeuma cf. cornutum Milne Edwards, 1881; and Trachycaris rugosa (Bate, 1888). A total of 1,418 specimens (including fragments) was obtained. The number of shrimp species per gorgonian ranged from 1-5; one gorgonian harbored 156 shrimps. The 2 predominant species, N. chacei and H. nicholsoni, occupy different mean depths (12.6 and 8.2 m, respectively). Sexual dimorphism assessed with Mann-Whitney U-tests was not apparent in the specimens of N. chacei (P > 0.05), but females of H. nicholsoni were significantly larger than males (P < 0.001). Minimum carapace length (CL, the tip of the rostrum to the posterior dorsal margin of the carapace) at which male N. chacei acquire a single appendix masculina spine is 1.25 mm; male H. nicholsoni can acquire a single spine at 0.9 mm CL. Histological sections of male N. chacei showed that shrimp with 0 or 1 spine are least likely to be mature. Female N. chacei can become ovigerous at 1.9 mm CL and female H. nicholsoni at 1.2 mm CL. The taxonomic status of 5 of the 9 species collected is uncertain.
1549502|Two new anomuran crustaceans from Tasmania are described and illustrated. Gastroptychus rogeri, new species, is similar to G. hendersoni (Alcock and Anderson, 1899) in the carapace spination but may be distinguished by having very spinose abdominal segments. Uroptychus raymondi, new species, is characterized by the combination of a strong midlateral spine on the carapace, a short, relatively broad antennal scale, and a short antennal flagellum, which differentiates the species from U. valdiviae Balss, 1913.
10.2307/1548626|Several techniques for preparing the internal and external surfaces of crustaceans for SEM are described in detailed flow-chart form. Suggestions are given for improving fixation, cleaning, and overall appearance of specimens.
10.2307/1549279|Life-history traits of two mud-flat crabs, Helice japonica and H. tridens, were examined on the basis of monthly sampling at 13 stations from April 1986 to March 1987 in the Shigenobu River estuary, Shikoku Island, southwest Japan. Helice japonica and H. tridens co-occur at high densities in estuaries and salt marshes throughout western Japan, but their main habitats do not overlap in the Shigenobu River estuary. Helice japonica was found in the midintertidal, while H. tridens occurred from the midintertidal up to the high intertidal. The density of H. japonica was higher than H. tridens, though the habitat of H. japonica was limited to the lower part of the estuary. The size-frequency distributions of both species were complicated and the generation structures of them could not be elucidated, with the result that growth curves and survivorship curves of both species could not be established. Helice japonica matures more quickly, is smaller at first reproduction, has a shorter reproductive period, smaller number of broods, slightly smaller eggs, and a larger brood size. Moreover, only H. tridens shows a semilunar or lunar reproductive cycle, which may increase the reproductive rate at low population density. The two closely related species inhabited an estuary and had different life histories. In the present study, an example of the possibility of the diverse patterns of life-history traits under the constraint of a single set of environmental factors is provided.
10.2307/1549321|The foregut in malacostracan crustaceans is an ectodermally derived structure that shows morphological variation among taxa. Foregut morphology was studied in a syncarid, Anaspides tasmaniae, with the dual aims of describing the structure and of elucidating similarities and differences between A. tasmaniae and other malacostracans. The feeding habits of A. tasmaniae were also studied to correlate structure and function. The feeding strategy adopted by A. tasmaniae, predominantly detritivory, but preying occasionally on large food items, may be influenced by constraints of the morphology of the foregut. Scanning electron microscopy and conventional histological techniques revealed that the foregut of A. tasmaniae lacks ossicles and that internal skeletal elements are fashioned from invaginations of the external wall. These internal elements, which direct food particles and act as sieves, are densely setose. There is no evidence of calcification nor of the ossicles that characterize many decapod foreguts. The musculature is simple and acts principally to squeeze the entire foregut rather than to cause discrete movements of individual skeletal elements. The foregut of A. tasmaniae is not easily compared to the highly modified foreguts of decapods, but it shows many similarities to the foreguts of nondecapod taxa.
10.2307/1549544| Unfed lecithotrophic larvae of the golden king crab Lithodes aequispinus were reared at 3, 6, and 9C in darkness and 33-34 ppt salinity. This study was done to improve our understanding of larval development time and the ability of the larvae to survive under different seasonal thermal conditions. The survival rates and intermolt duration was observed for the first zoeal molt (ZI), second molt (ZII), third molt (ZIII), and glaucothoe (G). The duration from hatching to the start of the first nonlarval stage (crab I) averaged 148, 94, and 75 days at 3, 6, and 9C, respectively. Development rate for ZI to Crab I versus the rearing temperature was described by the equation: Development period (days) = -35.82 (Rearing Temperature C) + 1.96 (<sup></sup>C<sup>2</sup>) + 238.6; r<sup>2</sup> = 0.99. Regardless of stage, every degree increase in temperature reduced the length of the development period by approximately 9%. Survival rates of ZI larvae were typically >97% regardless of temperature. By the completion of the ZII molt 83-87% were still surviving. Survival rates to the end of the ZIII molt at 3 and 6C were 77% and 75%, but only 65% at 9C. Within stages there was no significant difference in survival rates for ZI, ZII, or ZIII at the 3 test temperatures. The survival rate through the glaucothoe stage was 47% and 51% for larvae reared at 3 and 6C, respectively, while only 16% of those at 9C survived to Crab I. There was no significant difference in the percentage of glaucothoe surviving at 3, 6, and 9C. 
10.2307/1549263|Ontogenetic changes in the relative growth of males and females of the spider crab Maja squinado were analyzed and related to their reproductive (maturity) status in order to define criteria to assign individuals to each growth phase. The sampling was carried out in two different areas of southern Galician waters, northwestern Spain, in shallow water (<10 m) with mixed rocky-sandy bottoms (juvenile and postpubertal adult areas) and deep water (>20 m) with soft bottoms (adult habitat). A Principal Component Analysis (PCA) of morphometric variables and a nonhierarchic K-means cluster of PCA scores differentiated two morphometric groups defined as juvenile and adult phases. A significant change in allometry of cheliped size was detected in juvenile males with a break point at a 109-mm carapace length (CL). This point may indicate a change in the relative growth of juveniles, separating the immature and adolescent phases. Histological analysis of a sub-sample of males showed that sperm were present in most adolescent crabs, but not in immature crabs. Bivariate morphometric linear discriminant functions allow for the identification of juvenile and adult males (classified previously by K-means cluster) with over 99% correct classification using CL and the length or height of the right cheliped. Carapace length at the onset of sexual maturity was estimated to be 132.7 mm (50% of adult males), although in a broad range, 112-165 mm, the size of juveniles and adults overlap. The life history of male spider crabs shows 3 phases differentiated by the relative growth rate of chelipeds separated by two 2 critical molts: prepubertal molt (immature-adolescent) determines a slight increase in allometry, and pubertal or terminal molt (adolescent-adult) determines an increase in the relative size and allometry of chelipeds and the onset of functional maturity. Females showed only 2 phases separated by the terminal molt. Growth of chelipeds in females showed no changes in allometry and was similar to juvenile males. Juvenile females presented a smaller relative width and a higher allometry of the abdomen with regard to adult females. Unlike juvenile females with a flat abdomen, adult females with a domed abdomen have well-developed pleopods, gonads, and seminal receptacles. Carapace length at the onset of sexual maturity was estimated to be 130.4 mm (50% of adult females). The range of overlap of the size of juveniles and adults (114-143 mm) was smaller than in males.
1549888| A new species of thaumatopsyllid copepod, Caribeopsyllus amphiodiae, is described based on adult specimens reared from nauplii inhabiting the stomach of a burrowing, amphiurid brittle star, Amphiodia urtica (Ltken), collected in California, U.S.A. It is the first member of the family to be reported from the eastern Pacific Ocean. Caribeopsyllus chawayi, its only known congener, inhabits the Caribbean Sea. All other thaumatopsyllid species occur in the eastern hemisphere. Caribeopsyllus amphiodiae is only the second thaumatopsyllid of which both sexes and sexual dimorphism have been described and for which a host species has been identified. Caribeopsyllus differs from confamilial genera by the presence of a 1-segmented leg 4 exopod. The new species is distinguished from C. chawayi by its general habitus, and by the absence of spiniform processes at the base of each exopodal spine of leg 1 and the first three exopodal spines of leg 2. Analysis of the phylogenetic relationships of Thaumatopsyllidae shows that it is not a member of any of the other previously established orders of Copepoda. Accordingly, a new order, Thaumatopsylloida, is proposed to accomodate the five species of thaumatopsyllids thus far reported and is shown to be a member of a Thaumatopsylloida-Monstrilloida-Siphonostomatoida clade. 
1549668|Macrobrachium olfersi is a palaemonid prawn with a broad geographical distribution, from the East Coast of the United States to southern Brazil. This paper attempts to establish the embryonic stages for M. olfersi based on morphological features in living and fixed embryos. We adopted nonfixed percentages related to the morphological events to define ten embryonic stages: pre-cleavage, cleavage, gastrula, germinal disk, naupliar, caudal papilla, C-shape, eye-pigmentation, segmented-abdomen, and prehatching. We hope the description of these stages can be used as a tool for studies of the embryonic process in species of Macrobrachium, and also as a guide to judge the developmental stages of palaemonids in environmental and experimental studies.
1549638|Chthamalus stellatus and C. montagui are warm-water barnacles common on rocky shores in southwest England, Ireland, and southern Europe. They are partly sympatric, with overlapping vertical and horizontal distributions. It has been suggested that the differing horizontal distribution of the adults may be related to differences in the distribution of the larval stages. To this end, we have examined plankton samples taken during the summer breeding period at Plymouth, from inshore to 15 miles offshore. The samples also contained large numbers of other cirriped nauplii, notably Elminius modestus, Balanus perforatus, B. crenatus, and Verruca stroemia, from which the chthamalids had to be distinguished. The chthamalids can be separated from the other nauplii by use of characters that include a unilobed or trilobed labrum, the length of posterior processes and the shape and size of the cephalic shield, but the two species of Chthamalus are more difficult to distinguish. Scanning electron microscopy (S.E.M.) has allowed development of a key to the main barnacle nauplii occurring off the British Isles. This key, with accompanying SEM photographs, will enable enumeration of the two chthamalids and help answer the question whether there is a differential distribution of the larvae of these species.
1549666|The ratio of sexually active males to fertilizable females (operational sex ratio, OSR) is the most important parameter determining the direction and intensity of sexual selection. It is widely accepted that the pronounced sexual dimorphism featured by many crustaceans is a consequence of a strongly male-biased OSR. Many studies have contributed to the understanding of function and origin of sexually selected traits, but few attempts have been made to measure the OSR. Using the rock shrimp Rhynchocinetes typus as an example, herein we propose a relatively simple method to assess the OSR of natural populations of crustaceans, as follows. The number of individuals willing to mate was estimated by the study of both the population structure (field sampling) and the readiness to mate (laboratory experiments). Field sampling showed that adult sex ratio was balanced during most seasons and that early ontogenetic male stages dominated among the males. Laboratory experiments demonstrated that females became receptive asynchronously, and that males from early ontogenetic stages showed limited readiness to mate. Based on this information, we estimated the OSR under three different scenarios. The results indicate that the OSR is highly male-biased in R. typus even in the more conservative scenario supporting the original predictions. Most male mate-competitors are early ontogenetic stages, whereas few are late stages. The results demonstrate the importance of estimating the OSR individually for shrimp categories differing primarily by sex and subsequently by individual conditions (ontogenetic stage, molt stage), which affects the probability of a potential mate to be sexually active. We suggest that this approach provides important information necessary for a better understanding of crustacean mating systems.
41315687|We report 15 polymorphic microsatellite loci isolated from the river prawn Macrobrachium nipponense. Their genetic characteristics were evaluated in 40 individuals from two Korean populations. The number of alleles ranged from 4 to 16, and the observed and expected heterozygosities ranged between 0.35 and 1.00 and 0.41 and 0.90, respectively. We assessed the cross-species amplification of each locus in five species of palaemonid prawn and two species of atyid prawn.
10.2307/1548488|The gross morphology and the fine structure of the mouthparts and foregut of the rock lobster Jasus edwardsii were studied in its late larval and early juvenile stages. The stage-XI phyllosoma has third maxillipeds with specialized setae, second maxillipeds and first maxillae with strong setae, mandibles with well-developed molar and canine-like processes and teeth, and a foregut with well-developed grooves and brushes but no gastric teeth. The first-molt juvenile has third and second maxillipeds and first maxillae with rows or tufts of numerous strong setae, well-calcified mandibles with strong molar and incisor processes, and a foregut with well-developed ossicles, grooves, brushes, and strong gastric teeth. In contrast, the puerulus has maxillipeds and maxillae with only small numbers of setae, uncalcified mandibles with a rudimentary incisor, and a foregut with a small number of ossicles and setae, and rudimentary lateral teeth. These observations suggest that the late-stage phyllosoma of J. edwardsii feeds primarily on large, soft materials and the early postpuerulus on hard, as well as soft, materials. In contrast, the puerulus probably does not feed during some or all of its existence, and any feeding is on small, soft materials. Use of nutrients stored in the digestive gland is one possible way that the puerulus could meet its energy requirements.
10.2307/1549372|The first record of a homolid crab, Latreillopsis bispinosa, carrying cuttlefish eggs on its last pair of pereiopods is reported from the Philippine Islands. These eggs must have been laid directly on the crab by a species of Sepia.
20487724|The dotillid crab Ilyoplax pusilla performs waving displays during the reproductive season. When a female approaches a male, he often directs his waving at her. More often, however, males do not direct their waves at any particular individual. We conducted a field experiment that manipulated neighbors' sex to clarify whether either of the sexes was more often the target of waving displays. Waving frequency by males with male neighbors was significantly higher than that of males with female neighbors. Waving frequency was correlated with the number of active male neighbors but not with the number of active female neighbors. These findings suggest that waving display of I. pusilla is performed through male to male competition.
20487817|This work presents a comparative study of the electrophysiological properties of the peptidergic neurons in crayfish Procambarus clarkii and Cherax quadricarinatus. Recordings were made in order to determine the linear and non-linear properties of electrical activity in these neurons. Charge curves were obtained in order to carry out measurements of the input resistance and the determination of the electronic length as part of the linear properties of these cells. Different recordings of the action potentials and the ionic currents are presented as part of their non-linear properties. The electrotonic length in P. clarkii was 0.8253  0.1311 and 1.7616  0.4726 in C. quadricarinatus. The input resistance in P. clarkii was 92.4  23.2 M and 56.46  17.2 M in C. quadricarinatus. Silent neurons were recorded (53% in P. clarkii and 60% in C. quadricarinatus) as well as tonic neurons (35% and 28% in each species respectively) and neurons responding with action potential bursts (12% for both species). We found potassium currents in both species that differ mostly in magnitude. Finally, we discuss the differences that were found in the electrical properties of the neurosecretory cells in crustaceans.
27753958|We describe the male reproductive system of the intertidal hermit crab Calcinus tibicen, with emphasis on the sexual apparatus, spermatophore, and spermatozoa. The crabs were collected on the rocky shore of Praia Grande Beach, Ubatuba, southeastern Brazil. The morphological analysis, based on 30 specimens, was made with the use of a stereomicroscope, an optical microscope, and scanning and transmission electron microscopes. The male reproductive system is composed of a pair of juxtaposed testes, located dorsally in the pleon. From each testis emerges a vas deferens that links it to the exterior by the gonopores, located on the base of the fifth pair of pereiopods. The vas deferens has three macroscopically distinct regions that contain spermatophores in different stages of maturation. The spermatophore morphology is similar to that of other members of Paguroidea, having a distal, nearly spherical ampulla containing spermatozoa; an approximately cylindrical peduncle; and a proximal foot connecting the spermatophores. We describe, for the first time, the variability in the spermatophore morphology and size in the three regions of the vas deferens using the type species of the genus Calcinus. The spermatozoa have three main regions (the acrosomal vesicle, the nucleus, and the cytoplasm). The morphological similarity of the male reproductive system of C. tibicen with previously studied species of Diogenidae is an indicative of complex phylogenetic relationships among the members of the genus.
1549509|The taxonomy of the deep-water protunid genus Benthochascon Alcock and Anderson, 1899, is reappraised. Benthochascon is now restricted for its type species from the Indo-West Pacific, Benthochascon hemingi Alcock and Anderson, 1899. Benthochascon schmitti Rathbun, 1931, from the Gulf of Mexico, is referred to a new genus, Raymanninus, which differs from Benthochascon s. str. in the the form of the anterolateral margin, first and third maxillipeds, chela, and structure of the fourth male thoracic sternite.
10.2307/1548265| A new species of Leptalpheus from the Gulf of California, Mexico, is described. It was found living in burrows of Upogebia sp. The genus is redefined and its relations to Betaeus Dana and Potamalpheops Powell are briefly discussed. /// Se describe una nueva especie de Leptalpheus, colectada en madrigueras de Upogebia sp. en el estuario del Ro Muleg, en la costa oriental de Baja California Sur, Mxico. Se redefine el gnero mencionado y se discute brevemente su parentesco con los gneros Betaeus Dana y Potamalpheops Powell. 
4540273|The land crab Johngarthia planatus is an eastern tropical Pacific species with a known distribution from Mexico to Colombia. Complete larval development of the species is fully described and illustrated from laboratory-reared material. The five zoeal stages and the megalopa are compared with those of Gecarcinus lateralis lateralis from the Atlantic coast. Main differences for zoeal stages are observed in the carapace and telson lateral spines while minor differences are observed in the moutliparts setation. For the megalopa stage a difference in size of the third maxilliped exopod supports the separation of Johngarthia from Gecarcinus. A brief comparison of all known zoea I and megalopa stages of species of the Gecarcinidae is made, taking into account recent new descriptions.
10.2307/1549406| The hippolytid shrimp Nauticaris magellanica, with a known geographical distribution covering approximately 35 of latitude, was selected to conduct a latitudinal comparison regarding volume, biomass, and fatty acid changes during embryogenesis. Ovigerous females were collected from populations in northern (Guanaqueros) and central-southern Chile (Metri and Putemn). Recently produced eggs from the 3 populations sampled were similar in size (ranging from 0.031-0.38 mm<sup>3</sup>). Embryos close to hatching, however, were considerably larger in central-southern Chile (Metri: 0.072 mm<sup>3</sup>; Putemn: 0.091 mm<sup>3</sup>) compared with those from Guanaqueros (0.054 mm<sup>3</sup>). Egg volume increase during the incubation period varied between 74% (Guanaqueros) and 160% (Putemn). Wet mass and water content of embryos increased, while dry and ash mass decreased during embryogenesis. Analyses of fatty acids revealed similar results for eggs from the 3 study sites and different developmental stages. The overall utilization of fatty acids, however, was elevated in embryos from the most southern location (Putemn) compared with that found in embryos from the other sampling sites. Main fatty acids of eggs and newly hatched larvae were the polyunsaturates 20:5 (n-3) and 22:6 (n-3), and the saturate 16:0, comprising 21, 16, and 15%, respectively, of the total. The pattern of fatty acid utilization during embryogenesis is characterized by a sharp decline of the 16:1 (n-7) fatty acid. Our results confirm a latitudinal cline in egg volume in N. magellanica. The differences observed among populations may be attributed, however, to differences in the ambient conditions (e.g., temperature, salinity, feeding) of the habitats rather than simply to its northern and southern location. In addition, the lipid biochemistry of developing eggs seems to be unaffected by latitude. 
41315757|Cambarus elkensis (Elk River crayfish) was seined and dip-netted monthly during June through August and October through November 2003, and March through May 2004 from Left Fork Holly River in the Elk River drainage, West Virginia, U.S.A. Crayfish reproductive form was classified, and then individuals measured and returned to the stream. Carapace-length (CL) frequency analysis identified five overlapping year classes with growth progressing over a 5-year life span. Ovigerous females were collected in summer (June) and an individual with attached young in October, but young-of-the-year (Y-O-Y) crayfish did not appear in the collections until late winter (March). Juveniles and Y-O-Y dominated the collections and grew rapidly, reaching sexual maturity ( 29 mm CL) in 30-36 months. Growth continued but slowed in the older mature crayfish with the largest individuals (> 50 mm CL) disappearing from the collections sometime between fall and spring in the fifth year of life. Fastest growing individuals could have reproduced three times during their life. The overall sex ratio of 1265 crayfish favored females 0.87:1. Females identified as form I individuals based on annulus ventralis architecture and presence of glair gland and ova had significantly wider pleons, longer chelae, and heavier bodies than similar CL form II female crayfish lacking these features. Form I males also weighed significantly more and had longer chelae than form II males of similar CL. This is the first evidence of the existence of reproductive form alternation in females in the genus Cambarus.
10.2307/1548484| Foregut contents of 56 specimens of Callinectes ornatus collected from Mullet Bay, Bermuda, in 1981 and 1988 were examined. Foreguts which were  half full contained more prey items per gut (x = 4.67) than did guts < half full (x = 2.73). Dietary analysis was based on 2 methods: (1) the index of relative importance (IRI), which combined frequency of occurrence (FO), percentage of total biomass, and percentage of total numbers consumed, and (2) weighted points, which combined FO and estimated relative volumes of each prey item. No significant differences were revealed in relative proportions of foregut contents between males and females, or between adult and juvenile crabs. Modulus modulus, a cerithiacean gastropod mollusk, dominated the diet, accounting for 21.1% of the total IRI. Two other cerithiaceans collectively ranked second (19.9% of total IRI). Carbonate substrate was the most frequently occurring category (51.79%) and ranked third in IRI (17.2% of total). Plant material, crustaceans, nereid polychaetes, fish, and bivalve mollusks ranked fourth through eighth in IRI. The validity of including carbonate substrate as a dietary component is discussed, as is the relative merit of the indices used in dietary analysis. 
10.2307/1548924| Female blue crabs (Callinectes sapidus) were assigned to 1 of 6 stages based on oocyte development. An immunohistochemical study showed vitellin (Vn)-immunoreactivity was absent from ovaries in stages I and II, and was present in stages III, IV, V, and VI (postspawning). Vn-immunoreactivity was not detected in hepatopancreas, regardless of stage. Hemolymph vitellogenin (Vg) was quantified by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Vg was not detected in hemolymph of stage I and II animals, but was detected in some animals in stages III, IV, V, and VI. The percentage of crabs having detectable hemolymph Vg was 17% (III), 32% (IV), 73% (V), and 100% (VI). Mean Vg levels were 0.02  0.01 mg/ml (III), 0.02  0.04 mg/ml (IV), 0.12  0.15 mg/ml (V), and 0.14  0.04 mg/ml (VI). The facts that Vg was present at low concentration in only a portion of the vitellogenic crabs, and that the level of Vg did not reach maximum until after spawning, are not consistent with the hypothesis that Vg is synthesized by extraovarian tissues and transported via hemolymph to the ovaries. It is possible that the presence of Vg in hemolymph may be a result of leakage of yolk proteins from the ovary due to oocyte reabsorption. The existence of atypical, possible atretic, oocytes in stage V and VI ovaries is consistent with this hypothesis. Considered together with the results of previous studies, these findings suggest that the ovary is the exclusive site of Vn synthesis in C. sapidus. 
27753967|Crustaceans must replace their old exoskeleton with a new, larger one in order to grow and differentiate. During that process a new (preexuvial) cuticle is deposited beneath the old cuticle. Since breakdown products from the old cuticle have been reported to be removed from the old cuticle and transported across the new cuticle and hypodermis into the hemolymph, the preexuvial cuticle is presumed to be permeable. However, it has also been reported that intermolt cuticle is a highly impermeable structure that prevents loss of water and ions from the cuticle to the external environment. This study was designed to determine the timing of any change in the permeability of the cuticle of the blue crab, Callinectes sapidus, from the period just preceding ecdysis through the early postmolt period. To test for any changes in permeability pilot studies were performed on pieces of dorsobranchial cuticle from late premolt (D4) and early postmolt crabs (15 min, 2 h, 12 h and 18 h post-ecdysis) using 3H2O and an Ussing chamber. Additional permeability studies were done monitoring the movement of p-nitrophenol (pNP) across the cuticle using a more restricted post-exuvial time course (0, 5, 10, 15 and 30 min. post-ecdysis) as compared to premolt cuticle. Results from these studies as well as wash-out studies using tissues pre-loaded with pNP and staining of 1 h post-molt cuticle with OsO4 suggest that the epicuticle undergoes a transition at or soon after ecdysis that renders it impermeable to water and small molecules. While the precise mechanism for this transition is unknown, it is clear that the resultant alteration in epicuticle permeability during early post-ecdysis allows for the formation of a barrier that prevents osmotic and ionic exchange, allows for the generation of significant hydrostatic pressure, and provides a suitable microenvironment for calcification.
10.2307/1548544|The reproductive sequence of Caprella laeviuscula Mayer consisted of pair formation, female molting, copulation, pair disengagement, and egg laying. The male held the female with the fifth pereiopods during precopula and removed the exoskeleton of the female prior to copulation. The number of eggs carried by the female was a function of female size, and the number of juveniles carried was significantly lower than the number of eggs carried by similarly sized females. Some of the eggs may have functioned as nurse eggs. Cephalon length was determined to be the best character for analysis of sexual dimorphism in this species. Among sexually mature specimens, males had more rapid differential growth of pereionites 1 and 2, while female pereionites 3-7 grew more rapidly. In addition to exhibited growth rates, sexual dimorphism was evident in the brood pouch of females, and in the point of insertion of gnathopod 2. The differences could not be related to male-female reproduction, and sexual dimorphism of males probably is a response to the male-male aggressive interactions during precopulation.
1548648|Fiddler crabs have been divided into species that mate and breed in burrows that males court from and defend (e.g., Uca pugilator), and species in which crabs pair on the surface and females breed in their own burrows (e.g., Uca vocans). I studied the reproductive behavior of the fidder crab Uca beebei at a site on the Pacific coast of Panama and found that this species exhibits both of these major modes of mating and breeding. Some females mated on the surface near burrows which they defended and used for oviposition and incubation. This may occur when females are large enough to defend their burrows successfully, when their burrows are suitable breeding sites, and when food is abundant nearby. Other females left their burrows, sampled the burrows of several courting males, then chose mates and breeding sites by remaining in males' burrows. These females did not select mates on the basis of size, nor did they prefer males that built pillars by their burrows. They consistently chose males whose burrows were longer (by 8%) and deeper (by 12%) than those they rejected. Long deep burrows may provide better thermal environments for incubation than short shallow ones.
10.2307/1548094|Laboratory experiments demonstrate that chemical cues are important in species recognition in the crayfishes Orconectes propinquus and Orconectes virilis. Males and females of both species can perceive the chemicals released from their own and the other species and are attracted only to the chemicals of conspecifics of the opposite sex.
10.2307/1548003| Aegla bahamondei, new species (Crustacea, Anomura, Aeglidae) is described from the Tucapel River on the western slope of Cordillera de Nahuelbuta, Chile. Morphologically it closely resembles A. rostrata Jara from preandean lakes of the Valdivia and Toltn river basins. A. bahamondei differs from A. rostrata in its acute median tubercle on the fourth thoracic sternum, less prominent overall spinulation, and nonstilettolike rostrum. The morphological similarity between A. bahamondei and A. rostrata is interpreted as indication of recent common ancestry. It is hypothesized that A. bahamondei represents the plesiomorphic and A. rostrata the apomorphic species. 
20487839|Eocyzicus is defined as those cyzicid spinicaudatans with a round condylus dorso-posteriorly on the head, a wide space between the head and trunk, and the male rostrum spatulate. Furthermore, most if not all species have a dorsal columnar lobe on the posterior-most trunk segments terminating in a single spine. Eocyzicus parooensis Richter and Timms is widespread in Australian inland hyposaline waters, and Eocyzicus argillaquus n. sp. also occurs across the inland but generally in turbid freshwater clay pans. The two species differ morphologically in number of trunk segments, head structure, features of the caudal furcae, and in a number of minor features.
1549482|Oratosquillina manningi sp. nov. is described from Taiwan and Australia and closely resembles O. microps (Garcia and Manning) from the Philippines. This new species is unique in Oratosquillina for lacking a mandibular palp, bearing a median carina on the sixth abdominal somite, and numerous ventral carinae on the telson.
10.2307/1548503|An ultrastructural comparison of the spermatogenesis of dimorphic males of Pachypygus gibber has been made. After maturation, the spermatozoon is identical in the two males. It appears as a cell in which nucleoplasm and cytoplasm are mixed, with an important densification zone composed of a homogeneous zone and a zone with a paracrystalline organization. The nature of this structure recalls an acrosomal complex. An original feature is the wrapping of the spermatozoon around a vesicle which could have either a nutritive role or a role as sperm carrier involved in the transport to the female genital tracts. Data concerning the copulatory behavior of the two males and of the female genital system are given. The modifications of the sperm observed in the female tracts could be linked to capacitation mechanisms before fertilization. We conclude that the different steps in spermatogenesis are the same in the two males of Pachypygus and that they lead to only one type of spermatozoon and consequently to only one type of fertilized egg.
40665261|Asiacaris n. gen. is described to accommodate Asiacaris dispar n. sp., collected in the interstitial of the banks of a river on Pha-ngan Island, in the Gulf of Thailand. Asiacaris belongs to Parastenocarididae Chappuis, 1940, based on the following characters: leg 3 sexually dimorphic, modified in the male into a grasping organ; presence of sexual dimorphism on the endopod of leg 4; presence of a dorsal integumental window on cphalothorax and dorso-elliptical integumental windows on tergites of urosomites 2 to 5 in male and on genital double-somite and urosomites 4 and 5 in female; antennule 8-segmented, with an inner process on the 7th segment, first leg with 2-segmented endopod and unarmed exopod-2, and mouthparts armature and segmentation. The apomorphic characters of Asiacaris are represented by the sexual dimorphism of P2 (stronger in male than in female), the fusion of the P5 to the intercoxal sclerite and to the somite and, mostly, by the overall transformation of P4 in the male, which is the longest and strongest leg, a feature never recorded before in any male of freshwater or marine free-living harpacticoids: the endopod is missing, the exopodal segments are all enlarged, and the apical seta is transformed into a hook longer than the last segment of the exopod. The P4 project laterally, creating not only a characteristic habitus, but also possibly a locomotion pattern different from that of all other Parastenocarididae. This modified P4 could be used to grasp the female during coupling, because it forms a second set of pincers, longer and stronger than the one created by the P3.
1549784|Methyl farnesoate (MF) was identified for the first time in the hemolymph of Nephrops norvegicus from Mediterranean deep-sea waters (around 500 m) by gas chromatography-mass spectometry and quantified by liquid chromatography. The MF was present in females as well as in males, although no clear-cut differences between sexes were observed. Levels of MF found in the hemolymph of intact animals were 0.5-1.0 ng/ml irrespective of the sex. Although the observations are still limited, females showed oscillations in MF that seem to parallel the vitellogenic cycle. Eyestalk ablation, in both males and females, caused a 10-fold increase in MF hemolymph levels.
10.2307/1548271| To help elucidate the reproductive characteristics of the Atlantic snow crab Chionoecetes opilio, the functional anatomy of the male reproductive system and the female spermatheca was investigated using histological methods, transmission and scanning electron microscopic techniques, and microscopic observation of fresh material. Several fundamental corrections and additions to earlier descriptions of spermatozoan structure in C. opilio were made: radial arms are present, while a chromatin ring is not; the acrosome protrudes only slightly and spermatozoa are not mushroom-shaped. The spermatozoa and the matrix of the anterior vas deferens are packed into spermatophores and surrounded by a pellicle which appears to be secreted by the cells lining the anterior vas deferens proximal to the testis. The highly folded configuration of this pellicle may act as a safeguard against dehiscence induced by contact with sea water during copulation. The posterior vas deferens contains two distinct secretions which are probably ejaculated along with the spermatophores and the matrix of the more anterior vas deferens. Anatomical and in vitro observations suggest that fertilization is initiated by exposure of the spermatophores to a hypotonic medium. Such a medium may be generated within the spermathecae by dilution of the seminal fluids/spermatophore storage matrix with sea water prior to egg mass extrusion. Devagination of the liberated spermatozoa may be facilitated by the same mechanism. Most of the females processed for histology had distended spermathecae devoid of spermatophores or spermatozoa. It is thus impossible to deduce successful copulation and spermatophore storage without direct observation of spermathecal contents. /// Afin de contribuer  l'lucidation des caractristiques reproductives du crabe des neiges Chionoecetes opilio, l'anatomie fonctionnelle du systme reproducteur mle et de la spermathque femelle a t tudie  l'aide des techniques histologiques et de la microscopie lectronique  balayage et  transmission. Des observations microscopiques de prparations vivantes ont galement t effectues. Plusieurs corrections de fond et des informations supplmentaires ont t apportes aux descriptions antrieures de la structure des spermatozodes chez C. opilio: des bras radiaux sont prsents, tandis qu'aucun anneau de chromatine n'a t observ; l'acrosome ne prsente qu'une petite protrusion et les spermatozodes ne sont pas caractriss par une forme en "champignon." Ces derniers sont emballs par une pellicule qui semble tre secrte par le vas deferens antrieur, produisant des spermatophores. La matrice  l'intrieur des spermatophores semble tre celle secrte par les cellules tapissant le vas deferens antrieur. La configuration trs replie de la pellicule des spermatophores pourrait agir comme mcanisme de scurit, empchant la dhiscence accidentelle provoque par un bref contact avec l'eau de mer lors de la copulation. Le vas deferens postrieur contient deux secrtions distinctes qui peuvent tre jacules en mme temps que les spermatophores et la matrice des rgions plus antrieures du vas deferens. Des observations anatomiques et in vitro indiquent que la fcondation est initie par l'exposition des spermatophores  un milieu hypotonique. Un tel milieu pourrait tre cr par la dilution des fluides sminales ou la matrice de stockage des spermatophores dans la spermathque par l'eau de mer avant la ponte. La dvagination des spermatozodes librs serait facilite par ce mme mcanisme. La plupart des femelles examines histologiquement portaient des spermathques enfles dpourvues de spermatophores et de spermatozodes. Il est donc impossible de conclure  une copulation russie et au stockage des spermatophores sans l'observation directe du contenu de la spermathque. 
1549174|At least 7 distinct eye types have evolved in the Stomatopoda. This reflects adaptations to the wide range of habitats and depths in which stomatopods occur. However, there are some species for which eye design does not correlate with environmental factors. The distribution of certain eye types in taxonomically unrelated groups suggests that their occurrences result from convergent evolution. The current classification of stomatopods into five superfamilies is not supported by eye design. Polyphyly in the Gonodactyloidea is proposed. Eye structure cannot be used as a taxonomic character to superfamily or family level in stomatopods, but is helpful in the diagnosis of genera and species. A few genera and species can be distinguished from their eye design alone.
10.2307/1548299| Branchyuran larvae were sampled along a 200-m, NE-SW transect crossing a tidal front in lower Delaware Bay. Concentrations of the larval mud crab Neopanope sayi ranged from approximately 30 zoeae m<sup>-3</sup> NE of the front to more than 7,000 zoeae m<sup>-3</sup> SW of the front with an intermediate concentration in the front. Zoeal stages I and II were most abundant at each sampling site, suggesting that the patch of N. sayi resulted from a spawning event that occurred 4-5 days earlier. Physical concentrating mechanisms associated with the front, combined with vertical movements by the larvae, appeared to be responsible for maintaining the concentrated patch of larvae of N. sayi. 
10.2307/1548072| Dissodactylus rugatus is a small parasitic crab occurring on the irregular urchin Clypeaster rosaceus. The larval phase consists of three zoeal stages and a megalopa. Eggs were incubated by females for 11-13 days at 27C. Average duration of zoeal stages was 2.1, 2.8, and 3.1 days, respectively, with metamorphosis to the megalopa occurring as early as the eighth day (mean 9.0). In the absence of a host no megalopa successfully molted to the first crab instar. Dissodactylus rugatus is one of three sympatric species for which the complete larval development is known. In comparison to D. crinitichelis and D. primitivus, zoeae of D. rugatus are more compact, having the shortest spines and an intermediate-sized carapace. Other differences are seen in developmental time, and in setation, with fewer plumodenticulate setae on the basipodite of maxilliped 1 in all zoeal stages. The megalopa is also of intermediate size, but setation of the antenna, the dactyl of maxilliped 3, and dactyls of the pereiopods is characteristically unlike that of species previously described. The undifferentiated exopodite bud of maxilliped 3 is seen as a potential character specific to the genus Dissodactylus. Examination of holotypes showed Dissodactylus rugatus Bouvier, 1917, to be an earlier synonym of D. calmani Rathbun, 1918. 
10.2307/1549020|Sesarma jarvisi is endemic to central western Jamaican limestone hills and mountains, where it inhabits a rock-crevice system in wet limestone forest regions with at least 2,000 mm annual precipitation. The crevice system is characterized by lower and less variable average temperature and higher and less variable humidity than is the forest floor. It also serves as a retreat for other invertebrates, in particular land snails of the genus Pleurodonte. Shells of several species of this genus are abundant in the rock rubble. Sesarma jarvisi breeds in these shells. Females carrying 3-24 large (1.3 mm) eggs collect water with a field of plumose setae at the rim of the carapace and fill the shells with up to 5 ml of water, into which they release the larvae. Juveniles develop inside the shell until they reach about 8-mm carapace width (CW), when they start to disperse from the brood shell. The mother crab is always present in shells with young up to 3-mm CW and sometimes remains with young up to 6.5-mm CW. Maternal care usually lasts for 2-3 months. A growth curve, using log percentage molt increment and log intermolt period indicates that male sexual maturity occurs at an age of 15-16 months, with an average of 9.7-mm CW. After Metopaulias depressus, S. jarvisi is the second decapod species for which brood care for larvae and young is reported.
1549741|Amphipods, like most swimming crustaceans, employ a drag-based mechanism to produce thrust. The propulsors are paddle-shaped pleopods that move parallel to the direction of motion. These paired abdominal limbs generate both the propulsive thrust and the respiratory currents that bathe the thoracic gills. This study addresses the basic kinematics of motion and the pleopodal skeletomusculature of the deep-sea scavenger Eurythenes gryllus. The limb beat cycle consists of a power stroke where the three pleopod pairs, with their setal fan outstretched, swing sequentially through an arc parallel to the body axis, and then return anteriorly in a collapsed and bent configuration. The joint connecting the body to the muscular peduncle is complex, allowing promotion and remotion along the main body axis. Several hard plates for extrinsic muscle attachment are surrounded by arthrodial membrane. The extrinsic musculature is proportioned accordingly, with a large mass of muscles controlling the power stroke and a few long muscles generating the recovery stroke forces. The intrinsic musculature within the peduncle and annular rami serves two functions: (1) many long, thin muscle fibers within the peduncle function as support muscles responsible for shape changes; (2) large, strap-like muscles control flexion for the recovery stroke and abduction-adduction of the exopod for the power stroke. Several ancillary skeletal structures enhance swimming efficiency: reinforcement in the pleonal wall for muscle attachment, coupling hooks between the pleopod pair to effectively create a single paddle, the complementary shapes of the exopod and endopod, and an exopodal hook that facilitates the complete collapse of the pleopods on the recovery stroke. The functional design of the pleopod maximizes efficient recovery stroke motion while still providing strong remotion during the recovery stroke.
20487765|We examined potential fertility, egg volume, and water, lipid, and fatty acid content through embryogenesis in a population of female U. rapax from Sebastian Inlet, Florida. Carapace width (CW) ranged from 10.80 to 20.09 mm (N = 184), and each female carried 5000 to 30,000 eggs in the last stage of development. Female CW was found to be a good predictor of the number of eggs in the later stage of development (potential fertility = 7.908
10.2307/1549377|One new species and 3 well-known species are reported from marine warm temperate waters in Argentina. Elasmopus marplatensis, new species, is described and fully illustrated, and its relationships with other species of the genus are discussed. Corophium insidiosum Crawford is a new record for the area and is partially illustrated. The presence of Melita palmata (Montagu) and Ampithoe valida Smith is confirmed and both are figured in part. In addition, biogeographical considerations for the Southern Ocean are discussed.
1549629| The growth of Palaemon longirostris H. Milne Edwards, 1837, was studied in Mira River and estuary, SW Portugal, from October 1990 to September 1991. Size was measured as carapace length (CL), total body length (TL), and weight as wet weight (W). Females grew to larger size than males. Carapace length-frequency was used to determine the von Bertalanffy growth equation: L(t) = 11.68 (1 - e<sup>-0.62(t+0.49)</sup>) for males and L(t) = 16.32 (1 - e<sup>0.51(t+1.42)</sup>) for females. The Munro's growth performance index () was lower in males (1.927) than in females (2.133). Relationships between size measurements and weight were described with regression equations. Significant sex-specific variation was found in the slopes of the allometric relationships. Female carapace grew faster than total body length and weight, and the opposite was observed for males. In TL-W relationships, the weight increases faster than total body length in females and slower in males. 
4540291|The sexual behavior of the hermit crab Coenobita compressus was studied. The size, gastropod shell species, and sexual behavior of males measured in terms of successful or unsuccessful mating (assessed by spermatophore transfer) are compared, as well as the role of these variables in male-male encounters for the access to females. Since female receptivity (assessed as degree of egg development) could also influence male mating success, the relative number of receptive and unreceptive females that had or did not have spermatophores is used to evaluate whether unreceptive females were induced to mate. We assessed how frequently receptive and unreceptive females were present in the population. An experiment determined if males were able to grab females according to female sexual receptivity. The results show that: 1) behavior and type of gastropod shell in males is not related to mating success; 2) large males won against small males during contests for the access to females; 3) only some receptive females (actually, the less common in the population) received spermatophores even when males tried to mate with receptive and unreceptive females; and 4) female behavior determined the outcome of mating success. These results indicate that male size is important only during male-male competition but not during female choice. Our results also suggest an active role of female behavior in determining the mating outcome and that males are unable to force females to mate, unlike other species in which females, receptive or not, are unable to evade male sexual assaults.
4540255|This paper describes a population of Aegla longirostri from Ibicuf-Mirim River, Itaaira, Rio Grande do Sul State, Brazil, evaluating the size at onset of sexual maturity, relative growth, mean size, size-frequency distribution, sex ratio, ovigerous-rate, and recruitment. Samples were collected monthly from September 1996 to August 1997. Sex, carapace length (CL), cheliped length (ChL), abdomen width (AW), and front width (FW) were recorded for each crab. A total of 586 specimens were collected (277 males, 244 females, and 65 unsexed juveniles). The smallest specimen was 1.5 mm CL and the largest male was 23.8 mm CL. The relative growth analysis and the Mature software showed that the size at onset of sexual maturity was 13.7 mm CL in males and 10.7 mm CL in females. Females were smaller than males and were more abundant in adult classes, whereas males were more representative in juvenile classes. The sex ratio did not differ from 1:1 throughout the collecting period. Recruitment was observed throughout the entire sampling period, but it was higher in the winter months (from June to August). However, ovigerous females were present in spring and summer (from January to April). This population seemed to be at equilibrium during the study period. Recently, this area has been changed because of the construction of a reservoir, and a new study is required to evaluate the present condition of this population of A. longirostri.
41315704|Stomach content analysis and behavioral observations reveal that the horned shrimp Paracrangon echinata is a lie-in-wait predator on smaller organisms, especially amphipods, polychaetes, and caridean shrimp. Prey is detected using the extremely thin third pair of pereiopods, captured with the subchelate first pcreiopods, and ingested whole.
10.2307/1548118|Alvinocaris lusca, a new genus and species of caridean shrimp, is recorded from the thermally influenced Rose Garden area of the Galapagos Rift zone. Characters of this form indicate placement in the family Bresiliidae which is redefined. A key to the 5 bresiliid genera is given.
27753945|We have adapted an actin-myosin motality assay to examine the interactions in vitro between actin cables isolated from the giant internodal cells of the freshwater alga, Nitella, and pigment granules extracted from red ovarian chromatophores of the freshwater palaemonid shrimp, Macrobrachium olfersi. The chromatophore pigment mass consists of large (0.51.0-m diameter) membrane-bounded granules, and small (140-nm diameter), amembranous granules, both structurally continuous with the abundant smooth endoplasmic reticulum. Our previous immunocytochemical studies show a myosin motor to be stably associated with the pigment mass; however, to which granule type or membrane the myosin motor is attached is unclear. Here, we show that sodium vanadate, a myosin ATPase inhibitor, markedly increases the affinity of isolated, large, membrane-bounded granules for Nitella actin cables to which they become permanently attached. This interaction does not occur in granule preparations containing ATP with uninhibited, active myosin without vanadate. We propose that a stable state of elevated affinity is established between the granule-located myosin motor and the Nitella actin cables, resulting from a vanadate-inhibited acto-myosin-ADP complex. This finding provides further evidence for a myosin motor positioned on the surface of the membrane-bounded pigment granules in shrimp ovarian chromatophores.
4540257|Field and laboratory observations were carried out on the reproductive behaviour of Cyclograpsus lavauxi and Helice crassa, and the results were compared with other Grapsidae, with emphasis on New Zealand species. Mating in all species typically occurs during the intermoult and often coincides with the time of oviposition. Females of several species have been reported to mate multiple times, often in the few days prior to oviposition, leading to sperm competition within the female spermatheca. Females were found to be sexually receptive only in a short period before oviposition (e.g., C. lavauxi, Hemigrapsus crenulatus, H. sexdentatus), although some species were also receptive for about two weeks after oviposition (e.g., H. crassa). The exact duration of female receptivity is unknown for most grapsid species. Female grapsid crabs exhibit a wide range of gonopore structures which either restrict female receptivity to certain times or allow them to mate at any time. In species with restricted female receptivity (e.g., C. lavauxi, H. crassa, H. crenulatus, H. sexdentatus), the operational sex ratio is typically highly male-biased. Male-male competition was found to be intense in the four New Zealand grapsids, with frequent male-male interactions during which larger males were typically more successful in fights over females, resulting in a greater number of matings. Postcopulatory guarding, which is assumed to reduce the risk of sperm competition and to ensure paternity, has been observed in a few grapsid species (H. sexdentatus and H. crenulatus) but not in others (e.g., C. lavauxi and H. crassa). Overall, grapsid crabs employ a variety of reproductive strategies including direct competition between males for females, with postcopulatory guarding; males securing resources as sites for mating; and males having only brief interceptions with receptive females. These differences in reproductive behaviour are discussed in the context of sexual selection and the ecological and environmental differences of the habitats that grapsid crabs occupy. Mating strategies of grapsid species can be very different even if they occupy the same habitat and the females have similar duration of sexual receptivity.
10.2307/1548464|The giant isopod Bathynomus giganteus A. Milne Edwards was caught with wire traps in several locations at depths between 349 and 733 m off the Yucatan Peninsula. A total of 1,651 isopods, ranging from 4.4-36.5 cm in body length, were obtained on 5 cruises. Size distribution, sex ratio, and percentage of mature males (with appendices masculinae) and females (with functional oostegites) are given for each cruise. Length-weight and length-width relationships were obtained for 774 and 515 specimens, respectively. Reproductive aspects were studied in isopods captured on cruises 4 (August 1989) and 5 (February 1990). Percentages of mature adult males were 47 and 71%, respectively, and those of mature adult females were 15 and 53%. On cruise 4, many females had ovaries in intermediate stages of maturity, while on cruise 5 most had ovaries either in a resting stage or in a fully mature stage. These results suggest seasonal reproduction. Gut content analyses performed on 158 isopods showed that these animals feed on a wide variety of food items, the most abundant of which were fish, cephalopods, and decapods. The scavenging nature of B. giganteus is supported, although these isopods seem to feed also on sessile and slow-moving animals, such as echinoderms and tunicates. One large isopod was found in the stomach of a shark (Galeocerdo cuvierii). Epizoans found attached to B. giganteus included the cirripede Octolasmis aymonini geryonophila, the gastropod Mitrella amphisella var. rushii, and unidentified tube worms, branchiurans, and a hydrozoan. Mitrella amphisella var. rushii was more abundant inside the empty brood pouches of females, but the nature of this association is unclear.
20487815|Halicarcinus cookii is a small intertidal New Zealand crab that has high levels of ovigerous females in all months. Continuous breeding requires continuous mating. Mating is not linked to moulting because the pubertal moult is terminal. Spermathecal fullness is modelled in terms of the difference between the rates of copulation and rates of brood production. It is estimated that females can fill their spermathecae with sperm after 3-4 copulations (depending on male size) and that approximately 15% of an ejaculate is used to fertilize each brood. Given the fact that females have multiple partners we asked the question: is it worthwhile for males to spend any time mate guarding? Using sterile males we showed that the majority of each brood is sired by the last male to mate. In females prevented from mating again, more of each successive brood is likely to be sired by earlier males who had mated with the female. This suggests that over periods exceeding one brood cycle (i.e., months) sperm slowly becomes mixed. Therefore, it is worthwhile for male H. cookii to invest time in guarding female partners.
1549913|Ovigerous females of Aegla uruguayana were observed in the laboratory during the egg incubation period, under controlled conditions. Hatching of juveniles was characterized by a high degree of asynchrony and ranged from three to four days for most females. Maternal care of juveniles was also seen. During the first day after hatching, juveniles remained living on the ventral side of the abdomen of females, while during the second and third days they were able to explore the surroundings next to the female body, finally separating from her on the third or fourth day of life. No special structures in juveniles for attaching to females were seen. Both the asynchronous hatching and maternal care in A. uruguayana were in many aspects closer to similar processes observed in freshwater astacoid crayfishes than to the ones observed in other anomurans, being the way in which juveniles of A. uruguayana are linked to their mothers, as well as the absence of moulting while they remain with their mothers, which are similar to processes reported for freshwater brachyuran crabs.
27753941|This study examines egg development in American lobster (Homarus americanus) ovigerous females caught off the Magdalen Islands (MI), Qubec, in September 2002 and kept in tanks for 10-11 months under a simulated natural temperature cycle. The study compares egg development trajectories of 7 early-spawners (ES) that had a well-defined pigmented eye area (Perkins eye index, PEI: 190-246 m) at the time of capture and 8 late-spawners (LS) with no visible pigmented eye at the time of capture. Eggs from ES achieved about 80% of their development in the fall, followed by a circa 6-months rest period. Eggs from LS reached approximately 50% development by late fall, and unlike eggs from ES, continued development during winter even at temperatures of 1.0-1.5C. The two groups experienced different numbers of effective (&gt; 3.4C) degree-days (ES: 1440.7, LS: 1308.0) for complete embryonic development and late spawning translated into late hatching. Additional observations made on a group of 72 ovigerous MI females caught in September 2006 indicate that early spawning is mainly associated to larger females, most likely multiparous, with a 2-year reproductive cycle, and late spawning mainly to smaller females, most likely primiparous, with a 1-year cycle, molting and spawning the same year. Larvae from ES/multiparous and LS/primiparous may therefore encounter different environmental conditions for survival at hatching and during larval development. The occurrence of females having different patterns of egg development trajectories in American lobster populations can help spread larval production over time. This can be viewed as a mechanism for coping with environmental uncertainty.
40665206|We studied spatial variation in the prevalence of the rhizocephalan barnacle Lernaeodiscus porcellanae on its porcelain crab host, Petrolisthes cabrilloi, at four southern California intertidal sites separated by only a few km. The prevalence of rhizocephalan externae varied significantly among sites in 2008-2009, with the southernmost site, White Point, consistently showing higher prevalence than the others. Externa prevalence was a good proxy of estimated true prevalence, i. e., the prevalence of rhizocephalans as a whole, not just those that had formed externae. We examined several hypotheses that might explain the observed spatial variation in prevalence. Host susceptibility to infection (indicated by the proxy of damage to host limbs, some of which are used to remove parasite infective stages), did not differ among sites. At all sites, prevalence was slightly higher in female crabs than in males, and the sex ratio at White Point was slightly female-biased while that at the other sites was male-biased; thus, among-site differences in sex ratio did contribute to observed variation in prevalence. However, most spatial variation in prevalence appeared to be due to the effect of host size. At all sites the probability of infection increased with increasing host size, and White Point crabs were on average much larger than crabs at other sites. Overall, the size-class distribution of host crabs explained 80.4% of the variation in prevalence of L. porcellanae. Larger P. cabrilloi have likely had greater opportunity to be infected by rhizocephalans, either because they are older, or because they have undergone more molts, during which they are especially vulnerable to infection. A deeper understanding of small-scale spatial variation in prevalence in L. porcellanae will require information on the causes of among-site variation in host population size structure.
4540246|The four amphipod species Onisimus nanseni, O. glacialis (Lysianassidae), Gammarus wilkitzkii (Gammaridae), and Apherusa glacialis (Calliopiidae) have been identified earlier as autochthonous sympagic organisms that spend the whole life cycle in close association with the Arctic ice pack. Even one and a half centuries after the discovery of the ice-bound ecosystem, the ecology of these amphipod species, and in particular of Onisimus spp. and Apherusa glacialis, is only poorly known. In this study we evaluate and separate the trophic niches of the four amphipod species by analysing the morphology of mouthparts and accessory feeding appendages and compiling all information available on species distribution and feeding ecology. Morphological features and ecological observations imply that interspecific trophic niche overlap among these four amphipod species is reduced; each species has evolved a specific trophic strategy in selecting a different set of primary and supplemental food sources: O. nanseni is detritivorous (necrophageous), O. glacialis is detritivorous (herbivorous), G. wilkitzkii is carnivorous (detritivorous), and A. glacialis is herbivorous (detritivorous). Food choice plasticity in general, and facultative detritivory in particular, can be interpreted as an adaptation to the highly variable and dynamic character of the ice ecosystem. There is evidence that in both Onisimus species, as well as in A. glacialis, niche separation is furthermore provided by their temporary absence from the sympagic environment, which questions the affiliation of these species to the group of autochthonous sympagic organisms.
10.2307/1548507|Dissodactylus nitidus is a small pinnotherid crab living as an ectosymbiont on the Pacific sand dollars Encope grandis, E. californica, E. micropora, and Mellita longifissa. Larvae of D. nitidus are the first to be described among over 30 pinnotherid species ranging from the Gulf of California to Peru. It is the only known species of Dissodactylus to develop four zoeal stages before metamorphosis to the megalopa. All larval stages are described in detail, including the distribution of chromatophores and types of setae. Beginning with the first zoea, mean duration for each stage was 4.5, 2.6, 3.1, and 3.7 days, with the first megalopae appearing 11 days after hatching. The zoeae of D. nitidus are similar to those of other members of the "large-palped" or major subgroup (D. crinitichelis, D. primitivus, D. mellitae) and are unlike members of the "small-palped" or minor subgroup (D. stebbingi, D. rugatus). Larvae of all species can be separated based on morphometric measurements. The megalopa bears a unique oversize seta on the fifth leg which readily distinguishes it from the corresponding stage of all other species of Dissodactylus.
1549851|The larvae of the mangrove sesarmid crab Neosarmatium indicum (A. Milne-Edwards, 1868), were reared in the laboratory. Five zoeal stages and one megalopa are described in detail and illustrated. Morphologically, the first zoea of N. indicum is similar to those of other species of Neosarmatium, as well as species of the family Sesarmidae, in that they share most of the following characters: no lateral carapace spines, five setae on the endopod of the maxilla, and four terminal setae on the distal segment of the mandibular palp in the megalopal stage. The differences between the first zoea and the megalopa of N. indicum and those of its related sesarmid species are discussed briefly.
1549606|To investigate factors associated with the distribution of an intertidal crab, Hippa pacifica Dana, which is common in the swash zones of reflective subtropical and tropical sandy beaches, we examined the effect of sediment size on burrowing rates of a wide size range of individuals. We also examined aspects of swash behavior in field conditions, including drift time, distance and velocity of individual crabs. Hippa pacifica burrowed very rapidly (in 0.3 to 2.7 s) in laboratory and field conditions. Burrowing time increased significantly with increasing crab size in all sediments tested but did not differ between male and female crabs nor between ovigerous and non-ovigerous crabs. There were no significant differences in burrowing times among five sediments ranging from very fine sand to gravel, suggesting that this species is a sediment generalist whose distribution is not limited by sediment size. Individual crabs released in the swash zone of a reflective beach oriented, swam and/or drifted for 1.2 to 3.8 seconds before contacting substrate and burrowing. Drift times were similar for all sizes of crabs. However, drift distance (ranging 0.10 m to 1.16 m) and drift velocity (ranging 0.11 m/s to 0.45 m/s), decreased with increasing crab size, suggesting a possible mechanism for size-specific zonation patterns reported in this species. Burrowing times observed in H. pacifica in this study were faster than reported for other sandy beach macrofauna, including tropical forms. This burrowing ability, in combination with the characteristics of substrate generalist and well-oriented swash behavior, appear to be a key to the ability of H. pacifica to inhabit reflective coarse sand beaches.
1549785| The redclaw crayfish, Cherax quadricarinatus, is of commercially important interest, but its digestive capabilities are not yet completely understood. The understanding of how its digestive enzymes operate can help in the formulation of better diets for this species. A range of digestive enzymes (proteases, carbohydrases, and lipase) was found in the midgut gland and gastric fluid, with activities generally higher in the gastric fluid. Total protease showed maximal activity at pH 7.0-7.5 in both midgut gland and gastric fluid and was inhibited by 1.5 mM CuCl<sub>2</sub> and 10 mM phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride (PMSF). On the other hand, protease was activated by 1.5 mM CaCl<sub>2</sub>. Trypsin-like activity showed pH optima at 7.0 in both the midgut gland and the gastric fluid and was activated by 1.5 mM CaCl<sub>2</sub>, FeSO<sub>4</sub>, and Na<sub>2</sub>SO<sub>4</sub>. Chymotrypsin-like activity and carboxypeptidase A-like activity showed higher activities in the gastric fluid. Carboxypeptidase B-like activity showed optima at pH 6.0 and 7.0 in both the midgut gland extract and the gastric fluid, respectively. Leucine aminopeptidase was detected at low concentration. The -amylase (optimum pH 6.0) was inhibited by 1.5 mM CuCl<sub>2</sub> and 5 mM citric acid. A significant increase in the -amylase activity was observed when it was pre-incubated in the presence of 15 mM CaCl<sub>2</sub>. Cellulase and laminarinase activities were readily detected. Other p-nitrophenyl glycosidases were also detected in the gastric fluid and the midgut gland. Lipase was detected only in the gastric fluid. The presence of these enzymes is an indication of the ability of this species to digest a wide range of food components. 
4540283|The elevation of the six subgenera of Penaeus s. lat. to generic level has proven controversial, some accepted the change while others rejected it out of hand. Such a taxonomic reassignment lends itself to testing by the use of molecular techniques. Data are available from studies of cytochrome oxidase subunit I, and 12S and 16S rRNA. However, analyses of these data sets alone, or in combinations, still have not provided a useable taxonomy of Penaeus s. lat. Ideally we should have a taxonomy where both the morphological and molecular data are in agreement. This is especially critical because of the economic importance of penaeid fisheries around the world. Solving many of these taxonomic problems may await the development of new techniques, but in the meantime specific issues using existing data or techniques should be explored. 1) How widely separated molecularly are Farfantepenaeus and Melicertus? since if these two subgenera are indeed close perhaps they should merge into a single genus Melicertus that contains all the grooved shrimp. 2) Penaeus monodon is usually regarded as being closest to the ancestral line; its affinities to other Penaeus s.str. and to Fenneropenaeus, need further research.
10.2307/1549014|Populations of Artemia from the north coast of the Yucatan Peninsula show significant differences in a variety of morphological characters. The morphology of individuals from 4 locations of Yucatan salterns were compared with Artemia franciscana from San Francisco Bay, California, and Great Salt Lake, Utah. Cyst diameter, naupliar size, adult size, male clasper knobs, and male and female genitalia were measured using light and scanning electron microscopy. We performed canonical discriminant analysis on the characters of the male clasper knobs, and male and female genitalia. Three main morphological patterns among the Yucatan populations emerged: (1) A. franciscana-like morphology with spherical and subspherical male antennal knobs, with multiple spines on the knob, and a female brood pouch with lateral triangular lobes and a pair of regular frontal spines, (2) Subconical male knob with a dominance of single spines, females with round to ellipsoidal brood pouch with lateral prominent pointed lobes, and a pair of large frontal spines, and (3) Small spherical male knob with a dominance of single spines, wide female ellipsoidal brood pouch with total absence of lateral lobes, and a pair of small frontal spines. Numerical and categorical characters of the female brood pouch are critical discriminating characteristics in populations of Artemia. Overall size of the brood pouch and development of the lateral process and frontal spines clearly distinguish populations. Morphological and physiological differences between the North American and Yucatan populations suggest that the Yucatan populations may be one or more distinct species, genetically distinct and ecologically separated from the North American species and from each other by habitat differences.
10.2307/1548384|An electron-dense fibrogranular nuage-like structure appears in primary spermatocytes of Branchipus visnyai. In spermatids, in addition to mitochondria and a Golgi complex, it is closely associated with a cluster of small electron-opaque granules probably derived from itself. Subsequently the small granules fuse together forming another large amorphous granule. The significance of these structures is at present unknown.
10.2307/1548369|The eastern Pacific forms of Phronima colletti Bovallius, 1887, and P. stebbingii Vosseler, 1900, reported by Shih (1969) are redescribed and elevated to species level as Phronima bowmani, new species, and Phronima dunbari, new species, respectively. A comparison of these two new species with their morphologically closely related congeners is given, a key to both sexes of all species of the genus is constructed, and misidentified literature records of all species of Phronima are corrected.
10.2307/1548133|Aetideopsis albatrossae is described from specimens taken from the Pacific east of Mindoro, the Philippines, and formerly identified as Bradyidius similis (Sars, 1903) by C. B. Wilson. This species is characterized by its small size, weak metasomal processes, and sharp angles between the rami and the common base in the rostrum.
27753965|The objective of this study was to clarify the diet composition of the first stage larvae of northern shrimp Pandalus borealis during the spring period of high biological production in the Northwestern Gulf of St. Lawrence (NWGSL). Data collected in spring 2006 revealed that hatching of P. borealis larvae took place in late April and early May during a period characterized by a phytoplankton bloom (mainly species of the genus Chaetoceros) and by an abundance of early stages of mesozooplankton, which demonstrated the onset of secondary production at the sampling site. Gut content examination of stage I larvae sampled at the site and feeding experiments conducted at sea revealed that omnivorous feeding starts at hatching, but a first approximation based on the quantity of pigments present in the larvae suggest that zooplankton is more important than phytoplankton to meet the larvae's energy needs. In addition, field observations of the degree of gut fullness and the low percentage (10%) of larvae with empty guts indicate a high feeding success. Hatching at the time of production of adequate prey could represent a major factor for larval northern shrimp survival in the NWGSL.
10.2307/1548160| Four new species of isopods of the suborder Anthuridea are described from the intertidal and shallow waters of So Paulo and Rio de Janeiro States, Brazil. Paranthura urochroma, new species, occurs in the Paranthuridae and three species (in two genera), Heteranthura moreirai, new species, Mesanthura excelsa, new species, and Mesanthura callicera, new species, in the Anthuridae. The described species in the Anthuridea from Brazil are discussed and a key to the species is included. The distribution and notes on the habitat of the four new species also are furnished. 
10.2307/1548900|Most nearshore brachyuran crabs of the northern Gulf of Mexico have been treated as conspecifics of those in warm-temperate Carolinian waters on the southeastern Atlantic coast of North America. However, historical physiographic constraints appear to have periodically restricted gene flow between northern Gulf populations and sibling Atlantic coast populations, and contemporary disjuncture of ranges often persists across south Florida. The present examination of intertidal complexes has centered on grapsid crabs presently assigned to Sesarma reticulatum and ocypodid crabs assigned to Uca minax, 2 species in which we have observed marked variations in coloration over their distributional range. Genetic differentiation between populations has been assayed by allozyme electrophoresis, and resultant data have been evaluated with F-statistics and cluster analysis of genetic distance. Allozyme divergence between Gulf and Atlantic populations of the S. reticulatum complex is at levels previously reported for speciated populations, while that between trans-Floridian populations of U. minax is much less pronounced. In both species, minimal divergence can be measured between 2 widely separated Atlantic coast sample localities that were compared, while more complex grades of differentiation are evident between sample localities compared within the northern Gulf of Mexico. Trans-Floridian divergence of populations for both of these species is compatible with models for periods of contact and subsequent isolation of Gulf and Atlantic stocks during and since peak glacial advances in North America. Less conspicuous patterns of genetic differentiation between sample localities within the northern Gulf of Mexico may reflect a history of glacial and postglacial alluvial events which resulted in contemporary physiography of northern Gulf estuaries.
1549574|Twenty-six species of freshwater shrimps and crabs, belonging to 14 genera of four families (Atyidae, Palaemonidae, Parathelphusidae, and Grapsidae) are reported from Halmahera, Indonesia. Of them, 10 are new records for the island while one species of Macrobrachium is here described as new. Description for new species, diagnoses for poorly known species, and taxonomic discussions for all species are provided.
10.2307/1548731|It has been hypothesized that male defense of females should evolve in crustacean species in which females molt prior to mating. Mate guarding of premolt females has been demonstrated in decapods in which males have traits such as equal or larger size than females, well-developed chelipeds, and notably aggressive behavior. However, there are numerous species in the shrimp taxa Penaeoidea and Caridea in which males are smaller than females and "weakly armed" with relatively small chelipeds. Precopulatory mate guarding has not been described in these species. The hypothesis of male recognition and guarding of premolt females was tested in Sicyonia dorsalis using video observations on mixed groups of males, intermolt females, and premolt females. Males did not associate with nor defend premolt females, but instead occasionally contacted all females using a courtship behavior ("following"). Courtship and copulations increased dramatically after a female molted. There was no aggressive behavior nor direct physical competition among males for such receptive females. In another set of observations, individual females were kept in isolation for up to 3 weeks after molting before presentation to males. Males were attracted to and mated with these females with empty seminal receptacles, indicating that female receptivity, not tactile and chemical stimuli associated with female molting, are most important in sex attraction in this species. A male tactic of searching for and briefly testing females for copulatory condition, rather than prolonged defense of a single premolt female, may be common in shrimp species with small, weakly armed males.
10.2307/1549442|Ambiguities concerning character variation in species of the edwardsii group of Alpheus led to an investigation of morphometric variation in Alpheus from the northern Gulf of Mexico and north-western Atlantic coasts. Specimens of A. heterochaelis, A. angulatus, and A. estuariensis examined using Principal Components Analysis (PCA) revealed intraspecific variation attributed to sexual dimorphism, and interspecific variation not noted in previous morphological studies.
10.2307/1548147|A new species of the anomuran genus Parapagurus (family Parapaguridae) taken from the Valdivia Bank (Southeast Atlantic) is described. The species is characterized by the absence of pleopods on the first abdominal segment and by having a rudimentary unpaired pleopod on the left side of the second segment in males.
10.2307/1548882| The relationships between hemolymph acidic-basic equivalents (pH, PCO<sub>2</sub> and [HCO<sub>3</sub><sup>-</sup>+CO<sub>3</sub><sup>2-</sup>]), electrolytes (Na, K, Ca, Mg, and Cl), and ecdysone concentration were investigated in the crayfish Procambarus clarkii at 23C during extracellular acidosis resulting from: (1) 24-h aerial exposure, (2) 96-h hyperoxic exposure (PO<sub>2</sub> > 550 mm Hg), or (3) 96-h acid exposure (pH 4.0). A control series failed to reveal any significant effects of repetitive hemolymph sampling. In air, crayfish developed an initial (3-h) respiratory acidosis that was completely compensated within 24 h by metabolic base [HCO<sub>3</sub><sup>-</sup>+CO<sub>3</sub><sup>2-</sup>] accumulation. Circulating Ca and Cl both decreased at 24 h, while K increased. In this case, there was evidence that acid-base balance was corrected by ion exchange with the intracellular compartment. Hyperoxia was characterized by an initial (3-h) respiratory acidosis followed by a metabolic acidosis. The combined acidosis remained uncompensated, and circulating ecdysone decreased after 24 h. Acid exposure produced a purely metabolic acidosis that was partially corrected by a respiratory alkalosis between 48 and 72 h and was accompanied by an increase in circulating ecdysone. Ca and K decreased. Collectively, the experiments established a relationship between extracellular ecdysone and pH. Meanwhile, Ca remained relatively constant in all 3 treatments. 
41315674|The setae of gill-cleaning mechanisms and respiratory-water circulation system of ten species of ocypodid crabs are described. Epipodal setae are classified as of four types: anchor-, scale setule-, simple-, and digitate-scale-setule setae. A few short setae are found on the Milne Edwards aperture (MEA) in Ocypode, while long plumo-pappose setae were found on the MEA in Uca. The basal part of the epipod of third maxilliped (EpMp3) is armed with many pappose setae having digitate-scale setules in Uca. On the other hand, only a few setae are found on the basal part of the EpMp3 in Ocypode. The constricted setae were dominant on Mller's aperture. Setae on these structures were compared with those of previous studies.
1549339|Symbioses between cyanobacteria (or eukaryotic algae and their plastids) and protists or invertebrates are well known and are important in evolution and ecology. However, no such symbioses have been previously reported in arthropods. An ultrastructural study of a branchiopod crustacean (Daphnia obtusa) from temporary ponds consistently revealed plastids inside gut endocytes. Plastids were most frequent in animals from shaded woodland ponds. Ultrastructure indicated that plastids in D. obtusa (a) are sequestered cyanobacteria and plastids from eukaryotic algae, and (b) senesce, suggesting that these generalist grazers have not closely coevolved with a plastid source. Daphnia obtusa (and other cladocerans?) in temporary ponds may benefit from plastid presence in several ways (nutrition, oxygen, calcium availability); daphnids inhabiting permanent waters may be less selected for plastid uptake. This paper represents an extension of plastid endosymbiosis into the Arthropoda, and indicates more sophisticated evolutionary and ecological interactions between these important crustacean herbivores and their food than previously recognized.
10.2307/1548450|Eurytemora affinis is reported from the Ohio River at Louisville, Kentucky, about 2,960 river miles upstream from the Gulf of Mexico. This is about 2,254 river miles beyond the farthest penetration up the Mississippi River previously known: Horn Lake, De Soto County, Mississippi.
1549949|The female of Haplostomides scotti Chatton and Harant is redescribed, and the male is described for the first time, on the basis of specimens living in the compound ascidian Polyclinum aurantium collected at Roscoff (Brittany, France). Some morphological characters of the female are at variance with the original description, which was based on one specimen from the type locality (Penpoul, near Roscoff). (?)Enterocola beaumonti Scott and Scott may be a synonym of H. scotti. The male of H. scotti is compared with males of species of Botryllophilus with respect to the armature formula for legs 1-4. Similar comparisons are attempted for seven other species of haplostomatins (in the genera Haplostoma, Haplostomides, Haplosaccus) in order to establish morphological differences between males of haplostomatins and botryllophilins.
40927850|A neotype of Elasmopus rapax Costa, 1853 is designated based on material from the Fusaro Coastal Lagoon, Central Tyrrhenian Sea, Italy. The species is confirmed as an invasive species in Australian ports. Populations of E. rapax are identified from seven port, harbour, and marina locations around the south-eastern, southern, and south-western coasts. Museum collections indicate that this species has been present in Australia since at least 1884. It is not currently known from tropical Australia.
10.2307/1548296| The complete larval development is described for Pachycheles stevensii Stimpson, a shallow-water porcellanid crab from Japan, reared under laboratory conditions. The development consists of 2 zoeal stages and one megalopa; the duration of development, from hatching through megalopa, takes about 28 days at a temperature of 15C and a salinity of 35 ppt. The morphological features of zoeal and megalopal stages of P. stevensii are compared with those of other species of Pachycheles. 
10.2307/1548159|In order to properly understand the origins of the Order Amphipoda, their phylogenetic position within the Superorder Peracarida must first be established. A hypothetical ancestral peracarid is derived from Dahl's hypothetical ancestral eumalacostracan, which was proposed as lacking a carapace. The independent derivation of a carapace for special needs on at least two occasions is thus a central feature of a new phylogenetic arrangement for the peracaridan orders. This phylogeny is based on an analysis of 29 character states using Hennigian methods. Two lineages are immediately apparent: 1, a heterogeneous line containing the Amphipoda, Mysidacea, and Thermosbaenacea; and 2, a homogeneous "mancoid" line leading from the Isopoda through the Spelaeogriphacea and Tanaidacea to the Cumacea. The mancoid line as proposed is inverted relative to earlier phylogenetic schemes; however, this new arrangement is more in accord with the known fossil record. It is suggested that future examinations of the phylogeny of peracarid orders be based on a scheme for the Superorder, thus enabling plesiomorphic features of individual orders to be properly defined. Lastly, the polyphyletic nature of the Peracarida is discussed and it is suggested that at least three independent lines of "peracaridan" radiation might have arisen from a pre-Carboniferous syncarid-like ancestral eumalacostracan.
1549507|Tepee Buttes are low conical hills which occur in scattered clusters along the strike of the Late Cretaceous Pierre Shale near Pueblo, Colorado, and around the Black Hills of South Dakota, Montana, and Wyoming. These erosional landforms develop around resistant columnar limestone masses thought to have been deposited by warm, methane-rich, submarine springs within relatively homogeneous, less resistant claystones. Origin of the Tepee Buttes is attributed to dewatering of underlying claystones. The submarine springs provided a unique habitat on the Western Interior Cretaceous sea bottom for growth of large populations of the lucinid bivalve, Nymphalucina occidentalis, often preserved in living position in reef-like masses encircling the spring vents. Concentration of abundant biomass immediately around the spring vents formed the basis of communities preserved as the Nymphalucina Assemblage dominated by N. occidentalis, but including ammonoid cephalopods, other bivalved mollusks, gastropods, foraminiferans, and a few decapod crustaceans. Fragments of grounded fossilized gymnosperm and angiosperm wood riddled with Teredo borings are also found on the vent cores. Twenty specimens of decapod crustaceans representing three new species of crabs were collected from Tepee Buttes near Oelrichs and Newell, South Dakota, and collecting near Pueblo, Colorado, yielded specimens belonging to three new species, as well as one specimen of Hoplitocarcinus punctatus. The new taxa include Heus foersteri, new genus and species, Raninella manningi, new species (family Raninidae), and Plagiophthalmus bjorki, new species (family Prosopidae). Descriptions, illustrations, and comparisons of new taxa with previously described members of the family are given.
10.2307/1548031|Echinophilus xiphidion, new species, ectoparasitic on sea urchins of the genus Strongylocentrotus, is described. This species is distinguished from E. semilunaris Schornikov, 1973, by a dagger-shaped clasping apparatus of the copulatory organ. Specimens were collected from sea urchins on the coasts of Oregon and Washington. Those urchins taken from areas exposed to intense wave action were free of this parasitic ostracod. The life history was determined by collecting juvenile instars from the urchins. Only seven juvenile instars are known for this species.
4094212|This paper describes the reproductive biology and growth of Ibacus alticrenatus, I. brucei, and I. chacei from the east coast of Queensland, Australia. Reproductive cycles, sizes at maturity, sex ratios, morphological data, egg sizes, brood fecundities, length-frequency distributions, and growth parameters are described. Ibacus chacei numerically dominated both the commercial and research charter samples and were followed by I. brucei and I. alticrenatus in abundance respectively. Seasonal reproductive data indicated that I. brucei and I. chacei have an annual cycle of reproduction, with oviposition and hatching occurring earlier and over a shorter period in I. brucei. Gonadal maturation in ovigerous I. chacei suggested that more than one brood could be produced in a spawning season; however, reproductive activity was geographically restricted. Carapace lengths of ovigerous lobsters ranged 38.2-52.0 mm for I. alticrentatus, 44.6-69.7 mm for I. brucei, and 53.7-76.2 mm for I. chacei. Brood fecundity was size dependent and highest in I. brucei (2049-61,339) but markedly lower in I. chacei (2117-28,793) and I. alticrenatus (1734-14,762). Egg size in all three species was independent of carapace length, positively related to developmental stage, and ranged 0.94-1.29 mm for I. alticrentatus, 0.73-1.01 mm for I. brucei, and 1.02-1.37 mm for I. chacei. Monthly length-frequency distributions for I. chacei displayed marked multi-modality and indicated a prolonged recruitment period with moulting occurring 3-4 times within their first year post-recruitment. Growth curves of I. chacei indicated that females reach sexual maturity 1.7-2 yrs post settlement and that individuals approached their L
10.2307/1548611|Relative growth of the swimming crab Ovalipes catharus was described from measurements made on the carapace, abdomen, gonopod, and chelipeds using carapace width (cw) as the reference dimension. Log-transformed regressions were used to test for allometric growth and lines were compared by ANCOVA. No significant difference was found in the growth of the carapace for male and female crabs and relative growth in carapace length was negatively allometric. Abdomen growth in female O. catharus showed a discontinuity between 35 and 40 mm cw indicating the pubertal molt. For prepubertal females and males, abdomen growth was isometric, contrasting with postpubertal females where abdomen growth was positively allometric. Male crabs between 15 and 100 mm cw showed positive allometric growth of the gonopod with a discontinuity corresponding to a carapace width of 40 mm. Relative growth of the gonopod of immature males was significantly greater than mature males. In O. catharus the right chela or crusher was enlarged compared with the left chela. Relative growth of chela height in females was isometric and in males, negatively allometric. For female O. catharus it was concluded that major differences in allometric growth were related to the onset of sexual maturity and the maturation of the gonads. Differences in the allometric growth of the male gonopod and male chelae are more likely related to mating or other behavioral adaptations.
10.2307/1548023|Precopulatory clasping was studied in the harpacticoid copepod Zausodes arenicolus in Tampa Bay, Florida. Clasping of all juvenile copepodite stages (I-V) was observed, but no adult females or males were clasped. Clasping of early copepodites, rarely reported for other harpacticoids, occurs frequently in Z. arenicolus. The size-distribution of clasped individuals changed seasonally, with a higher proportion of younger stages being clasped when adult males are abundant relative to juveniles than when juveniles are relatively more abundant. We suggest that clasping of early stages in Z. arenicolus may be a response to scarcity of available mates.
10.2307/1548493| Frontal knob morphology of a few specimens of Artemia salina from Lymington, England, kindly provided by Dr. Boxshall (British Museum of Natural History, London), was examined by means of scanning electron microscopy in order to make comparisons with recently described morphology of North African (Sfax and Mgrine, Tunisia) and Italian (Tarquinia, Latium; Sant'Antioco, Carloforte, Cagliari, and Su Pallosu, Sardinia) populations, respectively, referred to as A. tunisiana and A. salina (Mura, Del Caldo, and Fanfani, 1989; Mura, Fanfani, and Del Caldo, 1989). As to the shape of the frontal knobs and to their ornamentation, these species can hardly be separated one from another. Possible conspecificity is suspected, thus confirming data obtained by other authors with a series of cross breeds (Clark and Bowen, 1976; Baratelli et al., in press). New data concerning the sample from Lymington suggest that this population is conspecific. 
1549399|Botryllophilus bamfieldensis, new species, is described on the basis of specimens of both sexes living in a compound ascidian from the Bamfield area in Barkley Sound, west coast of Vancouver Island, Canada. The morphological details of the female fit the diagnostic features for morphotype A of the genus. The female can be distinguished from its eight congeners by the sharply pointed triangular apex of the cephalosome, the weakly segmented metasome, and the markedly elongated exopods of left legs 1-4. The male of the new species differs from the only known male of a species of morphotype A (B. abbotti) in that the endopod of leg 1 bears five variously shaped spines and five plumose setae. It is proposed that females of nine species of morphotype A be further divided into two subgroups based on two patterns of armature for legs 1-4.
10.2307/1548210|Ismaila occulta, new species, a poecilostomatoid copepod of the family Splanchnotrophidae, is described based on specimens recovered within the cerata of a giant red nudibranch, Dendronotus iris Cooper, collected from Alamitos Bay in Long Beach, California. Problems in uniting Ismaila, Micrallecto, Nannallecto and Splanchnotrophus under the Splanchnotrophidae and the systematic status of the family are discussed.
10.2307/1548524|Little information is available on the larval ecology of brachyuran crabs on the western coast of North America. Horizontal plankton tows were conducted biweekly over a 14-month period at 4 stations in Elkhorn Slough, California, and at 1 station 1 km offshore and adjacent to the slough. The brachyuran larvae of 5 families represented by 12 taxa were identified to the lowest possible taxon. Larvae of Pinnixa franciscana, Hemigrapsus oregonensis, Cancer gracilis, Pinnixa weymouthi, and Pachygrapsus crassipes occurred most frequently. Larvae were most abundant at all sites in early spring and late winter. One exception was the larvae of P. crassipes which had a peak abundance in late summer and early fall. Larvae of P. franciscana and P. weymouthi generally remained within Elkhorn Slough, whereas larvae of H. oregonensis and P. crassipes appeared to be transported offshore. The numerous first stage zoeae of P. franciscana, H. oregonensis, and P. crassipes collected in the upper Elkhorn Slough suggest that adult females use this habitat as a spawning ground.
1549508| Conchoeodromia alcocki Chopra, 1934, known from a single locality in the Bay of Bengal and from only two small specimens (6.2  5.2 and 5.6  4.7 mm), is shown to be a megalopa of Conchoecetes artificiosus (Fabricius, 1798). Conchoeodromia alcocki presents several characteristics of the megalopal stage, such as long feelers on the tip of the fifth pereiopod. As a result, the genera Conchoeodromia Chopra, 1934, and Conchoecetes Stimpson, 1858, are synonymized. Illustrations of comparative appendages of the megalopal and adult stages are provided. The morphological features of P4 and P5 that allow members of the shell-carrying dromiids Conchoecetes and Hypoconcha Gurin-Mneville, 1854, to hold a bivalve shell are compared. 
1549763| A new highly transformed parasitic copepod, Arthurhumesia canadiensis new genus, new species, is described based on specimens parasitizing the zooids of a compound ascidian, Aplidium solidum (Ritter and Forsyth, 1917), collected near Bamfield Marine Station, British Columbia, Canada. The new genus is distinguishable from its closest allied genera, Gonophysema Bresciani and Ltzen, 1960, Capistrum Monniot, 1985, and Tarificola Lpez-Gonzlez, Bresciani, and Conradi, 1998, in the shape of the dwarf male and its relationship to the female's body. The possible convergence in body shape in these four genera is also discussed. 
1549167|The reproductive biology of the Taiwanese fresh-water crab Candidiopotamon rathbunae (de Man) was investigated. The maturity, gonad development, mating behavior, breeding season, timing of release of young crabs, fecundity, and behavior of ovigerous females were studied. Mature males have sperm available for mating throughout the year. The deposition of yolk in females takes place mostly from April to June, with most of the eggs reaching maturity at the end of June. The main breeding season is from late June to October, although mating can occur all year round. In C. rathbunae, discernible courtship behavior is absent and a forced copulation strategy is practiced by males. Ovigerous females leave streams to live on the forest floor several meters away from the stream and are difficult to locate along the banks of streams. Ovigerous females return to the stream a few hours before hatching of the eggs. Most young crabs are released after mid-September, which is the end of the rainy season. This is believed to be a strategy to avoid destructive flash floods which are common from mid-May to early September. The number of eggs carried by each ovigerous female ranges 9-117, fecundity being highest for females of about 30-mm carapace width.
10.2307/1547885|Amuletta, new genus, is proposed for Ilyarachna abyssorum Richardson, 1911. A detailed description, new illustrations, and new records are presented with a discussion of the systematic position of this species. It must be placed in the Eurycopidae, in spite of its resemblance to the presumed ancestor of the Ilyarachnidae. This difficulty arises because the present classification of these janiroidean families has become obsolete. This species is apparently limited to the northeast Atlantic, where it has a broad depth distribution. However, sampling device avoidance may account for the infrequent records of this species, implying it may have a broader geographic range. The gut contents of one specimen contained a high proportion of calcareous Foraminifera, suggesting that it was actively feeding on forams.
1549767| Both sexes of a new genus and species of Ancorabolidae are described from the San Diego Trough in the Northeastern Pacific. Arthuricornua anendopodia, new genus, new species, is placed in the newly defined Ceratonotus-group which includes the genera Ceratonotus Sars, Dorsiceratus Drzycimski, and Polyascophorus George. Members of this group are characterized by the cylindrical body shape, presence of dorsal processes on somites bearing P2-P4, rostral shape, proximal antennulary elongation, 3-segmented condition of  P3 endopod, and absorption of P5 endopodal lobe in both sexes. The major evolutionary transformations within the Ceratonotus-group are discussed and polarized by outgroup comparison with the Cletodidae. Parsimony analysis confirmed Dorsiceratus and Ceratonotus as monophyletic genera, but demonstrated the polyphyletic status of Polyascophorus. Polyascophorus schminkei George is identified as the earliest offshoot within the Ceratonotus-group and is transferred to a new genus Touphapleura. The common ancestry of Arthuricornua and Dorsiceratus, and the sistergroup relationship between Ceratonotus and Polyascophorus, are strongly supported. A basal dichotomy divides the genus Ceratonotus into two geographically separated clades. The genus Polyascophorus is redefined to include only P. martinezi George and P. gorbunovi (Smirnov). 
1549593| The presence of Eualus pusiolus (Kryer, 1841) in the northeastern Pacific is confirmed, and a new species that has often been confused with E. pusiolus is described and illustrated. Eualus butleri, n. sp., is found inside hexactinellid sponges and is distinguished by an elongated basal article of the antennular peduncle that exceeds the stylocerite, slender pereopods, and pronounced sexual dimorphism, with males larger than females and bearing enlarged third maxillipeds. A key to all known northeastern Pacific species of Eualus is included. 
1549975|Local inhabitants of the Caribbean island of Tobago catch land crabs Cardisoma guanhumi (Herbst, 1796) in an ingenious tube trap made from bamboo. The trap bears a remarkable resemblance to bamboo land-crab traps used in the Philippines. The bamboo-tube trap reported here has not previously been reported from the New World. Tobagonian bamboo-tube traps are baited with local fruits and are positioned on the surface adjacent to crab burrow entrances. In contrast, Old World bamboo-tube traps are reportedly used unbaited and are inserted into the mouths of crab burrows. The striking structural similarity between Caribbean and Philippine bamboo traps lends ethnographic interest, while the traps' simple design and ability to catch land crabs alive and unharmed make them a viable research tool in population studies of land crabs. Similar traps could be made from modern plastic drainage piping.
10.2307/1547896|Diurnal migrations of fresh-water ostracods, Heterocypris incongruens (Ramdohr, 1808), from a muddy to a rocky benthic substrate in a small pool, are described. This is the first time that such benthic migrations have been noted for any microcrustacean. Possible explanations for the phenomenon are suggested.
10.2307/1549271| Larvae of the golden king crab Lithodes aequispinus were reared in individual chambers in the laboratory from hatching to the first crab stage (C1). The experiment included 2 treatments: 1 group was fed live nauplii of Artemia daily, while the other group was unfed. A total of 4 molts were observed for all larvae from hatching to C1. One larval stage, either zoea III or zoea IV, was skipped by all larvae. No significant difference existed for the duration of development of each stage between fed and unfed treatments. The mean durations were ZI (ZI = zoeal stage I, ZII = zoeal stage II, etc.) = 6.6 days (0.71 SD), ZII<sub>a</sub> (molted to ZIII) = 7.0 d (0.65 SD), ZII<sub>b</sub> (molted to ZIV) = 8.8 d (0.95 SD), ZIII (skipped ZIV) = 12.0 d (1.33 SD), ZIV (skipped ZIII) = 9.3 d ( 1.63 SD), and glaucothoe = 41.3 d (2.65 SD). The total larval duration was approximately 67 d. The survival rate of the fed group was significantly lower than that of the unfed group. Seventeen percent of unfed larvae developed to C1, but only 0.7% of fed larvae did so. The longest duration of survival from hatching was 191 d for an unfed crab. The dry weights of unfed larvae decreased 10% from hatching to C1. Our results indicate that the larval development of the golden king crab is fully lecithotrophic, i.e., larvae can successfully develop to juvenile crabs without eating. 
10.2307/1548667|Meiotic chromosome spreads were prepared from testicular lobes of 4 species of penaeid shrimps to determine numbers of chromosomes and meiotic phases. DNA content of nuclei isolated from shrimp hemocytes of these species was estimated by flow cytometry. Meiotic chromosome spreads indicated that the haploid chromosome number of Penaeus aztecus, P. duorarum, and P. vannamei was 44, while that of P. setiferus was 45. These counts are consistent with diploid chromosome numbers reported previously for each of these species. No trivalents or quadrivalents were found in meiotic prophase. These 4 species had approximately the same genome size (approximately 70% of the human genome) as measured by flow cytometry. It is suggested that Robertsonian chromosome rearrangement has accompanied the speciation process in the genus Penaeus without polyploidization.
41315719|Alpheid snapping shrimp are one of the most diverse groups of coral-reef fauna, and sponge-dwelling shrimp in the genus Synalpheus {gambarelloides species group) have in particular become a model system for studying the evolution of social biology and host use in marine invertebrates. Despite recent advances in understanding the evolution and systematics of Synalpheus, the taxonomy and phylogenetic relationships within this group remain challenging. More than 20 new species in the S. gambarelloides species group have been described over the past two decades, primarily within several cryptic species complexes, which has doubled the known diversity of this group in the West Atlantic. Here we construct a new phylogenetic tree describing relationships between 40 different species from the S. gambarelloides-group (119 individuals from across the Caribbean), using a combined dataset consisting of two mitochondrial loci (16S and COI), one nuclear protein-coding gene (elongation-factor 2), and 33 morphological characters. Putative conspecific specimens of Synalpheus from multiple locations across the Caribbean were always monophyletic (with one exception), providing strong support for the validity of species concepts based on morphology. Our study also provides further evidence for the monophyly of the S. gambarelloides-group in the Caribbean, resolves the molecular relationships within many recently described species complexes, and provides a new phylogenetic framework for future evolutionary studies of this group.
1549848|The complete larval development of Parapagurodes constans is described, based on laboratory rearing. The species has four zoeal stages plus the megalopa. Each stage is described and illustrated, and detailed comparisons are made with other pagurid larvae in closely related species of Parapagurodes and other pagurid genera.
4540251| The freshwater prawn Macrobrachium lar requires its chelipeds for defensive behaviors. When chelipeds are autotomized, it is beneficial for prawns to regenerate and then elongate the lost chelipeds as rapidly as possible. These prawns are hypothesized to distend their regenerating chelipeds by hydrostatic inflation immediately following ecdysis. The periods required for limb regeneration and subsequent elongation in adult M. lar were measured to be 18.8  1.6 days for single cheliped replacement and 17.4  1.3 for double cheliped replacement. Control prawns with both chelipeds intact were shown to molt every 19.1  1.7 days. These measured periods for limb regeneration and subsequent elongation in M. lar are faster than those periods reported previously for all other adult decapod crustaceans measured from late intermolt (stage C). This rapid rate of cheliped replacement allows M. lar to minimize the amount of time they may be threatened with territory loss or predation. 
1549964|In the mole crab Emerita asiatica, the female reproductive cycle is repetitive; when the pleopodal embryos undergo development, there is a concurrent maturation of oocytes within the ovary making it ready for the next spawning. However, molting occurs after hatching of the larvae from the pleopods and before spawning. In E. asiatica, the developmental changes of setae on the pleopods and the extent of epidermal retraction were used to define the molt cycle stages. Contrary to earlier reports on embryo-carrying decapods, in E. asiatica the first sign of molting, viz., the retraction of epidermis, is evident even before the hatching of the embryos. The premolt stages advance further up to D<sub>1</sub> at a time when the pleopodal embryos hatch. No female at the time of embryo hatching is in the intermolt. Both ovarian index and total ovarian proteins gradually increase from the intermolt stage C<sub>1</sub> to C<sub>3</sub> thereupon maintaining the same level up to spawning. In continuously reproducing females (size class 23-33-mm CL), the hemolymph protein level is also high during the entire intermolt period, but increases sharply during premolt stage with a drastic decline just before ecdysis. Furthermore, hemolymph protein of both immature females (size class 10-17-mm CL) as well as females in the first maturation (18-22-mm CL) sharply rises during premolt stages (D<sub>0</sub>-D<sub>2</sub>), with an ensuing decline in stage D<sub>3-4</sub>. Evidently, the changes in the total hemolymph protein reflect on its role in vitellogenesis as well as new cuticle synthesis. Whereas the protein rise during the intermolt stage is coincident to the active vitellogenic phase, the second ramp in the increase of hemolymph protein during premolt stage may be related to new cuticle synthesis. A common endocrine basis of such a synchronous molting and ovarian cycle in Emerita is evident, but a substantial nutritional status, owing to filter-feeding habit of the sand crab, is attributed to the year-round reproduction and molting.
40927846|Most fisheries involving spiny lobsters of the genus Palinurus have been overexploited during the last decades, so there is a raising concern about management decisions for these valuable resources. A total of 13 microsatellite DNA loci recently developed in Palinurus elephas were assayed in order to assess genetic diversity levels in every known species of the genus. Microsatellite markers gave amplifications and showed polymorphism in all species, with gene diversity values varying from 0.650  0.077 SD (Palinurus barbarae) to 0.792  0.051 SD (Palinurus elephas). Most importantly, when depth distribution was taken into account, shallower water species consistently showed larger historical effective population sizes than their deeper-water counterparts. This could explain why deeper-water species are more sensitive to overfishing, and would indicate that overexploitation may have a larger impact on their longterm genetic diversity.
10.2307/1549190|An investigation of the life-history characteristics of 2 thalassinid shrimps (Neotrypaea californiensis and Upogebia pugettensis) on intertidal mud flats in Willapa Bay, Washington (U.S.A.), revealed substantial differences. Both species are viewed as pests by the oyster industry due to their ability to disturb sediments. The density of Neotrypaea was always higher than that of Upogebia in the undisturbed populations sampled, and burrow opening-shrimp density relationships differed between species (1.2 burrow openings shrimp<sup>-1</sup> in Neotrypaea and 1.5 openings shrimp<sup>-1</sup> in Upogebia). Differences were also noted in growth rate (2-3-mm CL yr<sup>-1</sup> for Neotrypaea versus 4-5-mm CL yr<sup>-1</sup> for Upogebia), size at maturity, and sexual dimorphism. Male and female claw size diverged immediately in juvenile Upogebia (4-5-mm CL, <1 yr old), but not until sexual maturation in Neotrypaea (9-10-mm CL, almost 2 yr old). Average fecundity was higher for Upogebia (7,100 eggs) than Neotrypaea (3,900 eggs) and we found a distinct difference in the seasonal reproductive cycle of the 2 species of shrimps. Neotrypaea were ovigerous from April through August and Upogebia were ovigerous from October through May. Seasonal timing of postlarval recruitment was correspondingly offset; Neotrypaea recruited to the estuary from late summer through early fall (August-October), while Upogebia recruited in spring (April-June). The seasonal difference in timing of recruitment of these shrimps to the estuary has important implications for shrimp-control programs and oyster-culture practices which are currently not being considered. Control operations occur in July before settlement of postlarvae of Neotrypaea, enabling this species to rapidly reinfest oyster-culture areas.
1549659|Intrinsic musculature of the fifth and sixth limbs of selected halocyprid ostracodes is used to identify the basis and, also, bristles that could be interpreted to represent an exopod. It is concluded that, in general, species of the Halocyprida bear bristles that could be interpreted to represent an exopod. Taxa that bear an unsegmented exopod lobe on the sixth limb are restricted to the deep sea and anchialine caves, and this suggests their antiquity.
10.2307/1548022|In a simplified laboratory environment, aggressive activity (threats, strikes, fights) of Orconectes rusticus declined with increasing availability of both shelter and food. Shelter and food interacted to determine overall aggressive activity; however, in general, shelter reduced aggressive activity more than did food over the 42 h duration of our treatments. Preferred food (fish pieces) reduced activity more than did less preferred food (Tetramin). Individual crayfish varied substantially in amount of aggressive activity. Overall, threats accounted for 16% of aggressive interactions, strikes for 46%, and fights for 38%; proportions were relatively constant among most treatments and between day and night.
10.2307/1548394|To existing New World records of Mesocyclops aspericornis from Argentina, Colombia, Venezuela, and the Antilles, we add records from Venezuela, Colombia, and Brazil. The broad geographic distribution and diversity of recorded habitats for M. aspericornis suggest that it is a fugitive species. Close scrutiny of morphology has revealed subtle intraspecific differences, the most pronounced of which concerns antennular structures of males.
1549871|Clawed lobster diversity through time [Lower Cretaceous (Valanginian)-Recent] is compiled and interpreted herein. Species diversity trends are evaluated using raw numbers of species per geologic time unit (period, age) and also by using a variety of species-numbers normalization factors that address sampling biases. Species numbers are normalized for: 1) duration of time intervals (periods), 2) sedimentary rock exposure area per time intervals (periods), and 3) area under the Vail et al. (1978) sea-level curve (ages). The Vail curve method, new herein, normalizes for marginal/epicontinental sea coverage per age. By any measure; i.e., raw or normalized data, and over any time interval considered, shallow-dwelling (shelf depth) lobsters were significantly more diverse in the Cretaceous than in the Tertiary (e.g., 53 Cretaceous species vs. 16 Tertiary species, raw count; 18 Tertiary species if normalized for duration). Reduction in Tertiary lobster diversity seems due, in part, to mass extinction at the K/T boundary. However, lobster diversity rebounds in the Eocene, and it seems apparent that lower diversity of Tertiary lobsters is due more to post-Paleocene events than to K/T boundary events. The reduction in Tertiary fossil diversity seems largely explained by the lobsters' general abandonment of shelf depths in the Tertiary (ca. late Eocene-early Oligocene). Deep-dwelling lobsters are seldom collected as fossils, and their diversity history will never be known, but it seems clear that shelf-dwelling lobsters were significantly more diverse in the Cretaceous.
4094242|A recent collection of freshwater crabs of the family Potamonautidae from central Angola included two species of Potamonautes MacLeay, 1838, P. anchietae (Brito-Capello, 1871), and P. kensleyi, new species, which are described. In addition, Potamonautes adeleae Bott, 1968, is recognized as a valid species, and the taxonomic status and biogeographic affinities of other species of freshwater crabs that have been reported from Angola are discussed. The addition of P. kensleyi and P. adeleae raises the number of species of freshwater crabs known to occur in Angola to seven.
1549797|A new cirripede (Verrucomorpha: Verrucidae) Verruca digitali Buckeridge sp. nov. is described from the late Miocene in Orange County, California. The discovery of dozens of specimens in siliceous shale of the upper Monterey Formation is remarkable because both living and fossil Verrucidae are rare in the Northeast Pacific and adjacent terranes and the stratigraphic sequence is characteristically bathyal in origin. We propose that these specimens of V. digitali were epiphytic, being attached to seaweed that was either planktic or uprooted and displaced downslope. This species is similar to Verruca alaskana Pilsbry, a Pliocene species from Alaska, and Verruca laevigata Sowerby, an extant species inhabiting shallow waters off the west coast of South America. Verruca digitali is a likely Miocene candidate for a "Verruca laevigata bioseries."
10.2307/1548397|Five species of Aetideidae (Copepoda, Calanoida) are recorded from the continental shelf and slope of Brazil. Comantenna recurvata Grice and Hulsemann, 1970, and Paracomantenna magalyae Campaner, 1978, are recorded for the second time. Three new species, one of them in a new genus, are described: C. curtisetosa, new species, Mesocomantenna spinosa, new genus, new species, and P. gracilis, new species. The importance of the type of ornamentation of the setae of lobes 4 and 5 of maxilla 2 to the separation of genera is discussed.
10.2307/1549071|Mytilicola intestinalis is a parasitic copepod in the intestine of the blue mussel Mytilus edulis. The copepod midgut was examined by means of transmission electron microscopy to determine whether gut cell structure resembled that of other copepods in which the alimentary system is functional. Several characteristic cell types were found in the midgut of Mytilicola, along with detrital matter in the gut lumen. It is concluded that the alimentary canal of Mytilicola is not vestigial and is actively involved in the uptake of nutrients.
4094183|Two new genera of crinoid-associated pontoniine shrimps, Brucecaris, new genus, and Unguicaris, new genus, are described and illustrated. Brucecaris is established for Periclimenes tenuis Bruce. Unguicaris panglaonis, new genus, new species, is described from crinoid-associated material collected at Panglao Island, Bohol Sea, The Philippines. Three species, Periclimenes alegrias Bruce, Periclimenes novacaledoniae Bruce and Periclimenes pilipes Bruce and Zmarzly, are transferred to Unguicaris since they significantly differ from the diagnosis of the type species of the genus Periclimenes Costa, P. amethysteus (Risso). Remarks on systematic positions of remaining crinoid-associated species of the genus Periclimenes are given.
1549951|A new genus and species, Galathocrypta acaudata, infesting the galatheid Munidopsis erinaceus is described based on a pair collected from the outer continental slope off the Coatzacoalcos River, southwestern Gulf of Mexico, at a depth of 502 m. The female in the new genus differs from those of its most similar genera Pseudione, Pleurocryptella, and Parapleurocryptella in having a maxilliped with an unarticulated palp and no uropods. Males of Galathocrypta acaudata lack pereomeral ventral tubercules, maxillipedal palps, pleopods, and uropods.
10.2307/1547891|Arguments are given in support of the hypothesis that in the Crustacea stalked eyes are derived from sessile eyes, but sessile eyes are not derived from stalked eyes.
10.2307/1548180| Parapenaeopsis balli, the only representative of the genus in American waters, was originally described from two small males. On the basis of over 100 specimens, among which are many females, it is redescribed in detail, including the first accounts of the appendix masculina, thelycum, and seminal receptacles. Variations in several morphological features are assessed and differences of the species from its closest relatives are discussed. The range of this shrimp along the Pacific American coast, previously recorded only from El Salvador, is found to extend as far north as Baha de Banderas, Jalisco, Mexico. 
27753935|Marine isopods of the genus Bathynomus are important scavengers. We studied the microscopic structure of setae on the antennule and antenna of Bathynomus pelor using scanning electron microscopy. The animals were caught in baited traps off the Northwest Shelf of Australia and brought to the surface by a remotely operated vehicle (ROV). The peduncles of the antennule and antenna displayed pits with simple setae and some penicillate setae located outside these pits. The ventral side of the antennule flagella houses a furrow, bordered by knob shaped projections and filled with aesthetascs. Bifurcated and penicillate setae are also present on this flagellum. Clustered and branched setae were found on the flagellum of the antenna. These structures indicate that B. pelor possesses a set of complex setae on its antennule and antenna that it may use for sensory perception.
10.2307/1548262| Three species-groups of dwarf crawfishes (genus Cambarellus) are accorded subgeneric status: Pandicambarus, containing the most generalized species and restricted to the United States; the monotypic Dirigicambarus, the range of which lies within that of the former; and the nominate subgenus, which is confined to Mexico. Present knowledge of the several character states is such that infrasubgeneric grouping is best attempted by "classical" rather than cladistic techniques. Tertiary geological data indicate that the Cambarellinae were established in the lower Mississippi River basin prior to the Miocene, reinvading the eastern part of the Gulf Coastal Plain in late Miocene or early Pliocene times. Some descriptive terms to be applied to the annulus ventralis are introduced. /// Trois groupes d'espces d'crevisses naines (genre Cambarellus) sont mis dans un nouveau sous-genre: Pandicambarus, contenant les espces les plus generalises et localiss aux tats-Unis; le sous-genre monotypique Dirigicambarus, dont le domaine est inclus dans celui du prcdent; et le sous-genre nominal, qui est limit au Mexique. Nos connaissances actuelles des caractrs morphologiques sont telles qu'il vaut mieux grouper les taxons infrieurs aux sous-genres  l'aide des techniques "classiques" plutt que cladistiques. Les donnes gologiques du Tertiaire indiquent que les Cambarellinae taient tablis dans le bassin infrieur du fleuve Mississippi avant le Miocne, envahissant  nouveau l'est de la plaine ctiere du golfe du Mexique vers la fin du Miocne ou au dbut du Pliocne. Quelques termes descriptifs applicables  l'annulus ventralis sont prsents. 
10.2307/1549189| Egg size of the fresh-water prawn Macrobrachium amazonicum varied among ecologically isolated or geographically distant populations of the Amazon basin. The mean volume of both recently spawned nonpigmented eggs and older pigmented-eyed eggs was smaller in prawns from the Tocantins River (0.14 and 0.20 mm<sup>3</sup>, respectively) than in those from the middle Amazon (0.17 and 0.25 mm<sup>3</sup>). The largest eggs (0.19 and 0.27 mm<sup>3</sup>) were displayed by females from the Iquitos and Guapor Rivers. Since the egg volume was independent of female body size, it was attributed to population-specific characteristics. The egg size increased with the distance of the sampling site from the ocean, suggesting a progressive divergence of this species from a typical littoral population to an inland form, in a still active fresh-waterization process similar to the pattern evolved among other species in the genus Macrobrachium. /// La taille des oeufs de la crevette d'eau douce Macrobrachium amazonicum varie entre des populations cologiquement isoles ou gographiquement distantes dans le Bassin de l'Amazone. Le volume moyen, aussi bien des oeufs rcemment mis et dpourvus d'oeil nauplien pigment, que celui des oeufs plus ags prsentant un oeil nauplien bien pigment, est significativement plus petit chez les individus collects dans le fleuve Tocantins (respectivement 0.14 et 0.20 mm<sup>3</sup>) que chez des crevettes collectes dans le bassin moyen de l'Amazone (0.17-0.25 mm<sup>3</sup>); les plus grands oeufs ont t observs chez des femelles provenant d'Iquitos et du Guapor. Cette variation du volume des oeufs est indpendante de la taille de l'individu et des caractristiques de l'environnement. Elle peut tre relie  la dispersion gographique des populations de M. amazonicum dans le Bassin Amazonien. Le volume des oeufs augmente avec la distance du site de collection de l'ocan, suggrant une divergence progressive de cette espce  partir de populations typiquement littorales vers des formes d'eau douce, dans un processus encore actif de continentalisation, similaire  celui qui caractrise l'ensemble des autres espces du genre Macrobrachium. 
10.2307/1549255|Brood loss during incubation was studied in the crangonid shrimp Philocheras trispinosus. Concurrent changes in length, volume, and water content of eggs were followed. During embryonic development, egg length increased by some 40%, egg volume by about 130%, and water content increased from 69-85%. Egg number was an isometric function of body size in all 5 incubation stages. Brood loss did not vary with female size, and averaged 30% in egg number and 33% in brood dry weight. Brood loss occurred mainly during early and late incubation stages, predominantly the latter. Potential causes of early incubation loss are incomplete fertilization and inadequate attachment of eggs to the pleopods. Possible reasons for the large late-incubation loss include abrasion with substrate during burrowing, exacerbated by the increased egg volume.
10.2307/1548949|Morphometric characters, gonadosomatic and hepatosomatic indices, and egg diameter of female Metapenaeus joyneri from the Zhujiang estuary, China, at different stages of ovarian maturation were reported. The minimum size of ovarian maturity was 16.1 mm carapace length. Spermatophore deposition in females was related to the ovarian maturation stage and could be used to monitor reproductive periodicity in this species. The presence of spermatophores in the terminal ampoule of males could be used as an indicator of male maturation state. The minimum size of male maturity was 10.9 mm carapace length. While the life cycle of M. joyneri appears to be confined to the estuary, the data suggest a movement of shrimp to the outer reaches of the estuary for mating and spawning.
20487753|Our previous studies have found that euhermaphrodite-phase shrimp of Lysmata secrete both distance and contact sex pheromones, unique among the shrimp. To gain a better understanding of the chemo-sensory system of shrimp, we studied the setae on the first (antennules) and second antennae of four species of Lysmata, which represent the two social groups (low and high densities) and three distinct external morphological patterns (peppermint shrimp, scarlet lady shrimp, and fire shrimp) in the genus. There were four types of setae in the four species: aesthetascs, denticulate setae, and two types of simple setae. Aesthetascs are only distributed on the proximal lateral antennular flagella, while the other three setae are located on the antennules and the second antenna. Aesthetascs are believed to be olfactory organs in detecting soluble chemical signals, especially for male-female communication during mating, while one or more of the other three setae are responsible for detecting contact pheromones. Lysmata boggessi and L. wurdemanni, peppermint shrimp that live in aggregations, possess significantly higher number of aesthetascs than pair-living species of L. amboinensis (scarlet lady shrimp) and L. debelius (fire shrimp), suggesting a possible correlation between the aesthetasc number and social environment. Sexual dimorphism in the aesthetasc number is found in L. boggessi and L. wurdemanni, with significantly higher numbers in the male-phase shrimp than in the euhermaphrodite-phase shrimp.
10.2307/1548747|Two new genera in the Pinnotheridae are recognized from the northwestern Atlantic, Gemmotheres, new genus (type species Pinnotheres chamae Roberts, 1975) and Tunicotheres, new genus (type species Pinnotheres moseri Rathbun, 1918). These genera shared a 2-segmented palp on the third maxilliped with Calyptraeotheres Campos, 1990, Dissodactylus Smith, 1870, Ostracotheres H. Milne Edwards, 1853, and Xanthasia White, 1846. They differ in shape, texture, and hardness of the carapace, shape and relative length of third maxilliped articles, relative length of the walking legs, and relative length and shape of their articles. Comparisons among these genera are provided in a dichotomous key based on adult female characters.
1549674|The panopeid mud crab Panopeus meridionalis is known to inhabit the intertidal zone of the estuarine temperate waters of the southwestern Atlantic, from Montevideo, Uruguay, to Mar del Plata, Argentina. The complete larval development of this species is described from laboratory-reared material and compared with known larvae of Panopeus.
1549867| A new harpacticoid copepod from the Patagonian continental slope (Chile) is described. Isthmiocaris longitelson gen. et sp. nov. is characterised by several peculiar features like the presence of an additional collar-like pseudosomite between cephalothorax and first pedigerous somite, a remarkably long telson, small appendages, pronounced sexual dimorphism in the swimming legs P2 to P5, and long sensilla on the body. Several of these characters are unique within Harpacticoida. There are similarities with species of the canthocamptid "genera" Itunella Brady, 1898 and Psammocamptus Mielke, 1975. Isthmiocaris longitelson gen. et sp. nov. is therefore placed into the "Canthocamptidae" Sars. Its phylogenetic position is briefly discussed. /// Vom Patagonischen Kontinentalabhang (Chile) wird eine neue Harpacticoidenart beschrieben. Isthmiocaris longitelson gen. et sp. nov. zeichnet sich durch eine Reihe besonderer Merkmale aus, wie einem kragenartigen zustzlichen Pseudosomit zwischen Cephalothorax und dem ersten schwimmbeintragenden Segment, einem bemerkenswert langen Telson, kleinen zierlichen Schwimmbeinen, einem ausgeprgten Sexualdimorphismus an den Schwimmbeinen P2 bis P5 und sehr langen Sensillen am Krper. Einige dieser Merkmale sind innerhalb der Harpacticoida einzigartig. Andererseits zeigt das neue Taxon bereinstimmungen mit Arten der "Gattungen" Itunella Brady, 1898 und Psammocamptus Mielke, 1975. Isthmiocaris longitelson gen. et sp. nov. wird deshalb den "Canthocamptidae" Sars zugeordnet. Seine phylogenetische Stellung wird kurz besprochen. 
4094159| Little is known of the growth of the sculptured shrimp Sclerocrangon boreas, a remarkable member of arctic and subarctic marine shelf communities. We determined the length-weight relationship, abdomen allometry, and size structure of shrimp in a population of the Gulf of Saint Lawrence, eastern Canada. We also reared shrimp for up to 3.5 years to measure their growth. The presence of very small immature females in the wild population indicates that the sculptured shrimp is not obligatorily a protandric hermaphrodite, if at all. Females grow faster, reach a greater size, and live longer than males. Males may be  4 years old at 17 mm cephalothorax length (CL) and females  6 years old at 29 mm CL. Ovigerous females have a broader abdomen with longer pleopod setae than similarly-sized immature females. After releasing their progeny, some females may molt and grow in length but revert to a condition of narrow abdomen and short pleopod setae, and then molt again to a condition of broad abdomen with long pleopod setae. This finding and demographic data suggest that some females are alternate-year spawners. Other females did not molt for  2 years and may spawn in successive years. 
10.2307/1548721|The first larval stage of Coronis scolopendra is an antizoea with 5 pairs of biramous thoracic appendages; abdominal appendages are absent. This is the first larval stage of a nannosquillid to be identified with certainty and only the second lysiosquilloid for which the first larva is known. Instead of attaching their eggs to the walls of their burrows like other stomatopods, females of C. scolopendra carry their egg masses.
4126713|San Francisco Bay and its estuary is a heavily invaded region due to organisms arriving in ballast water and on fouled ships, as well as with the intentional release of non-native species. Recent crab invasions rendered previous means to identify crab larvae unusable. We provide an illustrated dichotomous key with descriptions of stage I zoeae, and to facilitate identification use external characters that remain definitive through all zoeal stages. Crab zoeae included in this key are as follows: Cancer antennarius, Cancer gracilis, Cancer magister, Cancer productus, Carcinus maenas, Eriocheir sinensis, Hemigrapsus nudus, Hemigrapsus oregonensis, Lophopanopeus bellus, Rhithropanopeus harrisii, Pachygrapsus crassipes, Pyromaia tuberculata, and the family Pinnotheridae. This work aims to provide a tool to aid in the understanding of brachyuran zoeae of the San Francisco Bay and estuary.
10.2307/1549516|The conquest of terrestrial habitats by the Oniscidea necessitated the development of a moisture-monitoring system. This function is ascribed to the flagellar aesthetascs present on both first and second antennae, in addition to their olfactory function. The extreme diminution of the first antennae prevents them from being inactivated by predator actions, thus guaranteeing the vital monitoring of moisture-gradients in case the second antennae are destroyed by predators. The change from littoral to endogean and epigean biotopes has been accompanied by a reduction of flagellar articles in the second antennae. Thus, the terminal gustatory organ can be operated more precisely, meeting the need for exact food localization. The second antennae have additional functions as part of the water conducting system and as a lever to move the animal from a dorsal to a ventral position when overturned. Conglobation provides effective protection for the antennae, and in the superfamily Oniscoidea, the only group surviving under periodic desiccation, the antennal flagellum is cleaned by an obviously indispensable grooming device on the first walking leg.
10.2307/1548060|Achaeus powelli is the seventh species of its genus to be recorded from West Africa. It is the first species to be taken within the Niger delta system.
1549579|A new species of spider crab, Pyromaia acanthina, is described based on specimens collected during a recent sampling program along the Caribbean coast of Colombia. This new species is most similar to P. propinqua Chace, 1940, a species also collected during this study that had not been found or mentioned in the literature since its original description from Cuba. The presence of these two species on the Colombian coast represents the first record of the genus Pyromaia Stimpson, 1871 in the southern Caribbean or northeastern South America. Pyromaia propinqua is redescribed and compared with the new species. The two differ from the other congeners, P. cuspidata Stimpson, 1871, P. arachna Rathbun, 1924, and P. tuberculata (Lockington, 1877), in features of the carapace, ambulatory legs, and male first pleopods. A summary of the classification of this genus, its definition, and distribution of species is presented together with a key to their identification.
10.2307/1548226| Behavioral and salinity tolerance studies of early and late stage larvae of Uca pugnax were used to infer possible effects of salinity on the dispersal and recruitment of fiddler crabs. Larvae were induced to swim through salinity discontinuities of 0-10 magnitude. Stage I zoeae were inhibited from moving upward through haloclines at  salinity = 6, 8, and 10, whereas stage V larvae tended to remain near the bottom of the water column and were inhibited from moving upward only at  salinity = 10. Both stage I and V larvae passed downward through all haloclines. Larvae of Uca pugnax were reared in 10, 20, and 30 salinity water. Larvae were unsuccessful at molting in 10 water. Zoeae reared at 20 showed a slight delay in molting compared with larvae at 30. More stage V zoeae molted to megalopae at 30 than at 20, but more megalopae underwent metamorphosis to crab stage 1 at 20 than at 30. These results support the hypothesis of transport of fiddler crab larvae from spawning areas to major estuaries and continental shelf regions. Only very sharp, steep haloclines would inhibit the vertical migrations of larvae. Our results suggest that larvae are retained nearshore in high salinity water during development and that metamorphosis is delayed until larvae reach lower salinity water characteristic of adult habitats. 
41315675|Postlarvae and juveniles of pink shrimp were collected in the summers of 2005 and 2006 at three stations in northwestern Florida Bay, the main nursery ground of this species in South Florida. Collections were made at one-or two-hour intervals during three full moon nights and two new moon nights at depth intervals in the water column. Results of the five collections were consistent with the assumption that postlarvae use a flood-tide transport (FIT) to advance into the estuary by ascending in the water column during the darkflood tide and resting near the bottom during the ebb tide. Evidence of a FIT were higher numbers of postlarvae per hour collected during the flood tide vs. ebb tide and the large number of postlarvae collected with highest velocity flood tide currents. ANOVA indicated significant differences in the number of postlarvae collected between tidal stages and moon phases, but not among depths. Postlarvae were more abundant during new moon than full moon. We also found different patterns of postlarval distribution between the new and full moon. During the new moon, a large peak of postlarvae occurred coincident with highest current speeds, whereas, with one exception, during the full moon postlarvae were more abundant in the second half of the flood period near the slack tide. In contrast, juveniles exhibited a behavior and migratory pattern opposite to that of postlarvae. ANOVA indicated significant differences between the number of juveniles captured between tidal stages and among depths, but not between moon phases. Juveniles were found almost exclusively near the surface on the ebb tide. Significantly larger juveniles were captured on the dark-ebb rather than on the dark-flood tide during both moon phases, suggesting that older juveniles were leaving the Bay on the ebb tide.
1549845|Six naupliar stages are described based on specimens of Stephos longipes Giesbrecht, 1902, obtained from sea ice near Terra Nova Bay, Antarctica. Marked differences between nauplii of Stephos longipes and Paralabidocera antarctica (I. C. Thompson, 1898) were used only to identify the two species in the samples. The copepods Stephos longipes and Harpacticus furcifer Giesbrecht, 1902, accounted for more than 90% of sympagic communities in the annual sea ice at Terra Nova Bay.
10.2307/1548909| Five species of penaeids were individually subjected to 30 ppt sea water at 25C. Oxygen consumption and ammonia-N excretion were monitored for 6-24 h. Mean oxygen consumption was highest (0.91 O<sub>2</sub> mg/g/h) for Penaeus chinensis Osbeck, followed by 0.71, 0.71, 0.60, and 0.49 O<sub>2</sub> mg/g/h for P. penicillatus Alcock, P. monodon Fabricius, P. japonicus Bate, and Metapenaeus ensis de Haan, respectively. Mean ammonia-N excretion was highest (0.027 mg/g/h) for P. japonicus, followed by 0.023, 0.021, 0.020, and 0.019 mg/g/h for P. monodon, P. pencillatus, M. ensis, and P. chinensis, respectively. The O:N atom ratio indicated that metabolism of P. japonicus and M. ensis is protein-dominated, that of P. monodon and P. penicillatus is lipid-dominated, and that of P. chinensis is highly lipid-dominated. 
40665211|Portunus pelagicus (blue swimmer crab) is widely distributed and fished throughout the indo-west Pacific, but little is known of its biology and ecology in southeast Australia. In this study, the reproductive biology of P. pelagicus inhabiting Wallis Lake, a large coastal lake that supports the largest regional commercial fishery for the species was investigated. Males and females with mature gonads occur throughout the fishing season (November to July), however, ovigerous females are most prevalent in November and December. The mean size at which 50% of females reached maturity is estimated at 46 mm carapace length (CL). Fecundity increased linearly with CL and females are capable of producing up to 3 broods of eggs within the observed spawning season, with crabs of 60-69 mm CL producing approximately 76% of the estimated total egg production. Increasing the current minimum carapace length above 60 mm CL would potentially provide greater protection to mature females and increase total egg production, but this would reduce total retained catches in the fisheries.
10.2307/1549081|Streptocephalus (Parastreptocephalus), new subgenus, comprises Streptocephalus (Parastreptocephalus) sudanicus, S. (P.) lamellifer, S. (P.) kaokoensis, and S. (P.) zuluensis, new species, Brendonck and Hamer. These species all produce tetrahedral eggs, a unique feature within the family Streptocephalidae, and share a similar male antennal morphology, which differs from that in all other streptocephalids. The designated type species, S. (P.) sudanicus, is extensively redescribed. In addition, the differentiating characters for S. (P.) zuluensis are presented. Both species can be distinguished using features of the morphology of their resting eggs and of the male antennae. A key to the species is also provided. Egg morphology and male antennal morphology appear to be consistent taxonomic criteria for the proposed subgenus. The presence of taxon-related differences in egg morphology raises the question whether or not differently shaped eggs confer any selective advantage. We suggest that selective pressure on the amount of energy allocated to reproduction has resulted in the fact that eggs share a combination of characteristics (hatching response, dispersal ability, drought, and mechanical resistance), which allows them to endure a specific set of environmental conditions.
10.2307/1548443|The vas deferens of the crayfish Cherax albidus can be divided structurally and functionally into proximal, middle, and distal regions. In cross sections, the vas deferens is comprised of secretory epithelium surrounded by connective tissue and circular striated muscle. The muscle coat thickens around the distal vas deferens, where it is used to extrude spermatophores for transfer to the female during mating. The lumen of the vas deferens contains the spermatophore in various stages of development. Sperm entering the thin proximal vas deferens are supported in a matrix which becomes surrounded by the primary spermatophore layer during transit through the proximal segment. The primary spermatophore layer condenses from secretory products released at the apex of the epithelium by both apocrine and exocytotic mechanisms. The sperm mass and surrounding primary spermatophore layer form a sperm cord which becomes highly convoluted upon passing into the middle vas deferens. The middle vas deferens also begins secreting the secondary spermatophore layer. This layer is comprised of a low density matrix and large and small electron-dense granules. The final synthesis and secretion of the secondary spermatophore layer occurs in the distal vas deferens, which also functions in storing the mature spermatophore. The components of the secondary spermatophore layer are released from the epithelial cells by both aprocrine and exocytotic mechanisms. The secondary spermatophore layer becomes cohesive and relatively insoluble during passage through the distal vas deferens.
4094155|A previously unknown species of giant fairy shrimp is described. Branchinecta raptor n. sp. is highly adapted to a predatory mode of life. In both sexes, the first four pairs of thoracopods bear elongated, curved, heavily chitinized endopods, which are modified for grasping prey. Both sexes have elongated, "whip-like" cercopods nearly as long as the abdomen that are used for detecting prey. This new species appears most closely related to B. gigas Lynch 1937. Both species are large in size, have small eyes and sensory papillae, and share similar habitats and food preferences. However, B. raptor has some unusual predatory behaviors that differ from B. gigas. B. raptor is separated from all other Branchinecta by the unique form of the second antennae, the form of the cercopods, and the male genitalia. Large branchiopod records from Idaho are also discussed.
20487833|The nature of the sexual system (protandry, gonochory) and the frequency of female spawning (semelparous, iteroparous annual, iteroparous biennial) in the crangonid Sclerocrangon boreas remain uncertain. We addressed these questions by examining population sex ratio, anatomy and histology, and gonad and ocyte sizes. Gonochory is supported by several facts: sex ratio was balanced at the smallest shrimp sizes, no intermediate sex form was found, and there was no evidence of degeneration of male gonad at the sizes where this might have been expected to occur. A majority of larger females, if not all, had a structure linking the ovary to the base of the fifth pereiopod but the presence of this structure on small females suggests it is not a degenerate vas deferens. Iteroparity is supported by the presence of two generations of ocytes in females, including those gravid, and female biennial spawning is supported by the small size of ovaries/ocytes in gravid females.
20487828|In an effort to use aspects of the cuticle as taxonomic characters in phylogenies of fossil and extant decapods, variation due to gender, growth, sample location on the carapace, and molt cycle must be understood so that taxonomically important characters can be identified. In this study, effects of sample location on the carapace and carapace size were examined. A series of male Callinectes sapidus Rathbun, 1896, specimens from 2-6 cm in length were collected on the Rhode River of the Chesapeake Bay, MD, USA. To study the effects of sample location and carapace size on parameters of the cuticle, the cuticle was examined in thin section and on the surface of the dorsal carapace. The distributional density of setal pits and nodes and node size were measured on the surface. In thin section, thickness of the cuticle and construction of the nodes and setal pits was examined. Thickness of the cuticle, node size, and setal pit density increased during growth of the crab. Node density decreased with growth. Construction of nodes and setal pits remained constant in all specimens and sample locations. Morphometric parameters of the cuticle were consistent with previously reported growth rates of the carapace in C. sapidus. Differences in the rate of change for the cuticle metrics studied occurred at carapace sizes that are attained upon reaching sexual maturity. Growth rates of cuticular features provide context for comparison with similar data in other species. In addition, the change in growth rates of these features, if recognized in fossil crab populations, may allow the determination of population age structures and size at maturity.
1548572|A new species of Alpheidae, Alpheus utriensis, is described from Utria Sound, Pacific coast of Colombia. The shrimps were obtained from hollow spines of the fan clam, Pinna rugosa Sowerby. The new species shares some general characters with A. longicarinatus Hilgendorf and A. cristulifrons Rathbun, but can easily be separated from them by the presence of marked branchiostegal and infraorbital furrows, a characteristic not shared with other snapping shrimps.
10.2307/1548197|Two new species of anomuran crustaceans, Gastroptychus chacei (family Chirostylidae) and Munida sentai (family Galatheidae), are described from specimens taken in the Andaman Sea off southern Thailand.
10.2307/1548543|Zygotes of the ridgeback prawn Sicyonia ingentis cultured in the laboratory hatch within 19 h of spawning. At hour 15, 4 small setae form at the tips of the developing appendages. By hour 17.5, 2 caudal spines appear; the setae, by then greatly increased in number, grow to occupy the space between the distal posterior part of the embryo and the hatching envelope. With the initiation of setal growth, setal length was used to determine larval age. Hatching was initiated by the penetration of the caudal spines through the hatching envelope 18.5-19.0 h postspawn. After shedding the hatching and accompanying embryonic envelopes, the larva emerges from the egg within an "exoskeletal" envelope. The embryo escapes from this envelope by either flexing its antennal appendages to split the envelope from the anterior end, or by piercing it with the caudal spines and withdrawing posterior-end first. Studies of hatching using LM and SEM confirmed that in either case the new setae are withdrawn through small holes made at the tips of the appendages. Evidence from TEM studies suggest that most setal growth is initiated following the formation of the "exoskeletal" envelope. The role of spot desmosomes in the ultrastructure of the embryonic setae is postulated.
10.2307/1548266|A new shrimp, Heptacarpus pugettensis (family Hippolytidae), is described. This small striped species occurs under rocks in the low intertidal zone in Puget Sound and the San Juan Archipelago. The combination of a short rostrum and epipods on the first two pereopods readily distinguish it from other members of the genus.
10.2307/1548525|Externae (reproductive structures) of Loxothylacus texanus were found on 10.3% of 1,521 blue crabs (Callinectes sapidus) examined in Galveston Bay, May through July 1989. Infections were found in areas of the bay where annual salinities average between 15 and 30 ppt. No externae were found on 577 crabs caught in intertidal areas. Of 944 crabs collected in subtidal habitats, 156 (16.5%) bore the parasite's externae. In a separate analysis of 284 externae collected from 237 host crabs, the number of externae per crab ranged from 1-4 (mean = 1.2). The volume of externae (in cm<sup>3</sup>) ranged from 0.5-5.8 (mean = 3.3). The carapace width (in mm) of host crabs ranged from 49-100 mm (mean = 68.9). The developmental sequence of externae as indicated by external coloration is: white, tan, yellow, brown, salmon, and purple.
4094161|Digging is a distinct form of locomotion that poses different mechanical problems than other locomotor modes that are commonly used by crustaceans, e.g., walking, swimming. I examined the mechanisms of digging by shovel nosed lobsters (Ibacus peronii), which spend most of the day underneath sand. Ibacus peronii were videotaped while digging. Ibacus peronii use a "wedge" strategy to submerge into sand. An individual penetrates the sand with the walking legs, then extends the abdomen to push sand backwards, then flexes the abdomen while pushing backward with the legs, which slowly drives the body into the sand. This basic sequence repeats for several minutes. Digging often ends with a short series of tailflips. Digging by "wedging" is substantially different from previously described mechanisms in more specialized digging species. When presented with a choice of substrates, I. peronii preferred to dig in sand over shell grit, but individuals showed no preference for different types of sand.
10.2307/1549146|Larvae of many benthic invertebrates respond to particular habitat cues during settlement and metamorphosis. We used laboratory-reared larvae of the salt-marsh fiddler crab Uca pugnax to test whether various cues influenced the duration of the megalopal (presettlement) stage. Filtered natural sea water conditioned by an adult crab for 24 h significantly (P = 0.0001) shortened the megalopal stage by 1-2 days compared to control filtered sea water, but adult-conditioned silt-sized glass beads had no effect on megalopal duration (P = 0.303). The megalopal stage was significantly (P = 0.04) shortened for megalopae that were not exposed to adult-conditioned sea water until 6 days after molting to megalopa, but not for megalopae that were 8 or 10 days postmolt when first exposed to the adult-conditioned sea water. Uca minax-conditioned sea water and Spartina alterniflora-conditioned sea water did not affect the duration of the megalopal stage of U. pugnax. It appears that megalopae of U. pugnax respond physiologically (by molting) to sea water containing substances released by adult conspecifics.
1549362|Light and electron microscopy revealed the fine structure of the feeding appendages and labrum of the deep-sea calanoid family Heterorhabdidae. The family accommodates 7 genera, ranging from typical suspension-feeders, Disseta and Microdisseta, to typical carnivores, Hemirhabdus, Heterorhabdus, and Neorhabdus. Heterostylites and Mesorhabdus are intermediate between these two feeding modes. The most remarkable transformation among these genera occurs in the mandible, maxilla, and labrum. The suspension-feeders and the intermediate types exhibit no extreme specialization in these structures, but the carnivores carry a lateral pair of large gland openings on the posterior surface of the labrum, from which a secretion is presumably injected into either a groove or a tubular lumen of the ventralmost tooth of the mandible. The substance is supposedly released into the prey from a hypodermic needlelike tip of the tooth. In these carnivores some setae on the basis and the first endopod segment of the maxilla are highly modified into a grasping organ. The elongation of the maxillary praecoxa is found only in the carnivore Heterorhabdus and the intermediate Heterostylites. The large gland openings of the labrum in the carnivores presumably have been converted from normal ones in the suspension-feeders. This drastic evolutionary switching from suspension feeding to carnivory in the family appears to have been accomplished only by the following factors: (1) reduction and/or loss of elements, including mandibular teeth; (2) specialization (e.g., sclerotization) of elements; (3) elongation of segments; and (4) conversion of labral gland system. Cladistic analysis provisionally indicates that the first offshoot is the suspension-feeder Disseta and that the elaborate carnivores using venom represent the evolutionarily derived terminal branch of the family.
10.2307/1549408| Macrobrachium rosenbergii (31  2 g) were held individually in DO (dissolved oxygen) at 8.47, 6.65, 4.55, and 3.38 mg/l for 8 days at 25C. The hemolymph acid-base balance and hemolymph protein levels were then measured. Hemolymph pH and PO<sub>2</sub> levels changed directly with DO, whereas hemolymph PCO<sub>2</sub>, oxyhemocyanin, and protein levels were negatively related to DO. In M. rosenbergii, exposure to DO concentration at 3.38 mg/l for as long as 8 days may lead to an increase in oxygen-carrying capacity under long-term hypoxia. 
1549911|The locomotor rhythmicity of the Norway lobster Nephrops norvegicus was studied under constant conditions of darkness in individuals collected on the continental slope (400-430 m). Periodogram analysis revealed the occurrence of both circadian (of around 24 h) and ultradian (of around 12 and 18 h) periodicities. Form estimate analysis of the circadian and ultradian time series revealed the occurrence of significant peaks of activity during the expected night phase of the cycle and day-night transitions, respectively. No ultradian locomotor activity rhythms have been reported in previous studies on continental shelf N. norvegicus, suggesting that this phenomenon may be limited to deep-water animals. A discussion is presented to account for the occurrence of the mechanism of ultradian rhythms when there is significant environmental light intensity reduction, as on the continental slope, where the species attains its maximum densities in the western Mediterranean.
10.2307/1549414|Two zoeal stages of Pugettia marissinica and P. intermedia, plus the first zoea of P. quadridens, were cultured in the laboratory. These zoeal stages are described and illustrated. Although the chaetotaxy is identical, the zoeas can be separated by chromatophore patterns on the dorsal carapace spine. The zoeal morphology of these three species of Pugettia is compared with larvae of other Epialtinae and a key is provided.
27753961|The scale of variation in population densities and other demographic variables is an important consideration in the design and interpretation of experiments and sampling programs. Here, we studied spatial and temporal variation in populations of Corophium volutator, an intertidal amphipod that is the most abundant macro-invertebrate on mudflats in the upper Bay of Fundy, Canada. Variables that were quantified included density (peaked in mid-summer at 10,000s per m2), proportion juvenille (an index of population structure), sex ratio (female-biased throughout the year), proportion of females that were ovigerous (reproduction occurs between May and August), and fecundity (number of embryos per female). We studied populations at 4 different sites, i.e., separate mudflats, for 12 years, and estimated variance components at 3 spatial scales: metres (samples), 100s of metres (transects) and many kilometres (mudflats). Population density exhibited low variation between years (&lt; 10% of the random variation), but showed high variation at our smallest and largest spatial scales (45% between samples, 2% between transects, and 40% between mudflats), i.e., the distribution of C. volutator within a mudflat was aggregated at the scale of metres, but not at that of 100s of metres. Thus, relatively few transects, but many samples per transect, are required for good representation of density on a mudflat. Fecundity was similar between mudflats, but proportion juvenile, sex ratio, and proportion of ovigerous females were strongly affected by site or the interaction between month and site (&gt; 60% of the random variation in each case). The high variation observed between mudflats for most demographic variables demonstrates that several control sites are necessary for measuring natural variation, a critical consideration in studies of environmental impacts.
10.2307/1549095|The size distribution of the spider crabs Hyas coarctatus and Inachus dorsettensis was investigated in several areas close to the Isle of Man. Samples were collected in 1958-1959 and again in 1988-1990. One area was sampled during both periods. On both occasions each species displayed clear differences between areas in the size distribution of the terminal instar. This is attributed to variation in the size at which the terminal pubertal molt occurred; the contributions of genetic and environmental factors to this variation are discussed. In prepubertal specimens males exceeded females, but females predominated among postpubertal crabs. This swing in sex ratio is discussed. In the area sampled in both periods, the abundance of each species declined to about a fifth of that recorded 30 years ago. This is considered a result of heavy scallop dredging throughout that interval. An expected decrease in the size of the terminal instar was not observed, and, in fact, an increase occurred in Inachus dorsettensis. Possible explanations are considered.
10.2307/1547937|The cephalothoracic muscles associated with the foregut and feeding appendages of Armadillidium vulgare (Latreille) are described with a view toward establishment of functional morphologic relationships based on studies of dissections, special endoskeletal preparations, and whole-organism serial sections. The complex endoskeleton of the head resembles that of Ligia oceanica in certain aspects. The maxillipeds flex only weakly, but are capable of strong adduction and anterior-posterior movement. The maxillae are weak appendages, but the complex musculature of the maxillules suggests powerful movements associated with food manipulation. The asymmetric mandibles are triturating appendages moved by adductors and abductors. The labrum is held in place over the mouthparts by muscles that permit only slight mesial movements when the mandibles are opened. Musculature of the esophagus includes circular and longitudinal intrinsic bands and 17 pairs of extrinsic dilators. Coordinated sequential dilation and constriction along the length of the esophageal tube produces peristaltic-like movements. The triturating function of the gastric mill is effected by five pairs of extrinsic muscles. Intrinsic circular muscle constricts the pressing apparatus; two pairs of extrinsic muscles contract simultaneously to dilate the press. The foregut appears to be modified for food handling, transport, storage, trituration, pressing, and straining of food.
10.2307/1548218| The development of bilateral asymmetry in the extensor muscle of the paired chelipeds in male fiddler crabs, Uca pugnax, occurs by the differential elongation of sarcomeres in the major and minor chelipeds so that the major muscle is eventually composed of all long (>6 m) sarcomeres and the minor muscle of an equal mixture of intermediates (4-6 m) and long (>6 m). 
10.2307/1548664| Nucleotide sequences from the 18S subunit of ribosomal RNA were determined for 9 species of decapod crustaceans: 1 from the suborder Dendrobranchiata (Penaeus aztecus) and 8 from the suborder Pleocyemata, representing 4 different infraorders (Procaris ascensionis and Palaemonetes kadiakensis, Caridea; Stenopus hispidus, Stenopodidea; Procambarus leonensis, P. paeninsulanus, and P. youngi, Astacidea; Callinectes sapidus, Brachyura). The total aligned set of nucleotides consisted of sequences ranging in length from 869-1721 bases. Comparison of sequences among species revealed that (1) the nucleotide sequences of the 3 species of Procambarus are virtually identical, differing in only 3 of more than 1,500 nucleotides; (2) variation is not evenly distributed across the molecule but follows a repeated pattern of conserved region-variable region-highly variable region; (3) the transversion: transition ratio varies from 0.67-1.52, with a mean of 0.987  0.042 across all species; (4) Penaeus aztecus differs from the other species in the sequence of a highly conserved region; (5) there is sufficient variation for phylogenetic analysis; and (6) the variation is phylogenetically informative to infraorder or possibly superfamily level. Phylogenetic relationships were inferred by parsimony analysis, and confidence intervals were estimated by bootstrapping. With the brine shrimp Artemia salina as an outgroup, the following results were obtained: Penaeus aztecus comes off the tree first, followed by a node leading to the remaining decapods; next is a branch leading to a node uniting Procaris ascensionis and Palaemonetes kadiakensis, the next branch to come off the tree leads to Stenopus hispidus, which is followed by a node uniting Procambarus leonensis and Callinectes sapidus. Bootstrap analyses suggest that both the node uniting P. kadiakensis and P. ascensionis and that uniting P. leonensis and C. sapidus are valid. Similar results were obtained with only decapod species using P. aztecus as the outgroup. An invariants/operator-metrics analysis supports a P. kadiakensis/P. ascensionis and a S. hispidus/P. leonensis clade at P < 0.006; adding C. sapidus supports the placement of S. hispidus with reptant taxa. 
10.2307/1549043| A new species of the rare burrowing mud shrimp genus Naushonia has been found at Inhaca Island, in southern Moambique. This is the sixth species in the genus, the first one found in the southern hemisphere and the second one found in the Indian Ocean. It was obtained from the entrance of its burrow in low water on a tidal flat. 
4094181|The export of cellular glucose depends on the endoplasmic reticulum bound enzyme glucose-6-phosphatase (G-6-Pase), which catalyzes the hydrolysis of glucose-6-phosphate to glucose-6, the final step required for the release of new glucose into the blood or hemolymph. The current study examined the effect of chloride on G-6-Pase activity in two marine crustaceans: the ion-regulating crab Menippe mercenaria, and the ion-conforming crab Libinia dubia. Elevated chloride (from 0 to
1549604|During an ongoing systematic revision of the Decapoda Grapsoidea (here defined as including the families Gecarcinidae, Grapsidae s. str., Plagusiidae, Sesarmidae, and Varunidae; see Schubart et al., 2000a), it became evident that adult and larval morphology of two Central American genera, Glyptograpsus and Platychirograpsus, differs greatly from that of all other genera within this superfamily. Several important morphological characters are shared by these two genera and represent synapomorphies when compared to the other grapsoids. Both of these genera lack a pleuro-branch on the sixth thoracic segment. Adult males of Glyptograpsus and Platychirograpsus are all strikingly heterochelous with the major chela being conspicuously flattened anteriorly and showing a subproximal articulation with the carpus. The distal portion of the male gonopod is uncinate, with a narrowed, elongate terminus. The anteriormost portion of the sternum consists of a narrow, fused sternite terminated in a distinctly flanged tip inserted between the mouth appendages. The male abdomen exhibits immobility in the joints between segments 3 to 5 and very limited mobility in the joint between segments 1 and 2. Zoeae of the two genera show a 1,2 setation pattern on the maxillar endopod. A molecular phylogeny of the Grapsoidea, based on 16S mtDNA and including type genera of the five recognized families, confirms that the species of Glyptograpsus and Platychirograpsus together form a well-defined monophyletic unit that is distinct from all other taxa within the Grapsoidea. We therefore describe a new family, the Glyptograpsidae, to accommodate these two genera of crabs.
10.2307/1548530|Notopontonia platycheles new genus, new species (Decapoda: Pontoniinae), is described and illustrated. Caught off Robe, South Australia, at a depth of 64 m, and of unknown commensal associations, this species increases to five the number of pontoniine shrimps known from South Australia. Assessment of the systematic relationships of Notopontonia involved study of Pontonia pinnophylax (Otto, 1821), the type species of the genus Pontonia, which is redescribed and illustrated, leading to the discovery of an interesting morphological feature of the feeding mechanism not previously reported in any palaemonid shrimps.
27753969|Invasion of an alien freshwater crayfish is newly confirmed in Madagascar. The invasive crayfish is determined as the parthenogenetic Marmorkrebs (marbled crayfish) (Cambaridae: Decapoda) on the basis of morphological features and the fact that all collected specimens were females regardless of their size. As this is a worrisome finding, the public should be alerted so that spread on the island can be prevented before it affects the vulnerable native crayfish biodiversity and the rice field business in Madagascar.
10.2307/1549003|The larvae of Tetraclita rubescens and Megabalanus californicus are described for the first time. In addition, comparisons are made with other common, mostly intertidal, barnacle species on the central California coast, including Chthamalus dalli, Chthamalus fissus, Pollicipes polymerus, Balanus glandula, Balanus crenatus, Balanus nubilus, Balanus improvisus, Balanus amphitrite amphitrite, and Semibalanus cariosus. Differences in size, setation of appendages, and body forms are used to distinguish species and larval stages.
4094137|We report the first two records of the fairy shrimp Streptocephalus moorei from the United States, previously known only from its type locality in southeastern Chihuahua, Mexico. An updated morphological diagnosis and habitat data are provided. Streptocephalus moorei, previously considered as a critically endangered species under the IUCN red list criteria, is now assessed as an endangered species on the basis of the following criteria: area of occupancy estimated to be less than
10.2307/1548607|Bocquetia rosea, new genus, new species, a rhizocephalan parasite of the sponge-inhabiting barnacle Membranobalanus orcutti is described from the coast of southern California. It constitutes the first "akentrogonid" rhizocephalan known from the Indo-Pacific and the first rhizocephalan known from an obligate commensal. It is most closely related to Chthamalophilus delagei and Boschmaella balani from the Atlantic coast of France, both of which are also barnacle parasites. Bocquetia is distinguished primarily from the other two genera by the greater extent to which the alimentary root system invades the host. The cyprid larvae lack natatory thoracic appendages and thereby appear to have limited dispersal capabilities. Except for a single individual, all specimens of Bocquetia rosea were found on the host barnacle Membranobalanus orcutti inhabiting the sponge Spheciospongia confoederata at only one of six locations.
10.2307/1548596|A small shrimp representing a new genus and species of the family Bresiliidae is described from the Galapagos Islands. The shape of the rostrum and chelipeds relates the genus to species of Bresilia, but the animal has a flagellum on the exopod of the first maxilliped. Comparison of the new species with those of Bresilia, Alvinocaris, and Rimicaris indicates gradual morphological change related to feeding in deep-sea environments.
1549859|Postlarvae of the blue crab, Callinectes sapidus, settle and metamorphose in beds of submerged vegetation in estuarine nursery areas. They remain there until crab stage IV or V, which disperses throughout estuaries. The study considered orientation of Stage IV-V crabs to chemical and visual cues in the presence of current flow. Crabs were tested in a horizontal rectangular chamber that had test waters entering the ends of the chamber and exiting at the center. An orientation response occurred if crabs moved from a center release site to the end of the chamber. Test waters were "Offshore" odor water and estuarine odors (estuarine water, habitat odor from salt marsh cord grass and oysters, predation odors from mud crabs, and predation event odors from crushed conspecifics). In apparent darkness (red light), crabs did not orient to flow (flow rates = 0-30 ml min<sup>-1</sup>; current speeds = 0-6.2 cm s<sup>-1</sup>) but moved away from all estuarine odors. When a visual target representing a predator was placed at one end of the chamber, the crabs failed to orient to the target in Offshore odor water. However, when Offshore odor water was paired with any estuarine odor, the crabs moved away from the visual target regardless of its location. These results indicate there is a hierarchy of responses to flow, odors, and visual cues. Subtle changes in behavior with odor type were not evident. Thus, crabs have different behavior in Offshore odor water and in estuarine odor waters.
4094120|A new harpacticoid copepod species of Apolethon (Laophontidae) from the intertidal zone of a subarctic bay in southeastern Alaska is described and illustrated. Apolethon hippoperus n. sp. is distinguished from its three congeners (A. fumator, A. trigonus, A. bilobatus) by paired pleural glands on the third urosomite. Adult Apolethon hippoperus bear conspicuous ovoid mucin structures located laterally on the double genital somite, originating from the pleural glands. Based on the description of A. hippoperus generic affinities become problematic. An examination of the apomorphies (P1 morphology, type of sexual dimorphism of male P3, P2-P4 with 2-segmented endopods; setation on A2 exopod, maxillular arthrites and basis, setation of mandibular palp) defining the Laophontoidea sensu Huys 1990 suggests that Apolethon is a laophontoidean but not a laophontid. Currently, we cannot place Apolethon with certainty in any known family of the Laophontoidea and recommend that Apolethon is placed as genus incertae sedis in Laophontoidea. This is the first taxonomic report of the genus Apolethon from the western hemisphere.
1549592|All known specimens of the presumed extinct freshwater shrimp species Syncaris pasadenae, formerly known from the Los Angeles River and other lowland stream sites in southern California, were examined. Existing specimens are housed in the Natural History Museum of Los Angeles County, California Academy of Sciences, or U.S. National Museum of Natural History, Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D.C. Syncaris pasadenae is diagnosed and redescribed and compared to its only congener, Syncaris pacifica, an extant species restricted to a few small coastal streams in northern California (Marin, Napa, and Sonoma counties). Syncaris pacifica is also redescribed. Salient and consistent differences between the species are the dorsal dentition of the rostrum and the number of pereopods bearing exopods, a character often associated with higher-level taxonomic differences in the past. The distribution of the species and the position of the genus within the family Atyidae are discussed.
10.2307/1549069|Copulation was observed in 18 of 25 mating pairs of Sicyonia dorsalis whose activities were recorded with a time-lapse video system, and mating behavior was described. Male success in inseminating females was determined by examination of female seminal receptacles for the presence of sperm. A male must copulate at least once from each side of the female in order to fill both seminal receptacles, but multiple copulations by the male on each side of the female were often observed. However, in several pairs, one of the two female receptacles remained empty in spite of often repeated copulations by the male on the unfilled side. In three pairs, the male copulated several times only on one side of the female, filling only the receptacle of that side. All females collected from the field which had mated previously had sperm in both seminal receptacles. One interpretation of these results is that in nature at least some females may mate with and be inseminated by more than one male. Multiple paternity might increase the genetic diversity of a female's spawns, which may enhance survival of dispersed planktonic larvae that settle in a mosaic or heterogeneous benthic environment.
10.2307/1548630|Sixteen species of Mysidacea occupy shallow-water habitats in the vicinity of Carrie Bow Cay, Belize. Geographic ranges of Siriella mexicana, S. chierchiae, Amathimysis cherados, A. gibba, A. polita, Dioptromysis paucispinosa, Parvimysis bahamensis, Metamysidopsis sp., Mysidopsis velifera, Mysidium columbiae, M. integrum, Heteromysis actiniae, H. bermudensis, and H. mayana, have been extended to include the waters off Belize, Central America. Descriptions of two new species, Mysidopsis badius and Heteromysis tuberculospina, are presented.
10.2307/1549060|The life history of Periclimenes ornatus, an obligate symbiont of the sea anemone Parasicyonis maxima, was studied in southwest Japan. Ovigerous females occurred year-round, and the proportion of such females was high from May-November. Most of the settlement of juveniles took place from August-October. Females had higher growth rates and attained larger sizes at sexual maturity than males. The eggs of P. ornatus were of about average dimensions among caridean shrimps, but the brood size was relatively large. Most juveniles that settled in August and early September attained sexual maturity and reproduced within the year (the first generation), whereas juveniles that settled later did not reach maturity within the year. The immature shrimps that had overwintered reached maturity in the next reproductive season (the second generation). A fraction of the first generation survived into the next reproductive season and, together with the second generation, was the source of the following generations.
10.2307/1548486| Hybrid crosses of females of Penaeus setiferus  males of Penaeus schmitti were obtained through artificial insemination. Mature females of P. setiferus (mean weight, 53 g  8.2 SD), collected from a wild population in the northwestern Gulf of Mexico, were inseminated with sperm of males of P. schmitti (mean weight, 27 g  5.3 SD) obtained from the western Caribbean Sea. Nauplii resulted from 7 of 19 artificial inseminations and were cultured to the subadult stage. Fertilization in all inseminations was less than 1% (4-4,300 nauplii per spawn), and subsequent survival of nauplii to postlarvae averaged 47%. Hybridization was confirmed by isozyme comparisons of parents and offspring using starch gel electrophoresis. Hybrids also exhibited uropod coloration typical of P. schmitti, the paternal phenotype, when sampled as subadults. Diagnostic differences between the parent species were found only by using a soluble protein stain and were not found in 11 specific enzymes tested. Sperm and ova were observed in mature hybrid offspring. These results are indicative of the phylogenetic relatedness and genomic compatibility of these species. 
10.2307/1548959|The female and male of Mesocyclops edax Forbes, 1891, are redescribed. This species comprises the following peculiarities compared to other representatives of Mesocyclops: a broad and deeply serrate hyaline membrane along the distal seventeenth antennular segment; the intercoxal plates of legs 1-3 with tiny spinules; leg 4 bearing 2 small protuberances; the inner seta of leg 4 endopod III nearly as long but smaller than the outer seta; a shovellike shape of the caudal setae; groups of hairs on the inner rim of the caudal rami; the shape of the genital field; and caryological and naupliar peculiarities. The present note provides the first description of the male. The male exhibits sexual dimorphism in size, the habitus, and the morphology of the antennule, antenna, leg 5, and leg 6. Morphological characters are compared and reevaluated with findings in the literature.
4094177|Parasitization by sacculinids (Cirripedia: Rhizocephala: Sacculinidae) induces severe modifications in morphology, behavior, and reproduction of their host crabs. To understand the mechanisms involved, it is important to have comprehensive information on their association. However, such information has been poorly available, mainly because of scarcity of distinguishing characters of sacculinids hamper identification of them. In the course of the investigation of the associations using the molecular marker (COI gene) and morphological observation to identify sacculinids, three species of Sacculina, S. confragosa, S. imberbis, and S. yatsui, were found to parasitize a single host crab, Pachygrapsus crassipes, sympatrically in a restricted area. This is the first finding for three-on-one association in a single locality.
10.2307/1548444|Bioenergetic measurements of egg production, somatic energy storage, excretion, assimilation, and respiration of the crab Chionoecetes bairdi were made. Crabs growing from 10-mm carapace width to maturity were used, so that an energy budget could be calculated. Juvenile crabs allocated about 60% of assimilated energy to respiration, 30% to somatic energy storage, 10% to exuviae, and less than 1% to ammonia production. For mature males, energy allocation was similar to that of juveniles in that respiration required the most energy, but less energy was allocated to growth. Maturing primiparous females stored less energy somatically than similarsized males. Primiparous females allocated 11% of their energy to their first egg clutch. The egg clutches of nonmolting multiparous females contained about twice as much energy as the egg clutches of primiparous females. The bioenergetic measurements were used to provide a preliminary minimum estimate of prey consumption for Tanner crabs.
10.2307/1548295|Stage V and VI copepodids of the predatory calanoid copepod Euchaeta antarctica were counted from Southern Ocean Atlantic Sector trawl samples collected during 9 months over a 5-year period. The proportion of CVI males to all CVI animals reached a maximum in June; the proportion of CVI males to total males reached a maximum in July. Two morphologically distinct kinds of spermatophores were attached to 2 different areas on the genital segment of females, and were correlated with 2 kinds of spermatophores held in leg 5 and contained within the bursa of different males. Possible adaptive significance of spermatophore dimorphism and placement for Euchaetidae is discussed and further studies are outlined.
10.2307/1548106|Chemosensory neurons and mechanosensory neurons innervate all the cephalothoracic appendages of the lobster Homarus americanus, including the antennules, antennae, six pairs of mouthparts, and five pairs of pereiopods. The structure and sensory function of sensilla on these appendages are described. Sensilla on the pereiopods and maxillipeds can be classified morphologically and physiologically. Smooth setae and squamous setae are the primary setal types in the rows and tufts of hairs on the walking legs; they also are found on the maxillipeds and, less abundantly, on the crusher and seizer claws. Serrate setae are common on the maxillipeds and the third and fourth walking legs. Hedgehog hairs are located on the cutting edges of the claws of the first two pairs of walking legs and on apposable cuticular surfaces on the last two segments of the fourth pair of walking legs. All four of these types of sensilla are both mechano- and chemosensitive. Sensilla sensitive to mechanical but not to chemical stimuli include peg sensilla, which are small sensilla situated in articulated sockets within cuticular depressions and are distributed over the surface of the carapace, pereiopods, and maxillipeds. Other mechanoreceptive sensilla include cuticular articulated peg organs (=CAP organs), located on the pereiopods and on the third maxillipeds, and campaniform sensilla, found on the antennae and antennules. Exclusively chemosensory sensilla were not found.
10.2307/1548539| A series of experiments was carried out to examine the relationship between feeding, molting, and fluoride content in Antarctic krill (Euphausia superba). Starvation increased the intermolt period in krill, but had no effect on the fluoride concentration of the molts produced. Addition of excess fluoride to the sea water had no direct effect on the intermolt period, the molt weight, or molt size. Additions of 6 g l<sup>-1</sup> and 10 g l<sup>-1</sup> fluoride raised the fluoride concentrations of the molts produced and of the whole animals. The whole body fluoride content varied cyclically during the molt cycle, reaching a peak 6 days following ecdysis. Fluoride loss at ecdysis could largely be explained by the amount of this ion shed in the molt. 
1549588|Branchipodopsis buettikeri, a new fairy shrimp species (Anostraca, Branchipodidae) collected from shallow desert temporary ponds in the Sultanate of Oman, is described. It is the first species of the genus Branchipodopsis found in the Arabian Peninsula. The new species is mainly distinguished from other species of the genus by the shape of the second antennae of the male, and by the shape of the clypeus outgrowths. Biogeographical implications are discussed.
40665213|Arthropods exhibit a vast variety of morphological forms. Developmental studies on diverse arthropod groups will help clarify how these forms evolved during arthropod evolution. The terrestrial isopod Porcellio scaber is a suitable novel animal model for developmental studies; it is well adapted to terrestrial habitats and these adaptations make the species interesting from the evolutionary perspective. Porcellio scaber is already extensively used in ecotoxicological and physiological studies and its biology is well known, but a comprehensive description of its ontogenetic development is still missing. Here, a staging system of P. scaber embryos and marsupial mancas based on morphological observations with light microscopy techniques is presented. An important adaptation of oniscids to terrestrial lifestyle is formation of specific structures in the digestive system, which enable effective water retention and good digestion of cellulose-rich plant material. Differentiation of the digestive system during P. scaber embryogenesis is described and the results show that digestive system is well developed already in late-stage embryos. The presented staging system should provide a useful basis for the expanding field of gene expression studies during arthropod embryogenesis and enable comparative developmental studies between arthropod groups.
10.2307/1547874|A preliminary survey of 253 Ovalipes stephensoni collected off the southeast coast of the United States revealed a 94.5% incidence of infestation by the parasitic ciliate Synophrya hypertrophica. Analysis of 67 crabs indicated an infestation density ranging from 1 to 270 lesions per branchial chamber. An in depth study of 38 crabs (19 male, 19 female), ranging from 18 mm to 80 mm in carapace width (CW), provided details on the number of gill lamellae with and without parasitic lesions relative to size, sex, and branchial chamber of the crab. The mean lamellar counts of both chambers are not statistically different (P > 0.05), nor is there a significant difference in the mean count between males and females (P > 0.05). Significant differences in mean lamellar counts exist among the individual gills (ANOVA, P < 0.05), which can be ranked 1 (most anterior gill), 8, 2, 3, 7, 4, 6, 5 according to increasing number of lamellae, using the Student-Newman-Keuls test. The number of lamellae increases with body size (Y = 1,979 + 18.47 CW, r<sup>2</sup> = 0.83, P < 0.001), but the relationship of the total lamellar count/mm CW with body size is allometric (log Y = 3.024 - 0.738 log CW, r<sup>2</sup> = 0.96). The number of lamellae with lesions also increases with crab size (Y = 40.97 + 3.238 CW, r<sup>2</sup> = 0.42, P < 0.05). However, there is no difference among the gills with respect to the density of infestation (ANOVA, P > 0.05). The lesions are distributed evenly among the gills (ANOVA, P > 0.05). The extent of the loss of respiratory surface area due to the presence of parasitic lesions was quantified by measuring the area of lesion and total lamellar surface of 45 parasite-laden lamellae of a 55.3 mm CW crab. Distal lamellae are subject to a significantly greater loss of lamellar tissue due to infestation (ANOVA, P < 0.01). The loss of respiratory surface resulting from three levels of infestation (light, medium, heavy) was extrapolated. The resultant percentage losses (0.05, 0.85, 1.39) are low and of questionable importance in the overall natural mortality of the host species.
10.2307/1548036|The estuarine cumacean Almyracuma proximoculi is found year-round in the immediate vicinity of intertidal fresh-water springs in the northeastern United States. Each of two intensively studied populations of A. proximoculi synchronously produce two generations per year. The following developmental stages occur: first manca, second manca, juvenile, juvenile male, mature male, juvenile female, preparatory female, marsupial female, and intermediate female. There are minor differences in life history parameters between populations and major differences between generations. Compared to the overwintering generations the summer generations have more rapid intramarsupial and extramarsupial developmental rates, have markedly lower fecundities, are shorter-lived, and produce smaller adults. These differences are apparently due to the influence of ambient temperature. Life history parameters and extramarsupial development patterns of other cumaceans are compared to those of A. proximoculi.
10.2307/1549131|Distribution of populations of fresh-water ostracodes were studied together with physico-chemical variables in 149 helocrene springs in the Central Pyrenees. Twenty-one species were recorded in this survey; ten of them are cited in Spain for the first time: Candona parallela, Cryptocandona vavrai, Cypria lacustris, Ilyocypris inermis, Ilyocypris decipiens, Notodromas persica, Eucypris pigra, Herpetocypris brevicaudata, Psychrodromus olivaceus, and Psychrodromus, new species. Literature records for the area considered, most of them published more than 40 years ago, are also discussed. Due to the high diversity of spring types, the ostracode fauna is not restricted to truly crenobiont species; crenophilic species and several generalists have also invaded these habitats. In general, ostracode species prefer springs with a high mineral content and low flow discharge. From a biogeographical point of view, ostracode fauna on the Spanish slopes of the Pyrenees allows the distinction between a zone of marginal mountains, characterized by a continental climate with a strong Mediterranean influence, and a zone which includes the axial mountains, with a continental climate, but with a perceptible Atlantic influence. True boreo-Alpine species are not represented in Pyrenean springs, but a significant number of widely distributed cold-water stenothermal species occurs, supporting the idea that these habitats acted as refuges for widely distributed species during the Ice Age.
10.2307/1549364| Distribution patterns are defined for 20 brachyuran crab species of Laguna de Trminos based on the range of salinity and the habitats occupied by each. Habitats include unvegetated soft substrates, macroalgae, and sea grasses. "Wide" and "restricted" distributions relate species abundance to a wide and a narrow salinity range, whereas "associated with the habitat" and "not associated with the habitat" consider the presence of a species in one or several types of habitat. Fourteen species were grouped in the restricted and associated with the habitat pattern, of which the 3 spider crabs and the 10 mud crabs were associated with submerged aquatic vegetation in salinities above 18, and the swimming crab Callinectes exasperatus was distributed in an adjacent limnetic lagoon on unvegetated soft substrates. The mud crab Dyspanopeus texanus was placed in the wide and associated with the habitat pattern, since it is a euryhaline species and was always found on macroalgae and sea grasses. Three other swimming crabs and two other mud crabs were found on all sorts of substrates along a wide range of salinity and were included in the wide and not associated with the habitat pattern. Six faunistic groups were formed after analysis of the abundance data, using an ordination method with axes defined by salinity and type of habitat. Four functional guilds of brachyuran crabs are proposed, based on the 3 distribution patterns, the 6 faunistic groups, and the 2 subsystems and 4 areas previously described for the lagoon. Guild A grouped 2 swimming crabs and 1 mud crab distributed along the areas of the lagoon directly influenced by river runoff, where detritus-rich unvegetated soft substrates and macroalgae are common. Guild B included: (1) the 3 spider crabs and most of the mud crabs of which seven restricted and associated with the habitat species congregated in the northcentral-northeastern subsystem of the lagoon, where the greatest heterogeneity of habitats, dense sea-grass beds and poly-euhaline environments, is common; (2) 5 restricted and associated with the habitat species mostly distributed in this subsystem were also collected in areas influenced by river runoff during the dry seasons when salinity was above 24; and (3) 2 wide and not associated with the habitat species were mostly found in this subsystem, but extended their distribution to areas without submerged vegetation and lower salinities. Guild C was represented by D. texanus, which was found throughout most of the lagoon on macroalgae and sea-grass beds. Guild D included Callinectes sapidus and C. similis that were distributed throughout the lagoon independently of a particular type of habitat. 
10.2307/1548179|Phenetic and cladistic methods were used to analyze relationships within the Decapoda. Eighty-nine characters were examined, and 64 of these were used in all analyses. Representatives of the Euphausiacea, Dendrobranchiata, Caridea, Procaridoidea, Stenopodidea, Thalassinidea, and Astacidea were used to test hypotheses on the relationships within the Decapoda that recognized two, three, or four suborders. All analyses yielded the same result: (1) rejecting the concept of the Natantia as a monophyletic group; (2) recognizing two suborders of the Decapoda, the Dendrobranchiata and the Pleocyemata; (3) grouping the Procaridoidea with the Caridea; and (4) recognizing the Stenopodidea as a taxon related to the Reptantia rather than to the Caridea.
1549948| Two species of blue crabs were investigated with regard to infestation of the branchial chambers by the pedunculate cirriped Octolasmis lowei. In Callinectes danae, the frequency of infestation was 22.4%, and the mean intensity of infestation was 2.2  0.2 (range: 1-8). Prevalence and mean intensity of infestation did not differ significantly between males and females of C. danae. Significant differences in prevalence were observed between juveniles and adults, between ovigerous and nonovigerous adult females, and among blue crabs in different molt stages. No correlation was observed between the prevalence of infestation by O. lowei and the carapace width of male or female blue crabs. In Callinectes ornatus, the prevalence of infestation by O. lowei was 12.1%, and the mean intensity observed was 4.0  1.3 (range: 1-49). Prevalence of infestation did not differ significantly among crabs in different molt stages but differed between juveniles and adults and between male and female crabs. A positive correlation was observed between the percentage of infestation by O. lowei and the carapace width of C. ornatus males. 
10.2307/1548223|Four zoeal stages and one megalopal stage are described and illustrated for the xanthid crab Panopeus bermudensis. The zoeae are immediately distinguished from all other known xanthid zoeae by a combination of characters: the absence of lateral carapace spines, an unusually placed spine on the telsonal furca, and the absence of an antennal exopod. The derivation of these allegedly apomorphic characters from more plesiomorphic xanthid zoeal stock is discussed, and possible phylogenies for the Xanthidae are examined in the context of available larval characters.
10.2307/1548863|A theory that introduced species can be identified from their evolutionary, ecological, and geographical attributes (criteria for introduced species) is corroborated by the accuracy of its predictions. A human-borne, global invasion of the Oriental isopod Synidotea laevidorsalis (Miers, 1881) that began over 100 years ago was discovered in a test of criteria for introduced species (Chapman and Carlton, 1991). Two explicit predictions from that work were (1) "Many new records of endemic and introduced Synidotea populations around the world remain to be discovered," and (2) "Synidotea laevidorsalis is established, for example, in Brisbane, or Sydney, Australia." Both predictions were correct. It appears that many estuarine and nearshore marine introductions have occurred that have not been discovered.
10.2307/1548278| Examination of deep-water female golden crabs collected monthly from the southeastern coast of Florida indicates an annual reproductive cycle with a single batch of eggs produced each year. Oviposition begins in late August and continues through October with eggs retained for approximately 6 months until hatching during late February and March. Sizes of ovigerous females examined ranged from 96 to 147 mm carapace width (CW). Extruded eggs averaged 540 m in diameter, increasing to between 580 and 600 m prior to hatching. Fecundity estimates range from 131,000 to 347,000 eggs with brood size highly correlated to CW. Changes in gonopore margins associated with molting and the onset of ovarian activity indicate that size at sexual maturity is between 85 and 100 mm CW. Although sampling depth ranges were limited, Geryon fenneri may display similar segregation by sex and size with depth as other species of Geryon. 
1549711| In coastal environments, salinity variations may affect phases in crustacean reproductive cycle. Brown shrimp Crangon crangon Linnaeus, 1758 (Decapoda) are known to undertake breeding migrations between the sea and coastal waters (lagoons, estuaries). After a major flooding, the salinity of the Vaccars coastal lagoon (Rhne River delta, France) dropped from 15 to 5 in a few days and remained low during following years. The aim of this study was to assess the impact on this environmental change on the reproduction of brown shrimp. We first tested whether females C. crangon had the ability to become ovigerous at a salinity as low as 5. Furthermore, the question whether salinity had an impact on fecundity was addressed. Experiments in aquaria were carried out for 180 days in the laboratory, with three replicates at three salinities (5, 15, and 25 respectively), keeping local photoperiod and temperature. Mortality was significantly higher in tanks at 5 than in those at higher salinities. Females reared at 25 salinity started to become ovigerous after 32 days; at 15 ovigerous females were only recorded after 80 days. No female became ovigerous at 5. A brackish salinity (15) would delay ovarian development in C. crangon, whereas a low salinity (5) seemed to inhibit maturation. Fecundity was higher in females reared at 25 than in those reared at 15. Results are explained and discussed taking into account eventual trade-off between reproduction and maintenance activities. Experimental data suggest that a too-low salinity in brackish lagoons may affect reproductive success of migratory natant decapods, such as C. crangon. 
1549671|A new index was used to describe and quantify claw asymmetry for American lobsters, Homarus americanus. Length: width (L:W) ratios were calculated for each claw, and a measure of claw asymmetry (C<sub>a</sub>) was computed as the percent reduction in the claw with the smaller L:W ratio. Fourth stage (first benthic stage) lobsters had relatively symmetrical claws, with L:W ratios of 4.3 in the cutter and 4.1 in the crusher claw, and a corresponding C<sub>a</sub> value of 5.4%. Hatchery animals that could not differentially exercise one claw maintained a low average C<sub>a</sub> value (2.5%). In adult animals, the L:W ratio decreased to a minimum of 2.7 for cutter claws, and 2.0 for crusher claws, giving a C<sub>a</sub> value of 25.9%. This method was then used to assess claw development in animals exposed to one of four different natural substrates (cobble, shell, sand, and plant) in a hatchery setting. The development of claw asymmetry is known to be a function of increased exercise in one claw, and substrates allowing for more exercise should exhibit faster, greater asymmetry. It was observed that the overall morphology of claws changes greatly between the sixth and seventh stage. Although no treatment differences were observed at the sixth stage, by the seventh stage, animals subjected to shell substrate yielded significantly more asymmetrical claws. Thus, where lobsters settle can have a dramatic impact on the rate of development of claw asymmetry with potential fitness consequences.
10.2307/1548963|Copepods referable to Cyclops kolensis alaskaensis Lindberg, 1956, are known from about 10 tundra ponds in 4 locations in Alaska. These animals differ from the nominate form in the shape of the fourth and fifth prosomites, the shorter dorsal seta, the genital somite of subequal width and length, and a pronounced tendency toward reduction in the number of articles in the antennule. Relationships among Alaskan populations of C. kolensis and their relationships to populations of C. kolensis elsewhere cannot be completely resolved without recourse to electrophoretic or other nonmorphological data. In the meantime, Lindberg's trinomial calls attention to the similarities and differences of the North American and nominate forms.
40665208|Our study details key parameters of the reproductive biology of the shrimp Palaemon longirostris, e. g., spatio-temporal variation of the sex-ratio, migration pattern, breeding period, fecundity, size at the onset of maturity, and egg volume. While P. longirostris population was very little studied in its distribution area, our fist aim was to complete that lack of knowledge and to provide a basis for understanding its population dynamic. Finally, our results were also compared with those reported from different studies on this species within Europe, in order to test the reported latitudinal cline of reproductive parameters in decapods. During a one-year survey, P. longirostris have been collected monthly across a large part of the Gironde estuary (France). Biometric measurements and determination of sex and maturation stages were carried out on preserved subsamples. Eggs were counted and measured for ovigerous females. In the Gironde, the breeding period was restricted from March to July, and related to water temperature. The size of the ovigerous females ranged between 7.1 and 14.6 mm cephalothorax length; according to their size, these females brought between 78 and 1391 eggs (547 on average). These results were compared with available data from the literature on French or foreign populations. For two reproductive parameters a latitudinal cline was noticed: e. g., an increase of the maximum females size and a restriction of the breeding period with latitude. Due to the weakness of available data on the reproductive biology of P. longirostris, it was very difficult to compare fecundity (number of eggs brought per female) and egg volume between localities. As expected fecundity could decrease with latitude, but this trend remains to be confirmed by more extensive studies on the species populations.
10.2307/1548659|A new genus, Onycocaridites, is proposed for two specimens of a palaemonid shrimp found inhabiting a sponge in a depth of 60 m in the southern Arafura Sea. The shrimps, representing a new genus and species, are described and illustrated. The new genus is most closely related to Onycocaridella Bruce, 1981, and the only species, O. anomodactylus, is readily separated from all palaemonid shrimps by the unique differences between the dactyls of the third pair of pereiopods (very long, slender, and simple) and those of the fourth and fifth pereiopods (short, stout, and strongly biunguiculate).
10.2307/1548011| Mesopenaeus mariae, a new species of solenocerid shrimp, is described and illustrated. It differs from the only previously known species in the genus, Mesopenaeus tropicalis, in having a deeper rostrum, about 0.40 instead of 0.25 as high as long, in lacking hooks on the distomesial margin of the distal article of the mandibular palp, in having a meral spine on the first pereopod, and in other characters of the appendages, the petasma, and the thelycum. Length/weight regressions and carapace/total length relationships are presented for males and females. Mesopenaeus mariae is found SE of Saya de Malha Bank and off southern Mozambique; M. tropicalis inhabits the western Atlantic from North Carolina to southern Brazil. ///       Mesopenaeus mariae, sp.n. (CEM. Solenoceridae).         , M. tropicalis,    (   0,40  ,   y M. tropicalis  0,25),          ,      ,    .            - . M. mariae     r=k --     .     Mesopenaeus - (M. tropicalis          ).        ,      ,         M. mariae   --. 
1549142| The effect of 3 temperatures (22, 25, and 28C) on molt increment and intermolt period in juvenile C. destructor (the yabby) was investigated under laboratory conditions. Newly independent juveniles were grown individually in 1-1 polyethylene containers for 6 molts from molt stages 3-9. Both the intermolt period and molt increment decreased with increasing temperature. The mean intermolt periods were 6.7, 5.5, and 5.0 days and mean molt increments were 102, 98, and 93% at 22, 25, and 28C, respectively. Regression models derived by combining molt increment and intermolt period data indicated that overall growth increased with increasing temperature. Pairwise comparisons of regression coefficients indicated that the growth rate of juvenile C. destructor at the two higher temperatures (25 and 28C) did not differ, but was significantly reduced at 22C. Thus, a shorter intermolt period, in spite of a reduced molt increment, is responsible for superior growth of juveniles of this species at elevated temperatures. 
20487698|The pontogammarid amphipod Dikerogammarus villosus, originally a Ponto-Caspian faunal element, has, in the recent 15-20 years, successfully invaded various aquatic systems in Europe including Lake Constance. In these rivers and lakes it had and still has severe ecological impact on native macro-invertebrates, often eliminating the native and earlier established gammaridean species. In order to test the hypothesis that the mode of food acquisition of D. villosus is of significance for this phenomenon, we focused on the mouthparts of D. villosus, i.e., mandibles, the two pairs of maxillae and the maxillipeds using SEM. Contrary to expectations, provoked by field and laboratory observations, the results of this study show that the mouthparts of D. villosus are not highly specialized just for carnivory and predation. Indeed, the stout mandibles, with their well-developed incisors enable to kill even prey with robust integument, but other modes of feeding are possible. On the maxillulae, maxillae, and maxillipeds we found setae that can be used, together with the gnathopods and the antennae, for filtering suspended algae and other small particles from the respiration current. The same structures are involved in collecting detritus. In contrast, D. villosus does not possess any specific tools for scraping periphyton from the substrate. Feeding on macrophytes may be possibly but not very effective because the surfaces of the molars are not well suited for grinding such plant material. It is shown that D. villosus is neither a shredder, as traditionally predicated for most gammarideans, nor is it a specialized carnivore, as predation experiments proposed, but rather unspecialized. Its ability to be carnivorous and to use a wide spectrum of other food may be an important reason for the success of this invader, being an advantage compared to mainly herbivorous gammarideans, which have been eliminated in many places by D. villosus.
10.2307/1549053|The role of the supraesophageal ganglion (SEG) and the optic ganglia in the eyestalks (ES) on the control of respiratory metabolism and osmoregulation was examined in a fresh-water shrimp, Macrobrachium potiuna. Results suggested that a factor(s) which depresses the total O<sub>2</sub> consumption is present in SEG and ES extracts and in the hemolymph of M. potiuna. The extracts also modified the osmolality and the concentration of major ionic species in the hemolymph. In vitro experiments corroborated the above findings. Muscle metabolism was markedly depressed by a factor(s) present in SEG and ES extracts as well as in the hemolymph of M. potiuna adapted to fresh water or exposed to high salinity. This effect probably offsets the tendency to a high O<sub>2</sub> consumption at low and high salinities as observed in intact animals. Additionally, SEG extracts can either stimulate or inhibit gill metabolism. These results agree with the effects noted in whole animal osmoregulatory response. A preliminary inspection suggests that the molecule(s) involved in such effects is heat stable and chymotripsin-sensitive. The compensatory response which results from its action is possibly retained from movement from marine to fresh-water adaptation.
20487757|Three techniques used to capture burrowing crayfish were compared for efficiency and efficacy near Big Oaks National Wildlife Refuge. Excavation of burrows, Norrocky burrowing crayfish trap (NBCT), and burrowing crayfish mist nets (BCN) were simultaneously compared for capture efficiency and trap efficacy. Additional research goals were to evaluate patterns in capture rates with changes in seasonal activity, influence of burrow diameter size to capture success, relationships between differences in morphological characteristics of species and capture success, and capture success and habitat quality. Excavation caught significantly more burrowing crayfish than the other two methods (40.7%), but the NBCT (5.2%) was not significantly different from the BCN (4.5%) in trap efficiency. The relative percent efficacy success adjusted for effort of each method was 2.61% for the NBCT and 2.24% for the BCN. Positive correlations between habitat quality and increasing NBCT (
41315758|Size composition and growth pattern of the Japanese mitten crab Eriocheir japonica (de Haan, 1835), Varunidae, in their natural habitat was investigated. Crabs were collected using hand-held nets in the Saigo River and the adjacent seacoast in Fukuoka Prefecture, Japan. The dynamics of carapace width (CW) frequency distribution were analyzed and cohorts were identified from polymodal size distribution using Bhattacharya's method. In the lower tidal river and seacoast (Area I, reproductive area of the crabs), adult crabs comprising at least four cohorts were collected. From monthly data for 29 months (January 1997May 1999) collected from the upper tidal to the lower freshwater area (Area II, growth area of the crabs), two cohorts that had settled in different seasons (fall and early summer) were confirmed for each year. Both cohorts reached minimum adult size (ca. 35 mm < CW and 45 mm < CW, average) in fall 2 years after settlement. This suggests that adult crabs in the tidal area (Area I) mostly comprise two cohorts of 2-year-olds (ca. 24 and 29 months) and two cohorts of 3-year-olds (ca. 36 and 41 months) after settlement.
10.2307/1548283| The North, South, and Central American species of the Lynceidae Stebbing are reviewed. Morphological characters that distinguish the family, including several not previously known or not recognized as being of familial importance, are illustrated and discussed. Of the three known genera in the family, only two, Lynceus Mller and Paralimnetis Gurney, are known from North, Central, and South America; the genus Lynceiopsis Daday, known only from Africa, is described and discussed for comparative purposes. Taxonomic characters that can be reliably used to identify American species are primarily those of the male first thoracopods (claspers) and head region (rostrum). All American species are redescribed, with two exceptions. The validity of two species, Lynceus tropicus and L. rotundirostris, is questioned on the basis of the poor condition of type material and inadequate original descriptions. One new species of Paralimnetis Gurney is described from Texas. A key to the American species is included. 
27920095|The oceanographic environment within a mass aggregation of krill encountered north of Elephant Island in March 1981 was sampled with a submersible pump/CTD combination. Estimates of acoustic biomass made concurrently at 50 kHz were used to infer krill population density. At depths between 50100 m, differences in dissolved oxygen and ammonium ion between two pumped hydrocasts made within the krill school and two made at adjacent sites but outside the school averaged 0.15 ml oxygen 11 and +0.75 g-atoms NH4+ 11. Using previously reported data on the respiration and excretion rates of individual krill, we demonstrate that these differences could have been generated in 1618 h. From information on the mean velocity of near-surface currents in the vicinity of Elephant Island, we speculate on how population density of krill schools may be constrained in time and space.
10.2307/1548606|The Lynseiidae, a new family of flabelliferan isopods, is proposed for Lynseia himantopoda, new genus and species, from southern Australia. The family is diagnosed by: cylindrical body, 5 free pleonites plus pleotelson, mandible without molar and palp, maxillipedal palp uniarticulate, pereiopods with strong secondary unguis, pereiopods 6 and 7 elongate, pleopod 5 a single plate, and uropod with 2 flattened terminal rami. It shares with the Limnoriidae, its probable sister group, a cylindrical body with articulating head and a strong secondary pereiopodal unguis.
4540263|Aspects of the evolution of the branchiopod crustaceans are reviewed and discussed. Despite views to the contrary presented in recent textbooks, the monophyly of Branchiopoda is defended based on morphological characters. The crown group Branchiopoda is supported/diagnosed by a set of synapomorphies relating to limb morphology of both larvae and adults, including, among others, a similar naupliar swimming/feeding apparatus, a similar development of trunk limbs, and a similar morphology of adult trunk limbs with six endites (number reduced later) and an unsegmented endopod. Phyllopodous limbs are among the most well-known features of Branchiopoda, but it is uncertain whether the phyllopodous nature of the limbs in itself can be considered a synapomorphy for this group, because the limbs of other crustaceans, both recent and fossil, also can be characterised as at least partly phyllopodous. Homologies of branchiopod trunk limbs to those of other crustaceans are discussed; based on similarities to trunk limbs of certain 'Orsten' fossils, it is concluded that the large, undifferentiated 'corm' of the limb most likely is an enlarged basis. Within Branchiopoda, strong evidence for a monophyletic Phyllopoda sensu Preuss (all branchiopods except anostracans) is presented. A monophyletic Diplostraca is also preferred based on morphological information, and the supporting characters for this group are listed. A remarkable branchiopod crustacean from the Devonian has recently been described with morphological features combining those of Notostraca and 'Conchostraca'; it has major significance for the understanding of early branchiopod evolution. The question of a marine versus freshwater origin of Branchiopoda is discussed.
10.2307/1548996|The morphology and gastric armature of the proventriculus of Penaeus merguiensis closely resembles that of predominantly macrophagous decapods. Two modes of gastric mill operation were observed, chewing and compression. Gastric mill activity typically began with several ventral compressions of the ossicles above the lateral teeth. This was followed by a single anterior chewing movement of the median tooth in conjunction with a shearing medial movement of the lateral teeth. Morphological examination and observations of fluid movements within the proventriculus of live specimens have added to a previous model of proventricular circulation. Fluids are drawn ventrally from the cardiac stomach through two filters, of which the first is coarser than the second. The gaps between the setules of the filter setae in the secondary filter indicate that only particles in the colloidal size range or smaller can enter the digestive gland. Fluids are removed from the digestive gland and pulled anteriorly through fully enclosed passageways to return to the cardiac stomach. This action is the result of suction created behind the median tooth as it swings anteriorly during normal gastric mill activity. The return of fluid to the cardiac stomach completes the circulation of proventricular fluids and would allow enzymes from the digestive gland to begin food digestion soon after it has been ingested.
1549718|Diel, lunar, and seasonal abundance, as well as population structure, of the free-swimming stage of the pea crab Pinnotheres bidentatus Sakai, 1939, from tidal waters off the west coast of central Taiwan were examined. A total 5,123 specimens were collected from tidal waters of the Kaomei coastal flat. These crabs were found year-round but mostly during fall to early winter (October to December 1994 and September 1995), with a peak in early December 1994. Numbers of crabs dropped sharply in mid-December 1994 and remained low during the months of January to April 1995, with slightly increasing numbers during mid-May to September of the same year. Daily abundance of the crab appeared to be related to new and full moon phases, indicating a semilunar pattern of swimming activity. Moreover, pea crabs were only collected during nighttime flooding tides, suggesting a nocturnal swimming activity which may have advantages for avoiding fish predators. Size structure of the crab indicates that P. bidentatus has life-history characteristics of which males die in the hard stage and females subsequently lose their swimming hairs and become commensal with their host. The overall sex ratio was 1:1.3 (2,206 males and 2,917 females) and varied according to month and size. The continuous occurrence of small individuals (1-mm size class) year-round indicates a long period of recruitment which may be a consequence of the long reproductive period of P. bidentatus.
10.2307/1549436| A low-density, intertidal population of the barnacle Balanus amphitrite was studied close to a sewage outfall near Quequn, Argentina. Barnacles were individually followed during 3 consecutive years. Growth rates observed in the present study (orifice length 4.9-5.1 mm at the end of the first year) were remarkably lower than values previously reported for this species. A Von Bertalanffy growth equation was fitted to length-age data (K = 0.4-0.5, L<sub></sub> = 8.5-8.8, T<sub>0</sub> = -0.5 to -0.7). Growth and production were higher in summer/autumn than in winter/spring. The production/biomass ratio fluctuated between 0.3 and 0.4 for the whole population, but was highest (1.8-1.9) during the first year of benthic life. Based on analysis of length-frequency distributions and following the fate of marked specimens, we verified the coexistence of 5 annual cohorts and therefore a maximal longevity of more than 5 years. Possible causes of this extended life history of B. amphitrite in the study area are discussed. 
10.2307/1548077|Electrophoretic variation at 29 loci in seven species and two subspecies of Sri Lankan atyid prawns (Caridina spp. and Atya sp.) was determined for samples of 12-24 individuals. Each species pair showed several fixed gene differences, and Nei's genetic distances of 0.279-1.748. The subspecies C. nilotica simoni and C. n. zeylanica showed no fixed gene differences and Nei's genetic distances of intraspecific interpopulation level (0.039). It is concluded from these data and the fact that these taxa are sympatric that C. n. zeylanica is only a population variant of C. n. simoni. A cladistic analysis using A. spinipes as an out-group showed the genus Caridina in Sri Lanka to have two lineages, both of which have given rise to endemic species. It is suggested, on the basis of distributional data, that C. singhalensis, an endemic related to C. nilotica, C. gracilirostris, and C. typus, arose from an earlier colonisation and speciation cycle than C. pristis, an endemic allied to C. fernandoi (also endemic).
10.2307/1548928|Polygonal patterns on the surface of epimeral plates of adult Gammarus oceanicus were compared in matched areas of exuvial and postmolt cuticle samples. The patterns, which record dimensions and locations of epidermal cells at premolt, were used to analyze shape and size distributions, shape and location changes during premolt, and the relative abundances of dividing cells. The degree of similarity of epidermal cell shape and location between exuvial and postmolt samples is very close, particularly in regions that lack dividing cells. It is hypothesized that conservation of shape and location originates from a sustained attachment of epidermis to cuticle throughout an intermolt of several weeks. Incidences of cell division were relatively consistent within multiple samples from individual animals and ranged from 0-24% between animals. However, cell division might be underestimated because of cell loss, which was evident directly, by pattern matching, or indirectly, by unchanged cell numbers, in identical sample pairs in which cell division was seen to have occurred.
1549860| The sperm structures of pandalid shrimps were previously undescribed. We determined the mature sperm morphology and ultrastructure of Pandalopsis japonica by means of light and electron microscopy and compared them with the known morphology and ultrastructure from other carideans. Spermatogenesis is initiated in the testicular tissue of the male-phased Pandalopsis japonica ranging from 14 to 23 mm in carapace length. The sperms are 52 to 55 m in length and consist of a cup-shaped main body and a spike extending from the convex surface of the main body. The main body, of which the size is 24 to 26 m in width and 5 to 7 m in height, has a nucleus and a cup-shaped base. The spike, 40 to 44 m long and approximately 3 m thick, consists of the central core filled with electron-lucent materials and the electron-dense wall containing a number of tubular-like structures that are aligned along the longitudinal spike. The unique structure of Pandalopsis japonica sperm, particularly in the spike possessing tubular-like structures of approximately 24 nm in the outside diameter and 15 nm in the inside diameter, offers a good taxonomic tool among shrimp species in the carideans. 
10.2307/1548465|Criteria for distinguishing introduced from endemic peracaridan crustaceans were used to deduce that a human-borne global invasion by the Oriental isopod Synidotea laevidorsalis (Miers, 1881) has occurred in the past 100 years. These criteria concern the ecological, evolutionary, and geographical attributes of introduced species. The criteria were used first to hypothesize that Synidotea laticauda is an introduced species in the eastern Pacific that arrived on the hulls of nineteenth-century sailing ships. This hypothesis was tested by searching for previously described conspecifics throughout the world. The search culminated in discoveries that Synidotea laticauda Benedict, 1897 of the eastern Pacific and Synidotea marplatensis (Giambiagi, 1922) of the Atlantic coast of South America are misidentified populations and thus synonymies of S. laevidorsalis. Synidotea brunnea Pires and Moreira, 1975, of central Brazil is also a probable junior synonym of S. laevidorsalis. The discovery of these synonymies was thus based upon predictive criteria rather than inductive classical, taxonomic revisions. These errors in species identifications indicate that the prevalence of marine and estuarine introductions has been underestimated and that the extent of many introductions remains poorly resolved.
1549836|The temporal pattern of population abundance, breeding, and recruitment of the marine shrimp Lysmata wurdemanni is described and analyzed. A population inhabiting the rock jetty in Port Aransas, Texas, U.S.A., was sampled monthly for one year and then bimonthly in a second. Abundances were greatest in the summer, declining during the fall to zero values in early winter, with increases in the late winter and early spring. The disappearance of the population in early winter is attributed to its movement beneath the jetty or to some other location inaccessible to sampling. When the population reappeared in late winter to early spring, it contained a high proportion of larger (older) individuals. The breeding season was seasonal but extended. Most female-phase individuals (FPs) incubated broods of embryos continuously during the warmer months (spring through early fall). Spawning of a new brood occurred soon after hatching of the previous one, as shown by the significant positive correlation between the degree of embryonic development (nearness to hatching) in an FP and the degree of ovarian maturation (nearness to spawning) in its ovotestes. Male-phase individuals (MPs) changing to FPs were found throughout most of the year. Their relative abundance was greatest in late winter to early spring when a group of large MPs, far past minimum FP size, finally changed sex. Recruitment occurred primarily in the spring and summer in both years, although its timing and intensity varied between years. The observed pattern of breeding, recruitment, and population abundances of Lysmata wurdemanni is what might be expected of a primarily tropical species living in an area transitional between the tropical Caribbean and warm temperate Gulf of Mexico biogeographical provinces. The breeding pattern of this shrimp, with an unusual hermaphroditic sexual system, is not strikingly unusual or different from that of gonochoristic shallow-water carideans.
1549771|The endemic Australian eusirid amphipod genus Sancho Stebbing, 1897, is revised based on new material. A neotype is established for Sancho platynotus Stebbing, 1897, which is redescribed, and the new species S. kuiteri is described. Members of Sancho are considered to be obligate commensals of sponges. Their depressed body form and entire telson may be an adaptation to their commensal life-style, but their cantilevered second gnathopods may indicate a phylogenetic relationship with the Eusirus-like members of the Eusiridae.
10.2307/1549013|The chromosomes of Meganyctiphanes norvegica from the Mediterranean Ligurian Sea were investigated using standard Giemsa, silver staining, and C-banding. The karyotype of both sexes consists of 19 metacentric chromosome pairs of gradually decreasing size. Silver staining of male mitotic and meiotic metaphase showed, in all chromosomes, centromeric regions that appeared to be related to kinetochores rather than to nucleolus-organizer regions. C-banding revealed centromeric constitutive heterochromatin in all chromosomes. No heteromorphic sex differentiation was observed. The karyotype of the krill Meganyctiphanes norvegica is reported here for the first time and will provide a basis for further cytogenetic investigation of species and populations of krill.
10.2307/1549416| We examined the epibionts on 98 legal male Tanner crabs (Chionoecetes bairdi) of varying, known shell ages, which were tagged in the region of Kodiak Island, Alaska, and recovered in the commercial fishery. We found 39 species or collective taxa of organisms on C. bairdi, a conservative estimate of the number of species involved. Seven species or collective taxa occurred on the exposed outer surface of 50% of all crabs examined: Alcyonidium sp., Balanus spp., a tube-dwelling amphipod, Spirorbis spp., Serpula spp., a lichenoporid bryozoan, and the fungus Trichomaris invadens. At least 12 species occurred in the branchial chamber. Of these, Triticella sp., Alcyonidium sp., and mucoid-tube polychaetes were found in 50% of 25 branchial cavities examined. Three species (Triticella sp.; a small, white flatworm; and Hiatella arctica) were found only in the branchial chamber. Our data showed trends of increasing frequency of occurrence and increasing mean number of epibionts with increasing shell age. Crab-shell age was a significant factor in determining the number of epibiotic species on crabs; the area of origin was not a significant factor. Epibionts are likely to be of limited use as a management tool, because of difficulties in accurately assessing the age composition of commercial samples and the likelihood of temporal and geographic variation in recruitment of epibiont organisms. However, epibionts are probably a significant factor in the population dynamics of C. bairdi and, hence, worthy of further investigation. 
10.2307/1549139| Heterosaccus lunatus is a rhizocephalan barnacle which parasitizes the crab Charybdis callianassa in Moreton Bay, Queensland. Its free-swimming larvae are lecithotrophic and there are 4 naupliar stages before metamorphosis to the cypris stage. Sexes can be distinguished during this larval phase by size, the male larvae being larger at all stages. Experiments determined the effect of differing salinities on larval development of H. lunatus. A development index (D.I.) was calculated for each salinity tested and larval development was arbitrarily deemed successful if the D.I. was greater than 50%, i.e., > 50% of the nauplii became cyprids. Successful larval development occurred over the salinity range 24-40. 
10.2307/1548300| Young krill (late larvae, juveniles, and subadults) were sampled from the region of Pridz Bay, Antarctica, in January-February 1985, and were observed alive to determine body size, molt stage, and external sexual features. The gonads were subsequently fixed and studied histologically. The undifferentiated gonad contains primary and secondary gonia. Secondary gonia first differentiated into oocytes in young krill at a body length of 24 mm. Maturation of the ovary or testis and development of secondary sexual characters (petasmata and ampullae in males; thelycum in females) occurred during a phase defined as subadult. The ovary became fully mature and spawning occurred in young females at a body size of 33 mm. The smallest mature male was 36 mm long. By differentiating the gonad before the external sexual features, Euphausia superba follows the same developmental pathway as peracarid crustaceans. However, krill are adapted to the Antarctic environment in being able to regress in sexual maturity and in size under extreme winter conditions. The possibility of a sexual regression to an immature or even an undifferentiated state is discussed. /// Des jeunes "krill" (larves tardives, juvniles, et subadultes) ont t prlevs dans la rgion de la baie de Pridz, Antarctique, en janvier-fvrier 1985. Les jeunes ont t observs vivants pour dterminer leur taille, leur stade de mue, et leurs caractres sexuels externes. Les gonades ont t ensuite fixes pour une tude histologique. La gonade indiffrencie contient des gonies primaires et secondaires. Les gonies secondaires se diffrencient d'abord en ovocytes chez des jeunes mesurant 24 mm. La maturation de l'ovaire ou du testicule et le dveloppement des caractres sexuels secondaires (petasmata et ampoules chez les mles, et thelycum chez les femelles) se font pendant une phase dfinie comme subadulte. L'ovaire acquiert sa pleine maturit et la ponte a lieu chez des jeunes femelles de 33 mm. Le plus petit mle mature mesurait 36 mm. Avec une gonade qui se diffrencie avant les caractres sexuels secondaires, Euphausia superba suit le mme plan de dveloppement que les Pracarides; cependant, cette espce est adapte  l'environnement Antarctique par sa capacit de rgresser en maturit sexuelle comme en taille dans des conditions hivernales extrmes. La possibilit d'une rgression sexuelle jusqu' un stade immature ou mme indiffrenci est discute. 
41315703|Sand crabs (Lepidopa benedicti) are highly specialized digging animals that spend the vast majority of their adult life submerged in fine sand. The carapace color of L benedicti varies from gray to white. Given that the environment in which they live is uniform and dark, most of the functional scenarios to explain color variation seem unlikely to apply. Carapace color has a bimodal distribution, indicating that it is better characterized as a polymorphism than simply as normal variation. Gray crabs are larger and more common than white ones. Crabs mostly swim ventral-side up, which suggests that countershading does not explain the apparent advantage of having a gray carapace.
10.2307/1548322|It is proposed to divide the superclass Crustacea into four classes (instead of 10-12) and nine subclasses on the basis of relationships between the prototagmata (i.e., the anterior and posterior groups of larval segments and the group of postlarval segments) and the definitive tagmata of the body, the general segmental composition of the body, and the type of carapace and degree of heteronomy of the trunk appendages. A system of orders is presented for the classes Branchiopodiodes and Ascothoraciodes and the subclass Halicyniones.
10.2307/1548156|Impingement samples collected at four electric generating stations in Philadelphia in 1976 contained blue crabs, Callinectes sapidus, previously unreported from the tidal freshwater Delaware and Schuylkill rivers. Specimens were collected in the spring and fall in the Delaware River, but were absent during July, August, and most of September when dissolved oxygen (DO) was lowest. Low DO may have excluded crabs from the Delaware River during the summer; specimens were collected throughout the summer in the Schuylkill River where minimum observed DO was higher than in the Delaware.
40665255|The definition of the genus Dromilites has become extended over the past nearly 200 years to include most any dromioid crab from Eocene rocks. We examined type material of Dromilites spp. and restrict the genus to four species. The remaining species are removed to other genera or families incertae sedes. The remarkable preservation of the type species and a second species make it possible to assign with confidence Dromilites sensu stricto to Sphaerodromiidae. The unique features of this family, which Guinot and Tavares (2003) had erected as a subfamily within Dromiidae, support its elevation to family status. A new genus referred to Sphaerodromiidae embraces a Campanian (Late Cretaceous) species from South Dakota, Ferricorda kimberleyae (Bishop, 1987). Sphaerodromiidae now extends into the Late Cretaceous. The fossil record of Dromiidae sensu lato and sensu stricto is currently under investigation.
10.2307/1547910|A rapid molt-staging technique has been developed for the fiddler crab Uca pugilator. Morphological characteristics of setae on the pleopods and the extent of epidermal retraction were used to define the molt stages (A-B, C, D, E) and substages (D<sub>0</sub>, D<sub>1</sub>, D<sub>2</sub>, D<sub>3-4</sub>) of the fiddler crab. The significance of molt staging as it relates to biochemical and biophysical events is also addressed.
10.2307/1549150| The population of the hermit crab Calcinus tibicen in the Ubatuba region was studied with emphasis on seasonal abundance, seasonal size-frequency distribution, sex-ratio, and reproductive period based on the percentage of ovigerous females. The animals were collected at 2-month intervals for 2 consecutive years (from January 1993 to November 1994). Total mean animal size in shield length was 5.14  1.23 mm for males, 4.23  0.79 mm for females, and 4.53  0.60 for ovigerous females. A discontinuity in reproduction was observed, with an absence of ovigerous females in July (winter) and a high incidence from September to May (spring to autumn). Calcinus tibicen is sexually dimorphic in relation to size, with a higher growth rate in males. The sex-ratio pattern changes with season, indicating that it is more a function of season or habitat than of size. 
10.2307/1548995|Antennular withdrawal behavior in Callinectes sapidus can be initiated by stimulating antennular sensory nerve IIIc, and monitored as fictive withdrawal in antennular motor nerve IA. Five motoneurons have been identified with neurites located predominately in the lateral antennular neuropil that contribute to this behavior. These motoneurons exhibited a range of evoked response following stimulation of nerve IIIc. The duration of the excitatory component of the evoked response was appropriate for the role of each motoneuron in producing antennular withdrawal. When depolarized by the intracellular injection of current, each of these cells produced a stereotypical movement of one antennular segment. Motoneurons 26-f and 26-s displaced the medial antennular segment laterally, positioning the entire antennule in a protective cephalothoracic groove. Motoneuron 27 rotated the medial segment about its long axis, while motoneuron 28 displaced the medial segment toward the midline. The movement of the medial segment produced by motoneuron 28 was antagonistic to movements produced by motoneurons 26-f and 26-s. Motoneurons 26-f, 26-s, 27, and 28 were active during the early phase of withdrawal and may establish a consistent initial position of the medial segment prior to placement of the antennule in its final protected location. Motoneuron 30-1f, also active during the early phase of withdrawal, elevated the distal segment as the initial position of the medial segment was being established.
40927838|The portunid crab Callinectes danae is abundant in Brazilian estuaries and coastal areas and is an important item to artisanal fisheries. This study investigated the distribution and population structure by sex and size, the size at sexual maturity, and sex-ratio of the species in Vitoria Bay, Esprito Santo, southeastern Brazil. Crabs were collected monthly by nocturnal trawling during one year in six sampling stations distributed along an estuarine gradient and an independent depth gradient. Physico-chemical parameters of water were measured in situ on each station. A total of 3876 individuals were collected: 2537 females (1147 adults, 318 ovigerous, and 1072 juveniles), and 1339 males (444 adults and 895 juveniles). The mean carapace width (including lateral spines) at sexual maturity was 91.3 mm for males and 80.5 mm for females; the female-to-male sex ratio was 1.89:1. Adult females occurred throughout the bay and year-round, but eggbearing females were almost exclusively caught in deep and high salinity areas. Adult males and juveniles of both sexes occurred mainly in internal areas of the estuary, nearest river mouths; highest captures were registered in November. Both the scarcity of males, probably resulting from size-selective catch, and the low proportion of ovigerous females, compared with that observed in other Brazilian estuaries, suggest that the population has been overexploited.
10.2307/1548127|Some early field studies of population structure in hippid crabs (Emerita analoga Stimpson and Hippa pacifica Dana) provided evidence in support of a protandry hypothesis for these animals. However, other lines of evidence could lead to the opposite interpretation. Evidence largely supportive of the sex reversal hypothesis is threefold. 1) Sex ratio curves (sex ratio plotted as a function of size), once believed characteristic of a species and/or population and perhaps indicative of sex reversal, are now seen to vary with season, between populations, and with the method or place of capture, 2) A removal of nearly all Hippa pacifica individuals from a beach at Enewetak Atoll, with replacement by a bimodal distribution of males, yielded a bimodal distribution 10 months later. Females comprised the upper size mode, but a possible emigration could not be excluded as the cause. 3) Results of early experiments with contained animals suggested a transition from male to female for some individuals. Repeats of those experiments with better controls have yielded no supportive evidence. Three other lines of evidence largely negated the sex reversal hypothesis. 1) Females and males apparently grow at different rates in both species; in laboratory conditions, males reached a maximum size, continued molting, but ceased growth. 2) Gross examination of internal structure revealed no sexually intermediate forms, except for Emerita asiatica Milne Edwards. 3) The mean size at which female Hippa pacifica individuals begin producing eggs is smaller than the supposed mean size of sex reversal, a severe contradiction for that species. The conservative interpretation is that mole crabs do not normally change sex with growth, despite some lines of evidence in support of the protandry hypothesis.
10.2307/1549456|Segmental podocytes are reported for the first time to occur in the basal part of the pereiopods of different harpacticoid copepod species. In yet another species, segmental podocytes lie in the pleural folds, but also in closest vicinity to the pereiopods. The ultrastructure of these cells resembles not only that of other Crustacea (Isopoda, Cephalocarida, Decapoda), but also that of podocytes of the crustacean maxillary gland, as well as that of the nephrocytes of the Insecta. These results, together with the confirmation that the segmentally arranged so-called "nephrocytes" in the Bathynellacea (Syncarida) are in fact podocytes, support the view of a crustacean ancestor with segmental nephridial organs.
27753949|Two new troglobitic species of the freshwater crab genus Sundathelphusa (Parathelphusidae), S. waray, n. sp., and S. lobo, n. sp., are described from two caves in Samar, Philippines. This discovery brings the number of cavernicolous species of Sundathelphusa in the Philippines to nine. It is the first record of freshwater and true cavernicolous crab species from Samar. These two new species are morphologically closely related to S. cavernicola Takeda, 1983 and S. hades Takeda and Ng, 2001, but differ distinctly in the shape of carapace and the presence of long corneous spines in the dactyli. The new species are characterized by the non-pigmented body, greatly reduced eyes and long ambulatory legs that are associated with previously known troglobitic crabs. The presence of corneous spines on the distal two segments of the ambulatory legs is suggested as troglomorphic adaptation to subterranean habitat. A key to the cavernicolous freshwater crabs of the Philippines is also provided.
1549609|The structure of a decapod crustacean community on a littoral detritic bottom (coarse sand, fine gravel, Amphioxus sand, and abundant bioclastic remains) of Southern Spain (Barbate Bay, near the Straits of Gibraltar), at 15-24-m depth, from October 1993 to August 1995, has shown annual changes. These changes could be due to natural factors (river flow as consequence of differences in pluviometry between years) and anthropogenic disturbances happening in front of the sampling area during a second period (namely the dredging and enlargement of the harbour and the restoration of a beach), which affected directly or indirectly (through the movement of particulate matter) the structure of decapod community. As a result, there was a decrease in the total abundance and in the number of specimens of the dominant species (mainly Diogenes pugilator and Galathea intermedia) some of them associated with seaweed (G. intermedia and Pisidia longicornis), a reduction of the seasonality, and fluctuations in the values of the richness and diversity indices. However, before and during the disturbances, the dominant species remained the same, with only slight modification in the dominance order. In addition, the accumulative total annual values of the diversity indices are very similar. All these results could mean the existence of higher resistance to disturbances (none strong) in the decapod community from hydrodynamic areas. On the other hand, the strong currents increase the dispersion of the sediments, reduce the turbidity, and facilitate a more rapid return to the previous conditions, increasing the elasticity of the system, in which the decapod community presents a cyclic structure.
10.2307/1549037|The ability of female Chionoecetes bairdi, that copulated only one time following their maturity molt, to fertilize subsequent egg clutches was monitored. One group (N = 10) was held with males and the other (N = 11) without them until the extrusion of their second annual egg clutch. All 10 females with access to males produced second clutches with 95-100% of their eggs dividing. In the group of 11 isolated from males only 9% (N = 1) of the females produced clutches in which eggs initiated division. Females with access to males had more eggs in their clutches than the isolated females. A single insemination at the maturity molt typically did not provide sufficient stored sperm to fertilize subsequent egg clutches in C. bairdi. Apparently multiple inseminations are an important aspect of the reproductive biology of this species.
4094190| The ability to culture larval lobsters is of paramount importance to the commercial development of effective aquaculture methods. Recently, we developed two separate laboratory culturing strategies that yielded the complete larval development from egg to puerulus (post-larva) for the commercially important and transpacific Pronghorn spiny lobster, Panulirus penicillatus (Olivier, 1791). Individual phyllosomal culture of 10 newly hatched animals was carried out in a static seawater system. Two of the 10 phyllosomata held at 24.5-26.0 C metamorphosed after 22 molts to the puerulus stage at 256 and 294 days respectively (final body lengths = 30.80 mm and 32.00 mm). Mass culture of 500 newly hatched phyllosomata was also carried out in two specialized acrylic flow-through seawater tanks. Of the 500 larval animals, 215 were randomly sampled and morphologically staged (10 distinct stages were observed and documented as well as two sub-stages). Seven phyllosomata that were mass cultured metamorphosed to the puerulus stage under a constant temperature regime of 24 C (mean days = 302.4 and mean final body length = 32.133 mm). This species is now one of eight palinurid lobsters and only the fourth Panulirus spp. to be cultured completely from hatch to settlement stage. The biological understanding of larval development for this species promotes the feasibility for aquaculture and potentially facilitates future modeling of larval dispersal and duration in the field. 
4540298|Numerous specimens of the genus Munidopsis from the East Pacific, and including the East Pacific Rise (EPR), are reviewed using morphological characters and mitochondrial cytochrome oxidase subunit I (COI) sequences. Six new Munidopsis species from the East Pacific are described (M. bracteosa, M. hirsuta, M. kensmithi, M. scotti, M. segonzaci, and M. tiburon), and the status of M. recta is revised. A seventh new species (M. ivrijenhoeki) from Fiji Basin (SW Pacific) is also included. A combined morphological and molecular analysis revealed that the most common species on the EPR is Munidopsis recta. Most of the new species can be differentiated from closely related species by subtle morphological characters, which correspondingly match the molecular phylogeny and large molecular divergence, confirming the existence of sibling species in the genus Munidopsis. Most Munidopsis individuals formerly considered M. subsquamosa from the East Pacific Rise appear to be members of M. recta. One potential sister taxa to M. recta is M. bracteosa, which is found at the Juan de Fuca hydrothermal vents, the Mendocino Fracture Zone, and a Monterey Bay whalefall. Our findings suggest that Munidopsis populations are tightly interconnected between distant and discrete locations, and challenge models for the predicted dispersal of these species. Additional sampling of Munidopsis populations on localized habitats (wood, hydrothermal vents, and whale falls), as well as intervening abyssal areas, are required to fully understand the complex evolutionary history and diversity of this group.
10.2307/1548594| Austinograea williamsi is described from hydrothermal vents in the Mariana Back-Arc Basin, a spreading center in the western North Pacific, at depths of 3,595-3,660 m. This is the first bythograeid crab described from the western Pacific, extending the range of the Bythograeidae approximately 12,500 km from the nearest previous collection sites along the East Pacific Rise. The species differs remarkably from all other brachyuran crabs in lacking eyes or moveable eyestalks; the possible remnant of the eyestalk is fused to the surrounding orbital region of the carapace and bears no cornea or pigment. The species is further distingushed by the coxa of the third maxilliped, which is nearly covered by the juxtaposition of the margin of the carapace with the sternum and chelipedal coxa, a character proposed herein to be of generic importance. Other characters serving to separate A. williamsi from species in the genera Bythograea and Cyanagraea are the presence of setose fields on the subhepatic surface and on the ventral dactylar surface of the chelae in both sexes, densely setose ventral margins on the merus and basi-ischium of all walking legs, chelipeds with fingers that meet along their entire occluding margins in both sexes (i.e., do not gape), and a relatively straight male first pleopod that bears small spinules and is longer than the second pleopod. The third maxillipeds and male pleopods of Cyanagraea, previously unknown, are described from a specimen taken at 13N on the East Pacific Rise; the pleopods are more similar to those of Austinograea than to those of Bythograea. A key to the genera of the Bythograeidae is provided. 
10.2307/1548608|The cuticular surface of the head and second coxal plate of 124 species (104 genera) of Amphipoda has been examined by scanning electron microscopy. Most of the species examined possess a variety of microstructures that are presumed to be nonsensory, including numerous pores of different sizes and several types of cuticular projections (microtrichs). The microstructures frequently are distributed over the surface in highly ordered arrangements. The functional and phylogenetic significance of these features is discussed.
41315728|We describe growth, longevity, sex ratio, reproductive period, and recruitment of Aegla paulensis from Jaragu State Park, So Paulo, Brazil (2327'27.9"S; 4645'32.3"W). The population was sampled monthly (September 2007 through August 2009) with the aid of traps. Over five thousand individuals were captured, sexed, measured (carapace length = CL) and inspected for reproductive traits (females only), and then released back to the sampling site. The pattern of the reproductive cycle was strongly seasonal (austral mid autumn through late winter), with a single recruitment pulse per year. The obtained von Bertalanffy growth equations were CL = 21.25[l-e~ -0.041(t + 1.250) ] and CL = 16.52[l-e~ -0.049(t + 1.823) ] for males and females, respectively. Males (mean CL  SD = 11.86  2.79 mm) attain larger sizes than females (mean CL  SD = 10.84  2.36 mm). Aegla paulensis reproduces twice during an estimated life span of 40.2 months for females and 33.9 months for males. Temporal variation of sex ratio showed a distinctive pattern characterized by a sequence of three distinct periods that repeated from one year to another, and which suggested that a behavioral component influence the proportion of sex in adult specimens sampled with traps during reproductive and non-reproductive periods.
27920087|Through much of the Scotia Sea and near the South Shetland Islands during 24 January23 March 1981, the RV Melville made extensive bongo net collections of zooplankton, including krill, Euphausia superba. Length-frequency distributions of juvenile and adult krill are studied here. An eastern population in the Scotia Sea was distinguishable by a 35 mm, nonreproductive mode, and a western population by a 35 mm and 55 mm reproductive bimodal distribution. One swarm was encountered in each subregion. Most catches indicated relatively dispersed krill. Elsewhere, in the Bransfield Strait and near Elephant Island, population length-frequency structures were more complex, indicating mixtures of age groups of different origins. A mid-March swarm located acoustically in Bransfield Strait was dominated by Year-2 krill of 3045 mm, with a unique minor mode at 1422 mm and a secondary mode centered upon 5053 mm adults. Around Elephant Island, two kinds of size distributions, largely separate in space, characterized generally abundant krill: (1) a 5055 mm mode wherein adult males predominated, and (2) a modeless 3050 mm range wherein females predominated. During 78 March, a dense swarm occupying 150 km2 consisted of two partially overlapping segments, each having one of the two length-frequency structures. Biomass of the swarm was estimated at 47,200 metric tons, based on bongo net samples. During 2023 March, dominance by 5055 mm males prevailed; swarms were then particularly associated with the 150160 m bathymetric interval. Circumstantial evidence of selective effects of intensive trawling by an industrial fleet is seen in relatively low densities of Year-2 krill in places where trawling had taken place, resulting in domination by Year-3 krill. The possibility that the population in which 5055 mm adults dominated is a natural result of advection is also considered, but not resolved.
1549724|For two callianassid shrimps, Nihonotrypaea japonica (Ortmann) and N. harmandi (Bouvier), morphometric character variations [carapace length (CL), eyestalk width (EsW), cornea width (CoW), and rostrum angle (RA)] were examined based on the materials collected from sandflats in western Kyushu, Japan. Allometric relationships were established between each combination of two morphometric characters for each species, in which CL was fixed on the abscissa as a reference variable. The values of EsW and CoW linearly increase with the CL value, with the slopes similar for EsW between the two species and a steeper slope for CoW in N. harmandi. By using the combination of (CoW/EsW) ratio vs. CL and that of RA vs. CL, bivariate discriminant analyses were run to establish an appropriate function separating the two species in each combination. The relatively smaller cornea size in N. japonica and more acute rostrum angle in N. harmandi were confirmed as the two effective characters that separate the two species. On the basis of the overall misclassification probabilities, the linear discriminant function using (CoW/EsW) ratio and CL was regarded as best to correctly separate the two species for practical use.
4094176|The present study examined the effects of visual cues provided by a reflective environment on spontaneous behavior exhibited by crayfish (Procambarus clarkii) in an empty aquarium. The predominant components of spontaneous behavior were determined by observing the activity of solitary adult crayfish for 20 minutes in a glass aquarium containing fresh water and no objects. Five distinct behaviors were observed: rearing up (climbing on the wall), turning, cornering (facing the corner for 5 s or longer), backward walking, and crossing (crossing the midline of the aquarium). The frequencies of rearing up, cornering, and turning decreased when reflection from the glass wall was blocked with black cardboard or non-reflective plastic. In a tank containing mirrors on one side and non-reflective plastic on the other, crayfish cornered, reared up, and turned more in front of the mirrors. To examine whether or not such responses depend on socialization, crayfish were housed for two weeks either in same-sex pairs (socialized) or separately (isolated), and subsequently their behaviors were compared in a tank with mirrors on one side and non-reflective plastic on the other. Crayfish that had been housed in isolation showed no difference in rearing up, turning, cornering, or backward walking between the mirror and non-mirrored portions of the tank. Crayfish housed in pairs showed significantly more of all five behaviors in front of the mirrors than in the non-mirrored portions of the tank, and they spent significantly more time in front of the mirrors than in the non-mirrored part of the tank. On the other hand, isolated crayfish seemed to avoid the mirrored side. The results demonstrate that crayfish are sensitive to reflection, even the partial reflection present in an ordinary glass tank, and that responses of crayfish to a reflective environment depend on prior socialization.
1549698|Boninpagurus acanthocheles, a new genus and new species of hermit crab (Decapoda: Anomura: Paguridae) from shallow waters of the Ogasawara (Bonin) Islands, Japan, is described and illustrated. The new genus is characterized by the following characters: in males, the coxa of the right fifth pereopod has a straight or slightly curved, elongate sexual tube that is about 2-3 times the coxal length, directed laterally or posterolaterally, the proximal portion of the tube being stout and opaque and the distal portion transparent; the coxa of the left fifth pereopod has a short protrusion of vas deferens; females have paired gonopores and lack first pleopods. The new genus is similar to Anapagrides in several diagnostic features, from which it is distinguished by morphology of the male sexual tubes, the fourth pereopods, and female gonopores.
4094126| Aspects of the tail flip, escape response of a thermosbaenacean, Tethysbaena argentarii, were examined with the aid of S-VHS video. The first part of the escape action involves a 180 shift in orientation, where head and tail change position within 2/50 to 4/50 sec. This shift is caused by two successive, tail flips: first a ventral movement, which brings the tail region close to the thorax; then a dorsal motion, which causes the thorax/head region to flip backwards because of greater water drag in the tail region (tail fan). The 180 change in orientation is sometimes followed by a number a forceful dorso-ventral tail flips that promote rapid swimming in the new direction. The type of escape reaction in Tethysbaena argentarii is different from the 'jet'stream' type of escape reaction seen in various shrimp, euphausids, and mysids, but it bears some similarity to that seen in stomatopods and in various crayfish where a 180 shift in orientation is also seen. 
20487781|In fiddler crabs, males develop profound left-right asymmetry as a large claw grows opposite a small feeding appendage. Females are symmetrical, with paired small feeding appendages. The claw, used in signaling and contests, may favor adaptive responses in walking legs. This study of sand fiddler crabs, Uca pugilator, investigates differences in leg size and proportion: 1) between major (with the claw) and minor (without the claw) sides, using 404 males from which a pair of legs was removed, and 2) between males and females, using 1085 adults from which a single leg was removed. Among males, only the first walking leg was longer on the major side. This was due to the much greater length of the merus, a proximal long segment that is held parallel to the ground. The merus was longer on the major side in all walking legs. This may permit the claw to be extended away from the body without loss of balance when males either engage in contests over breeding burrows or wave the claw to attract females to burrows. More distal segments, the long carpus + manus, held approximately perpendicular to the ground, and the dactyl, anchoring the leg to the ground, were longer on the minor side, resulting in longer minor-side legs for the second to fourth pairs of legs. Female legs were proportioned like those on the minor side, with a long carpus + manus relative to the merus. However, rear legs of females are relatively long, which may facilitate holding an egg mass above the surface. In males, minor-side legs were more massive than major side legs. This suggests a greater work load on the minor side, as during contests that escalate to interlocking of claws, where minor side legs are important in pushing the opponent. Legs of females were more massive than those of males. The greater mass of female legs is not necessary to support an egg mass, which weighs less than the claw of a similar-sized male. The stouter legs of females may facilitate digging out of breeding burrows.
1549683| The female of Haplostoma banyulensis (Brment, 1909) is redescribed on the basis of specimens parasitizing the compound ascidian Trididemnum tenerum (Verrill) at Strangford Lough, Northern Ireland. It is shown to have a mandible, which was not reported in the original description or in succeeding studies. This species can be distinguished from its 10 congeners of subgroup 1 of Haplostoma by the following characteristics: labrum with six distinct processes subequally spaced; legs 1-4 exopods with armature formula 5,4,5,5; leg 4 with longest exopod; copulatory organs including two copulatory pores and two seminal receptacles; and subcylindrical caudal ramus with three spinal elements on terminal margin. 
10.2307/1548651|Leatherback sea turtles (Dermochelys coriacea) nesting at regular time intervals on Sandy Point, St. Croix, U.S. Virgin Islands, provided an opportunity to obtain multiple measurements of Conchoderma virgatum, a pedunculate epibiotic cirriped. Mean capitular length for gravid C. virgatum was 12.4 mm (SD = 1.8, range 8.8-15.9 mm). A growth curve was predicted after fitting paired measurements (capture and recapture) from 43 individuals to a von Bertalanffy growth interval equation. Estimates of asymptotic length and intrinsic growth rate were made using nonlinear least-squares regression procedures. The predicted asymptotic size of 14.6-mm capitular length is considerably less than that reported elsewhere for the species. It is possible that stress associated with the terrestrial nesting phase of the host prevented the barnacles from attaining full growth potential. Considerable plasticity in both maximum size and intrinsic growth rate may exist between populations exposed to different physio-ecological regimes.
20487768|A new ridgewayiid copepod, Stygoridgewayia trispinosa n. g. and n. sp., is described from continental ground waters of the Cape Range Peninsula and Pilbara regions of Western Australia, as the first occurrence of this family in fresh waters. The new genus can be distinguished from other ridgewayiid genera by a combination of characters that include three digitiform processes and striated membrane on each caudal ramus, fused ancestral segments II-IV and V-VI on the antennary exopod, leg 1 with a subterminal flagellum on the outer spiniform setae of the terminal exopodal segment, legs 3 and 4 with two outer spiniform setae on the terminal exopodal segment, and female leg 5 with reduced armature on the exopod, terminal exopodal segment inserted along the distal margin of the middle exopodal segment, and endopod absent. We postulate that this new ridgewayiid is a particle feeder living in close contact with the sediment surface, and originated in shallow coastal waters and secondarily colonized the freshwater hypogean environment.
10.2307/1549247|A new genus is proposed for Izucaris masudai, new species, a pontoniid shrimp associated with the sea anemone Nemanthus nitidus. Izucaris, new genus, is closely related to the genus Pontonides sensu stricto, but distinguished by the rostrum overreaching the midlength level of the distal peduncular article of the antennule, the pterygostomian margin distinctly tapering anteriorly, and the lack of a distinct protrusion on the medial margin of the dactyl of the second maxilliped. The type species is described and illustrated based on a male and a female collected from Izu Peninsula, Honshu, Japan. The color pattern of the new species may show a chromatic adaptation.
1549162|A full description of the subadult male holotype of the diastylid Ektonodiastylis robusta, new genus, new species, is presented, as well as of the adult male and adult female of E. nimia. Ektonodiastylis nimia is transferred from Brachydiastylis to Ektonodiastylis. The family definition of Diastylidae is expanded. The implications of this expansion on the systematics of the Cumacea in general, and Diastylidae and Gynodiastylidae in particular, are discussed.
10.2307/1548066|Electrophoretic and immunochemical techniques were used to investigate structural similarities among haemocyanins of six genera of Australian parastacid crayfish. Polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis showed that 10 species from the genera Cherax, Euastacus, Astacopsis, Engaeus, and Gramastacus resembled Cherax destructor, with 17S and 25S polymers accounting for at least 80% of the haemocyanin components present in serum. Geocharax was unique in lacking the 17S component. Estimates of antigenic similarity among parastacid haemocyanins depart from the phylogenetic scheme of Riek (1972) in the transposition of the genera Cherax and Engaeus. This discrepancy should serve to reopen interest in the phylogeny of the Parastacidae.
10.2307/1548219|A new genus and species, Hirsutia bathyalis, created for a single, small peracaridan crustacean collected at a depth of 1,000 m from the sea floor off northeastern South America, provides the basis for one of two new families, the Hirsutiidae, of the new Order Mictacea erected by Bowman et al. (1985). Hirsutia uniquely possesses a number of morphological features found neither in other peracaridan orders nor in the second species, Mictocaris halope, and family, the Mictocarididae, of the Mictacea (Bowman and Iliffe, 1985). These include paragnaths that have elongate, slender anterior extensions that are probably sensory; an absence of grooming armature on the medial surface of the mandibular palp; unusually long setal armature on the pereiopodal basal-endopodal shaft relative to other peracaridan Crustacea; "oostegites" that arise from the posterior rather than the medial surface of the coxa as in all other known Peracarida, supporting Claus's (1885) century-old contention that oostegites are modified epipodites. Certain morphological features of Hirsutia suggest that it possesses the potential of being a facultative carnivore.
1549886|Five juvenile copepodids of Critomolgus anthopleurus Kim, 1996, were obtained by rearing the copepod and its actiniarian host for 10 days within a laboratory aquarium. Copepodid I of C. anthopleurus shows significant morphological differences from previous records. At this stage of C. anthopleurus, the antennule is 4-segmented, with 3 setae on the first segment; the antenna has a rudimentary exopod; the mandible has 2 armature elements in addition to distal lash; and the maxilliped is 4-segmented, with an armature formula 1, 2, 1, and 3. Sexual dimorphism first occurs at copepodid V of the maxilliped, which differs between sexes. A comparison of the maxillipeds of copepodid I between C. anthopleurus and other lichomolgoid copepods resulted in a conclusion that the maxillipedal endopod of the lichomolgoid copepodid I is fundamentally 2-segmented, with 1 seta on the first segment, and 3 setae and a setiform process on the second segment.
10.2307/1549298|The purpose of this study was to establish a method for repeated, year-round sampling of the abundance of young-of-the-year and juvenile lobsters, Homarus americanus, where they can be found intertidally. The primary advantage of the intertidal lobster monitoring program is the ability to overcome limitations pursuant to subtidal sampling techniques through increased temporal and spatial resolution of data collected, using sampling methods possible at low tide. Lobsters were sampled monthly throughout the years 1993-1997 by overturning rocks in one-m<sup>2</sup> quadrats placed along fixed transects running parallel to the water's edge 0.2-0.4 m below mean low water (MLW). Individuals were tagged using binary-coded microwire tags. Two distinct size classes of lobsters, the smaller measuring 3-15 mm in carapace length (CL), the larger measuring 16-40 mm CL, were found consistently. Monthly mean densities ranged from 0-8.6 individuals per m<sup>2</sup> at 0.4 m below MLW. These densities are comparable to published reports of similar-sized lobsters sampled at depths of 5 m below MLW. A seasonal pattern of abundance was observed, with the highest average densities recorded in May-November. Lower abundance in December-April was most likely due to seasonal migrations of individuals of the larger size class. Preliminary results indicate that areas of the lower intertidal zone serve as nursery grounds where postlarval lobsters settle and grow for several years. The assessment method developed in this study is being used to establish a time series that may be useful in developing and testing predictive models of annual yields and recruitment to the lobster fishery. The close proximity of intertidal lobster nurseries to the terrestrial zone indicates serious implications for fisheries management and issues of habitat protection in the shoreland zone. Further investigations are needed to yield a more complete picture of the full geographical extent of use of the intertidal zone as a nursery area for lobsters.
10.2307/1547853| Shelf populations of the high-arctic deposit-feeding amphipod Arrhis phyllonyx were quantitatively sampled (May-October, day and night) with the Macer-GIROQ suprabenthic sled, mainly at two seasonally constant (0.4-4C, silt-clay plateau) monitoring stations. One station was in the Lower St. Lawrence Estuary (139 samples in 1970-73 and 35 in 1978-80), the other in the Baie des Chaleurs (49 samples in 1969). Spatial distribution in these two ecosystems was assessed by combined suprabenthic and endobenthic sampling at 99 survey stations. Cold temperature was a more important spatial distributional factor than mud. The species rank among Gammaridea and mean suprabenthic density were higher at the Bay station (third rank, 77.0 individuals/100 m<sup>3</sup>) than at the Estuary station (12th rank, 2.2 individuals/100 m<sup>3</sup>). Vertical migrations, more extensive in the Bay than in the Estuary and in the equinox than in the solstice period, largely accounted for seasonal changes in observed population density. In the Bay, males and females typically reach maturity in their third year, after a maximum of 14 postmarsupial moults; in the Estuary, an additional subpopulation of small-size individuals matures precociously in its second year after fewer moults. Adults breed only once, in October-November in the Bay and in November-December in the Estuary. In both ecosystems, brooding lasts 7-8 months. Individuals from both subpopulations in the Estuary were of smaller size than in the Bay, at the monitoring stations or at some other depths, regardless of bottom type or water temperature. Low density, small size, dichotomic population structure and delayed breeding of the Estuary population are probably adaptations to poorer (tenfold) and delayed primary production. Populations of Arrhis phyllonyx from the Estuary station, much closer to the continental slope, may also be exposed to competition from species better adapted to a low food supply. /// On a chantillonn quantitativement (mai-octobre, jour et nuit) les populations circalittorales de l'Amphipode euarctique dtritivore Arrhis phyllonyx avec le traneau suprabenthique Macer-GIROQ, surtout  deux stations pilotes  tempratures (0.4-4C) et sdiments (limon-argile) uniformes durant l'anne. La premire de ces stations se trouve dans l'estuaire maritime du Saint-Laurent (139 chantillons en 1970-73 et 35 en 1978-80), et la seconde dans la Baie des Chaleurs (49 chantillons en 1969). La distribution spatiale de l'espce, prcise par des chantillonnages suprabenthiques et endobenthiques  99 stations d'exploration, dpend davantage des basses tempratures que de la vase. Le rang de l'espce dans la communaut gammaridienne et sa densit moyenne taient nettement plus levs dans la Baie (3e rang, 77.0 individus/100 m<sup>3</sup>) que dans l'Estuaire (12e rang, 2.2 individus/100 m<sup>3</sup>). Les migrations verticales, d'amplitude plus grande dans la Baie et pendant la priode d'quinoxe que de celle solstice, sont largement responsables des variations saisonnires de la densit observe. Dans la Baie, il y a au maximum 14 mues postembryonnaires, et la maturit sexuelle survient pendant la troisime anne de vie. Dans l'Estuaire, il y a en plus une sous-population d'individus de petite taille qui parviennent  maturit dans la deuxime anne, aprs moins de mues. Les adultes ne se reproduisent qu'une seule fois, en octobre-novembre dans la Baie et en novembre-dcembre dans l'Estuaire. Dans les deux cosystmes, l'incubation des juvniles dure 7-8 mois. Dans l'Estuaire, les individus des deux sous-populations sont de plus petite taille que dans la Baie, aux stations pilotes ou  d'autres profondeurs, quelle que soit la granulomtrie des sdiments ou la temprature de l'eau. La faible densit, la petite taille, la structure dichotomique de la population et la reproduction retarde dans l'Estuaire sont probablement des adaptations au rgime de production primaire plus faible (10 fois moins) et retarde. A la station pilote de l'Estuaire, la comptition d'espces bathyales mieux adaptes aux faibles apports alimentaires contribue peut-tre aussi  l'insuccs d'Arrhis phyllonyx. 
1549342| South American species of the freshwater copepod genus Boeckella are distributed in the Andean region, which corresponds to southwestern South America below 30 south latitude, also extending along the Andean highlands north of this latitude, and comprises the Subantarctic, Central Chilean, Patagonian, and Paramo-Puna subregions. Based on a track analysis, five generalized tracks were found: Subantarctic (involving some Subantarctic islands, the Falklands, Tierra del Fuego, and the southern portion of continental Chile and Argentina): B. brevicaudata, B. poppei, B. vallentini, and B. michaelseni; Patagonian (in the southern Patagonia plateau): B. brasiliensis, B. silvestrii, and B. longicauda; Mid-southern Andes: B. gibbosa and B. diamantina; Paramo-Punan (in the central and northern Andes, from northwestern Argentina to western Colombia): B. calcaris, B. palustris, and B. occidentalis; and Neotropical (mainly in the Neotropical region, but reaching also Patagonia and the Puna): B. meteoris and B. bergi. Two nodes have been determined: one in southern Chile and Argentina, where the Subantarctic, Patagonian, and Neotropical tracks intersect, and the other in the central Andes, where the Paramo-Punan and Neotropical tracks intersect. 
1549826|During the mating season, males of the fiddler crab Uca lactea build semidomes of mud at the entrances of their burrows to which they attract females for mating in the upper intertidal zone. Related species build similar structures which either reduce aggression between neighboring males or attract sexually receptive females. Male U. lactea did not build disproportionately more semidomes as density increased, suggesting that these structures do not modulate aggression. Larger males built higher and wider semidomes as would be expected if the semidomes are a courtship signal. When the high tides were too low to cover their habitat and the sediment dried, males were unable to build new or repair existing semidomes. Towards the end of the mating season more small males built semidomes perhaps because large males prevented them from courting earlier when most females mated. We made two experimental enclosures, added males to one and males and females to the other, and monitored semidome building. Males built significantly more semidomes in the enclosure with females. Overall, our observations support the hypothesis that the semidomes of U. lactea are a sexual signal.
10.2307/1548910|The genus Ishizakiella (Podocopida: Ostracoda) was proposed by McKenzie and Sudijono (1981) for a fossil species from the Plio-Pleistocene of Java. Three extant species of Ishizakiella are reported herein from the river mouths and the upper eulittoral zone in the Japanese Islands. One of them is a new species, I. ryukyuensis, from Okinawa and Iriomote. The chitinous parts and ecology of I. miurensis are described for the first time. The carapace of I. supralittoralis from the northern area, i.e., the Kuril Islands and Hokkaido, has poor ornamentation, simple hingement, and a narrow marginal zone in comparison with other species of Ishizakiella. These particular characters of I. supralittoralis are found in the juveniles of the two other species. In view of their present geographical distributions and fossil records, the species of Ishizakiella in East Asia certainly migrated from the South Pacific region in the Early Pleistocene. Ishizakiella supralittoralis is the latest derivative taxon, since this species is distributed in the northernmost area. The juvenile-like characters of I. supralittoralis are attributable to paedomorphic evolution.
10.2307/1549138| We compared the effects of prostaglandin E<sub>2</sub> (PGE<sub>2</sub>) in vitro, as reflected by cAMP levels, on ovaries and testes of the giant prawn Macrobrachium rosenbergii (Decapoda, Caridea) and the redclaw crayfish Cherax quadricarinatus (Decapoda, Astacidea). These decapods differ in their reproductive physiology, representing distinct reproductive strategies. In both ovaries and testes of M. rosenbergii, PGE<sub>2</sub> (10 g/ml) significantly stimulated cAMP synthesis, the reaction being augmented by IBMX. In contrast, in both ovaries and testes of C. quadricarinatus, PGE<sub>2</sub> had no effect on cAMP levels. In muscular tissue, which served as the control for both species, cAMP levels were unaffected by PGE<sub>2</sub>. This comparative study suggests a case of different responses to PGE<sub>2</sub> in the gonads of 2 decapod species that have distinctly different reproductive biologies. 
1549347| The euphausiids, Euphausia pacifica Hansen, 1911, Thysanoessa inermis (Kryer, 1846), T. longipes Brandt, 1851, T. raschi (M. Sars, 1864), and T. spinifera Holmes, 1900, were found to be infested with the ellobiopsid Thalassomyces fagei (Boschma, 1949) in Prince William Sound (PWS), south-central Alaska. Thysanoessa longipes and T. spinifera are reported for the first time as hosts for the parasite Thalassomyces fagei. Plankton samples were collected in May, August, and October 1997, and in July 1998 from northern, central, and southern study areas in PWS. Density of ellobiopsids on all species of euphausiids in each study area ranged from 0 to 2.0 m<sup>-2</sup>, while density of adult-size euphausiids of all species ranged from 6.7 to 263.4 m<sup>-2</sup>. The prevalence of ellobiopsids on adult-size euphausiids ranged from 0 to 31.3% by species and from 0 to 7.5% by sampling area. In general, parasite density was highest where euphausiid density was lowest. Of the 20,760 adult-size euphausiids examined, 1.49% were infected with the ellobiopsid parasite T. fagei. 
10.2307/1548128| Resistance to starvation in early larval stages of six species of brachyuran crabs representing four families was observed at various constant temperatures. In the optimal temperature range of 25-30C for these warm temperate crab larvae, survival time of starved zoeae was longer than the developmental duration time in fed zoeae, while at lower temperatures the relationship of these two duration periods became inversed. This response pattern is found in larvae of the mud crab Rhithropanopeus harrisii and is considered to be typical for warm temperature brachyuran larvae. It indicates that reserve utilization is strongly controlled by temperature, but not to the same degree as development. 
10.2307/1549519|Three types of tegumental glands of Hutchinsoniella macracantha, body, limb, and caudal, are described for the first time. Previously described salivary and cement glands also belong to this category. All have the same fundamental construction. They consist of 1 or 2 secretory cells opening into a short cuticular channel ending in a pore. The channel is formed by a sheath or canal cell and an intermediate cell. The intermediate cell has an actin-like filament bundle encircling the duct. It is a type of tricellular tegumental gland common in crustaceans. The secretory cells can be very large, the caudal gland in the cerci being 0.5-0.6 mm in length. They are, at least distally, completely filled with secretory granules. Some contain enormous Golgilike bodies. The secretory cells vary in cytological details and granular secretion, both within a pair and depending on body position. It is concluded that a common gross morphology of the tegumental glands of Hutchinsoniella houses different functions.
27920090|During the austral summer of 1982, we determined the composition of schools of Antarctic krill, Euphausia superba, from the waters west of the Antarctic Peninsula. School composition was variable. We found that schools of different size and maturity composition were geographically separated. Gravid females were found to the northwest of the South Shetland Islands arc and south of Elephant Island. Schools from inside Bransfield Strait and between Palmer Archipelago and the Antarctic Peninsula were primarily juveniles. Schools of mixed composition were found between these two areas, where a southwesterly current coming from a region of gravid females and a northeasterly current coming from a region of juveniles meet. The distribution pattern found during the summer of 1982 has been seen in part by earlier investigators, leading us to believe that the pattern is more than a transitory phenomenon. The location of areas of potential recruitment is particularly important for future management schemes for the developing krill fishery.
41315692|Diastylis sexpectinata, a new species of cumacean that extends from So Paulo State (Brazil) to northern Patagonia (Argentina), is herein fully described and illustrated. This species can be easily distinguished from the other members of the genus by the following combination of characters: 1) carapace with a pair of anterolateral horns and six longitudinal rows of conical teeth (middle and uppermost rows poorly developed or absent in the adult male), 2) third and fourth pereiopods of the female without rudimentary exopods, and 3) uropod endopod consisting of two articles, the proximal one in the female with 3-4 teeth on outer margin. The description of the female of Diastylis hammoniae is completed and the adult male described for the first time based on its type material and additional specimens herein reported. The type species of Leptostylis (?) mancoides was also re-examined and its synonymy with Diastylis hammoniae is proposed. The synonymy of D. hammoniae with Diastylis manca is also strongly suspected, but until additional specimens become available D. manca should be treated as "species inquirenda." An identification key to the species of the genus Diastylis from Argentina and Uruguay is given.
1549894|An analysis of historical patterns in the description of North East Atlantic Decapoda is presented. The discovery curve of decapods as a whole indicates that the decapod fauna of the NE Atlantic is well known, with two major peaks in species description rates being identifiable: 1808-1830 and 1855-1890, the latter corresponding to the era of the major oceanographic expeditions. On a sub- to infraordinal level, three major periods can be discerned. An early period (1758 - mid 1880s) during which proportionally more Brachyura were described, followed by a shorter period (mid 1880s - 1920 during which more attention was devoted to Anomura and less speciose taxa (mainly deep water). From the 1920s onwards, species descriptions of Caridea have achieved prominence. Size, ecological traits, extent of occurrence, and taxonomic fashion are thought to be responsible for the early bias towards Brachyura, whilst the anomuran and caridean phase are more related to field work techniques (deep water dredging in the former) and improved observational techniques.
10.2307/1549291|Heterospecific implantations of androgenic glands (AG) showed that the male hormone of terrestrial isopods had a relatively high-action specificity. Within a zoological genus the hormone of one species was effective in the other species of the same genus. This was not always the rule between species from different genera of the same family or between species belonging to different families. The male hormone was ineffective in species belonging to different suprafamilies (Oniscoidea and Porcellionoidea) and suborders (Tylomorpha and Ligiamorpha). These new results allowed the relationships between different genera of a given family and between different families and suprafamilies to be identified. The neurohormone controlling AG growth was always species-specific.
10.2307/1548983|Cyclopoid copepods belonging to a new genus and species, Fimbricyclops jimhensoni, were collected from bromeliads in Puerto Rico. The genus is distinguished from other members of the family Cyclopidae, subfamily Cyclopinae, by the combined characters of the antennule of the female having 11 articles, the antenna lacking an exopodite seta, the mandible with the palp represented only by 1 seta, the maxilliped having 4 articles and a reduced number of setae on articles 1, 2, and 4, the biarticulate rami of legs 1-4, the leg 5 with the proximal article fused to the somite and the distal article broader than long, and the peculiar somitic ornament consisting of rows of spines on the lateral surfaces of the posterior prosomites and the posterior hyaline membranes of the anterior 2 (in the female) and 3 (in the male) urosomites modified as a spinous fringe. Leg 6 of the male bears 3 plumed appendages of which the medialmost is spiniform and most thickly set with stiff spinules.
40665207|The identification of nursery and spawning areas of coastal fish and shellfish populations represents fundamental information for stock assessment essential for giving advice for managers within the framework of Ecosystem Approach to Fisheries. This study investigates the bathymetric and spatial distribution of young-of-the-year and mature females of the deep-water rose shrimp, Parapenaeus longirostris, in the Strait of Sicily (Central Mediterranean Sea) in order to describe the species nursery and spawning areas. Data were obtained from trawl surveys carried out yearly in spring and autumn from 1994 to 2004, and nursery and spawning areas were inferred by means of GIS techniques. Species maximum abundance occurred between 100 and 300 m. We found that young-of-the-year concentrated on the outer shelf while mature females occurred mostly between the outer shelf and the upper slope. We detected four large areas of aggregation of young-of-the-year, and three areas of aggregation of mature females. High concentrations of young-of-theyear and mature females persistently occupied some of these areas, representing stable nursery and spawning areas. Young-of-the-year and mature females aggregate where retention and enrichment processes occur, linked to the semi-permanent patterns resulting from the meanders of the Atlantic Ionian Stream. We highlight the importance of studying the spatial distribution pattern of commercial species to identify habitats essential to those species' life cycle. We detected deep-water rose shrimp nursery and spawning areas in the Strait of Sicily and discuss their spatial pattern in relation to the hydrological characteristics of the area.
40665217|The biochemistry of fatty acids (FA) can be affected by a number of factors, including environmental temperature, which may affect the way FAs are physiologically metabolized. In this study, we investigated FAs in Pachygrapsus crassipes, in relation to environmental temperatures in southern California. Although there was a trend toward differences in FA abundances in the hepatopancreas of females compared with those found in the hepatopancreas of males, these differences were not significant through most of the year. The sampling month influenced changes in the abundances of both individual FAs (identities) and FA saturation categories (saturated = SAFA, monounsaturated = MUFA, polyunsaturated = PUFA). The abundances of palmitoleic acid, palmitic acid, and docosahexaenoic acid were found to fluctuate significantly over time, although this fluctuation did not appear to be directly influenced by temperature since an increase in FA abundance between February and April preceded an increase in temperature. In all months except for June, PUFAs dominated the FA profile. Changes in FAs may be an acclimatory mechanism used by P. crassipes to take advantage of specific biochemical properties of FAs. We conclude that, while temperature may affect FA abundance and composition, other underlying factors, such as changes in day length, food availability, molting, mating and reproduction, may also influence FA abundances in P. crassipes from southern California.
10.2307/1548628|The external anatomy of over 25 species of ascothoracid nauplii, and the later ontogeny of their antennules, are reviewed and compared to other maxillopodan subclasses. The brooded nauplii are of the nonbranchiopod type. Although lacking frontolateral horns, generalized ascothoracid nauplii (Lauridae, Petrarcidae, Synagoga) are most similar to early instar cirriped nauplii, but many of the features in common are probably symplesiomorphies. Ascothoracids and cirripeds may have a common basic naupliar ontogeny, but features of later cirriped instars, many of which are associated with feeding, are delayed or entirely suppressed in ascothoracids due to brooding. A planktonic metanauplius from the South China Sea that combines ascothoracid features with late cirriped naupliar limbs is tentatively identified as a postbrooding ascothoracid, perhaps of the Lauridae. Lack of postmaxillular limb buds in metanauplii is a possible synapomorphy of the Ascothoracida, Cirripedia, and Facetotecta (Hansen's y-larvae). The 6 apparent segments in a generalized ascothoracid naupliar antennule are not the same as the 6 in the adults. The 3 distal segments fuse (the adult's movable claw does not represent a segment) and 2 new segments appear basally, so that there are 8 segments altogether in ontogeny. Eight-segmented antennules are proposed as a new diagnostic feature of the Maxillopoda. The positional homology of the ascothoracid claw and the cirriped cyprid attachment disc is shown by following supposedly homologous setae in the nauplii through later development. The antennular claws of cypris y and of branchiurans may also be of similar origin. These findings, together with other published data, tend to contradict a spermatology-based phylogeny of the Maxillopoda, but do not wholly resolve the Ascothoracida-Cirripedia relationship.
10.2307/1547940|The adult female of Cocculinika myzorama, new genus, new species, is described and illustrated. This copepod, from the cocculinid limpet Coccopigya hispida Marshall, in press, is characterised by the total absence of appendages, a ramifying endosoma in the host tissue, and a swollen ectosoma. The paired egg sacs are wrapped around the ectosoma. Due to the absence of appendages, the phylogenetic relationships of the copepod are unknown. A list of all Copepoda associated with New Zealand molluscs is given.
20487758|Marine organisms have evolved a suite of responses to minimize the exposure to predators. Visual crypsis is one such strategy to avoid predation. Paraxanthus barbiger (Poeppig, 1836) is a species that exhibits different color morphotypes over heterogeneous substrates as a means of protection against visual predators. Our main objectives were to quantify the occurrence of color morphotypes over a three-year period and to investigate, via an experimental approach, on the possible mechanisms involved that would provide crypsis to this species. Field surveys occurred over a three-year period at two nearby sites on the central Chilean coast. Initial observations indicated that small juvenile P. barbiger exhibited higher degrees of color polymorphism than larger (&gt; 20 mm carapace width) conspecifics. Furthermore, survival rates of small (&lt; 10 mm carapace width) P. barbiger exposed to predators increased on heterogeneous substrata under both natural and laboratory conditions. Laboratory experiments further demonstrated that newly settled P. barbiger actively select heterogeneous substrata. Hence, cryptic responses of this species might reduce predation-mediated mortality through color pattern disruption of individuals with respect to their environment.
4094194|Pioneering work by J. Stan Cobb described how habitat architecture and body size scaling affect shelter-related behavior of American lobsters. Subsequent research suggested that shelter availability and competition could set local carrying capacity and demographics for this species. To determine how shelter spacing affects population density, the intensity of intraspecific competition and the distribution of body size for this species, I deployed sets of 10 identically sized artificial shelters spaced at distances of 2.5, 0.5, 1.0, 1.5 and 2.0 meters on otherwise featureless substrate at 10 m depth in mid-coast Maine, U.S.A. Five sets had two parallel strings of five opposing shelters and an additional linear string set 2 m apart without opposing shelters was the most widely separated treatment. Shelters spaced 1 m apart and closer had higher lobster population densities, more intraspecific competition and higher proportions of empty shelters. Surprisingly, lobsters there were also significantly smaller, declining from 62.7 mm to 50.8 on the carapace (CL) for 2 m linear to 0.25 m spaced shelters, respectively. Nearly all 932 lobsters measured in this study were juvenile (< 90 mm CL) and preharvestable (<83 mm CL) sized, so mate selection and fishing effects were unlikely. At the scale of the experiment, larger lobsters leave or avoid areas of high lobster population density and intense competition for areas of low population density and relaxed competition (called "demographic diffusion"). Scuba surveys in coastal zones found lobster population densities scale with shelter densities and were highest in boulder habitat where, like the experiment, more than half the shelters were vacant. Fisheries independent scuba and trawl surveys in Maine's shallow coastal zone repeatedly recorded declines of preharvestable lobsters larger than 60 mm CL in size and increases of those sizes offshore and in deep water. It is possible that this demographic diffusion is driven by behaviors associated with intraspecific shelter competition.
10.2307/1549127|The effects of eyestalk ablation on integumental growth were examined at the cellular level in larval and adult grass shrimp, Palaemonetes pugio. Eyestalk removal of larval shrimp resulted in molt increments ranging 9-15% compared to the 7-10% for the intact larvae. Eyestalk-ablated larvae showed a 12-25% lower cell density at postmolt compared to the control larvae. The molt cycle duration did not differ between the experimental and control larvae. Eyestalk ablation in adults resulted in molt increments ranging from 6-13% compared to 3-6% in the controls. Eyestalkless adults had 12-26% lower cell density at postmolt and 17-36% shorter molt cycle duration compared to intact adults. Smaller adults demonstrated greater differences in cell density after ablation than did larger adults. The absolute amount of cell replication and growth was the same in both eyestalkless and control larvae. The epidermis did not undergo compensatory growth and the epidermal cells remained at lower densities compared to the control larvae during two successive instars. The findings suggest that eyestalkless shrimp increased in size more at ecdysis as a result of enhanced water uptake which expands the new integument beyond the level predetermined by epidermal growth.
1549932| We investigated the effects of delayed mating on the reproductive success of female spiny king crabs, Paralithodes brevipes, in laboratory experiments where the duration between female molting and mating was controlled. Females mated and spawned irrespective of the number of days after their molting within 20 days. However, as the number of days after female molting increased, the fertilization rate decreased significantly. Females that spawned at 16 or more days after molting lost significantly more eggs than females that spawned at  12 days after molting. The percentage of detached eggs that developed normally to the morula stage decreased significantly in females mated at 20 days after their molting. The percentage of females with a few or no eggs tended to increase as time elapsed between molting and mating increased. Thus, the increased number of days after female molting influenced the reproductive success of spiny king crab females, and females had an optimal duration to mate after their molt. Our results suggest that the present fisheries of this species, in which only larger males are harvested, may affect female reproductive success by decreasing the availability of male mates. An adequate management of this species needs to include these considerations. 
27753966|Biochemical changes, specifically in hemocyanin and glucose concentrations in hemolymph, glycogen in the digestive gland, were studied throughout the molt cycle in juveniles of Litopenaeus vannamei in a high salinity condition (36), and related to variations in the osmotic capacity of organisms. Increasing hemolymph volume before molting modifies circulating glucose and hemocyanin concentrations acting on the osmotic capacity. Variations in glucose concentrations are indicators of differential energy requirements throughout the molt cycle. Hemocyanin was used as an indirect indicator of the energy consumed by shrimp in various molt processes that affect the osmotic capacity. The co-variability of these metabolites is the result of the biochemical adaptations displayed by shrimp to maintain homeostasis. Their relation to changes in the osmotic capacity is given as a model to understand and predict events associated with molting under hypo-osmotic conditions.
10.2307/1548652|The first embryonic cuticle molted by a developing Eulimnadia antlei (Conchostraca) is featureless and inelastic. The second molt produces an elastic cuticle with two pouches apparently developed over anlagen of the antennae. Comparison of this situation with the data available on embryonic development and eclosion in Artemia (Anostraca) indicates that the hatching membrane in Artemia also results from a second embryonic ecdysis. Observations on anostracan, conchostracan, and notostracan eggs indicate that the outer cuticular membrane in Artemia is part of the first embryonic cuticle. Morris and Afzelius (1967) described this structure, but could not determine whether it was part of the embryonically produced cuticle or the maternally produced tertiary envelope. Information currently available indicates anostracans in the family Chirocephalidae, unlike Artemiidae, molt only one embryonic membrane.
10.2307/1548225| When maintained in media containing 5 g/l of cobalt and fed 6 10<sup>6</sup> cells of Chlamydomonas reinhardti plus 6 10<sup>6</sup> cells of Nitzschia frustulum every 56 h, at brood/ecdysis/transfer, Daphnia pulex requires extraneous vitamin B<sub>12</sub> for normal reproduction. The rate of brood production increases with concentration of B<sub>12</sub> in the media (0.375 g/l < 0.75 g/l < 1.5 g/l). The number of progeny is highest at 0.75-1.0 g/l. Most animals deprived of B<sub>12</sub> appear normal but none produce reproductively viable progeny. When 1.0 g/l of B<sub>12</sub> is added directly to the MS animal medium, an average of 17 broods per life-span is produced. 
10.2307/1549058|Development of the molar surface of the mandible of Artemia franciscana was studied with scanning electron microscopy. The molar surface of larval stage 1 consists of tapered, cuticular bristles. The mandibular palps and mandibles are biramous, and a gnathobasic spine (but no short spines) is present on each mandible. By larval stage 3, cuticular teeth emerge on the posterior part of the molar surface. The number of teeth and the number of cusps per tooth generally increase as the brine shrimp proceeds through the ninth molt. Short spines, occurring either singly or in groups, appear on the ventral and dorsal surfaces of the mandibles at approximately larval stage 9. The molar surface of larval stage 10 is multifaceted and dramatically different from that of the preceding stage. It has three regions: the anteroventral, the transition, and the posterodorsal. By larval stage 11, the gnathobasic spine has completely degenerated. During larval stages 11-17, the anteroventral region changes from irregular ridges of small, unbranched minor cusps to as many as 22 parallel ridges. Minor cusps remain on the dorsal edge of each ridge, but progress ventrally toward branched, fingerlike projections. Each ridge terminates in a marginal tooth at the ventral edge, thus comprising the ventral fringe. The posterodorsal region changes from one row of rounded teeth to as many as three rows of sharp, conical, stout teeth. The transition region bears projections intermediate between those found on the anteroventral and posterodorsal regions.
10.2307/1548321|Two new species and a new genus of Bathynellacea are described from California. Iberobathynella californica, new species, belongs to the family Parabathynellidae, Pacificabathynella sequoiae, new genus, new species, to the Bathynellidae. The genus Texanobathynella Delamare Deboutteville, Coineau, and Serban, 1975, is synonymized with Iberobathynella Schminke, 1973. Pacificabathynella sequoiae is most closely related to Bathynella yezoensis Ueno, 1954, from Hokkaido, Japan. Both share a unique character in that the male thoracopod VI is curiously modified and both are therefore united in the new genus.
10.2307/1548817|Currently there are at least 2 hypotheses regarding function of the different cell types in the midgut gland of decapod crustaceans. Both agree that E-cells are undifferentiated cells which mature into the other cell types. One hypothesis holds that F-cells synthesize digestive enzymes and subsequently differentiate into B-cells, which, in turn, secrete the enzymes into the midgut-gland lumen. R-cells are believed to function in the absorption of digested nutrients, intracellular digestion, and storage of lipid and glycogen, among other roles. The alternate hypothesis states that F-cells synthesize and secrete digestive enzymes and then take up partially digested material to yield B-cells, which are involved in intracellular digestion. B-cells are later discharged into the lumen; R-cells subsequently absorb nutrients from the gut lumen and store lipid and glycogen. In the present study, the midgut glands of embryos, prelarvae, and stage I larvae of the American lobster Homarus americanus were examined histologically. R-cells of all the early developmental stages sampled had only 1 or 2 lipid vacuoles, presumably representing resorbed yolk lipids, in contrast to the numerous lipid vacuoles in R-cells of adult lobsters. E-, R-, and F-cells, but not B-cells, were present in embryos sampled approximately 3 days before their siblings hatched as stage I larvae. B-cells had developed in prelarvae sampled approximately 12 h before their siblings hatched and also occurred in prelarvae sampled approximately 3 h before hatching and in newly hatched stage I larvae. B-cell numbers increased by the time stage I larvae reached intermolt, regardless of whether they were fed or starved. Since embryos, prelarvae, and newly hatched larvae have not ingested exogenous nutrients, the presence of B-cells in these early developmental stages was triggered by something other than uptake of partially digested food and is probably genetically programmed. These results provide indirect evidence supporting 1 hypothesis regarding midgut-gland cell function: that F-cells mature into B-cells before, rather than after, digestion has begun.
10.2307/1549559| The discovery of the "red-lipped sea squirt" Herdmania momus, as the host species for Notopontonia platycheles from the southern coast of Western Australia made it possible to confirm and add to the original species description. The shape of the large flattened chela of the second pereiopods is shown to be an ontogenetic development in both males and females. The final shape is accomplished with an increased growth of the ventral carina. The shrimp is a temperate species that extends it distribution up to Shark Bay (about 26S) on the western coast of Australia. The majority of host tunicates were found with a single individual of N. platycheles inside, contrary to the usual situation of associated shrimps living in pairs. The shrimp often shares the branchial chamber of its host with other decapod crustaceans, indicating that it may migrate out of or between the host tunicates. In some tunicates at Shark Bay, a few specimens of Dasella ansoni were found. This is the first discovery of this species since the type specimens were found in the Arafura Sea. 
10.2307/1548229| Streptocephalus kargesi, new species (Streptocephalidae), is described from Veracruz, Mexico. It is distinguished from all other North American fairy shrimps of the genus Streptocephalus by the absence of a spur on the thumb, the lack of teeth on the finger, and having the frontal appendage not bilobed. A phylogenetic analysis of the nine North American species of Streptocephalus is presented. /// Se describe una nueva especie de anostraco streptoceflido, Streptocephalus kargesi, proveniente del Estado de Veracruz, Mxico. Se distingue de todas las otras especies de Streptocephalus en Norte Amrica por que no tiene espuelas en el pulgar ni dientes en el dedo, y por que el apndice frontal no es bilobado. Se presenta un anlisis filogentico de las nueve especies norteamericanas del gnero Streptocephalus. 
20487764|Adult oveigerous female snow crab, Chionoecetes opilio, were obtained approximately bimonthly from the eastern Bering Sea for embryonic sampling and biometric information. Biochemical analysis of embryo samples included determination of moisture, ash, total lipid, protein content, fatty acid profile, and lipid profile. Moisture increased as the embryos matured. Protein content remained unchanged, ash content increased, and lipid content decreased on a dry weight basis coincident with embryonic development indicating that lipids were the main energy source of developing embryos. The utilization of saturated, monounsaturated, and polyunsaturated fatty acid categories during development was similar but individual fatty acids within each category varied considerably. Over 75% of the C14:0, C18:4(n-3), and C20:1(n-11) fatty acids were consumed during the embryonic development from nauplius to pre-hatch while C22:5(n-3), C20:5(n-3), and C18:1(n-9)cis fatty acids were utilized at 49%, 57%, and 48% respectively. Docosahexaenoic acid, DHA, C22:6(n-3), was among the least utilized fatty acid at 36%. Forward stepwise general discriminant analysis of fatty acid profiles indicated that determination of fatty acid profiles could be used to distinguish between embryos at the nauplius stage and the prehatching stage of development but not among embryos at intermediate stages. Triacylglycerides provided the energy source during development. This research highlights the potential nutrient requirements critical to early life-history development of Bering Sea snow crabs.
1549582| Larvae of the sesarmid crab Armases angustipes Dana, 1852, captured from the coast of the state of So Paulo, Brazil, were reared in the laboratory from hatching to the megalopa stage. In this paper, the morphology of the four zoeal stages and the megalopa is described and illustrated. Morphological comparisons are made with all known descriptions for the larvae of Armases including an unpublished description of A. angustipes and of some closely related genera (Aratus and Sesarma). Several differences to the previous description of A. angustipes are shown, and additional characters such as the previously undescribed cephalothoracic setation of the larval stages are described and illustrated. Diagnostic characters are provided to differentiate the American genera Sesarma and Armases. 
10.2307/1548469|The morphology of the thelycum of 9 species of euphausiids of the genus Stylocheiron (S. carinatum, S. affine, S. suhmi, S. microphthalma, S. insulare, S. elongatum, S. indicus, S. longicorne, and S. robustum) is described, using scanning electron microscopy (SEM). This study completes the evaluation of this reproductive organ in all existing species of euphausiids. In S. carinatum, S. insulare, S. elongatum, S. indicus, and S. robustum, thelycum morphology is very peculiar and therefore possesses diagnostic value. However, in the 4 species of the S. longicorne species group, the morphological differences are not very pronounced.
1549722|Two new hairy species of caprellid amphipod, Caprella monai and Caprella takeuchii, are described based on specimens from the Strait of Gibraltar. Caprella takeuchii was found on algae and intertidal sediment under rocks from Tarifa, Southern Spain, while Caprella monai was collected clinging to the hydroid Nemertesia antennina and living on sediments from Ceuta, northern Africa. The most outstanding characteristic for both species is the presence of dense setae along the body. Caprella takeuchii is very similar to Caprella acanthifera Leach, 1814, except for the presence of dense setae in the male and the differences in upper and lower lips. Caprella monai is closely related to the poorly known Caprella grandimana Mayer, 1882. In the present paper we also redescribe C. grandimana on the basis of specimens from the Strait of Gibraltar.
1549619|The Asian shore crab Hemigrapsus sanguineus is recorded for the first time in two European localities, Le Havre in France and the former estuary "Oosterschelde" in the Netherlands. While breeding populations occur in the former, only two male specimens were found in the latter. In both places, this alien species was mixed with the common shore crab Carcinus maenas.
10.2307/1548082| A new genus, Clavellotis (Copepoda: Lernaeopodidae), is proposed to accommodate specimens originally described as Anchorella dilatata by Kryer (1863), parasitic on Cheilodactylus sp. Clavellotis dilatata (Kryer, 1863), the type and only species of the genus, is redescribed from a series of specimens recovered from an inshore fish, Cheilodactylus variegatus Valenciennes, taken near Antofagasta, Chile. The morphology of the female Clavellotis places it in the Clavella-branch of the family. The genus is characterized by aliform processes at the base on both sides of the cephalothorax. Other characters are the conspicuous genital process and the presence of secondary teeth on the dentiferous margin of the mandible. The most characteristic feature of Clavellotis is, however, the unique morphology of its male. The newly described Clavellopsis nodula Do and Ho, 1983, is identical with Clavellotis dilatata. Its relegation to synonymy with this species is recommended. 
10.2307/1548615|Twenty-seven species of peracarid crustaceans and shrimps from the Chukchi Sea were examined for fouling organisms. Barnacles (Balanus crenatus) settled abundantly (29 per female) only on the amphipod Pleustes panopla tuberculata (Pleustidae) at Little Diomede Island, Alaska, and almost exclusively on the largest and oldest individuals of the population, the postbrooding females. Most settled on pereionites and coxae and orientated toward the ventral region of the amphipod, consistent with their expected response to surface availability and contour and to light. Hydroids (Sertularella elegans) were also found on the amphipods (3.4 per female), distributed somewhat more evenly than the barnacles. There was no relationship between the number of barnacles or hydroids and the size of females. Females were observed on exposed rock surfaces where they were inactive, due to postreproductive senescence, and presented an acceptable substratum to settlers. This dead-end interaction underscores the terminal nature of the "spawned out" females and the uncertain nature of barnacle larval settlement.
10.2307/1548895|The family Biancolinidae (Amphipoda: Gammaridea: Corophioidea) is taxonomically reviewed, described, and a key to all species provided. Biancolina australis deserved new generic recognition, but is provisionally retained in Biancolina because the type specimen has been lost. Biancolina mauihina is recognized as a distinct species, and its synonymy is clarified by exclusion of species erroneously assigned to B. mauihina. Biancolina obtusata sachalinensis is elevated to full species rank, and B. japonica, new species, is described using material collected from drifting seaweeds in the Japan Sea. The outer ramus of uropod 1 exhibits remarkable sexual dimorphism in Biancolina. The outer ramus of the male is distally extended and rolled up, like a water spout, with an acute apex. Transformation of the ramus may be associated with reproductive behavior in the male.
10.2307/1548281| Larvae of the majid crab Doclea gracilipes Stimpson, 1857, were reared under laboratory culture conditions with salinity 33  1, temperature 28  1C, and photophase 12/12 h light/dark. The first zoea molted in 2 days to second zoea which subsequently molted to megalopa in 3 days. Two zoeal stages and a megalopa stage are described and illustrated. The two zoeal stages are distinguished from those of other species of the genus by the absence of rostral spines. The megalopa can be differentiated by the presence of 4 dorsal surface spines on the carapace and the two horned rostrum. The validity of Chhapgar's (1957) identification of the planktoncaught megalopa of D. gracilipes is discussed. 
10.2307/1549016|Abbreviated development is a widespread characteristic in the life cycle of several species of palaemonid shrimps. This feature very probably arose early in the origin of the group in ancient estuaries or fresh-water habitats. There are at least 29 species of fresh-water palaemonids in South America with abbreviated development. Macrobrachium reyesi Pereira, 1986 (Decapoda, Palaemonidae), goes through 5 larval stages (molts) before reaching the juvenile morphology. Individuals start feeding after the second molt and the larval period lasts from 23-27 days. Descriptions and illustrations of all stages are given as well as comparison with larval stages of other strictly South American fresh-water Palaemoninae. A list of the palaemonid species with abbreviated development is included.
1549794| The spatial and seasonal distributions of Callinectes danae Smith, 1869, in Ubatuba Bay, So Paulo, Brazil, were investigated as a part of a broad study on the general biology of portunids along the northern coast of So Paulo State, Brazil. Swimming crabs were collected during one year, from September 1995 to August 1996, along eight transects determined according to local physiographic features. Three replicate trawls were performed monthly at each transect. Depth, salinity, dissolved oxygen, temperature, organic matter content, and texture of the sediment were measured. Callinectes danae individuals were concentrated in shallow water close to the discharge of estuaries where the bottom is composed of fine and very fine sand. The species was more abundant in the warmer months. During the study period, C. danae exhibited continuous reproduction with a peak of reproductive intensity in June. Within this area, some sites are particularly favorable for C. danae establishment due to a combination of factors and prevailing local conditions. 
1549935|The Asian shore crab, Hemigrapsus sanguineus (De Haan, 1853), is an opportunistic omnivore with well-developed predatory tendencies and a strong preference for animal food items over algae. In laboratory experiments, 71 percent (319/448) of the crabs given a choice between macroalgae (Enteromorpha spp. and/or Chondrus crispus) and benthic invertebrates (Mytilus edulis and/or Semibalanus balanoides) consumed animals only. There were no significant differences in food preference between sexes or between juvenile and adult crabs. Relative abundance of food type, either algal or animal, in small food patches did not affect crab food preference. Crabs with prolonged starvation periods (5-d), however, consumed both food types more often than those that had been starved for 1-d only. Experiments to determine the effect of conspecifics on food selectivity showed that increased crab density leads to increased diet breadth, suggesting that competition for food can alter food selection patterns of H. sanguineus. Results reported here and in previous studies provide strong evidence that predation pressure exerted by H. sanguineus could play an important role in structuring the post-settlement population dynamics of its invertebrate prey, possibly leading to population declines of commercial shellfish, especially blue mussels.
10.2307/1548380|The successive stages of the molt cycle of the terrestrial crustacean amphipod Orchestia cavimana are finely described and illustrated in order to give precise reference marks for experimental, physiological, and biochemical studies. The method of determination, very rapid and easy, is based upon the observation of the morphogenesis of the dactylopodite and the propodite from the third pereiopod. The events of the early morphogenesis of the claw from the dactylopodite divide the intermolt period C into four stages. The formation of spines and the secretion of the epicuticle and then the procuticle at the level of the propodite divide the premolt period into seven stages. The entire molt cycle is thus divided into 14 main stages, some of them being subdivided into three substages. However, these events at the level of a reference appendage precede those of the whole cuticle. This heterochronism is taken into account in the determination of the last stages of the premolt period.
40927836|In crustaceans, the presence of large males with highly developed prehensile appendages (chelipeds or gnathopods) generally is suggestive of female monopolization during her receptive period. While mate guarding is common among some malacostracan crustaceans (brachyuran crabs and some amphipod families) it is relatively rare in caridean shrimp. Here we explored sexual dimorphism and the presence of morphotypic differences among males of the dancing shrimp Rhynchocinetes brucei. We furthermore quantified the behavioral events during mating interactions to examine whether mate guarding extends over the entire period of female receptivity. Males and females had similar body sizes, but males developed increasingly larger third maxillipeds and first chelipeds during ontogeny. Large males with hyperdeveloped maxillipeds and very large chelipeds featured a high degree of broken appendages and eyes, which probably results from intrasexual agonistic interactions. About 30% of the non-competitive male-female interactions with post-ovigerous females resulted in successful matings. Males usually initiated body contact with the female shortly after the female's parturial molt, and they frequently touched the female's genital region with their anterior body parts. The first (and in most cases only) spermatophore transfer event occurred at variable times (0.2-7 h) after the female's molt. Following spermatophore transfer some males guarded the female in the cage state (between their pereiopods) until the female had finished spawning and was ovigerous. Post-copulatory mate guarding could last up to 70 min, but not all males guarded the female after the copulation. We suggest that male guarding of the receptive female throughout the mating process reduces the risk of sperm competition.
4094235| The currently accepted reproductive cycle of Alaskan female Dungeness crab (Cancer magister) is that females molt and mate during summer and fall, extrude eggs in the fall, and incubate eggs through the winter until larval hatching in May and June. In this cycle, molting and mating are coincident with ovarian maturation. In this study, we quantified circulating concentrations of hemolymph ecdysteroids (molting hormones) in laboratory and field sampled crabs using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), for molt status assessment of individuals. Captive female crabs from southeastern Alaska (mean CW = 134.8 mm; n = 48) had a typical crustacean molt cycle profile of circulating ecdysteroids. Concentrations of ecdysteroids were low during intermolt (20.3  0.7 ng/ml), maximal during premolt (1886.5  186.2 ng/ml) 15 days before ecdysis and precipitously declined to low levels (< 90 ng/ml) 5 days prior to ecdysis. The duration of premolt was 150 days. Crabs held in captivity either molted (67%), extruded eggs (7%), or demonstrated no reproductive or molting activity (26%). Peak molting occurred in November for crabs held in the laboratory. Most (98%) of the female crabs sampled (n = 579) in Port Frederick, Alaska during the expected premolt period (May-July), had intermolt ecdysteroid concentrations. The capability to predict ecdysis 150 days prior to ecdysis by measuring ecdysteroid concentrations provides a useful tool to assess the molt status and timing of ecdysis in Alaskan Dungeness crab populations. 
40665260|Most copepods exhibit one of three kinds of body architecture: 1) six broad anterior trunk somites and five narrow posterior trunk somites of gymnopleans; 2) five broad anterior trunk somites and six narrow posterior trunk somites of many podopleans; or 3) four broad anterior trunk somites and seven narrow posterior trunk somites of thaumatopsylloids. A phylogenetic analysis using naupliar and post-naupliar characters, with Mystacocarida as the sister taxon of Copepoda, supports the hypothesis that the thaumatopsylloid architecture is the oldest. No narrow somite is transformed into a broad somite during post-naupliar development of thaumatopsylloids. Podopleans and gymnopleans begin their post-naupliar development with one trunk somite fewer than thaumatopsylloids. Podoplean architecture results when the anterior narrow somite of thaumatopsylloids is transformed to the posterior broad somite of podopleans during the first post-naupliar molt. Gymnoplean architecture, the youngest, results when the anterior narrow somite found on podopleans is transformed to the posterior broad somite during the second post-naupliar molt. These developmental transformations of body somites are assumed to explain the evolutionary origins of podoplean and gymnoplean body architectures.
10.2307/1549301|The complete larval development of Scyra compressipes from hatching to the megalopal stage was obtained by culture in the laboratory. Two zoeal and one megalopal stages are described and figured. Morphological characters of larvae of S. compressipes are compared with those of other Pisinae.
10.2307/1548811|Cysts of brine shrimp attached with a liquid adhesive to 12-mm diameter glass coverslips in a syringe-type fluid processing apparatus were flown aboard the NASA space shuttle Discovery, flight STS-60, from 3-11 February 1994, and were allowed to undergo postencystment embryogenesis and to hatch in microgravity. The shuttle flight and the ground-based control coverslips with attached cysts were parallel to the earth's surface during incubation in salt water. Based on the position of the cyst shell crack in the attached cyst population, the ground-control nauplii emerged mostly upward. On the shuttle in microgravity, although our method of detection of orientation would not reveal emergence toward the coverslip, the ratio of the position of the cyst shell crack in the population after hatching best fit the predicted values of a random direction for nauplii emergence. Centrifugation on earth was then used to create hypergravity forces of up to 73 g during postencystment embryogenesis and hatching. The upward orientation of emerging nauplii showed a high degree of correlation (r<sup>2</sup> = 98.8%) with a linear relationship to the log of g, with 78.2% of the total hatching upward at 1 g and 91.0% hatching upward at 73 g.
20487836|Thirty-seven crabs (8 males and 29 females) of the genus Arcotheres, which inhabit the sessile bivalve Barbatia virescens (Reeve, 1844), were reared for 135 days in the laboratory and their morphological development was described. There was a strong size correlation between female crabs and their host bivalves. During laboratory culture, seven males and 18 females molted once, and one male and four females molted twice. The crabs showed little growth, perhaps because the crabs and bivalves were not fed during the study and because crab growth may be restricted by the host size. One small female molted from pre-hard stage to hard stage and progressed further to Stage II. Some adult females in Stage III or IV developed swimming setae following the molt. In past studies, only one metamorphosis was detected within a crab, and adult females were not thought to develop swimming setae. Thus, our study is the first to detect successive changes in body form within a crab. Furthermore, this study confirmed that adult females can develop swimming setae.
10.2307/1548654|A reevaluation of three described species of Katianira Hansen, 1916 (Isopoda: Asellota: Janiridae) from Arctic waters concludes that K. cornigera Gurjanova, 1930, and K. sadko Gurjanova, 1946, are junior synonyms of K. bilobata Gurjanova, 1930. Katianira bilobata was found in the southern parts of the Norwegian and Greenland Seas at depths between 364 and 520 m, and in the North Polar Sea off Nordaustlandet of Svalbard, at a depth of 970-1,020 m. Katianira bilobata was previously known only in the North Polar Sea at depths between 79 and 1,000 m. The genus Katianira is removed from the family Janiridae Sars, 1899, to the Katianiridae, new family, erected for Katianira and Natalianira Kensley, 1984. Abyssijaera Menzies, 1962, and Janthurella Kussakin, 1982, are considered junior synonyms to Katianira.
20487709|Two new calanoid copepods, Ridgewayia delfine sp. nov. and Ridgewayia tunela sp. nov., are described from anchialine caves in the Galapagos Archipelago. Details of the female genital segment and the female and male fifth legs help distinguish these species from each other and from other members of the same genus. The two new species belong to the Ridgewayia marki species-group, which are found predominantly in the Caribbean with one member in the Mediterranean and one in the Indo-West Pacific. These are the first species of Ridgewayia described from the Eastern Pacific. The volcanic origin of the Galapagos necessitates the dispersal of these ridgewayiids to the islands from other regions. It is currently thought that Ridgewayia is a relict from the Tethyan Sea and that members of the marki-species group crossed from the Caribbean into the Pacific during the circumtropical existence of this sea. The possibility remains that this crossover and colonization of the Galapagos occurred more recently while the Panama seaway remained open. It is clear that the current knowledge of the ridgewayiids is insufficient for a definitive conclusion. Further exploration is necessary to generate an exhaustive list of species of Ridgewayidae and their distribution.
40665252|Paralithodes platypus is a large decapod that inhabits Alaskan and North Pacific waters. Females exhibit a biennial spawning cycle, requiring two years for production of fully mature ocytes. We used respirometry and video recording to determine: 1) metabolic rates of brooding and post-brooding females, embryos, and larvae at different temperatures, 2) if females exhibit active brood care, 3) oxygen availability within the clutch, and 4) the timing of larval hatching. The rates of oxygen consumption (MO) of brooding females was significantly higher than that of post-brooding females at night, but was similar during the day and increased significantly with temperature. MO of crab embryos did not differ with position in the clutch, whereas MO of zoeae averaged 4-fold higher than that of embryos. Larvae from the periphery of the embryo mass, either top or bottom, hatched prior to larvae from the middle of the clutch. Oxygen availability in the embryo mass varied significantly with position in the clutch; saturation was highest at the top (~ 91%), and lowest at the middle (~ 66%). Flapping of the pleon in brooding females was coincident with sudden increases in oxygen availability at the bottom of the embryo mass. The percentage of time that brooding females were engaged in flapping of the pleon was 30% higher at night than during the day. Our results address the cost of brooding in a lithodid crab and the effects of temperature on this behavior. The importance of pleonal flapping to ventilation of the embryo mass and alternative hatching mechanisms is discussed.
10.2307/1548724|The distribution of Taphromysis louisianae, including some previously unreported records, is mapped. This species ranges from the Florida panhandle to the northern end of the Texas Laguna Madre in fresh or brackish waters. A disjunct population has been reported from Veracruz, Mexico. Three new and far inland records are reported from the Tennessee River, Jackson County, Alabama, from the Poteau River, Le Flore County, Oklahoma, and from the Salado River, Tamaulipas, Mexico.
10.2307/1548647|A detailed examination of the foregut-hindgut junction in Porcellio scaber, using light microscopy, and scanning and transmission electron microscopy revealed the absence of a noncuticularized midgut in the straight-tube digestive tract.
27753947|Using 15 species of freshwater prawns (Macrobrachium Bate, 1868) from Taiwan as the study material, characters of mitochondrial 16S rDNA sequences (16S) and nuclear 28S rDNA sequences (28S) were examined. Their phylogenetic analyses were conducted with Bayesian (BI), maximum likelihood (ML), maximum parsimony (MP), and minimum evolution and neighbor-joining (MENJ) methods. The 16S extracted was smaller in sequence length, rich in adenine, poor in cyctosine, and biased strongly to transitions in the nucleotide substitutions, whereas the 28S extracted was larger, rich in guanine, and biased to transversions. In the separate analyses of the two genes, the phylogenetic trees derived from the 28S had appreciably higher topological resolution with deeper branching (less polytomies) and higher topological confidence with stronger phylogenetic signals than the 16S trees. The poor resolution and confidence of the 16S trees were attributable primarily to its poor sequence divergences associated with high transition/transversion (ts/tv) ratios and low -values of the gamma distributions. The result was a severe convergence of taxa within a narrow range of small genetic distances, so that their bifurcation could not be determined unambiguously. The 28S was highly diverged and had larger genetic distances with low ts/tv ratios and high -values, resulting in much less convergence of the taxa. The 28S tree reconstructed with BI produced the best topological resolution and confidence in the separate analyses. The partition homogeneity test indicated that the 16S and 28S data sets were congruent. Their combined analyses with ML, MP, and MENJ showed no improvement in both topological resolution and confidence from the separate analyses of the 28S. With BI the combined analysis produced mixed results; improved the estimates of phylogenies for some of the taxa but confused or even obscured for the others.
10.2307/1548529|A new genus, Arrama, and two new species, A. tandani and A. cordata, belonging to the copepod family Caligidae (Siphonostomatoida), are described from the gill filaments of two species of plotosid catfishes, Cnidoglanis macrocephalus (Valenciennes) and an undescribed species of Paraplotosus, respectively, from Australia. The new genus can be distinguished from confamilial genera by a combination of characters that include (1) the reduced apical armature of the leg 1 exopod, (2) the 2-segmented rami of leg 2, (3) the absence of the ventral apron of leg 3, and (4) the reduction of legs 3 and 4 to setiferous lobes. The two new species are distinguished from each other by the shape of the genital complex, the setae of the caudal ramus, the arrangement of spinules of the canna of the second maxilla, the apical armature of the leg 1 exopod, and the terminal armature of the leg 2 exopod. The morphology of the suckerlike cephalothorax of the members of the Caligidae appears to be an adaptation for attachment to smooth flat surfaces, i.e., external body surfaces, buccal cavity walls, and branchial chamber walls of the hosts. Two genera, Abasia and Hermilius, have become specialized for living on gill filaments of their hosts by modifications of their cephalothoraces. Although the ventral apron, a structure formed by the expansion of the intercoxal plate and sympod of leg 3, remains intact in these two genera, it may no longer be functional. Members of the new genus, Arrama, which also live on gill filaments, lack the ventral apron.
10.2307/1547957|Colobomatus sillaginis, new species, was recovered from the cephalic canal system associated with the preopercular and dentary bones of 42 of 59 Sillago maculata Quoy and Gaimard and 6 of 19 S. analis Whitley caught in Moreton Bay, Queensland, Australia. Colobomatus sillaginis was also found in 3 of 5 S. analis from near Darwin, in the Northern Territory. The female differs from all other described species in having 2 unadorned cephalic lobes, prominent thoracic lobes which arise from a dorsal outgrowth, and no genital lobes. Mature females are evidently blood feeders. Males and immature females appear to be feeding on commensal ciliates.
1549599|The influence of methyl farnesoate (MF) in the regulation of molt and gonad development in the crab Oziotelphusa senex senex was investigated. Injection of methyl farnesoate into female and male crabs significantly (P < 0.0001) increased mean oocyte diameter (236.37%) and testicular follicle diameter (25.72%) as well as mean gonad indices (females 1304.35%; males 38.00%) and also accelerated the molting (females 80%; males 100%). These results provide strong evidence that methyl farnesoate is involved in the control of both molting and reproduction in crabs.
10.2307/1548728|The dromiacean crab species Homolodromia bouvieri, originally described from a small, damaged male from deep waters off the coast of Kenya, is redescribed, based on a male from off the coast of Mozambique, Africa. The specimen is the third known for the species and is significantly larger than the 2 previously known specimens, from off Kenya and Natal. Comparisons are made between H. bouvieri and the other two species in the genus, H. paradoxa and H. robertsi, known from the western Atlantic and eastern Pacific, respectively.
10.2307/1548623|The fiddler crabs have been separated into two major species groups: the "broad fronts" (with wide spaces between their eyestalks) of the New World, which may show resource-based mating systems, and the "narrow fronts" of the Indo-Pacific, which may show resource-free mating systems. A few species, however, are known to deviate both structurally and behaviorally from these patterns. One (Uca thayeri) was studied to determine why. My data show that U. thayeri has a resource-free mating system, behaves much like a narrow front, but possesses the reproductive physiology of a broad front. Studies by others indicate it is closely related to the broad fronts, yet shows many ecological similarities to the narrow fronts. The evidence suggests, then, that the reproductive behavior of U. thayeri is best explained by evolutionary convergence. This result constitutes further evidence that differences between the two groups are best viewed as alternative adaptations.
1549842|The anatomy of the fifth limb of Isocypridina quatuorsetae Kornicker, 1975, is described and illustrated in detail, and it is concluded that the appendage is biramous. The interpretation of the morphology of the fifth limb of I. quatuorsetae is then extrapolated to the fifth limbs of selected members of the families Rutidermatidae, Sarsiellidae, and Cylindroleberididae, which are described and illustrated, and it is concluded that they are also biramous. Members of the Philomedidae have fifth limbs similar to those of the Rutidermatidae and are also biramous.
1549952| Tanaidacean material collected from Mundel Lake, Sri Lanka, in 1997 included the first recorded males of 'Apseudes' srilankaensis Bcescu, 1981. From the morphology of the male cheliped (inter alia) the species is reassigned to the genus Halmyrapseudes Bcescu and Gutu, 1974. The species which have been associated with this genus have been analyzed. The genus, which is rediagnosed, is currently composed of seven species, characterized in particular by carpal apophyses on the male cheliped and a reduced dactylus on the fourth pereopod. 
10.2307/1549248|Both sexes of Andromastax muricatus, new genus, new species (Copepoda: Harpacticoida: Aegisthidae), are described from a hydrothermal vent on the Galapagos Rift in the eastern Pacific. This epibenthic species represents the most primitive aegisthid known to date, displaying several plesiomorphic character states in the cephalosomic appendages and in P5 and P6. The new species shares some characters with the imperfectly described Aegisthus spinulosus, which is removed from Aegisthus and placed here as a species incertae sedis in the Aegisthidae. The basic setal pattern on the caudal rami in the Aegisthidae is reconsidered and the different degrees of atrophy of the mouthparts in the nonfeeding males are discussed. It is postulated that the family evolved from an epi- or hyperbenthic ancestral stock and that the colonization of the open pelagic environment by Aegisthus is secondary.
4094210|Two new crangonid shrimps of the genus Metacrangon, M. proxima and M. miyakei, are described and illustrated from Japan. The former species, from Sagami Bay, Pacific coast of Japan, is very similar to M. variabilis (Rathbun, 1902) from the Bering Sea, but it is distinguished from M. variabilis by the shape of the rostrum, of the stylocerite of the antennule, of the scaphocerite, and of the palm of the first pereopod, the armament of the carapace, and the disposition of the dorsolateral spines of the telson. The latter species, which was previously reported by Miyake (1982) under the name of M. angusticauda (De Haan, 1849) as an unidentified species from off Tango Peninsula, Sea of Japan, appears unique in the genus in having an additional median spine between two principal median spines.
10.2307/1548842|Diets of Callinectes similis and C. sapidus collected from the same open bay locality in Mobile Bay, Alabama, were investigated. Fish, bivalve, brachyuran, and gastropod remains constituted the 4 most common prey items for both species. The cumulative Index of Relative Importance (IRI) of these 4 food groups was 85% in C. similis and 91% in C. sapidus, suggesting that both Callinectes spp. forage primarily on these 4 prey groups. To examine ontogenetic shift in diets, individuals of C. similis were sorted into 3 size classes (29-50, 51-80, and 81-111-mm carapace widths) representing juvenile, premature, and sexually mature stages. We found statistically significant differences in the hierarchy and proportions of the main prey types among size classes examined. There was no significant difference in the diet of male and female C. similis. Relatively high percentage of dietary overlap between C. similis and C. sapidus suggests that these crabs probably utilize common resources in areas of habitat overlap in Mobile Bay, Alabama.
10.2307/1548297|In 12 species within 8 genera of Peltogastridae, the stalk base is surrounded by concentric, circular to fusiform annuli that mark the line along which the mantle cuticle splits at molts. The cuticle outside the annulus is shed, but that within each of the annuli is retained; by successive molts, these accumulate to a solid cuticular shield. Molting of the external cuticle occurs just before egg laying, but the first four molts probably occur when the parasite is immature, except in Cyphosaccus and Peltogasterella. In Peltogaster paguri and P. curvatus closely packed annuli alternate with more widely spaced ones, suggesting annual rings. Counts of annuli provide insight into the number of broods an externa may produce during its life and can help to estimate the age of individual externae as well as host crabs, or to analyze the age distribution of a rhizocephalan population. Such counts show that the growth rate in two species of Peltogaster varies greatly and is positively correlated with host size at the time of externa emergence.
10.2307/1547974|A new species of Sesarma from the northern coast of Peru is described and compared to S. magdalenense from Mexico. This represents the first valid species of the genus to be reported from Peru. A key to the Eastern Pacific species of Sesarma is presented.
1549806| Two brachyuran crabs collected at Socotra Island (Republic of Yemen) in the northwestern part of the Indian Ocean turned out to be conspecific with Sphaerocarcinus bedoti Zehntner, 1894, so far only known from a single female collected at Amboina, Indonesia, without any information on its ecology. Based on the new material and especially the availability of a male for comparison of the morphology of the copulatory appendages (gonopods), Sphaerocarcinus Zehntner, 1894, is synonymised with Caphyra Gurin, 1832. The extremely convex and globose carapace shape of the type specimen from Amboina turned out to be atypical and possibly caused by parasitic infection. Ecologically, C. bedoti, like most species of the genus Caphyra, lives epibiontic on soft corals (Octocorallia: Alcyonaria). 
4540294|Munida gregaria is a galatheid very abundant in coastal waters of southern South America playing an important role in the trophic webs of the subantarctic coastal ecosystem. Different reproductive aspects of this species were studied from samples obtained by coastal trawlers between September 1997 and December 2000, which allowed the analysis of a total of 10,868 crabs. The reproductive period started in June, and females with small clutches composed of non-fecundated eggs were found in many cases. The size of clutches increased during the reproductive period, and the simultaneous presence of eggs at different stages of development was observed in the same female. In part of the population, larval hatching started in September, after which females mated again. These embryos hatched between late November and mid-December. Females reached physiological maturity between 9 and 12 mm CL and males between 6 and 8 mm CL. Fecundity was initially low (less than 500 eggs/female), and clutches were completed during the reproductive season, until a maximum of 7545 eggs. During the reproductive season males migrate to shallow waters where they gather for mating.
1548364|Stomatopod Crustacea were collected by trawling in the Gulf of Nicoya on the Pacific Coast of Costa Rica. Abundances, size-frequency distributions, and sexual composition were measured at 12 stations. Eight stations in the upper, more estuarine regions of the Gulf were sampled monthly, while the 4 stations in the lower Gulf were sampled approximately weekly. Four species of Squilla were identified: S. parva Bigelow, S. aculeata Bigelow, S. mantoidea Bigelow, and S. panamensis Bigelow. However, only S. parva and S. aculeata were abundant at the stations sampled. Distribution and abundance differed between the two common species. Squilla parva was restricted to the lower Gulf, whereas S. aculeata was found both in the upper and lower Gulf. In contrast to S. parva, S. aculeata was significantly more abundant in the upper Gulf than in the lower Gulf. In both species the population was dominated by females. Nevertheless, the relative abundance of males of S. aculeata varied with location in the Gulf. Size distribution of both species varied significantly among months. Although the population was dominated by larger individuals, juveniles were frequent during most of the year.
10.2307/1548096|Early in 1981 marine Crustacea (Decapoda) indigenous to Singapore waters were examined for epizoic pedunculate barnacles of the genus Octolasmis (Gray, 1825). Twenty-seven of the 56 decapod species examined were hosts of up to 7 Octolasmis species each. The Octolasmis species observed included O. angulata, O. bullata, O. cor, O. lowei, O. neptuni, O. tridens, O. warwickii, and three unnamed species. Of the 10 Octolasmis species one (rarely two) was found externally on the body and appendages and nine species were found internally in the gill chambers. Host specificity varied, but most Octolasmis species occurred on several host species. With one exception, significantly more barnacles were found on the inner side than on the outer side of the host gills. Barnacles were unevenly distributed over the proximal, medial, and distal portions of the gills. Generally barnacle species had distinctive distribution patterns over the gills. In the crab Scylla serrata densities of two Octolasmis species were highly correlated, whereas in Charybdis cruciata the correlation between two other species of barnacles was less pronounced.
40665258|Scylla paramamosain is a commercially important crab species in China. Here we reported 12 novel polymorphic microsatellite markers isolated in S. paramamosain using PCR-based isolation of microsatellite arrays (PIMA). The analysis of genetic variability was performed in a sample of 29 individuals. A total of 82 aleles were detected with an average of 6.8 aleles per locus. The number of aleles, polymorphism information content (PIC), observed and expected heterozygosity per locus ranged from three to 12, from 0.42 to 0.88, from 0.38 to 1.00 and from 0.48 to 0.91, respectively. Three loci significantly deviated from Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium after Bonferroni correction (P < 0.0042) and no significant linkage disequilibrum between pairs of loci was found. Cross-species amplification of these markers was evaluated in three closely related crab species S. tranquebarica, S. olivcea, and S. serrata. This study will potentially be useful for stock management, constructing of a genetic linkage map, mapping economically important quantitative trait loci (QTL), and evaluating the population genetic diversity of S. paramamosain.
10.2307/1549254| The feeding rate, oxygen consumption, and effects of aerial exposure were measured for a cirolanid isopod, Natatolana rossi, collected from a shallow subtidal habitat at Kaikoura, New Zealand. The isopod survived 7 days exposure in water-saturated air at 15C and mean survival time was similar both in water-saturated air (5.1 days) and water (4.6 days) at 1C. Weight loss in aerial conditions increased both with time and with decreasing relative humidity (RH). Weight-specific transpiration rates (mg water loss h<sup>-1</sup>mg<sup>-1</sup> wet wt) were 0.057 for 60% RH and 0.017 at 80% RH. Lethal water loss was approximately 30% of the initial wet weight. Weight-specific rates of resting oxygen consumption for N. rossi were low compared with other aquatic peracarids (0.26 l O<sub>2</sub>mg<sup>-1</sup>h<sup>-1</sup>) at the habitat temperature of 10C. Oxygen uptake increased with exposure temperatures between 5 and 25C. Following aerial exposure, oxygen uptake was significantly reduced to 50% of the aquatic rate and was temperature-independent. Feeding experiments using blue moki fish (Latridopsis ciliaris) showed that N. rossi is unable to feed in air and that food intake in aquatic conditions increased with exposure temperature. Highest food consumption was measured at 15C, where the rate represented 30% of the dry body weight per day. This study suggests that N. rossi is a "sit and wait, batch reactor" predator/scavenger. It displays a low resting metabolism and is capable of long periods of fasting. It maximizes food intake with a high feeding rate on an energy-rich food source. In addition, its ability to survive aerial exposure would allow it to survive and minimize energy expenditure if inadvertently displaced into intertidal habitats. 
41315702|How do certain characteristics of organisms, such as sex or species, and certain ecological factors, such as interaction with congeneric individuals, influence the variability of body architecture in an environmental setting over a small spatial scale? Using geometric morphometrics we performed a morphological comparison of the dorsal surface of the carapace of a congeneric guild formed by Aegla araucaniensis, A. denticulata denticulata, and A. abtao. Additionally, we evaluated whether the segregation of microhabitat by congeneric interactions generates variations in the shape of the cphalothorax in A. araucaniensis, comparing a population belonging to the congeneric guild with a close population without congeneric interactions. Changes in cephalothoracic shape are regulated primarily by intrinsic factors, such as the differences between species and sex of individuals. In addition, the congeneric interactions do not affect the expression of the carapace shape in either of the populations of A. araucaniensis. The patterns of variation in cephalothoracic architecture are similar to previous reports based on geometric morphometrics, traditional morphology and descriptive morphology. The interspecific variations are caused mainly by the configuration of the spinous processes at the borders of the carapace, while the variation due to sexual dimorphism is due to an expansion of the longitudinal axis in males and the caudal end of the carapace in females. Morphological responses in A. araucaniensis differ from previous comparisons made with other species of Aegla under similar environmental contexts but over distinct spatial scales. We discuss the sexual dimorphism from an adaptive perspective and propose that the architecture of the cephalothorax in aeglids is a trait conserved and regulated significantly throughout the evolutionary history of the group.
10.2307/1547892| The ranges of the 17 subgenera of the genus Procambarus, comprising 152 species and subspecies occurring in North America and Middle America, are illustrated and briefly outlined. A graphical compilation of the distribution of these crayfishes is presented showing that the greatest number of species and subspecies occur in the southeastern United States, with a decline in numbers centrifugally to Mexico where two centers of concentration occur on the eastern versant: one north and the other south of the Cordillera Volcnica Transversal. Evidence is presented for a postulated Procambarus track extending from the eastern part of the United States southwestward through Mexico, and thence northeastward to Cuba. 
1549685|Both sexes of a new genus and species, Lobopleura ambiducti (Copepoda, Harpacticoida), are described from a sandy beach on the Isle of Iona, Scotland. Within the family Ancorabolidae, the new genus is characterised by the following autapomorphies: paired genital system in both sexes; male P3 endopod-2 not secondarily subdivided; P4 endopod with only one apical seta and P5 baseoendopodal armature reduced to one vestigial seta. Lobopleura ambiducti is unique within the subfamily Laophontodinae in exhibiting the most plesiomorphic armature pattern on P1 endopod-2. Aspects of pre-copulatory mate guarding behaviour are discussed. Despite the absence of type material for direct comparison, Laophontodes expansus Sars, 1908, is transferred to Lobopleura based on the following combination of characters: dorsoventrally depressed body shape; somites with laterally produced lobate processes; wide bell-shaped cephalothorax; rostral shape and detailed morphology of antennule, antenna, mouthparts and first to fifth thoracopods. Material previously identified as Laophontodes sp. from County Dublin, Ireland, and Laophontodes expansus from Gullmarfjord, Sweden, proved upon re-examination to be conspecific with L. ambiducti, new genus, new species. An updated generic diagnosis is provided for Probosciphontodes Fiers, 1988, resulting from the re-examination of type material of Probosciphontes stellata Fiers, 1988, and P. ptenopostica Fiers, 1988. The presence of a minute antennary exopod bearing a single (reduced) seta is confirmed in all material of Lobopleura and Probosciphontodes examined. The strong support for a sistergroup relationship between Lobopleura and Probosciphontodes is discussed.
1549208|The effect of salinity on embryonic development of Chasmagnathus granulata and Cyrtograpsus angulatus (Crustacea: Decapoda: Grapsidae), the most common estuarine crabs of the southwestern Atlantic Ocean, was studied by means of an in vitro culture technique. Ovigerous females and, consequently, embryos inhabit Mar Chiquita, a coastal lagoon characterized by wide daily and seasonal changes of salinity. Larvae of both species are exported to the open sea and do not tolerate low salinities. Chasmagnathus granulata embryos synchronously completed development in vitro from 12 to 44 psu, exhausting yolk reserves, having an aspect and mobility similar to those observed in vivo. In spite of antibiotic treatment, C. angulatus egg cultures became infected by filamentous bacteria and fungi after a few days, and the embryonic development could not be completed. Nevertheless, in vitro cultures allowed study of salinity effects on early embryos of both species. One day old embryos of C. granulata and C. angulatus were able to develop at salinities between 12 and 40 psu, although the mortality varied widely among broods from different females. Outside this range, embryos of C. angulatus died; those of C. granulata could survive at 6, 44, and 50 psu although the development was arrested. Tolerance of embryos of both species to extreme salinities (3 and 44 psu) was acquired after two or three days following egg extrusion. Successful hatching rarely happened in C. granulata embryos cultured in vitro, and this was probably related to the lack of some female's contact-factor during the 48 h before hatching. The possibility of a correlation between the development of salinity resistance, the formation of egg external membranes, and the behaviour of ovigerous females is discussed.
10.2307/1548058|The Alaskan members of the genus Grandifoxus are described and illustrated. The species G. longirostris, G. lindbergi, and G. nasuta are redescribed based on Alaskan material and original descriptions. In addition, three new species, G. acanthinus, G. vulpinus, and G. aciculata, from the Bering Sea are described. The most important characters for determining the species are the spine and setal patterns on the uropods and antenna 2.
10.2307/1549015| The microanatomy and ultrastructure of the sixth gill of the fresh-water shrimp Macrobrachium olfersii was examined in shrimps maintained either in fresh water or acclimated to a high salinity medium (HSM, sea water of 21) for 10 days. At its base in the gill shaft, each phyllobranchiate lamella possesses a central afferent vessel and 2 lateral efferent vessels. The lamella exhibits a nonfenestrated, medial septum over its full extension which divides the lamella into 2 compartments through which hemolymph flow is directed by pillar cells disposed perpendicularly above and below the septum. The pillar cells possess apical microvilli apposed to the cuticle, while their basal regions are strongly attached to the septal cells by areas of desmosomal contact. Wide apical flanges spread radially from the columnar pillar cells as sheets of thin cytoplasm of about 850 nm in thickness. The flanges also exhibit microvilli, and adjacent flanges are connected by areas of septate junctions; there is no elaboration of the basolateral membrane. The pillar cells and their flanges are overlaid by a thin cuticle (175 nm thick), resulting in a hemolymph-water diffusion barrier of about 1 m in the region of the flanges. The septal cells are rich in mitochondria and exhibit numerous infoldings of their plasma membrane which individually envelop each mitochondrion, probably providing an energy source for active salt transport through the pillar cells. The gill can thus be considered a mixed function gill with a dual role in gas exchange and salt transport. The 10-day acclimation period to HSM induced changes in this basic arrangement, quantified by morphometric analysis. The surface density of the plasma membrane infoldings increased significantly from 2.01  0.15  m<sup>2</sup> membrane  m<sup>3</sup> cytoplasm in shrimps maintained in fresh water to 2.91  0.19  m<sup>2</sup> membrane  m<sup>3</sup> cytoplasm in those acclimated to HSM. The infoldings themselves became arranged in stacked layers separating the mitochondria (7.07  1.51 cf. 13.73  2.48 test segments intersecting more than one invagination). The mitochondrial volume fraction (12.56  0.69 cf. 14.26  0.71%) was unchanged as was the length to width ratio of the mitochondrial profiles (2.74  0.17 cf. 3.23  0.18). The data are discussed in terms of the significance of the physical coupling between membrane invaginations and mitochondria in the septal cells, and in terms of the possible evolution of the lamellar structure in the phyllobranchiate gills of the Palaemonidae. 
1549795|In this study, eight species of Epistylis were observed attached to the cuticular surface of 13 body parts of crayfish Cambarellus patzcuarensis. The species found were E. bimarginata, E. branchiophila, E. carinogammari, E. gammari, E. lacustris, E. niagarae, E. stammeri, and E. variabilis. Some morphological structures of the species observed with optical and scanning electron microscopy are presented. The distribution of each species over the exoskeleton, as well as the occurrence, was recorded for each decapod studied. Specific richness and G tests were calculated for all body parts. Epistylis gammari was the most widespread species on the surface of C. patzcuarensis, being attached to the 13 body parts studied. Seven body parts harboured eight species while the gills supported only one species. Epistylid species did not show any preference for a particular body region but rather utilized the substrate available, and every body part plays an important role as a substrate; this is consistent with the value obtained from the G test. Epistylid species are already considered as epibionts without host or body region specificity.
4540254|Habituation to a novel environment (cross-shaped experimental chamber filled with water) was investigated in the crayfish Procambarus cubensis whose locomotor activity was recorded by a noninvasive "optical" technique. In the course of ten 30-min sessions, which were repeated twice a day for five days, the duration of an initial freezing reaction decreased, whereas there was no decrease in locomotor activity. The crayfish exhibited, however, a reduction of locomotor activity in the second session of the day, but this reduction did not carry over to the first session of the next day. In a second series of experiments, crayfish were placed in the same chamber for a single 5-hour session. As the session progressed, locomotor activity decreased to a level where animals were completely immobile. Tested the next day, these animals demonstrated less locomotor movements than in the beginning of the previous session. It is concluded that after short (30-min) exposures to a novel environment, crayfish can retained the information for at least four hours. Following a single 5-hour exposure, retention increases for at least 24 hours. Some similarities and differences in the behavior of the crayfish and rats in the "open field" are discussed.
10.2307/1548795| The copepod Pectenophilus ornatus Nagasawa, Bresciani, and Ltzen, a gill parasite of the Japanese scallop Patinopecten yessoensis (Jay), was found in coastal waters of southern Hokkaido and northern Honshu, but did not occur in other regions around Hokkaido. In a bay where the parasite was present, Japanese scallops from inner regions were more heavily infected than those from outer bay mouth areas. In the hanging (=floating) culture which employs lantern nets, the parasite was more abundant on Japanese scallops reared at the midlength and bottom of the nets than at the top. Prickly scallops, Chlamys farreri nipponensis Kuroda, were also infected with this parasite, but there was no infection of Swift's scallops, C. swiftii (Bernardi), and pen shells, Atrina pectinata (Linnaeus). 
10.2307/1548088|Unlike the other honeycombed taxa in the genus Chydorus, the males of North American C. faviformis completely lose their honeycombed exterior on molting to instar III, at which time they closely resemble mature males of a nonhoneycombed species of Chydorus that can co-occur. The honeycomb pattern in these chydorids results from thin sclerotized extensions of the shell and head, whereas the honeycomblike pattern sometimes present in Pleuroxus trigonellus and a few other species results from the coalescing of columns of secreted material, which can be loosened easily (as by weak detergents) and sloughed off in ragged pieces. The honeycombed taxa in Chydorus are so different from one another in certain conservative aspects of morphology, particularly of the males, that it is reasonably certain honeycombing has arisen more than once during evolution.
10.2307/1548603|Mature male Macrobrachium rosenbergii differentiate into 3 distinct morphotypes differing in behavior and growth rate. We provide an operational definition of these morphotypes using relative growth techniques supplemented by observations on color and spination. Transition from the small male to the orange claw morphotype was gradual and a recognizable intermediate form, the weak orange claw, was identified and characterized. The shift from the orange claw to the blue claw morphotype occurred at a single metamorphic molt. Maturation from a juvenile male, lacking an appendix masculina, to the small male morphotype was not accompanied by an allometric change in the claw segments. Recognition of the morphotypes will be useful for genetic work using controlled matings between blue claw males and appropriate females and will facilitate experimentation on growth, behavior, and the evolutionary significance of morphotypic differentiation in M. rosenbergii. This analysis also implicates the androgenic gland in the control of growth rates of these prawns.
10.2307/1548454|A new genus of Tantulocarida, Stygotantulus, is described based on material from an anchialine pool on Lanzarote, Canary Islands. It is the most primitive tantulocarid known and is ectoparasitic on representatives of at least two families of harpacticoid copepods. It is distinguished by the presence of 7 abdominal somites in the tantulus larva. The musculature of the penis on trunk somite 7 of the male suggests that it is derived by modification of the seventh thoracopods. The importance of trunk somite numbers in maxillopodan systematics is reexamined and an attempt is made to apply the concept of homology to the developmental processes determining somite numbers. The classification of the Crustacea, including the Tantulocarida, proposed by Starobogatov (1986), is criticized and the validity of the developmental-functional concept of the prototagma, as used by Starobogatov, is refuted. A new scheme of phylogenetic relationships among seven major maxillopodan groups is presented.
4094116|The porcellanid crab Allopetrolisthes spinifrons, a symbiont of the sea anemone Phymactis papillosa, shows a suspension-feeding behavior related to flow oscillations (repetitive changes of flow direction). Individual crabs oriented their filter appendages (third maxillipeds) to maintain a concave face upstream, showing a higher frequency of maxilliped movements (flexion) at the start of inverted flow. The crab is primarily a suspension feeder that can ingest host mucus and feces. Contrary to free-living porcellanids, the symbiotic life-style offers access to exposed sites in the intertidal and subtidal environments that are favorable for passive suspension-feeding activities and consequently, an alternative feeding mechanism is not necessary.
10.2307/1549330|18S rDNA sequencing was used to elucidate the phylogenetic relationships between Ibla cumingi from the Red Sea and other thecostracan crustaceans. Ibla is placed in a rather internal position within the Thoracica, among the Lepadomorpha, Scalpellomorpha, and the Balanomorpha. This contradicts the previously accepted phylogeny, placing the Iblomorpha at the base of the phylogenetic tree of the Thoracica. The contradiction between our finding and phylogeny based on anatomy and morphology is discussed. If we accept that rDNA sequences can be used as a molecular clock to date the evolution of cirripeds, our finding suggests that some of the peculiar features of Ibla that were regarded as primitive may have resulted from late, or secondary, evolution. Such reinterpretation is rather surprising, because the diversification of Ibla involves several important traits at the anatomical as well as the biochemical level.
1549796| Artemia is not believed to be a selective filter-feeding organism; however, evidence of an influence of the size of the nutrient particles on the filtration process of this crustacean is presented. To evaluate the influence of the size of food on the filtration process, assays with latex particles and with starch granules were made. A relation between the frequency distribution of size of the particles found in the digestive tract of the animals and the frequency distribution of size of the particles found in the medium is shown. The results indicate that Artemia has a preference for food of specific size. The behavior of different size-classes of animals analyzed is shown, but I conclude the size of food for Artemia must range between 6.8 and 27.5 m, with the optimum about 16.0 m. 
10.2307/1548242|Habitation patterns of algal-dwelling juvenile spiny lobsters, Panulirus argus, are apparently regulated by a) the availability of epifaunal prey, and/or b) limited sheltering qualities provided by algal branching. Predictions derived from each hypothesis were tested by monitoring emigration from normal (prey abundant), rinsed (prey reduced), and rinsed but structurally enhanced clumps of red algae, Laurencia spp. Density dependent emigration from untreated clumps containing natural prey, and markedly increased emigration from clumps nearly void of potential prey, suggest that trophic pressures play an important role in regulating algal habitation. Solitary dwelling induced by agonistic behavior may function to reduce required foraging area, thus minimizing both exposure to predators and energetic expenditures.
1549799|The adult of Scalpellopsis striatociliata and the ontogeny of its capitular and peduncular plates are described. During ontogeny, S. striatociliata develops the carino-lateral (CL) and inframedian (L2) plates heterochronously after some peduncular plates (cl), which is unique. The position of Scalpellopsis as sister-group of the other scalpellids is reaffirmed. The Scalpellidae have diverse peduncular plate patterns, with the 8-plated pattern being ancestral and the most widespread among the genera. The peduncular plate patterns of several species of Scalpellidae are presented.
10.2307/1549064|The homolid crab Paromola faxoni (Schmitt, 1921) is redescribed and compared to previous descriptions of the female holotype. The male is described and illustrated for the first time. New records of specimens from several museum collections on the west coast of the United States are presented. The range, formerly restricted to the type locality off Point Loma, California, is extended north to Tajiguas, California, and south to Isla Cedros, Baja California, Mexico.
1549721|There is often more genetic diversity in a given ecosystem than is represented by current taxonomy. Historical patterns of isolation among populations play an important role in studying the variation in behavior, habitat, and other ecological interactions among different populations of a species or species group. Idotea balthica (Isopoda: Valvifera) is a common intertidal grazer of the North Atlantic which has been well-studied in Europe for intraspecific differentiation. Using DNA sequence data from a mitochondrial protein-coding gene (cytochrome c oxidase I), I studied the relationships among different populations of I. balthica in European and American coastal populations. It is apparent that there are at least three historically isolated populations of I. balthica on the North American coast, while the European Atlantic coast contains populations that are closely related to each other and to one of the North American populations. It appears that populations of I. balthica on the North American coast represent both recently arrived colonists from Europe as well as populations which have survived recent glacial maxima.
10.2307/1548313|Chemical decapsulation of resting anostracan cysts involves removal of the tertiary envelope with a strong oxidant, typically a hypochlorite solution. Previously desiccated, commercially processed cysts of Artemia franciscana (San Francisco Bay strain) and undesiccated cysts of A. franciscana (Great Salt Lake strain) and Streptocephalus seali were treated with sodium hypochlorite for timed intervals. Oxidation of the tertiary envelope of cysts of Streptocephalus occurred by 240 s, whereas 840 s were required to completely decapsulate previously desiccated San Francisco Bay cysts of Artemia. The tertiary envelopes of undesiccated Great Salt Lake cysts of Artemia appeared undamaged through 480 s. The decapsulation process is documented sequentially with scanning electron photomicrographs. The evidence suggests that commercial processing of San Francisco Bay cysts of Artemia neither damages nor removes the outer membrane of the tertiary envelope. This contradicts the current view.
10.2307/1548293|Direct field observations using SCUBA were made of Euphausia superba and Euphausia crystallorophias under the pack ice off Enderby Land, and aspects of their behavior were recorded using still, video, and cine photography. Swarms of E. superba were generally composed of 20-50 individuals (range 5-1,000), of which >90% were seen feeding on algae growing on the undersurface of the ice. Euphausia crystallorophias formed larger swarms that occupied the region approximately 1-5 below the ice. Preliminary fecal and ice algal composition analyses indicate that E. superba feeds selectively on certain species of epontic algae and that the two euphausiid species do not compete directly for the same food source under the ice. Although a range of escape responses was displayed by both species, E. superba reacted generally with an individual back-flip response and E. crystallorophias with a coordinated pleopod swimming response. The adaptive significance of the range of responses in relation to swarm size and density and the proximity of the predator/disturbance is discussed by O'Brien (1987). Data from echo soundings combined with high resolution video images, obtained by lowering a camera into the scattering layer beneath the ship, revealed that adult E. crystallorophias undertake vertical migration at this time of the year. However, evidence from a night dive suggested that swarms of juveniles and subadults did not migrate, but maintained their daytime distribution under the ice during darkness. Swarm formation and maintenance at this time of year are discussed in relation to feeding behavior in E. superba.
10.2307/1548194|Sampling for infaunal and epifaunal decapods on the continental shelf of the Gulf of Mexico has yielded rather extensive collections of goneplacid crabs which include a number of undescribed or poorly known species. We describe two new species, one assignable to Chasmocarcinus Rathbun, 1898, and another assignable to Speocarcinus Stimpson, 1859. Chasmocarcinus chacei is described for specimens taken at depths from 86-210 m in the southeastern, northeastern, northwestern, and southwestern Gulf. Records of this species include RV Alaminos collections formerly confused with C. cylindricus Rathbun, 1901. To distinguish C. chacei, we compare it to other members of the genus and thoroughly redescribe C. mississippiensis Rathbun, 1931, a poorly known Gulf endemic species that occurs at depths from 10-100 m. Speocarcinus monotuberculatus is described for a rarely occurring species known only from near 80 m on two hard-bank localities in the northwestern Gulf. To distinguish this species on the basis of present sexually immature materials and place it in the genus Speocarcinus, we compare it to S. carolinensis Stimpson, 1859, and to thoroughly redescribed materials of S. lobatus Guinot, 1969, a poorly known Gulf endemic species common in our collections at depths from 6-65 m. Species of both these genera, while not of close taxonomic relationship, are probably burrow-dwelling infaunal forms, and substrate as well as depth appears to influence their distributions on the shelf of the Gulf of Mexico.
10.2307/1548277|The fairy shrimps Branchinecta gigas Lynch and Branchinecta mackini Dexter were found in association in four lakes in central Washington State and in one lake in British Columbia. Sodium and carbonate were the dominant ions in three lakes analyzed. In two of the lakes, they made up in mequivalence 90% of the total principal ions; and in one lake 75%. Sodium alone accounted for 44-47% mequiv. Individual lakes exhibited marked differences in osmolarities during the life-span of both congeneric species. The higher saline lake ranged from 130-461 mOsm/l during the life-span of B. gigas and from 130-645 mOsm/l for B. mackini. The lower salinity lake ranged from 6-30 mOsm/l. Moreover, the lakes underwent marked differences in salinity levels from year to year. In the higher salinity lake during 1966 the salinity ranged from 130-624 mOsm/l, whereas in 1969 it never exceeded 150 mOsm/l, and in 1967 it never went below 340 mOsm/l. Therefore, an important environmental factor in astatic saline lake ecology is the magnitude of the osmotic changes from year to year as well as the seasonal osmotic changes. In waters less than 225 mOsm/l, B. gigas hyperosmoregulates, while at higher osmolarities it osmoconforms. Branchinecta mackini has a similar mode of osmoregulation, although it is a weaker hyperosmoregulator and can tolerate lower internal osmolarities. In addition, the tolerance to salinity of B. mackini appears to be higher than that of B. gigas. Branchinecta mackini was observed in waters as high as 645 mOsm/l in nature, whereas the maximum observed for B. gigas was 485 mOsm/l. Therefore, the osmotic adaptation of B. gigas and B. mackini to saline astatic waters consists of hyperosmoregulation during the low salinity phase and tolerance by conforming during the higher salinity phase. This differs markedly from the pattern in Artemia and Parartemia, but is similar to Branchinecta campestris. Differences in adaptation of species of Branchinectidae to astatic waters appear to be in degree of tolerance to osmolarity and in differential adaptation to varying ionic compositions.
10.2307/1548338|Ecdysteroid production in vitro by the Y-organs of intermolt blue crabs (Callinectes sapidus) was examined. Ecdysteroids, measured by radioimmunoassay, were produced over a 36-h period in a simple crustacean saline medium. Addition of eyestalk extracts inhibited ecdysteroid production in a dose-dependent manner. Inhibition was linearly related to dosage of eyestalk extract between 0.2 and 4 eyestalk equivalents and between 5 and 8 eyestalk equivalents. These results suggest that the molting physiology of the blue crab is similar to that reported for other, more extensively studied, crustacean species.
10.2307/1548740|To investigate the development of primary sexual characters in the family Majidae, the spermathecae, ovaries, and oviducts of juvenile female Chionoecetes opilio and Hyas coarctatus were examined, using histology, histochemistry, and electron microscopy, and compared to those of mature females. Females were divided into 3 developmental categories, with corresponding size ranges, based on anatomical criteria: immature, premature, and mature. Immature crabs were still temporally remote from the terminal molt, had white ovaries, and the spermatheca presented a thin tissule separation between the dorsal and ventral regions. No stratified glandular epithelium was present; only a columnar epithelium lined the lumen. This epithelium tested slightly positive for amine-containing substances. Premature females were temporally close to terminal molt, had orange ovaries, and retained the tissule separation between the dorsal and ventral regions of the spermatheca. In addition, they presented a stratified glandular epithelium which developed beneath the columnar epithelium lining the lumen. The latter degenerated and sloughed into the lumen as the former developed. Mature females had undergone the terminal molt, and were examined both prior to and following egg extrusion. No trace remained of the columnar epithelium which was present in the preceding two categories. In mature females which had extruded eggs, the tissule separation between dorsal and ventral regions of the spermatheca was also absent. Neutral mucopolysaccharides dominated in the secretions of the dorsal glandular epithelium of both types of mature female. These results establish the primary sexual characters in female C. opilio and H. coarctatus, and also document the sequence of aquisition of these characters.
27920088|Divers observed schools of Euphausia superba off the South Shetland Islands and in Gerlache Strait near the Antarctic Peninsula. Euphausiids almost always occurred within the confines of dense schools swimming in one direction. Schools formed an infinite variety of shapes but usually were narrow in at least one dimension, so that individuals within a school were never far from its edge. Schools moved at about 20 cm/s, primarily horizontally, and vertical displacement was always accompanied by much larger horizontal excursions. Opaque, presumably necrotic, euphausiids occurred within schools, indicating that schooling may have epidemiologic disadvantages. Schools exhibited a variety of behavioral responses to potential and actual predators (sea birds and whales). A hypothesis of ontogenetic differences in schooling behavior proposes that juveniles migrate long distances horizontally in search of food over both shallow and deep waters, but that schools of adults spawn in or near deep water so that rapidly sinking eggs are not deposited on the sea bed.
1549663| Growth and survival of Penaeus semisulcatus larvae were measured in factorial combinations of temperature (20, 23, 26, 29, and 32C) and salinity (28, 29, 32, 34, and 37). Three experiments were maintained for 5 to 6 d, between late nauplius and first mysis stages. Salinity did not have a significant effect on growth or survival above 28. At 28, both growth rate and survival decreased (although the reduced survival occurred only at the lowest temperatures). While temperature had a substantial and regular influence on growth rate (larvae growing more rapidly at warmer temperatures), the effect on survival was not clear. In one experiment, there was significantly lower survival at the higher temperatures (32 and 29C); however, temperature did not affect larval survival at all in the other two experiments. The results were compared with six years of published data on temperatures and salinities in Albatross Bay, Gulf of Carpentaria, Australia, and indicate that naturally occurring salinities are unlikely to directly affect survival of P. semisulcatus larvae in that area. Summer temperatures regularly exceed 29C, raising the possibility (from the results of one experiment of three) that high temperatures may cause larval mortality in Albatross Bay. However, other published evidence indicates that such an effect is unlikely to have practical significance. 
40665223|The vigorous burrowing activities of many thalassinidean shrimp have such dramatic effects on their habitats of soft sediment that these animals are often considered ecosystem engineers. Because they strongly interact in these communities, basic information about their life histories and population dynamics is needed to effectively manage the habitats in which they live. These data can only be obtained if the shrimp can be accurately identified. On the west coast of the United States, two species of burrowing intertidal shrimp in the genus Neotrypaea, N. califomiensis and N. gigas, often co-occur and are not easily differentiated morphologically except as adult males by characters of the major claw (which is often lost in collection). Here we describe and validate (using mtDNA data from the cytochrome b gene) an allozyme marker (LDH) that can be scored rapidly and inexpensively for the identification of these species. We used this marker to generate a large sample of molecularly-identified specimens that we then used to evaluate a variety of morphological characters in an effort to differentiate the two species. With the exception of characters associated with the male major claw, most of the morphological characters examined here were not useful in distinguishing members of the two species. The exceptions were two simple and robust characters associated with the eyestalks length, and shape of the distal outer edges. These could be used to reliably differentiate between the two species regardless of sex, and over a wide range of sizes. We hope that these characters will facilitate future studies of the distribution, habitat preference, and comparative biology of these two often co-occurring species.
10.2307/1548257|A rapid technique for determining the different stages in the molt cycle of the Hawaiian spiny lobster Panulirus marginatus is described. Setal development and epidermal retraction in the pleopods are used to define the stages and substages of post-, inter-, and premolt conditions. These molt conditions are designated as stages AB, C, and D, respectively, after Drach (1939). The premolt condition is divided further into stage D<sub>0</sub>, substages D<sub>1</sub><sup></sup>, D<sub>1</sub><sup></sup>, and D<sub>1</sub><sup></sup>, stage D<sub>2</sub>, and stage D<sub>3-4</sub>. The molt stages in P. marginatus thus are generally similar to those in most other species of crustaceans studied.
10.2307/1548174|The geological record of the decapod crustaceans is sparse and fragmentary. Biologic, taphonomic, and collection factors bias the record, enhancing or diminishing it. These biasing factors must be relatively well understood before maximum use can be made of paleontologic samples. Biologic factors that are important are population density and mobility, preservation potential of habitats, differential calcification, and molting. The geologic record of shrimp is exceedingly deficient; that of mud shrimp, crabs, and lobsters is better, but still sparse, fragmentary, and strongly biased. Taphonomic variables affecting the preservation and interpretation of decapods include burial conditions and positioning of the remains for buried-alive decapods, corpses, and molts. Remains react differently and retain evidence of burial conditions, whether immediate or delayed. Exhumed and reburied remains often present evidence of abrasion, being bored, or settled by epizoans. Burrows enhance preservation potential, and such trace fossils can be assigned to construction by decapods, but only occasionally to a specific taxon. Characteristic preservation positions of decapods include those buried alive (Traumatized Position), those buried as corpses (Normal Position), molts of crabs and lobsters (Open Molt Position), or disarticulated remains. Evidence to distinguish molts, corpses, and buried-alive crabs is often circumstantial or lacking. Diagenesis is directly related to burial conditions, rate and depth of burial, and the presence of scavengers and deposit feeders. A general mode of formation of phosphatic concretions is envisioned which involves death, burial, decomposition, infilling, pelletization and bioturbation by worms (concentrating phosphate in fecal pellets), and precipitation of phosphatic concretions. Benthic nutrient enrichment by plankton kill resulting in a rapid increase in detritus feeders may have initiated a rapid population increase in decapods able to exploit the new food resource. The decapod-worm system would form a taphonomic feedback system insuring and allowing exploitation as well as preservation over an interval of time. Other modes of preservation include little altered remains in fine clastics, preservation as allochems in limestone, preservation as nuclei in calcite nodules and concretions, and in hematite concretions. Collections of decapods tend to be small and widely scattered, but contain virtually all remains found in allied geologic and paleontologic work. Most species-level taxa are represented by only a few, fragmental specimens. Approximately 200 decapod taxa are known from the North American Cretaceous. Because of the usual scarcity and small, fragmentary sample size of most taxa, decapod-rich or decapod-dominated fossil assemblages are exceedingly important, since they alone preserve large numbers of diverse decapod taxa.
20487725|We describe techniques that enable the preservation of tissues from the rhizocephalan barnacle, Loxothylacus texanus, inside the body cavities of blue crab hosts, Callinectes sapidus, in a manner that minimizes the degradative activities of hepatopancreatic enzymes. These procedures allow the extraction and amplification of both parasite and host 18S rDNA within the same sample and enable one to distinguish between parasitized and unparasitized crab tissue in as little as two weeks after infection, well before any external manifestations of the parasites. Two PCR-based approaches were taken to identify the presence of L. texanus. In the first approach, a set of primers specific for L. texanus was used to specifically amplify 18S sequence in a background of C. sapidus DNA or the DNA of other barnacle species. In the second approach, a set of general primers was used to amplify 18S sequence from C. sapidus and a variety of barnacle species. The products of this PCR were then digested with an enzyme that recognizes a restriction site present only in the L. texanus PCR product to yield a unique pattern of fragments. With these techniques, we could detect as few as five parasitic cypris larvae in water samples, as well as L. texanus in the tissue of a small crab collected from the field and in the four anterior periopods of a crab bearing the external stage of the parasite. In experiments with potential hosts of varying sizes and molt stages, we confirmed that the parasite was significantly more effective in infecting crabs less than 30 mm carapace width than larger individuals. These techniques will facilitate future investigations of ecological and physiological interactions between these important crustacean parasites and their hosts and will help to determine the economic impact of this parasite on blue crab fisheries.
10.2307/1548938|Recent collections from the southern part of the Bay of Biscay furnished an interesting collection of Ampeliscidae. Eighteen species were identified, among them 3 species new to science, Ampelisca parabyblisoides, Ampelisca sorbei, and Haploops gascogni, and 3 species new for this area, Ampelisca declivitatis Mills, 1967, and Haploops similis Stephensen, 1925, previously known from the northwestern Atlantic waters, and Ampelisca pusilla Sars, 1891, previously found on the coast of Norway. The presence of Ampelisca anomala Sars, 1883, in the Bay of Biscay was confirmed. We discuss here the geographical and bathymetric distribution of the Ampeliscidae from the Bay of Biscay, and their relationships with the species from Atlantic shallow and deep-sea areas.
10.2307/1548546|The abbreviated larval development of a fresh-water prawn from Thailand, Macrobrachium niphanae Shokita and Takeda, is described and illustrated in detail. Two zoeal, 1 megalopal, and 2 juvenile stages are distinguished, and their characteristics are compared with those of related species which have an abbreviated larval life.
10.2307/1548617|Harpacticoid copepods collected from central and northern California coastal habitats included new species of Bradyellopsis and Perissocope which are described, contrasted with similar species in tabular comparisons, and included in revised keys to the genera. Bradyellopsis is heretofore unknown in the Western Hemisphere. Mouthparts of a member of this genus are described and figured for the first time. The specimens of Perissocope represent the first record of the genus in the eastern Pacific, and the second from north temperate waters.
1549928|A new species of Tanaidacea from the Antarctic abyssal is diagnosed and described. It has been classified to new genus Singularia, although, at present, it cannot be assigned to any of the families established by Larsen and Wilson (2002). The genus has many characters found in the family Colletteidae Larsen and Wilson, 2002. The original key to genera of Colletteidae is presented.
10.2307/1548670| The timing of spawning and onset of feeding for euphausiid larvae in Auke Bay, Alaska, was monitored for 3 years. Thysanoessa raschii was the most abundant euphausiid species in the study area. In all years the eggs were most abundant in the plankton soon after the major spring phytoplankton bloom was completed. During all 3 years of observation, the major cohort of stage I calyptopis, which is the first feeding stage, appeared in the plankton after the primary diatom bloom was finished. When the calyptopes initiated feeding, the water column was physically stratified and low nutrient availability limited primary production in the photic zone. The results suggest that euphausiid larvae in Auke Bay are dependent on secondary phytoplankton blooms for food, rather than the major spring diatom bloom. The concentrations of nauplii were about 70,000m<sup>-2</sup> in 1986, 40,000m<sup>-2</sup> in 1987, and 140,000m<sup>-2</sup> in 1988. Concentrations of calyptopes peaked at about 40,000m<sup>-2</sup> in 1986, 10,000m<sup>-2</sup> in 1987, and 70,000m<sup>-2</sup> in 1988. Maximum concentrations of furciliae were 730 to 1,660m<sup>-2</sup> in 1988, 1,037m<sup>-2</sup> in 1986, and 10 to 19m<sup>-2</sup> in 1987. 
10.2307/1548263|The morphology of the thelycum of 5 genera of euphausiids (Bentheuphausia, Nyctiphanes, Pseudeuphausia, Tessarabrachion, and Nematobrachion) is described, using the scanning electron microscope (SEM). The structure of the thelycum differed in all species examined. For the first time it was possible to distinguish species of the genus Nyctiphanes by the structure of the thelycum. Pseudeuphausia sinica was also distinguished from its congener P. latifrons by the general shape of the thelycum. Observations on the presence of genital pores in 4 species of the genus Nyctiphanes and in P. sinica are also briefly reported.
41315761|The American lobster (Homarus americanus Milne Edwards, 1837) is the focus of the most important commercial fishery in New England, which relies on a variety of biological monitoring programs and surveys to guide the development of appropriate management plans. One key piece of information provided by these surveys is the number of females that are carrying eggs (ovigerous) that will subsequently contribute new recruits to the fishery. A major assumption is that all eggs carried by ovigerous females are fertilized and will thus result in viable recruits. However, because some lobsters extrude, and briefly carry, unfertilized eggs, this assumption needs to be re-evaluated. In particular, it is important to determine the approximate proportion of newly extruded eggs that are either fertilized, or not. The major goal of this project was to develop reliable methods for determining if early-stage lobster eggs (live and preserved) were in fact fertilized. One method involved using a nucleic acid stain to visualize egg DNA, after pretreatment of eggs with a proteolytic and collagenolytic enzyme solution to facilitate stain penetration through the egg membrane. With this method multi-nucleated (fertilized) eggs could be clearly distinguished from unfertilized eggs. A total of 20 egg clutches were tested to determine their fertility status using this method. Of these, 16 clutches (80%) were fertilized while 4 were not fertilized (20%). Of the 16 clutches with fertilized eggs, two had a mix of both fertilized and unfertilized eggs. A second method, using fluorometry to obtain measurements of total egg DNA, was also developed. There was a significant difference between the total DNA concentration in unfertilized control ocytes and early-stage fertilized eggs (P <0.001), and the total amount of DNA gradually increased as eggs developed (r = 0.961, P <0.0001). Both of these methods will make it possible to make a more accurate assessment of the proportion of female lobsters that will actually contribute new recruits to the fishery.
1549597|The reproduction of the alien crayfish species Pacifastacus leniusculus inhabiting Lake Shikaribetsu, Hokkaido, Japan, was studied from August 2002 to August 2003. Spawning was for a short period after mating in mid October. The eggs developed to eyed stage in June the following year and hatched in mid July. After remaining with their mother for several weeks, the juveniles became independent between late July and August. The egg numbers attached to pleopods of this crayfish significantly increased with the female body size. The time of spawning in Lake Shikaribetsu was similar to that of this crayfish living in North America and Europe reported by previous studies, but the time of egg hatching was later in Lake Shikaribetsu compared with some populations in North America and Europe. A comparison of our results of the reproduction of P. leniusculus with that of the endangered Japanese endemic crayfish species Cambaroides japonicus reported by previous studies showed that P. leniusculus has a markedly higher reproductive ability than C. japonicus in terms of egg numbers.
10.2307/1548881|The ability of Leptograpsus variegatus to respire in water was assessed in laboratory simulations. The hemolymph respiratory gas, acid-base, ionic status, and metabolic status was assessed in acclimation conditions (access to air or water), during 12-h immersion and for 6 h after return to acclimation conditions. The importance of environmental O<sub>2</sub> was subsequently determined by lowering water PO<sub>2</sub>. Submergence of Leptograpsus elicited a significant decrease in hemolymph PCO<sub>2</sub> between 1- and 2-h immersion but neither CO<sub>2</sub> content nor pH reflected this fluctuation. There was a significant a-v difference in hemolymph oxygenation which was maintained throughout the water-breathing phase. Both venous and arterial PO<sub>2</sub> were significantly elevated from the initial value between 0.5 and 2 h of immersion. There was no decrease in O<sub>2</sub> content or Hc-O<sub>2</sub> unloading during immersion and hemolymph L-lactate remained below 1.5 mmol l<sup>-1</sup>. Hemolymph osmotic pressure remained largely constant while Cl concentrations showed a brief increase 30 min after submergence. The K in hemolymph of L. variegatus increased steadily during immersion but was restored by the end of the recovery phase. In hypoxic water (20 torr), hemolymph lactate increased to 18 mmol l<sup>-1</sup>, while pH and PO<sub>2</sub> were largely unchanged. The CO<sub>2</sub> and Hc-O<sub>2</sub> were maintained at a higher level than in normal water. Venous PCO<sub>2</sub> and CCO<sub>2</sub> increased progressively in response to hypoxia. The Ca and Mg were greater in the hemolymph of hypoxic crabs than in the normoxic crabs. Sustained immersion of Leptograpsus has no observable acid-base consequences, while O<sub>2</sub> delivery was maintained, but with some reduction, in hemolymph oxygenation. Changes in strong ion concentrations are not important to acid-base balance in immersed L. variegatus. In hypoxic water, L. variegatus shows increased lactate production and compensatory increases in bicarbonate. Thus, Leptograpsus is suited to air-breathing, but is able to respire in water for at least 12 h and is thus truly amphibious.
10.2307/1548405|An indication of the breadth of occurrence of fluorescent lipofuscin age-pigment in the brains of crustaceans was sought, following a recent demonstration of the potential of the fluorescent morphological pigment as an index of age in the commercial fresh-water crayfish Cherax quadricarinatus. The brains of adult individuals from 37 species, in a variety of crustacean orders, were examined. The presence of lipofuscin was assessed using fluorescence microscopy of histological sections and fixed- or fresh-brain squashes. The occurrence of resolvable fluorescent lipofuscin granules was a taxonomically widespread, but not universal phenomenon. Although the fluorescent material was generally more conspicuous in larger animals, its occurrence was not rigidly correlated with either adult body size or estimated chronological age over the range of species examined. Possible explanations for the observed variations are discussed along with implications for the potential use of the pigment as an index of age in the Crustacea.
10.2307/1547988|Palinurellus wieneckii (de Man, 1881), reported from the Hawaiian Islands for the first time, occurs in cryptic habitats and is probably nocturnal. The three specimens examined were collected in caves at depths of 9-11 m, and sightings were made in caves at depths of 11-27 m.
1549684|The female of an ascidicolous copepod, Haplostoma eruca (Norman, 1869), is redescribed on the basis of specimens living in the intestine of Ciona intestinalis (Linnaeus) from the Clyde Estuary, Scotland. The redescription resolves some taxonomic problems involving H. eruca in the original and succeeding works. Detailed morphological features of H. eruca reported in this paper make it easy to distinguish this species from its 10 congeners of subgroup 1 of Haplostoma. The following features are thought to be species-specific: rostrum with two small ventral tubercles in addition to hairlike sensilla; antennule with conspicuously truncated distal margin; integument around single copulatory pore with many minute tubercle-like elements; and conical caudal ramus with two unequal armature elements on medial margin near apex.
4094175|Male waving displays of the species of Ilyoplax (Brachyura: Ocypodidae) have so far been described in I. delsmani, I. gangetica, and I. orientalis. In this study, male waving displays of I. dentata, I. dentimerosa, I. deschampsi, I. formosensis, I. Integra, I. ningpoensis, I. pingi, I. pusilla, I. serrata, I. strigicarpa, I. tansuiensis, and Ilyoplax sp. are described for the first time. Waving display of the above 15 species of Ilyoplax can be classified into three patterns; a circular type, vertical type, and asymmetrical type. Asymmetrical wave forms were observed in only two species, I. orientalis and I. tansuiensis, vertical wave forms were seen in four species, I. delsmani, I. dentimerosa, I. pingi, and I. serrata, while most other species exhibited circular wave forms. To understand the evolutionary divergence of these waving forms observed in species of Ilyoplax, a molecular phylogeny was reconstructed based on 1005-bp nucleotide sequences from mitochondrial 16S and 12S rRNA genes of 16 species and two out-group taxa. Phylogenetic analysis of waving forms suggested that circular waves evolved once in the early history of the lineage. Vertical wave forms were suggested to have subsequently evolved three times independently from circular wave forms, and the asymmetrical wave form has also evolved from circular wave form. The evolution of distinct waving forms is considered to be associated with the presence of geographic sympatric species.
4126709| Home range, movements and zonation of Arenaeus cribrarius and Callinectes ornatus were analyzed in Ensenada de La Vela, in the Venezuelan Caribbean, using acoustic telemetry. Transmitters were attached to the carapace of 11 A. cribrarius and 11 C. ornatus, which were tracked during five campaigns between October 2002 and December 2003. The positions of each crab were registered every 12 hours, for periods of up to 10 days, and data were obtained on geographical localizations, distances traveled, speed, depth, perpendicular distance to the beachline, as well as type of bottom and physicochemical variables of the water. We found significant differences between the two species regarding home range size (sensu lato), movements, distance to the coastline, depth and the type of sediment where they appeared. Callinectes ornatus had a larger home range (x = 72,475 m2) than A. cribrarius (x = 16,625 m2) and presented one to three centers of activity, while individuals of A. cribrarius had only one center, with a few exceptions. Both species used intensively about half of their home range. Arenaeus cribrarius preferred the foreshore, while C. ornatus inhabited more distant waters; however, a certain degree of habitat interpenetration was observed. Callinectes ornatus was more active (x = 74.6 m/12 hours, SE = 6.6) than A. cribrarius (x = 56.6 m/12 hours, SE = 6.5), but a high variability in the movement rates existed even within an individual. Arenaeus cribrarius was associated with bottoms conformed by very fine mixed sands and low contents of organic matter, whereas C. ornatus appeared in silty bottoms with higher organic contents. New elements on the zonation of these swimming crabs are included in this study, complementing the patterns found in previous works. 
1549645|One of the most important requirements for systematic and phylogenetic studies is the identification of gene regions with the appropriate level of variation for the question of interest. Molecular phylogenetic and systematic studies of freshwater crayfish have made use of DNA sequences mainly from ribosomal genes, especially the 16S rRNA gene region. Thus, little information is available on other potentially useful mitochondrial gene regions for systematic studies in these animals. In this study, we look at nucleotide variation and phylogenetic relations within and between four species of freshwater crayfish of the genus Cherax from the southwest of Western Australia using four fragments amplified from the 16S rRNA, 12S rRNA, Cytochrome Oxidase I (COI), and Cytochrome b (Cyt b) gene regions. Samples of Engaeus strictifrons, Euastacus bispinosus, and Geocharax falcata were also sequenced for comparative purposes. The size of the fragments varied from 358 bp to 600 bp. Across all samples, the four fragments showed significant phylogenetic signal and showed similar proportions of variable sites (28.81-37.33%). Average divergence within species for the mitochondrial gene regions varied from 1.18% to 4.91%, with the 16S rRNA being the least variable and Cyt b the most variable. Average divergence between species ranged 7.63-15.53%, with 16S rRNA being the least variable and COI the most variable. At the generic level, average divergence ranged 17.21-23.82%. Phylogenetic analyses of the 16S rRNA, 12S rRNA, and COI regions generated four clades consistent with the presence of four species previously identified on the basis of allozyme and morphological studies. The relationships among samples were largely congruent across the data set, although some relationships remained unresolved. Not all samples could be amplified using the Cyt b primers, and some of those that were showed quite anomalous relationships, suggesting that one or more Cyt b pseudogenes were being amplified.
10.2307/1548026|Eleven species of Mysidacea are associated with the Florida Middle Ground, the northernmost hermatypic coral reef in the Gulf of Mexico. In addition to the two previously reported species, Anchialina typica and Mysidium integrum, the ranges of Siriella chierchiae, Bowmaniella sewelli, B. bacescui, Erythrops parva, Amathimysis gibba, and Heteromysis guitarti have been extended to include the northern Gulf of Mexico. Descriptions of three new species, H. beetoni, H. filitelsona, and H. hopkinsi, and a key to the tribe Heteromysini are presented.
41315724|A recent phylogenomic analysis of arthropod relationships (Regier et al., 2010) produced several surprising clades within Tetraconata (Pancrustacea). The first discussion of these heterodox findings in the carcinological literature was published in the Journal of Crustacean Biology by Ferrari (2010). Ferrari criticized the findings of Regier et al. from three perspectives: 1) that morphological and developmental evidence was not considered by Regier et al., thus casting doubt on their results; 2) that Regier et al.'s tree implies incredible transformations in crustacean body plans; and 3) that Regier et al.'s results could be a methodological artifact. I show that none of these criticisms can withstand scrutiny. One should take care in structuring a phylogenetic critique. Not doing so may well be counterproductive if the aim is to increase respect for non-molecular evidence in phylogenetics.
4094239|A new species of the deep-sea sponge-associated shrimp genus Spongicoloides Hansen, 1908, S. iheyaensis, is described and illustrated on the basis of 6 specimens (3 sexual pairs) collected from the North Knoll of the Iheya Ridge at depths of 988-1051 m, Ryukyu Islands, southern Japan. This is the fourth species of the genus known from the Pacific Ocean. The new species is similar to S. hawaiiensis from Hawaii and S. novaezelandiae from New Zealand, but is distinguished by the differences in spination of carapace, sixth pleonal somite, and third pereiopod. It is suggested that the egg number of the new species is greater than that of other congeneric species. Sexually dimorphic characters are discussed. A key to the Pacific species of Spongicoloides is provided.
10.2307/1548267| Lernaeolophus aceratus, new species, a pennellid copepod parasitic on the motleystripe rainbowfish Halichoeres tenuispinis (Gnther) is described based on the specimens collected at Sado Island in the Sea of Japan. Histological studies of the anterior digestive tract and its contents revealed that the parasite feeds chiefly on the host's blood. The glandular epithelial cells in the midgut produce enzyme vesicles which are in turn released into the lumen for digestion of the ingested host blood cells. 
10.2307/1548480|This paper reviews reproduction and mating in ostracodes. Both sexual reproduction by copulation and parthenogenesis occur in ostracodes. The group is large and there is much variation in their reproductive patterns, especially between the two major groups: the podocopans and the myodocopans. The following features of ostracodes are reviewed: (1) life history patterns (egg production and protection, developmental patterns, longevity, seasonality of breeding, sex ratios), (2) reproductive system morphology (including gonads, sperm, seminal vesicles, spermatophores and copulatory apparatuses in males, and gonads and seminal receptacles in females), (3) secondary sexual characters (especially in the valves, limbs, and eyes), (4) mating positions and copulation, (5) courtship and precopulatory sexual behavior, and (6) bioluminescent displays.
10.2307/1548896|A parasitic copepod, Archidactylina myxinicola, new genus, new species (Siphonostomatoida: Archidactylinidae, new family), is described based on specimens of both sexes obtained from the gill pouches of hagfishes (Agnatha: Myxiniformes) collected from the continental slopes of the Sea of Kumano, Japan. This is the first record of parasitic copepods from Agnatha. Although this new taxon generally exhibits eudactylinid facies, it apparently possesses more primitive features than those found in the Eudactylinidae. This new siphonostomatoid is characterized by possessing the following features: (1) a sternal suture on the cephalothorax between the maxillipedal and the first pedigerous somites; (2) incomplete prosome-urosome differentiation; (3) a free genital somite; (4) ventral copulatory pores isolated from the lateral genital apertures in the female; (5) no cuticular ornamentation characteristic of the eudactylinids; (6) an indistinctly 18-segmented antennule in both sexes, geniculate bilaterally in the male; (7) uniramous, 5-segmented antenna; (8) maxilliped on a discrete pedestal and lacking myxal process on the corpus; and (9) a setation formula of III,I,5 on the third exopodal segment of legs 2-4 of both sexes.
1549661| The paguroid-infesting bopyrid genera Anathelges Bonnier, 1900, and Stegophryxus Thompson, 1902, are found to be synonymous. Three species formerly placed in either Anathelges or Stegophryxus are not congeneric with Bopyrus resupinatus, the type species of Anathelges. A new monotypic genus Falsanathelges is erected for Anathelges muelleri Nierstrasz and Brender  Brandis, which is redescribed based on type and additional material. A second new genus, Minimathelges, is erected for Stegophryxus minutus Markham and M. nanus n. sp. from the Loyalty Islands. Anathelges mossambica Barnard is provisionally transferred to Pseudostegias Shiino, based on examination of the damaged lectotype. Additionally, the genus Metathelges Nierstrasz and Brender  Brandis is transferred from the Athelginae to the Ioninae based on examination of the holotype. A key is provided for all eight athelgine genera. 
10.2307/1548154|Many decapod crustacean species have specialized structures for grooming the body to keep it free of epizoic growth and particulate fouling. Among the decapod species examined, preening of the chemosensory antennules with the third maxillipeds was the most widespread and morphologically conservative behavior. Penaeidean, caridean, and stenopodidean shrimps possess characteristic setal brushes on the first cheliped for cleaning the chemotactile antennular flagella. Reptant species use only the third maxillipeds for grooming these flagella. Gill cleaning mechanisms vary widely: cheliped brushes, setae arising from thoracic setobranchs, setiferous thoracic epipods. Decapods use chelipeds and setal brushes at the tips of walking legs for grooming general body surfaces. This behavior is common in the Natantia (s.l.) but is poorly developed in the Brachyura. I hypothesize that epizoic growth interferes with swimming in shrimps, and it must be removed by preening. In the ambulatory Brachyura, selection pressure to remove epizoic growth may be less intense. Many decapod species that do not appear to have general body grooming specializations are nonetheless clean. A variety of mechanisms besides grooming may serve as antifouling adaptations in these species. Grooming structures have been little studied, but they may have considerable systematic value in the study of decapod phylogeny.
10.2307/1548561| The effects of freezing, drying, high temperatures, or various combinations of these on the eggs of the fresh-water ostracode Heterocypris incongruens were studied. In addition, the fate of 2,662 eggs of known parentage and time of laying was followed for 125 days. The results of the environmental experiments show that the eggs remain viable after drying at both 22C and 40C, and after being frozen wet or dry at -18C. Eggs maintained wet at 40C did not hatch. The result of the known parentage experiment showed that H. incongruens produces two types of eggs; one type develops and hatches within 10 days of laying, and another remains dormant for varying periods of time after being produced. Both types of eggs may be produced by the same individual, although some individuals may produce only dormant eggs. No female produced only rapidly developing eggs. There is no discernible pattern in the production of the two egg types, and the production of dormant eggs does not depend on recognizable changes in environmental factors. Furthermore, neither the age of the parent nor the number of eggs produced by her affects the type of egg laid. Eighty-five percent of the eggs produced are dormant with only a few capable of hatching whenever conditions are suitable for growth. For an animal living in temporary ponds and seeps this means that some eggs are always in effect monitoring the environment for suitable hatching conditions. If these conditions occur and do not persist long enough for the hatchlings to reach maturity, other eggs will still be viable and available for hatching when favorable conditions return again. 
4540308|Tegumental glands are a ubiquitous feature of the decapod cuticle. In the fifth pair of pereiopods (P5) of Aegla platensis Schmitt, 1942, these tegumental glands (PeTG's) are similar to those described in other decapod crustaceans. Type 1 PeTG's, with mucous and serous cells and type 2 PeTG's, with serous cells only are organized into proximal, medial and distal clusters along the appendage. Both types of PeTG's possess secretory cells arranged concentrically around a central duct. These secretory cells have well developed Rough endoplasmic reticulum (RER) and numerous Golgi Complexes, and possess electron-lucid and electron dense vesicles. The finely granular aspect of the electron-lucid vesicles suggest they contain a mucous-like substance, while electron-dense vesicles probably contain a substance of a proteinaceous nature. Despite various hypotheses, there are few indications that these substances act as cleaning agents. However, the cytoplasm of the secretory cells appear to be composed of concentric lamellas that could be responsible for the production of surfactants (cleaning substances). In the Anomura, P5 is involved in grooming but there presently is insufficient evidence to show that the glands play a role in this process.
10.2307/1548366|The complete larval development of the brachyuran crab Zebrida adamsii White, an obligate symbiont of sea urchins, is described and illustrated. This species has 4 zoeal and 1 megalopal stages. The larval features indicate that the family Eumedonidae should be treated as a separate family within the superfamily Xanthoidea.
10.2307/1549026|Osmotic and ionic regulatory capacities of a population of Sesarma reticulatum from Brunswick, Georgia, on the Atlantic coast of the United States were compared with those of a population of S. sp. (near reticulatum) from coastal Louisiana in the northern Gulf of Mexico. Samples of similar-sized adults from both populations were subjected to simultaneous 8-day acclimation treatments over a range of salinities from 48-1 ppt. At acclimation salinities from >5 to <35 ppt, animals from the northern Gulf of Mexico hyperosmoregulated at a lower plateau of blood osmolality than did those from the Atlantic coast. However, from midrange to the lowest acclimation salinities, hyperosmotic regulation in the Gulf of Mexico population was maintained without measurable reduction of blood osmotic concentration. A major component of the variation in blood osmolality appears to be reflected in differential regulation of sodium at salinities <10 ppt. We suggest that divergence in osmoregulatory pattern of sibling populations is genetically based and is maintained by the absence of gene flow around the peninsula of Florida. This divergence may reflect differential adaptation to habitats that vary in salinity structure, tidal effects, and temperature.
20487810|The ability to distinguish sex using secondary rather than primary sexual characteristics allows the reduction or elimination of handling organisms, an advantage with rare and/or fragile species. Based on observations of differences in the morphology of gnathopods 1 and 2 of male and female cave amphipods, Gammarus acherondytes and Gammarus troglophilus, we tested the hypothesis that gnathopod morphology could be used to identify sex. To examine the size at which gnathopod metrics allowed reliable identification of sex and to establish predictive relationships, we recorded sex, total body length, and the length and width of propodi from museum collections. In an attempt to test these predictive relationships with an independent data set, we discovered that relationships were species and population specific, even after accounting for shrinkage in the preserved samples. Sex could be most successfully distinguished for G. acherondytes from Reverse Stream Cave using propodus 1 length, while for G. troglophilus it was propodus 2 length. Because regression lines of relationships diverged for G. troglophilus from Fogelpole Cave, all metrics except propodus 1 length were predictive. Although gnathopod dimorphism was limited to large individuals, it was much faster than examining individuals for the presence of penal papillae or ostegites. Thus, using gnathopod morphology to determine sex may be adequate for some studies.
10.2307/1548860| A benthic megafaunal study off Concepcin Bay, central Chile (3632S, 73W), provided abundance and bathymetric distribution data of the newly recruited squat lobster Pleuroncodes monodon (Decapoda, Galatheidae). The megafauna was surveyed 8 times between July 1991 and April 1992, with an Agassiz trawl at depths of 40, 64, and 96 m along a transect across the continental shelf. Recruits of P. monodon (carapace length (CL) 3-10 mm) were first sampled in all depth strata in early March, and then in April. April density (1 ind/m<sup>2</sup>) and mean size (6.1 mm CL) were significantly higher than March density (0.07 ind/m<sup>2</sup>) and mean size (5.3 mm CL). Depth did not affect abundance and its significant effect on mean size was conditional on month effect. We interpret these results as evidence that the main pulse of recruitment occurred simultaneously across the continental shelf transect in April, and that larvae settling in April have a larger size than larvae settling in March. Recruitment appears to be associated with late summer development of the giant sulfur bacteria Thioploca spp., suggesting an ecological relationship. Moreover, the observed recruitment occurred in late summer to early fall when the oceanographic regime in the area shifts to a postupwelling regime. 
10.2307/1548054| Shrimps of the families Sergestidae and Palaemonidae collected in the Orinoco basin, the upper Cuyun River, and the upper and lower Ro Negro, are dealt with in this paper. New records and comments are given for Acetes paraguayensis, Macrobrachium amazonicum, M. brasiliense, M. jelskii, M. nattereri, M. surinamicum, and Palaemonetes carteri. Two new palaemonids are described: Macrobrachium cortezi, a form related to M. nattereri, from several localities in the Orinoco River and upper Ro Negro, and M. aracamuni, from an altitude of 680 m in the Cerro Aracamuni in the drainage area of the upper Ro Negro. Another previously undescribed species of Macrobrachium is recorded but not named due to the lack of mature males. 
10.2307/1548789|Three genera and 13 species of the family Atyidae are reported from Taiwan. Among them, 5 species are new records from Taiwan and 3 are new to science. Most of the species are found in the eastern and southern parts of Taiwan and have numerous small eggs. On the other hand, the species distributed in western Taiwan mostly have few large eggs. In addition to describing the morphological characters of these 13 species, color illustrations and line drawings of each species are provided. A key is also given for their identification.
10.2307/1549517|The behavior (total elapsed time of activity and turning rates) of 4 species of talitrid amphipods (the beach fleas Orchestia gammarellus and O. cavimana, the sand hopper Talitrus saltator and the land hopper Arcitalitrus dorrieni) was examined in humidity gradients and in chambers of fixed humidity. Generally, all species showed a preference for the most humid end of humidity gradients (75-95% or 80-100% R.H.), although results for O. gammarellus were complicated by a strong thigmotactic response and overall higher activity when compared with other species. In all species, apart from T. saltator, total activity (and turning) was greater in the lowest R.H. examined (50%), with animals becoming less active with increased humidity and tending toward quiescence in saturated conditions (100% R.H.). In O. gammarellus, hygro-orthokinesis (changes in linear velocity in response to R.H.) was the dominant behavioral mechanism, whereas in O. cavimana hygro-klinokinesis (changes in angular velocity) was more important. Both hygrokineses were important in T. saltator and A. dorrieni, with A. dorrieni having the most developed hygrokinetic responses of the 4 species examined. In T. saltator, results were confused by attempted "burrowing" behavior resulting in the highest activity under saturated conditions. The results support the theory that behavioral adaptations to avoid potentially desiccating conditions are more important than physiological mechanisms to reduce water loss. The results are discussed in relation to the natural habitats of the animals and the colonization of land by the Amphipoda.
10.2307/1549018|The population of Procambarus clarkii from the lower Mondego River valley, Portugal, was studied for 13 months. Population structure was analyzed and 7 cohorts were identified. The main recruitment period occurred from the second half of October to the end of November, but juveniles were found throughout the year. Tracking recognizable cohorts along size-frequency distributions from successive sampling dates allowed an estimation of growth parameters in order to calibrate a growth model incorporating seasonal adjustments. Average growth rate was estimated at 1.16 mm of total length per week. Production was estimated at 27.22 g m<sup>-2</sup> per year, the average biomass at 5.4 g m<sup>-2</sup>, and the P/B ratio at 5.03. Females outnumbered males throughout the year and the average sex ratio was 0.24.
1549498|Three axiid species and one calocaridid are recorded from Taiwan. The three deepwater species are described as new: Calaxius manningi, having a finely pitted carapace and strongly spinose chelipeds; Calocarides chani, which possesses finely tuberculate first chelipeds; and Ambiaxius foveolatus, which has a shallowly pitted carapace branchiostegite. Neaxius acanthus (A. Milne Edwards) is recorded from the coral reefs of Taiwan.
10.2307/1548479| Growth assays were done with first stage zoeae of Paralithodes camtschatica (Tilesius), which are grazers, to determine what types of phytoplankton communities could support larval growth. First stage zoeae were initially reared in water collected from depths with the highest chlorophyll concentration in Auke Bay, Alaska. In those 1987 experiments the highest growth rate was 8% dry body weight per day (b.w.d<sup>-1</sup>) and occurred when Thalassiosira spp. dominated the phytoplankton community. Later in the bloom, when Skeletonema costatum was the dominant diatom, growth rates averaged 2-3% dry b.w.d<sup>-1</sup>. Additional growth assays during 1988 in Auke Bay used water from depths of 5, 10, and 20 m as the growth medium. In all 1988 experiments, Thalassiosira spp. dominated the phytoplankton community. The other two common diatom genera, Chaetoceros spp. and Skeletonema, were not abundant enough during the 1988 growth assays to be primary energy sources. Average growth rates varied from 1.4-10% dry b.w.d<sup>-1</sup>. Zoeae reared in water from all 3 depths during the spring diatom bloom grew. In 1987 and 1988 the best growth rates were observed during the peak of the spring bloom of Thalassiosira spp. Zoeal growth correlated well with abundance of Thalassiosira spp. in the growth assays. When concentrations of Thalassiosira spp. were less than 1,000 cellsml<sup>-1</sup>, the equation relating growth to abundance of this genus was: growth (% dry b.w.d-1) = 0.013 (Thalassiosira spp. cellsml<sup>-1</sup>) - 1.07; r<sup>2</sup>. When Thalassiosira spp. were between 1,000 and 4,000 cellsml<sup>-1</sup> mean growth rates were similar to each other at 9-10% dry b.w.d<sup>-1</sup>. We suggest that diatom species composition and relative abundance are important factors modifying feeding success and growth of stage I larval king crab. 
1549774|The leucosioid genus Praebebalia Rathbun, 1911, is revised. Of the 12 species assigned to Praebebalia, only P. extensiva Rathbun, 1911, and P. septemspinosa Sakai, 1983, are retained in the genus, and two new species are added: P. madagascariensis and P. magna. The four species are described and illustrated, and a key is presented.
10.2307/1548103|A brief review of the literature on the marine isopod fauna of Papua New Guinea is given. The following species are recorded: Argathona rostrata, Excirolana orientalis, Pseudolana brevifimbria, Eurylana pore, new species, and Anopsilana pustulosa. A table of all species of the Corallanidae and Cirolanidae recorded from Papua New Guinea is provided.
10.2307/1547971| Stress caused by different salt concentrations has been detected by measurements of total protein and total osmotic pressure in blood serum of Penaeus vannamei and P. stylirostris. P. vannamei is more tolerant despite the fact that P. stylirostris naturally occurs in coastal areas where conditions are virtually marine with little fresh-water influence. The effect of low salinity on survival is similar in both species and appears to be less important in controlling their distribution during the year. A very significant decrease in total blood protein is observed for P. stylirostris at a salinity of 50 associated with an extremely high osmotic pressure in an effort to osmoregulate. Hemocyanin may be an important osmoregulatory factor producing free amino acids at high salinities. 
4540276| Premolt and vitellogenesis are mutually exclusive events in the wild population of the brachyuran crab, Metopograpsus messor; active vitellogenesis occurs only in intermolt females, at a relatively low ecdysteroid profile, judged from radioimmunoassay. Bilateral eyestalk ablation, however, has resulted in simultaneous precipitation of premolt and ovarian growth in the same crab, thus severing the normal antagonistic programming of these two high-energy demanding processes. This result argues for the necessity of eyestalk principles in maintaining the normal (antagonistic) programming of growth and reproduction in the species. Ovaries of the eyestalk ablated crabs precociously accumulate yolk and the ocytes could attain the size of a fully grown egg within 10 days post-ablation. The eyestalk ablated females have also shown dramatic rise in haemolymph ecdysteroid levels, even surpassing the levels (P < 0.05) of the normal premolt individuals, revealing that ovarian growth can occur under a high ecdysteroid titre in M. messor. It remains to be seen whether the precociously grown ovaries were influenced by the elevated ecdysteroid titer. 
10.2307/1548432| The authors present an illustrated description of Linderiella massaliensis, new species, collected in Provence's temporary ponds (South of France). The characteristic descriptions are compared with the ones of two other species known in the genus, Linderiella occidentalis (Dodds, 1923) in California, U.S.A., and Linderiella africana Thiery, 1986, in the Middle Atlas Mountains, Morocco. The diagnosis is supplemented with biological and ecological notes on physical and chemical components of waters, vegetation, associated entomostracan Crustacea, and species growth rate. The morphologically similar congeners are established in remote areas restricted to Mediterranean climatic regions. Their distribution suggests a vicariant speciation from an ancestral taxon whose range would have extended across the junction of the African, American, and European continents before the end of the Primary Era. /// Les auteurs prsentent une description illustre de Linderiella massaliensis, espce nouvelle, rcolte dans plusieurs mares temporaires de Provence (sud-est de la France). Les caractres descriptifs sont compars  ceux des deux espces congnriques actuellement connues, Linderiella occidentalis (Dodds, 1923) aux U.S.A. (Californie) et Linderiella africana Thiery, 1986, au Maroc (Moyen Atlas). La diagnose es: complte par des remarques cologiques et biologiques: composantes physiques et chimiques des eaux, vgtation, Crustacs entomostracs associs, et vitesse de croissance de l'espce. Les espces congnriques morphologiquement trs proches ont des aires respectives isoles et restreintes aux rgions  climat mditerranen. Il semble qu'elles aient driv d'une souche commune qui aurait occup un vaste aral  la jonction des continents amricain, africain, et europen avant la fin de l'Ere primaire. 
10.2307/1548230|Basserolis, a new genus of serolid isopod, is erected for the new species B. kimblae. The genus is contrasted with Serolis and three other very similar genera from whose numerous species it differs in the form of the mouthparts, pereiopods, and pleopods. Basserolis kimblae lacks a lacinia mobilis and mandibular spine row (present in Serolis), has only 5 or 6 spines on the outer ramus of maxilla 1 (typically 11 in Serolis), possesses a 2-lobed maxilla 2 (3-lobed in Serolis) and single-articled maxillipedal palp (typically 3-articled), lacks sexual dimorphism in the pereiopods, and possesses posteriorly directed, typically flabelliferan pleopods 1-3 (transverse with small ovate rami in Serolis).
1549176|The complexity of the fifth limb of myodocopine Ostracoda has led to many interpretations of its homologies. The presence of muscles interpreted to mark the axis of the endopod of Isocypridina quatuorsetae supports the interpretations by H. J. Hansen and by G. Boxshall contending that the fifth limb of the Cypridinidae bears an unsegmented exopod.
1549690|A new cumacean species from the shallow waters of South of Chennai, India, is described. Austrocuma kornfieldi, new species, is the second Austrocuma known to science. This genus is characterized, among other features, by the presence of a reduced number of pleopods. Even though extensively used, pleopod number does not seem to be a good character for family-level diagnoses within the Cumacea, because the number of pleopods has undergone reductions in several of the lineages. The position of the genus Coricuma within the Cumacea has been debated, and the present description of A. kornfieldi, together with an analysis of pleopod number in cumaceans, reinforces the placement of Coricuma within the Family Bodotriidae.
10.2307/1548038|A survey of lotic crayfish distributions in the Brush Creek drainage basin of southern Ohio was undertaken to test the hypothesis that narrowly overlapping distribution patterns of Orconectes rusticus and O. sanbornii sanbornii within streams are determined by substrate lithology (Rhoades, 1962); we found no such relationship. Rather, an essentially parapatric distribution was observed along gradients from headwaters to major streams. In areas of parapatry, O. rusticus occurred in lower reaches of tributaries and in major trunk streams, whereas O. s. sanbornii was restricted to isolated populations inhabiting headwaters. In other parts of the basin, O. rusticus alone occupied habitats ranging from headwaters to high-order streams. We postulate that in the absence of O. rusticus, O. s. sanbornii would likewise occupy the full continuum of lotic habitats (i.e., ecological release). In light of this and recent evidence implicating invasions by O. rusticus in apparent species displacements, we propose that competitive exclusion is an important factor influencing the distributions of these species in southern Ohio.
20487715|The segregation of progenitor somatic cells from those of the primordial germ cells during early cleavage divisions occurs in certain copepods exhibiting the phenomenon of chromatin diminution during early embryogenesis. These species provide an interesting alternative to the usual reproductive strategy of other species of freshwater cyclopoid copepods. Levels of DNA for the soma and germ cells of Mesocyclops longisetus have been determined for individual nuclei by using Feulgen-DNA cytophotometry to monitor changes of DNA amounts during gametogenesis and early cleavage stages of embryogenesis. Germ cell nuclei of both female and male adults contain marked elevations of DNA, far in excess of expected 4C DNA level for their replication prior to meiosis. The elevated amounts of DNA in these germ cells are equivalent to the elevated DNA content found during the gonomeric divisions observed in embryos. Following the gonomeric divisions there is roughly a 40% loss of germ cell heterochromatin during the chromatin diminution stages of embryogenesis. The role of this excised DNA remains unclear.
20487742|Ten species belonging to three genera of the subfamily Pontoniinae were collected by the deep-sea expedition "PANGLAO 2005" in the Philippines, including four new species of the genus Periclimenes, i.e., P. boucheti n. sp., P. leptunguis n. sp., P. ngi n. sp., and P. panglaonis sp. nov., and one newly recorded species from the Philippines, Periclimenes laccadivensis. They are reported with color photographs except one species, Plesiopontonia monodi. The possible synonymy of Periclimenes foresti and P. granuloides is discussed.
4094227|A structure resembling the lacinia mobilis in Peracarida (Malacostraca) is described for the coxal gnathal edge of the mandibles in the halocyprid ostracode Spelaeoecia capax. The lacinia mobilis is present at the distal portion of the gnathal edge close to and articulated with the incisor process. Proximal and closely associated with the lacinia, two processes are present. In the center of the gnathal edge, a flat process partly covers two comb-like spines. A molar process (masticatory pad) is present at the proximal end of the gnathal edge. The lacinia mobilis described herein resembles the peracarid lacinia in possessing a number of cusps similar to the cusps of the incisor process, its orientation parallel to the incisor process and the presence of an articular condyle at the basis of the lacinia. The described similarities, however, concern only the left mandible of certain Peracarida where the mandibles are asymmetrical. In Spelaeoecia capax, the mandibles are symmetrical. The lacinia mobilis in certain ostracodes may have evolved independently from that in Peracarida. The term lacinia mobilis is used as a descriptive term only, not implying homology.
10.2307/1548734|Ephemeral wetlands, such as vernal pools and playas, have become increasingly threatened by a variety of destructive human practices, including off-highway vehicle (OHV) activity. Among the resident animals that may be adversely affected are the branchiopod crustaceans which produce desiccation resistant cysts to withstand the pools' dry periods. We report a quantitative investigation of the force required to crush individual branchiopod cysts of 8 species: Branchinecta lynchi, B. sandiegonensis, B. mackini, Streptocephalus woottoni, Thamnocephalus platyurus, Linderiella occidentalis, Lepidurus lemmoni, and Triops longicaudata. Very small forces of less than 1 newton crushed dry cysts. Wet cysts were even more fragile; many were crushed under less than 7 10<sup>-2</sup> newtons. Differences in vulnerability were found within and between taxa and may be related to cyst morphology. Knowledge of these effects should be taken into consideration when developing management strategies for ephemeral wetlands.
10.2307/1547954|Hyale nilssoni was the most abundant algal-inhabiting amphipod at two New Hampshire study sites, and algal morphology was important for algal species preference. The filamentous alga Polysiphonia lanosa was readily consumed and the most preferred habitat by H. nilssoni in laboratory and field studies. Laboratory studies showed that in the absence of P. lanosa, H. nilssoni chooses ephemeral algal species over the robust perennials Fucus spiralis and Ascophyllum nodosum for shelter. Polysiphonia lanosa, with its densely and finely branched fronds, was easily clung to, and was available throughout the year.
10.2307/1548754|Two species of caprellids collected in deep-water samples from the southern Bay of Biscay are reported herein. One, Parvipalpus major, has not previously been recorded outside the Mediterranean. The second is a new species in the genus Protoaeginella. Sampling methods and ecological data are given for each species.
10.2307/1548634|Lysiosquilla and Coronis belonging to the same family and living in the same habitat, both in sand tunnels, have several differences in the structure and optics of the eye. Coronis has spherical, Lysiosquilla elongated eyes. A large part of the cornea in Coronis is occupied by the middle band, whereas this in Lysiosquilla covers only a small part of the cornea. Lysiosquilla has a larger number and more strongly skewed ommatidia adjacent to the middle band. Though the ommatidial dimensions are different for the two species, acceptance and aperture angles are rather similar. Both species have in common the hexagonal facets in the six rows of ommatidia in the middle band which characterize the superfamily. Both have stronger differences in structure and optics of ommatidia between the dorsal and ventral half of the eye than other stomatopods. Differences in eye structure probably are correlated with behavioral differences, while similarities might be explained by evolutionary developments.
10.2307/1548690|The idoteid isopod Colidotea rostrata is the only known commensal within the suborder Valvifera. This isopod lives on and mimics the color of two eastern Pacific sea urchins, Strongylocentrotus purpuratus and S. franciscanus, and has never been reported as free-living. Field and laboratory observations, and experiments were conducted to examine the natural history and behavior of C. rostrata in southern California. While C. rostrata have no apparent effect on their urchin hosts, the urchins provide the isopods with food (trapped algae) and shelter from predators. Isopods cling tenaciously to urchin spines and cannot swim if dislodged. However, isopods do move between urchin hosts by crawling from the spines of one urchin directly to the spines of adjacent urchins. Laboratory experiments showed that C. rostrata is not capable of chemically mediated host location, and that isopods detached from natural urchin hosts seek alternate refuges and do not feed. Experiments also revealed that isopods shift their position on urchins in response to diurnal cues and tidal height. Increasing light and decreasing water levels cause isopods to move from the exposed aboral urchin surfaces towards the more protected oral surfaces. This behavior appears advantageous in that it minimizes the exposure of isopods to desiccation stress and to predators.
1549658| The external morphology of the cypris larva of the epibiotic barnacle Octolasmis californiana Newman, 1960, found on the gills of the portunid crab Callinectes arcuatus Ordway, 1863, from Nayarit, Mexico, is described for the first time. The cyprid is elongated, about 550 m in length; the surface of the carapace exhibits scattered pores and short setae, with prominent frontal horn pores and five pairs of lattice organs. The arrangement of the lattice organs is different from previously reported patterns. The first pair of thoracopods is slightly different from the rest, for the endopod bears five setae and the exopod six, whereas thoracopods 2-6 bear six setae on the endopod and seven on the exopod. The external morphology of the cyprid of O. californiana combines derived characters, such as the type of lattice organs, with others that might be regarded as plesiomorphic, such as the setation pattern of the thoracopods. 
10.2307/1548597| The genus Tumidotheres is erected to receive its type species Pinnotheres margarita Smith, 1869, from the East Pacific, and P. maculatus Say, 1818, from the West Atlantic. It differs from other pinnotherid genera principally in 3 features: (1) the gastric and cardiac regions are separated from the branchiohepatic area by depressions, all these regions tumid; (2) the palp of the third maxilliped is composed of 3 articles, with the carpus shorter than the spatulate propodus, the dactylus narrowly spatulate, inserted medially on the propodal inner margin and not overreaching the tip of this latter article; and (3) male and female abdomen composed of 7 free abdominal somites. An analysis of morphology of several postplanktonic stages of T. (formerly Pinnotheres) margarita suggested that this species should be considered as a senior synonym of P. pubescens (Holmes, 1894), which apparently was described from a hard-stage female. In addition, the life history, phylogenetic relationships, and larval morphology of Tumidotheres are discussed. /// Un nuevo gnero de cangrejo pinotrido, Tumidotheres, genus novum, es nombrado para recibir a su especie tipo, Pinnotheres margarita Smith, 1869, del Pacfico oriental, y P. maculatus Say, 1818, del Atlntico occidental. Morfologicamente este gnero difiere de otros asignados a Pinnotheridae en tres caractersticas principales: (1) la regin cardaca y la gstrica estn separadas del rea branquio-heptica por depresiones, siendo todas estas regiones del caparazn tmidas; (2) el palpo del tercer maxilipedio est formado por tres artejos, el carpus ms corto que el espatulado propodus y el dactilus, el cual es angostamente espatulado, est inserto en la regin media del propodus y su extremo distal no sobrepasa la punta de ste ltimo artejo; y (3) el abdomen del macho y de la hembra estn compuesto por siete somitos libremente articulados. Adicionalmente se reconoce que Pinnotheres pubescens (Holmes, 1894) fue descrito en base a una hembra en fase dura de T. (ex Pinnotheres) margarita (Smith, 1869) la cual por haber sido descrita primero debe considerarse un sinnimo antiguo y el nombre vlido para esta singular especie. Comentarios adicionales sobre el ciclo de vida, relaciones filogenticas y morfologa larval se discuten para Tumidotheres y gneros emparentados. 
27753932|Fiddler crabs are generally considered polygamous as they tend to live in dense mixed sex colonies with numerous neighbours and individually defended territories. We show that the Australian fiddler crab, Uca capricornis, is socially monogamous based on behavioural experiments and observations of neighbouring males and females. The unusual relationship between neighbouring males and females in U. capricornis is selected for and maintained by intrasexual aggression and the ability to recognise and defend their partner.
10.2307/1548612|Paracerceis sculpta breeds in intertidal sponges, Leucetta losangelensis, where males employ 1 of 3 discrete alternative reproductive behaviors. Elaborate alpha-males attract females to spongocoels where mating and brooding of young by females occurs. Variance in the number of females per alpha-male is high (N = 0-11). Smaller beta-males, resembling females, and tiny gamma-males, resembling juveniles, invade spongocoels containing alpha-males and sexually receptive females. Alpha-, beta-, and gamma-males maintained in the laboratory do not molt or grow, and the 3 morphs differ in the relative amounts of energy they invest in somatic versus gonadal tissue (gamma > beta > alpha). Alternative male reproductive behaviors may have evolved in P. sculpta, since intensifying sexual selection on alpha-males allowed only the most competitive alphas to mate. Males that obtained mates by avoiding direct competition with alphas (e.g., mimicking females or stealing mates) may have persisted, despite their reduced fitness, because they experienced greater fitness than competitively inferior alphas. Similar selective pressures and thus similar male polymorphisms probably exist in other Crustacea.
10.2307/1547920|From the assessment of the individual distribution of 87 species of deep-water brachyuran crabs inhabiting the Straits of Florida, four major distributional patterns were recognized: Continental, Insular, Deep-slope, and Cross-Strait. The Continental pattern included 22 species confined to the continental margin of the Straits. The Insular pattern consisted of 14 species whose occurrence was limited to the western edge of the Bahama Bank and the northern coast of Cuba. The Deep-slope pattern contained only four species found inhabiting the deepest sectors, namely, the southern and lower central regions of the Straits. The Cross-Strait distribution included 44 species or 50% of those examined; these species occupied suitable habitats on both continental and insular margins of the Straits. Four subpatterns are proposed on the basis of the restrictive occurrence that some of these elements exhibited along the three topographic provinces on the continental side.
4540247|Entophilus mirabiledictu, new species, is described as a parasite of Callianassa aqabaensis Dworschak, 2003, in shallow water on the Jordanian coast of the Gulf of Aqaba. It is compared with the only species previously known from the genus or subfamily Entophilinae Richardson, 1903. Entophilus omnitectus Richardson, 1903, a parasite of several species of the galatheid anomuran genus Munida in water deeper than 300 m at widespread localities around the world. Information on the prevalence of the parasite and its effects on its hosts is provided.
4540288| We examined whether color patterns of a marine crustacean may serve to distinguish between individuals and to successfully identify individuals after one molt. Digital images of the rock shrimp Rhynchocinetes typus were digitally processed in order to obtain their diffraction pattern by means of Fast Fourier Transformation (FFT). All diffraction patterns were correlated with a phase-only filter using images of rock shrimp before and after one molt. To determine the degree of similarity of color patterns among rock shrimps, correlation of diffraction pattern was performed. This approach showed that among shrimps the color pattern of the cephalothorax is mainly homogenous (~83%) in both distribution and intensity. However, the observed degree of variability (~17%) was sufficient to distinguish between individuals. Furthermore the general color pattern of each individual persisted after one molt and all 14 individuals could be recognized based on their color pattern. It is concluded that this non-intrusive method for distinguishing among shrimp individuals may be a useful tool that could be developed and used in the future instead of expensive and intrusive tagging techniques. 
1549766|Bunderia misophaga gen. et sp. nov. is described from an anchialine cenote located on the Cape Range peninsula, northwestern Australia. This is the first epacteriscid calanoid known from Australia and represents the third genus of this family of mainly stygobiont copepods recorded in the Indo-Pacific region. Ordinary phenetic analysis points to the monotypic Enantronoides Fosshagen, Boxshall, and Iliffe, from an anchialine cave on the Bahama Islands, as the closest relative of the new genus. This suggests an ancient, relictual status for the new taxon. The predatory habits of the family Epacteriscidae are confirmed after the gut contents of Bunderia yielded remains of a not-yet-described misophrioid copepod.
10.2307/1549420|Potamonautid river crabs were collected from 9 localities in Mpumalanga and Northern Province, South Africa, in order to determine morphological and genetic variation among these populations. Based on the presence or absence of epibranchial teeth, gonopod 1 shape, and marked allozyme divergence, 2 distinct forms were identified. The electrophoretic analysis of 11 enzyme systems, representing 14 presumptive loci, indicated a genetic identity value (I) of 0.66 between the 2 forms and revealed the presence of 4 diagnostic loci. It was concluded that these forms represented populations of Potamonautes sidneyi and populations of a previously unknown species, which is described as Potamonautes unispinus, new species, in this paper. A key to the known potamonautid river crab species from Mpumalanga and Northern Province is also provided.
1549565| Palaemon serratus (Pennant, 1777) is a shrimp with a high market value. It can be extensively produced in salt marshes with good survival rates, and it takes a reasonable period (8-10 months) to attain marketable size. For these reasons, it seems to have a good aquaculture potential. However, little is known about the nutritional requirements of this species, especially at the larval stages, and this may impose constraints to its successful rearing. This paper describes the changes occurring in the fatty acid profile of four developmental stages of Palaemon serratus eggs, newly hatched Zoea I larvae, and Zoea I starved for 24 and 48 hours, with the purpose of assessing larval fatty acid requirements. We also studied the effects of eight diets composed of microalgae (Chlorella sp. and Isochrysis galbana), rotifer (Brachionus plicatilis) and non-enriched or enriched brine shrimp (Artemia franciscana) nauplii on the fatty acid profiles of P. serratus postlarvae. Analysis of the P. serratus eggs revealed a high PUFA and HUFA content, which confirms their nutritional importance. The best results, in terms of postlarval fatty acid profile, were achieved with a diet of Artemia nauplii enriched with Protein Selco, followed by a diet of B. plicatilis, Artemia nauplii, and Isochrysis galbana. The results from the present study are compared with survival and growth data from a previous study, and it is concluded that Protein Selco appears to be the best Artemia enrichment product for the larval rearing of P. serratus. 
4094149|Male sand-bubbler crabs Scopimera globosa perform a waving display during their reproductive season, but waving is not used when a male is paired with a female. A male grasps and brings a female into his burrow for mating. We conducted this study to clarify the function of the waving display of S. globosa. The frequency of waving was correlated with male size, and males that paired successfully underground waved significantly more often and were significantly larger than their neighbors. Females that were released in front of waving males either approached or fled from the waving male or they made no response. All the females that approached waving males completed underground pairing without resisting capture by the male, but most females that fled or did not respond resisted capture. Females that approached waving males had more developed ovaries compared to females that fled. These results suggest that waving in S. globosa functions as part of courtship behavior and that waving males detect females with ripe gonads according to how the female responds to the displaying male.
41315747|In this study, we developed a simple and rapid restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) method to distinguish the sibling species Hemigrapsus penicillatus and H. takanoi based on interspecific base substitutions within the 16S rRNA region of mitochondrial DNA. Sequencing and alignment of partial sequences revealed two haplotypes for H. penicillatus and one for H. takanoi, and five species-specific base substitutions. Digestion of the PCR products using the restriction endonuclease Dde I produced a banding pattern that was consistent with species identification based on morphological and pigmentation patterns. The sequence for H. takanoi collected in Japan showed high homology with that reported for specimens collected in Europe. This method could be useful for identification of these two species by researchers without specific taxonomie knowledge.
10.2307/1549265| Trends in reproductive activity of an intertidal population of Pagurus longicarpus from coastal New Jersey were studied from 1985-1990. Brooding occurred from late March-October, with a sharp peak in ovigerous crabs in April (70.6-96.4% of yearly total). Mean water temperatures at the commencement of breeding in March and April were <10C. A rapid decline in ovigerous crabs occurred in May and June and throughout the summer; ovigers were rare in September and October (4 among 849 crabs). The smallest oviger was 1.85 mm in carapace shield length (SL), although minimum length was generally 2.2-2.3 mm. The number of embryos in a brood was positively correlated with SL, but there was considerable variability in this relationship. The maximum number of embryos in a brood among 474 counted, was 1,426 (from a 3.70-mm crab). Embryos were attached to pleopods 2, 3, and 4, with most attaching to the third. Mature oocytes observed and counted in nonovigerous and postovigerous crabs suggest that some crabs may produce more than 1 brood in a season. Recruitment of benthic juveniles to the population began in May and continued throughout the summer and fall. 
10.2307/1548051| Photis conchicola is a tube-building marine amphipod that uses empty gastropod shells as a portable shelter. Observations in San Luis Obispo County, California, revealed that small (1-10 mm) empty shells are used as domiciles to contain soft tubes constructed from silk spun by P. conchicola in intertidal and subtidal regions. Domiciles are attached to marine plants in maximum densities of 38 per 1/16 m<sup>2</sup>. Selection of plants is nonspecific with attachment accomplished by cementing a portion of the tube to the chosen plants, principally algae. Typical habitats included pockets of sand and shell debris with a low level (30 cm) algal canopy. Although the adult sex ratio is near unity, the majority of solitary domicile inhabitants were males within intertidal and subtidal regions. Adult males with gravid females were the most common cohabitants in the intertidal area. Solitary juveniles were collected most frequently within the subtidal region where initial shell-searching is presumed to occur. Empty gastropod shells typically selected as domiciles were of the same species of gastropods sympatric on algae to which domiciles were attached. Over 80 per cent of all gastropod taxa selected for occupancy were generally in good condition (no broken apertures, spines, or shells with encrusting bryozoans) with natural colors and banding patterns apparent. Increased survivorship of P. conchicola due to reduced predation may result from appearing as an unpalatable, cryptic, or disruptively colored prey item. 
20487714|We compared the effectiveness of light traps and plankton tows for sampling brachyuran crab larvae in Bartlett Cove, Glacier Bay, Alaska, U.S.A. during three nights each in July and August 2001 and June, August, and September 2002. Proportions of species and stages were used to compare larvae caught by light traps and plankton tows. Absolute numbers of larvae are difficult to compare because of the difference in sampling volume and duration of each method. Both methods captured early and late-stage larvae of four brachyuran families, Cancridae, Grapsidae, Pinnotheridae, and Majidae. However, light traps collected many late-stage (megalopae) cancrid larvae, which were rarely collected by plankton tows, suggesting that late-stage larvae may be undersampled by plankton tows. In contrast, plankton tows collected many early stage (zoeae) pinnotherid larvae, which may be undersampled by light traps. These results follow the same pattern as that found for tropical fish larvae, that light traps are a useful sampling device for settlement-size larvae. Light traps provide a simple method to collect high resolution temporal data on late-stage larval abundance, and their use has improved our ability to discern recruitment dynamics for decapod crustaceans.
1549906| Moina hutchinsoni Brehm, 1937, a nearctic anomopod cladoceran, was observed in shallow ephemeral ponds of the former Texcoco Lake, near Mexico City, Mexico. The type material, from Lake Winnemucca, Nevada, was considered lost; additional topotypic material could not be obtained from that locality because the site is completely dry. The species is redescribed herein based on specimens from Texcoco Lake and Border Lake, Nebraska. Specimens from these localities were compared to study the morphological variability of this species; differences were found in the cuticular hair patterns on head, body, antennules, and second antennae, in the number of feathered setae on the postabdomen, and in the structure of pectens in claws. The life cycle of this rare species was analyzed in the laboratory. In culture, diet consisted of the microalgae Ankistrodesmus falcatus (freshwater) and Chlorella sp. (marine); both algae were consumed by the cladoceran. Culture temperature ranged between 15 and 20C, and salinity range was 5-25 g L<sup>-1</sup>. Cultured specimens were significantly larger than those from field populations. Lower temperatures correlated with a delayed first reproduction and with a longer inactive time between succeeding clutches. The wide thermal and salinity ranges tested during culturing, plus the ability of these animals to consume algae not normally found in its natural environment, suggest a euryecious character of this species in laboratory conditions that contrasts with the affinity of natural populations for high-salinity habitats. The lifespan of this species is longer than that of other moinids; it may be the longest-lived species within the Moinidae. The average clutch size ranged from 12 to 24.8 neonates; optimal environmental conditions differed for number of neonates and maximum clutch size. Loss of the natural environments (saline lakes) where this rare species has been recorded, both in Mexico and U.S.A., suggests an endangered status of this cladoceran. 
10.2307/1548695| The South American mud crab Panopeus austrobesus was described only recently (Williams, 1983) as 1 of 6 distinct species that formerly had been considered local "forms" of Panopeus herbstii Milne Edwards, 1834, sensu lato. The larval development in this group of closely related species has been described only in P. herbstii sensu stricto (or, possibly, Panopeus obesus?) from Beaufort, North Carolina. In the present study, larvae of Brazilian P. austrobesus were reared in the laboratory from hatching to metamorphosis. Development consists of a nonfeeding prezoea, 4 zoeac, and 1 megalopa stage. Duration of each of the zoeal stages at 25C is 4-6 d, and in the megalopal stage about 10 d, i.e., total larval development duration lasts approximately 1 month. The morphology of the larvae is described and compared with that of larvae of P. herbstii sensu stricto (?) and of the 3 species of Panopeus, P. americanus, P. occidentalis, and P. bermudensis, that occur on the Brazilian coast and for which descriptions have recently become available. Comparison of characters considered plesiomorphic reveals that each larval stage can be clearly distinguished from the corresponding stage in P. herbstii sensu stricto (?) and in the other species. Surprisingly, some morphological characters of larvae of P. austrobesus show similarity more to P. bermudensis than to P. herbstii (?) from Beaufort. Possible relationships among these species are discussed, and an identification key is given for the larval stages of the above mentioned Brazilian species of Panopeus. 
1549814|Based on a comparison of the internal musculature of the fifth and sixth limbs of the cypridinid ostracode Isocypridina quatursetae, it is tentatively concluded that the sixth limbs of members of the Cypridinidae are biramous, each bearing an exopod represented by a cluster of small bristles (setae) and an endopod with two podomeres. The protopod contains a coxa with two endites and a basis with one endite.
1549686| Re-examination of the type material of Ismardis spartacus Leigh-Sharpe, 1936 (Copepoda, Harpacticoida), discovered in the gonad and mantle cavity of Patella caerulea L. (Mollusca), revealed that the species should be allocated to the genus Harpacticus Milne-Edwards, 1840, and not to the Thalestridae as previously suggested. The genus Ismardis and the family Ismardiidae are relegated to junior synonyms of Harpacticus and Harpacticidae, respectively. Harpacticus spartacus, new combination, is conspecific with the "schwcheren" form of the Mediterranean H. nicaeensis Claus, 1866. The taxonomic confusion surrounding H. gracilis Claus, 1866 is reviewed, and the species is regarded as unrecognizable, rendering all subsequent records unconfirmed, doubtful, or erroneous. At least some material previously identified with this species proved to be conspecific with H. longiantennata Apostolov and Petkovski, 1980 (Banyuls-sur-Mer) or based on an amalgamate of H. obscurus T. Scott, 1895, and H. giesbrechti Klie, 1927 (Norway). Several species formerly relegated to junior synonyms of H. gracilis are reinstated as species inquirendae: H. elongatus Boeck, 1865; H. dentatus Krichagin, 1873; and H. fucicolus T. Scott, 1912. The only European record of H. pulvinatus Brady, 1910, being otherwise endemic to the Southern Hemisphere, is based on a misidentification, being attributable to H. nicaeensis. Other records of the latter from outside the Ponto-Mediterranean basin are unverifiable and probably false, including the Angolese material of H. nicaeensis, which is regarded as species inquirenda in Harpacticus. 
10.2307/1548948|The development of the Jamaican grapsid crab Armases miersii was studied in laboratory experiments under various conditions of salinity, temperature, and starvation. Females produced 908-4,334 medium-sized eggs (mean diameter = 0.51 mm). Development was abbreviated and consisted of 3 morphologically advanced zoeal stages and 1 megalopa. Development to the first crab stage took place in salinities ranging from 5-50 ppt. With increasing temperatures, duration of development decreased and survival at low salinities increased. These features enable the larvae to survive in a highly variable environment, supratidal rock pools along the coast of Jamaica. When continuously starved, energy reserves in larvae were sufficient for development through the first and occasionally the second zoeal stage, but later stages must feed in order to survive. Compared to other species of Armases, A. miersii produced fewer, larger eggs, larval development consisted of only 3 instead of 4 zoeal stages, larvae tolerated a wider range of salinities, and showed a higher degree of lecithotrophy. The abbreviated development and partial lecithotrophy are discussed as a step toward emanicpation from the marine environment.
1549765|The Splanchnotrophidae is a small family of bizarre poecilostomatoid copepods which utilize marine opisthobranch gastropods, including nudibranchs and pteropods, as hosts. Species have traditionally been placed in this family primarily on the basis of host affiliation, largely neglecting the fundamental differences in morphology and paying virtually no attention to the concept of homology. Morphological analysis based on detailed re-examination of types and newly obtained material from existing museum collections revealed that the Splanchnotrophidae comprises genera drawn from three different families in addition to one non-copepodan taxon. The family Splanchnotrophidae is redefined to include only Splanchnotrophus Hancock and Norman, 1863, Ismaila Bergh, 1867, Lomanoticola Scott and Scott, 1895, and two new monotypic genera. All splanchnotrophids are endoparasites of nudibranch and sacoglossan opisthobranchs and show a vast size disparity between the sexes caused by hypermorphosis in the female. The genus Splanchnotrophus is restricted here to the European species and assumes a boreo-mediterranean distribution. It is redefined on the basis of redescriptions given for S. gracilis Norman and Hancock, 1863, and S. angulatus Hecht, 1893. The Western Australian species S. elysiae Jensen, 1990, and S. sacculatus O'Donoghue, 1924, are re-examined and placed in two new genera, Arthurius and Ceratosomicola, respectively. Re-examination of the mouthparts provided unambiguous evidence justifying formal placement of Briarella Bergh, 1876, in the Philoblennidae, a family thus far known only as ectoparasites from prosobranch gastropods in the Far East. The inadequately described genus Chondrocarpus Bassett-Smith, 1903, is provisionally placed as genus incertae sedis in this family. A new family Micrallectidae is proposed to accommodate Micrallecto Stock, 1971. The genus Nannallecto Stock, 1973, is regarded as a junior subjective synonym of the latter because the generic distinction was largely based on two glaring observational errors: the absence of maxillae in M. uncinata Stock, 1971, caused by imperfect removal of the parasite from the host, and the presence of a chelate leg 2 in N. fusii Stock, 1973, which in reality is a feature of the developing nauplii visible through the body wall of the brooding female. Previous interpretations of the mouthparts in Micrallecto were essentially unsound. Micrallectids are ectoparasites of gymnosome pteropods and display a unique, extremely abbreviated life cycle, involving lecithotrophic nauplii and highly paedomorphic ovoviviparous adults that attain sexual maturity at the metanaupliar stage. Inspection of pteropod collections in the Natural History Museum led to the discovery of the first male specimen providing conclusive evidence for the proposal of a new family. The Micrallectidae is placed in the Poecilostomatoida on the basis of antennary armature, mandibular palp morphology and mating posture. The genus Megallecto Gotto, 1986, is based on a head fragment of a hyperiid amphipod that was erroneously interpreted upside down and back to front. Its type species M. thirioti Gotto, 1986, is identified as a junior subjective synonym of Phrosina semilunata Risso, 1822, a widely distributed and very abundant hyperiid in the Atlantic.
1549676|Two new species and two new records of the family Camptandriidae are reported from mangroves in the southwest coast of Irian Jaya, Indonesia. Paracleistostoma laciniatum, new species, and P. quadratum, new species, differ from congeners in the form of the male first pleopod, which is long and cylindrical in the first species, and short and rounded in the second. Paracleistostoma mcneilli (Ward, 1933) and Baruna trigranulum (Dai and Song, 1986) are recorded for the first time from Indonesian waters.
10.2307/1548531|Small shrimps collected from a mangrove creek in Darwin Harbor, Northern Territory, Australia, belong to a new species of alpheid shrimp, Potamalpheops hanleyi, which is described and illustrated. The genus Potamalpheops, not previously recorded from the Australian continent, is known from four species in West Africa, in brackish and fresh water, and a single species occurring in a cave in Mexico. The disjunct distribution on three continents suggests an ancient origin for the genus and an original Tethyan distribution.
20487738|In examining the surface sculpture of the eggs of extant clam shrimps, chiefly from China, at least four types can be recognized. 1) Ridge-type eggshells have a variety of features, but all eggshell surfaces are ornamented with stout protruding ridges separated by deeply wide valleys. The surface can be textured with numerous minute pores. This pattern is unique to Limnadidae. 2) Reticular-type eggshells are spherical in aspect with large polygonal reticulations, which is seen in the taxa of Leptestheriidae (diameter 85-110 m). 3) Hairy-type eggshells are covered by numerous hairy ornaments. Occasionally, crowded minute dots fill in among hairy structures (diameter 115-160 m), and these types may belong to Cyzicus and Caenestheriella. 4) Ripple-type eggshells are spherical with a densely ripple sculpture (diameter 90-150 m). This type is commonly seen in species of Eocyzicus (Cyzicidae) or Lynceus (Lynceidae). Therefore, the eggshell morphology is a useful character for identification at either the high taxonomic or the species level. In terms of egg diameter, the extant eggs are quite similar to those of fossil eggs from the Lower Permian (100-110 m) of Germany and the Middle Jurassic (c.130 m) of China. Likewise, the shape and size of the eggs of kazacharthrans from the Upper Triassic of China are somewhat similar to those of cyzicids. They are much smaller (150-160 m) than that of extant notostracans (&gt; 400 m). In general, the anostracan eggs are larger than those of clam shrimps in size and less than in number, such as seen in a new taxon from the Middle Jurassic being 220-240 m. However, Chirocephalus rasnitsyni from the Lower Cretaceous of Russia (c.200 m) is similar to those of clam shrimps. Fossil cladoceran ephippia found from Early Permian to Quaternary ranges from 300 m to 500 m. They are easily distinguished from both extant and fossil clam shrimp egg forms.
4094237|The systematics of the Calappa lophos species group is clarified using morphological and molecular data. The phylogeny of some Indo-Pacific species of Calappa is discussed. Two species, C. quadrimaculata Takeda and Shikatani, 1990, and C. guerini (Brito-Capello, 1871), previously synonymised with C. lophos (Herbst, 1782), are shown to be valid species using morphological and molecular data. A new species in the group, C. acutispina, is described from Madagascar. The usefulness of Bayesian inference in elucidating the phylogenetic relationships of some of the species of Calappa based on partial cytochrome oxidase I (COI) sequences is examined.
10.2307/1548107|1. The specific alpha<sub>2</sub> adrenoceptor agonist B-HT 933 significantly reduced the rate of melanin dispersion in crabs transferred from a white to a black background. 2. The specific alpha<sub>2</sub> adrenoceptor blockers rauwolscine and yohimbine significantly increased the rate of melanin dispersion in crabs transferred from a white to a black background. 3. Rauwolscine and yohimbine, but not the alpha<sub>1</sub> adrenoceptor blocker indoramin, antagonized B-HT 933. 4. In crabs pretreated with the catecholaminergic neurotoxin 6-hydroxydopamine, which inhibits melanin dispersion, B-HT 933 did not produce further significant inhibition in the rate of melanin dispersion. 5. None of the drugs has been found to affect melanin migration in melanophores of isolated legs. 6. The results are consistent with the hypothesis that presynaptic adrenoceptors very similar to alpha<sub>2</sub> adrenoceptors of mammals regulate impulse-mediated norepinephrinergic neurotransmission in the fiddler crab Uca pugilator, norepinephrine triggering release of a melanin-dispersing hormone.
10.2307/1548941|A new species of cave shrimp, Parhippolyte cavernicola, is described from the Gulf of California, Mexico. This new species closely resembles Somersiella sterreri from the Caribbean and western Atlantic, but is smaller in total length and has a shorter curved rostrum with fewer teeth. Specimens of the new species and S. sterreri from the Bahamas possess a podobranch on the second maxilliped, as well as an epipod. These features supposedly are absent in the genus Somersiella, and have been used to distinguish it from the related genus Parhippolyte. No other consistent distinguishing features of habitat, morphology, or color have been noted. Because of the lack of distinguishing features, the genus Somersiella Hart and Manning is considered to be a junior synonym of Parhippolyte Borradaile. Koror misticius Clark, considered to belong to a separate genus allied to Parhippolyte and Somersiella, lacks any unique characteristics that can be used to distinguish it as a genus.
1549611| The marsupial development of a population of Americamysis (= Mysidopsis) bahia from the Gulf of Mexico was examined at 16C, 20C, and 29C from oviposition to the juvenile stage. Three phases of development, divided into five stages, occurred during in vitro culture of larvae. The embryonic phase (Stage 1) is spherical and surrounded by the egg membrane. The nauplioid phase begins with hatching from the egg membrane and consists of an early (Stage 2) and late (Stage 3) stage. The early nauplioid stage, which is divided into three substages, elongates into a comma-shaped larva and ends with the appearance of thoracic chromatophores. Stage 3 begins with the formation of eye pigment and ends with the shedding of the naupliar cuticle. The subsequent postnauplioid phase has two stages. Stage 4 is characterized by the formation of a yolk protuberance anterodorsal to the carapace. Stage 5 begins with enclosure of the yolk in the carapace and ends with release of the larvae from the marsupium and a molt to the juvenile stage. Following liberation of young at night, the female molts, and usually mates and extrudes another brood of eggs. Survival rates of A. bahia larvae in vitro increased with age and with decreasing temperature. Average brood durations of larvae were 15.5 days at 16C, 10.4 days at 20C, and 4.6 days at 29C. Observations of brood release, spatial organization within the marsupium, and adoption of larvae are discussed. 
27753959|This study examined important stimuli influencing agonistic conspecific pairs of Macrobrachium australiense and how these affected diurnal refuge usage. The results demonstrated key behaviours underlying refuge competition, and have ramifications for how we view the link between conspecific competition and exposure to predation. Different levels of vegetation stalk density were employed to examine the effects of increased refuge quality on the hierarchical interaction. The data analysis demonstrated that the prawns were responding to nearby stimuli which altered detectability, e.g., vegetation density, conspecific size, conspecific movement. Dominants and subordinates both responded to the same stimuli, however, the behavioural response was different. Increasing subordinate size lead to increased dominant activity in all refuges, irrespective of vegetation density. Increasing dominant size caused an increase in subordinate activity in high density refugia but a reduction in low density refugia. The increased activity lead to an overall increase in time spent outside of the refuge for all individuals. Subordinates spent substantially more time outside of the refuge than the dominant individuals. As such refuge competition biases the exposure of individuals to risk, localised changes to this bias, i.e., the size of neighbouring conspecifics, can influence this risk and determine the vulnerability of specific demographics, i.e., smaller individuals, to predation.
41315718|Ferritin is an important protein for iron storage in cells. A hepatopancreas cDNA library from the mud crab Scylla paramamosain was constructed using the SMART technique. A complete cDNA sequence that showed high identity with the conserved sequence of the ferritin gene was cloned from the cDNA library and subjected to further investigation. The full-length ferritin gene of Scylla paramamosain (SpFer) consists of 767 bp and contains a complete open reading frame of 513 bp and a 26-bp iron-respective element in the 5'-untranslated region. The gene encodes a polypeptide of 170 amino acids, constituting a predicted molecular weight of 19.44 kDa and a theoretical isoelectric point of 5.24. The deduced protein shares 84% identity with the ferritin protein of the crab Eriocheir sinensis. Quantitative real-time PCR analyses revealed that the expression of ferritin was ubiquitous in different organs of S. paramamosain, including muscle, heart, ovary, testis, and hepatopancreas. The highest expression level was found in the heart, while testis tissue showed the lowest level. Ferritin mRNA expression in continuous developmental stages in zoeal phases, including Z1, Z2, Z3, Z4, and Z5, as well as megalopa and juvenile crab I stages, were also examined by quantitative real-time PCR. The expression level of ferritin was highest in the Z1 stage and lowest in the megalopa stage. This study provides useful information regarding the structure and function of ferritin and will play an important role in immunity and resistance research in S. paramamosain.
10.2307/1549001|The marsupial contents of three isopod species were examined once weekly during the marsupial period of each of them. The species were: Porcellio ficulneus Budde-Lund (Porcellionidae), Armadillo officinalis Dumeril (Armadilliidae), and Schizidium tiberianum Verhoeff (Armadillidiidae). Whereas in the first two species the eggs are connected to cotyledons, in the last species they are contained inside sacs within the marsupium. The three species varied in the duration of egg incubation, the time of manca appearance, as well as in the extent of cannibalism among the mancas. The latter may account for part of the marsupial egg loss.
10.2307/1548208|Thermosphaeroma milleri is described from 3 hot springs in northwestern Chihuahua, and T. smithi is described from Balneario San Diego in central Chihuahua. Supplemental descriptive notes are given for Thermosphaeroma thermophilum, from Socorro, New Mexico, and its status as an endangered species is briefly discussed. A key is given for all 5 species of Thermosphaeroma, and the probable origin of the genus from marine ancestors is considered. The presence of flabelliferans in hot springs and their absence in freshwater streams, ponds, and lakes is attributed to their inability to compete with most species of larval insects.
1549480|A molecular phylogenetic analysis of the stomatopod family Gonodactylidae and selected representatives of the superfamily Gonodactyloidea was conducted using 649 base pairs of DNA sequence data from mitochondrial cytochrome oxidase C subunit 1 (CO-I). Results showed the family Gonodactylidae is not monophyletic (P < 0.0001). Within the Gonodactylidae, results are inconclusive as to whether Gonodactylellus, Gonodactylinus, and Gonodactylus represent distinct monophyletic taxa or should be collapsed into a single genus Gonodactylus. Results strongly indicate that Gonodactylellus is polyphyletic; four of the five Gonodactylellus species examined formed a monophyletic clade which was closely related to Gonodactylus and Gonodactylinus, while Gonodactylellus hendersoni was found to be deeply divergent from its congeners and formed a strong monophyletic group with members of Gonodactylopsis and Hoplosquilla. The genus Gonodactylaceus was found to be monophyletic and highly divergent from the other gonodactylid genera. The species Gonodactylaceus aloha is shown to be a synonym of G. mutatus. Finally, although our analysis suggests a close relationship of Odontodactylus and Hemisquilla, high levels of nucleotide substitution saturation prevented the resolution of deep (family level) branches within the phylogenetic structure of this relatively old stomatopod lineage.
10.2307/1548868|The external morphology and internal anatomy are described of the female of Avdeevia antarctica, a new genus and species of harpacticoid copepod, parasitic on the Antarctic octopodan cephalopod Megaleledone senoi. It is distinguished from related genera of the subfamily Cholidyinae by its proportionately much larger body and reduced number of legs. The species is attached to the gill of its host and feeds upon the blood.
4094140|A new genus and species of gnathiid isopod, Tenerognathia visus, is described on the basis of three male specimens sampled from coral rubble infauna in the Ryukyus, Japan. The dorsal view of the gnathiid, having small mandibles, large eyes, and a slender body, is more similar to larvae than adult males of other gnathiid species. The pylopod of Tenerognathia resembles that of Caecognathia, Elaphognathia, and Gnathia in the number of articles, but is distinctly more elongated. Morphologies of the mandibles, cephalon, and thorax are compared with these three genera.
1549783|The rates of exchange of sodium and water and renal filtration rates were measured in field populations of Birgus latro (Linnaeus, 1756) in rain forest on Christmas Island, Indian Ocean. Water exchange was quite high (47.7 ml kg<sup>-1</sup> d<sup>-1</sup>) and on seed diets must have been derived largely from drinking, although animal tissue when eaten would have provided a greater amount of preformed water. Under prevailing conditions water output was chiefly in the excretory fluid. Intake of sodium was almost entirely from the food, and the mean rate of exchange of sodium (7.8 mmol kg<sup>-1</sup> d<sup>-1</sup>) was too high to be satisfied from vegetable origins. The crabs clearly fed regularly on animal material, probably Red Crabs, Gecarcoidea natalis. The bulk of sodium loss occurred via the excretory fluid. The intakes of water and sodium are well above the minimum level required for the maintenance of salt and water balance and, under field conditions with access only to rain water for drinking, B. latro has a very considerable reserve of osmoregulatory capacity. Saline drinking water is not required for the maintenance of ion balance.
10.2307/1549465| The reproductive biology and growth of the deep-water pandalid shrimp Plesionika semilaevis Bate were studied. A total of 4,433 specimens were collected from the central area of Kagoshima Bay, southern Kyushu, Japan. The number of eggs (embryos) attached to the pleopods ranged from 1,048-8,702. The embryos were 0.60  0.56 mm in mean size at spawning and 0.78  0.53 mm just before hatching. A reduction in brood size with development was observed. Ovigerous females were collected from May-December. The hatching period was estimated to last from June-December, based on the occurrence of ovigerous females with latestage embryos. The duration of incubation appeared to be less than 2 months. Growth patterns for both sexes were modeled by fitting the von Bertalanffy growth equation to the mean carapace lengths at various ages. Females grow faster and reach larger sizes earlier than males of the same age group. Longevity was estimated to be around 3 years for both sexes. A comparison of specimen size from different regions reported in previous papers and from the present study demonstrated geographical variation in the maximum body size of P. semilaevis. 
10.2307/1549303|The taxonomy of Echinoecus, a genus of crabs symbiotic with sea urchins, is revised. The genus Proechinoecus is a synonym of Echinoecus. Echinoecus, as here defined, contains 3 species: E. pentagonus, E. nipponicus, and E sculptus.
4540278|Two species of the poecilostomatoid copepods, Allopodion ryukyuensis n. sp. and Xenomolgus varius Humes and Stock, are recorded from galls and crypts on the scleractinian corals Montipora informis and Porites sp.(p), respectively, in Okinawa, Japan. Allopodion ryukyuensis is distinguished from its sole congener, A. mirum Humes, by having shorter caudal rami and abdominal somites, rounded lateral margins of the female genital double-somite, and a greater number of setal elements on the third exopodal segment of legs 2-4. The morphological features of the galls and crypts on the scleractinian hosts inhabited by A. ryukyuensis and X. varius are described, and it is proposed that certain other scleractinian-associated copepods likely also make use of similar habitations.
10.2307/1548632|Number of ommatidia, total eye area, and head length were measured for samples from 4 spring and 4 cave populations of the amphipod Gammarus minus Say, 1818, from four karst drainages in southern West Virginia. Data were analyzed using the allometric equation y = ax<sup>b</sup>. For spring populations, eye area showed positive allometry for all populations (b = 1.55), while numbers of ommatidia showed a variety of patterns, ranging from negative allometry to positive allometry. Compared to spring populations from the same basin, cave populations showed reduced eye area and numbers of ommatidia (both small and large individuals). There were no consistent differences in allometric coefficients (b) between cave and spring populations. Cave populations also differed among themselves, both in eye area and numbers of ommatidia. In one population (Organ Cave), the numbers of ommatidia showed a statistically significant decrease with increasing size of the animal. Some populations showed unimodal and other populations showed bimodal distributions of numbers of ommatidia.
1549634| Egg production and hatching success of four Acartia species from the Solent-Southampton Water estuarine system were determined under different temperature (5-20C) and salinity (15-35 psu) laboratory regimes. Fecundity typically increased with increasing temperature for all species, and hatching success was suppressed at 5C and 10C in all species. With respect to salinity, egg production patterns were more irregular, but some species produced fewer eggs at the lowest salinity tested. At a 24 h incubation period, some differences in hatching success were obtained at the different salinities tested. Results indicate that temperature plays an important role in the population dynamics of the congeneric group Acartia within the system and that salinity changes may also influence the fecundity of the species. 
41315752|Two amphipod species, Niphargus ictus and N. frasassianus, which are endemic to Frasassi Caves. Italy, possess morphological features typical of most troglobitic species. Most notably they lack eyes. Although cave waters flow directly into the adjoining Sentino River and N. frasassianus is found within two meters of the resurgence, neither species is present at or further outside the mouth of the cave, which raises the question of how they avoid leaving the cave. It was hypothesized that these animals might be able to detect light, and could use light cues to remain inside the cave. Individuals of both species exhibited greater activity levels in the presence of bright vs. low light levels. Neither species exhibited the dorsal light reflex, but both showed weak negative phototaxis when exposed to bright light directed at them from above and below. N. frasassianus, tested in an apparatus that permitted them to travel freely between bright or low lighted areas, demonstrated negative phototaxis. The results show that both species can detect light, and suggest light cues may be utilized to remain in the caves.
10.2307/1548316|Adult mud crabs, Rhithropanopeus harrisii, were held in the laboratory for 14 months at densities of 20 or 40 crabs per 0.5 m<sup>2</sup> and at female: male ratios of 2:1, 4:1, and 6:1. Females spawned for 9 months during the calendar year and entered a refractory period from November through January. Field populations in North Carolina spawn for only 5 months of the year. Spawning increased with increasing crab density and female: male ratio. Ovigers were most abundant in habitats containing 40 crabs at a 6:1 sex ratio (8.3 ovigers per week), and were least abundant in habitats containing 20 crabs at a 2:1 ratio (2.8 per week). However, the highest proportion of crabs spawned in habitats containing 20 crabs at a 6:1 sex ratio. Neither density nor sex ratio affected female mortality. Crabs at the lowest sex ratio (2:1) and highest density (40 crabs) produced larvae that survived poorly (45% survival to first crab stage). However, larval viability was good at all other densities and sex ratios. Maintaining crabs at high densities and female: male sex ratios in the laboratory, even during a portion of the nonbreeding season, augmented egg production. These methods can facilitate studies of reproduction and development of R. harrisii.
20487786|The abundance, sex ratio, growth, sexual maturity, morphological sex dimorphism, and reproduction of the portunid crab Charybdis bimaculata was studied in Tokyo Bay, Japan, between November 2002 and October 2003. Relative abundance [inferred from catch-perunit-effort (CPUE) was higher and lower during summer and winter months, respectively. The proportion of males varied between 0.2-0.5 throughout the year and the overall sex ratio was greatly biased toward females. The population had a unimodal size frequency distribution and the life-span was estimated to be about one year. Growth was not depressed in winter and was adequately described by the von Bertalanffy growth equation. The puberty molt in males brought about changes in the relative size of the chelipeds and gonopods and was estimated to occur within a carapace length (CL) range of 12.50-16.00 mm. Puberty in females was evidenced by a sharp increase in the pleon width and was estimated to occur at CLs between 11.34 and 16.74 mm. Morphological sexual dimorphism was observed in all features which showed secondary sexual development (cheliped dimensions, carapace and pleon width, and body weight). Ovarian development was uniformly arrested only during winter but began developing in early spring, and mating (insemination) increased in frequency between spring and summer. Ovigerous females were found in all seasons except for winter, but were more common during the warmer months. Batch fecundity ranged from 8,300 to 38,400 eggs per female and was positively correlated with body size. C. bimaculata displays the typical reproductive features and spawning pattern of temperate portunid crabs in spite of its short life-span.
4540312| The Schumacher-Eschmeyer and the Schnabel estimators for closed population were employed to estimate the population size of Aegla franca from an isolated section (30 m long; area: 76.125 m) of the Barro Preto stream (2018'47"S; 4716'37"W) in the summer and winter seasons of the year 2005. These methods involve mark-recapture technique with multiple sampling, and each season estimate was conducted for eight consecutive days. The study area was isolated with a 4 mm mesh net to prevent migration of aeglids into or out of the study area. Traps were randomly set overnight and inspected for captured aeglids in the following morning. Two marking techniques were employed separately: a mixture of silver purpurin powder and fast-drying glue gel (summer estimate) and cauterization by red-hot pin head (winter estimate). All unmarked individuals from each sampling event were sexed, had their carapace length measured and were then marked, and released back in midpoint of the isolated area of the stream along with previously marked (recaptured) specimens. The Schumacher-Eschmeyer estimator provided very close results between the summer (N = 212 and density = 2.8 ind./m) and the winter (N = 218 and density = 2.9 ind./m) estimates. The Schnabel estimate results were also very similar to that obtained by the SchumacherEschmeyer method for each corresponding season of the year. Regardless of the marking technique employed, the results obtained and field observations from each estimate indicate that none of the assumptions required by both methods were violated. After subtracting the percentage of immature specimens, the projected overall population size of mature Aegla franca for the whole extension of Barro Preto stream varied from approximately 33,200 in the summer and 29,500 adults in the winter (Schumacher-Eschmeyer estimator) for an estimated area of occupancy equivalent to 0.0125 km. 
10.2307/1548391| Two new species of canthocamptid Harpacticoidea are described from the Bromeliaceae of the Nature reserve in the State of So Paulo, Brazil, namely, Attheyella (Attheyella) jureiae, new species, and Attheyella (Canthosella) vera, new species. Comments on the ecology of harpacticoids in water accumulations of different plant species are added, as well as a few reflections on the difficulties of canthocamptid taxonomy. 
10.2307/1547956|The independent lineages of the two superfamilies of hermit crabs, the Coenobitoidea and Paguroidea, were originally hypothesized from evidence gained in the study of larval development of a very few species. Subsequent studies have shown that the proposed relationships among thalassinoids--coenobitoids and paguroids--galatheoids are not as probable as once believed. The question of hermit crab phylogeny (including the lithodids) is re-examined using cladistic methodology. As a result of this analysis, the families Pomatochelidae, Diogenidae, Coenobitidae, Paguridae, Parapaguridae, and Lithodidae are reunited under the superfamily Paguroidea, infraorder Anomala.
10.2307/1548367|A finely preserved specimen of Xanthosia elegans occidentalis Bishop, 1985, from the early Campanian Gammon Ferruginous Member of the Pierre Shale collected from the Heart Tail Ranch Association, Butte County, South Dakota, allows elevation of the subspecies to specieslevel rank and allows its comparison with Xanthosia elegans Roberts, 1962. Xanthosia occidentalis, new species, is judged to have been an active swimming crab. Because of the inferred swimming mode of life, relative stratigraphic positions of species of Xanthosia to younger portunid crabs, and the overall remarkable similarity of Xanthosia to portunid crabs, Xanthosia is suggested as a likely ancestor to the Portunidae. A second species, Xanthosia spinosa, new species, is described from the Pierre Shale (upper Campanian) of Grand County, Colorado.
1549898|More than 500 nearly complete specimens of the Atlantic ghost crab Ocypode quadrata (Fabricius) were collected from the upper Pleistocene to Holocene Anastasia Formation along beaches in Brevard County, Florida. Such whole-body decapod crustaceans are rare in Quaternary deposits of the southeastern United States. The low degree of disarticulation and the posture of the crabs indicate that they died while in their burrows, probably by winterkill. Fossil O. quadrata were found in two conditions: those with a clearly crab-like form, bearing a loose, friable matrix of shell hash with little cementation, no visible abrasion, no calcite infilling, and no attached fossil or Recent epibionts; and those that were barely recognizable as crabs, with a thick layer of heavily cemented matrix, a highly sand-abraded (polished) surface, some voids filled with calcite-cemented grains or calcite crystals, and some with Recent epibionts in exposed cavities. The nonabraded crabs with friable matrix have been recently exhumed from a poorly consolidated part of the Anastasia Formation or from the sand dunes or upper beach escarpment by storm waves, whereas the abraded crabs have been cast upon the beach from the nearshore subtidal zone by storm waves. Deposition of the Anastasia Formation is thought to have occurred approximately 110,000 YBP. The barrier-island--sand-dune system along the central East Coast of Florida is believed to have formed within the last 7000 yr. The abraded fossil crabs could have accumulated over the past 110,000 yr, but the nonabraded specimens, if derived from the existing beach, are considerably younger.
10.2307/1548658|A new species of Majidae, Podochela casoae, is described from the continental platform of the Gulf of California, Mexico, collected on sandy bottom between 30 and 118 m. The new species shares some characters with P. lobifrons Rathbun and P. hemphilli (Lockington), two species of Podochela also present in the area, but can be readily separated from these by the shape and arrangement of tubercles and by the shape of the first pleopod of the male.
1549973|Aspects of the behavior of ovigerous Dungeness crabs (Cancer magister) were studied in Fritz Cove, Alaska. To test fidelity and homing ability of crabs to their brooding site, we ultrasonically tagged eight ovigerous crabs and transplanted them 1.4 km from their brooding site. Eight ultrasonically tagged control crabs were returned to the brooding site. Crab movements were subsequently monitored weekly from late February to October to determine activity patterns and seasonal shifts in depth distribution and habitat use. Seven females transplanted away from the brooding site homed back to that site within 13 to 20 d. Ovigerous female crabs showed fidelity to the head of the cove and ranged a maximum of 3.4 km. Crabs had distinct seasonal patterns of depth distribution, habitat use, and activity which were related to reproductive status. The general pattern for female crabs was: (1) a relatively inactive period during winter and early spring at depths greater than -16 m; ovigerous crabs were typically buried during this period in a dense aggregation; (2) an abrupt movement into shallow water (less than -10 m) during mid-April and residence there until late June; this movement was coincident with the spring phytoplankton bloom and initiation of larval hatching; and (3) increased activity beginning in July with movement back to deeper water presumably to forage. Females that molted prior to oviposition did so between late May and September. Females occupied depths between +1.6 and -107.3 m. Home ranges were small (< 4% of the total cove habitat) and varied with crab size; smaller crabs had larger home ranges. Ovigerous females brooded embryos in a small, discrete area of unconsolidated, homogeneous, fine sand. These sediments were also highly permeable. Annual use of the main brooding area was documented for a 12-year period and emphasizes the importance of this essential habitat.
10.2307/1548078|Hermit crabs were collected from intertidal and shallow nearshore habitats in the vicinity of Alligator Harbor, Florida, either by visual search of prescribed areas along transects or by collection of crabs that were attracted to baits of gastropod flesh (mimicking natural predation sites). The two sampling methods produced collections that were closely similar in crab species composition and relative abundance and in the relative abundance of the shells of the common gastropod genera that the crabs inhabited. The two collections differed in the following respects: (1) more individuals were collected at baits, (2) crabs attracted to baits probably were more secretive and less mobile, (3) significantly more crabs collected at baits occupied damaged shells (72.2%) than did those located by visual search (29.9%), (4) crabs attracted to baits occupied shells of more gastropod genera (22) than did those collected on transects (14), and (5) more individuals of small size and crabs of a wider size range were collected at baits. Our data suggest that the two methods sample different types of individuals with different efficiencies. Small secretive crabs that occupy damaged shells are underrepresented in collections made by visual search, while larger crabs in intact shells are underrepresented at baits. Estimates of hermit crab population parameters probably should be based on a combination of sampling methods.
10.2307/1549125|The hermit crab Pagurus hirsutiusculus uses its minor chela to examine gastropod shells that may be selected for habitation. Since tactile and chemical cues, especially calcium, are important for the recognition and selection of shells by this species, the minor chela was examined for the presence of mechano- and chemoreceptors. Chelar cuticular structures were examined with a scanning electron microscope, and electrophysiological methods were used to determine their sensory responses. Two structural types, simple setae and rows of teeth, function as mechanoreceptors. The simple setae also function as chemoreceptors, sensitive to calcium. A detailed description of the arrangement and external morphology of these bifunctional simple setae is provided and serves as background for further studies of their ultrastructural features. Other structures found on the chelar surface were pits and nonsensory tubercles. The function of the pits remains unknown. Behavioral adaptations for calcium detection in marine environments are discussed, as is the possible occurrence of calcium detection in other crustaceans.
10.2307/1548091|The larval development of C. mccullochi is intermediate in type between the direct developments and the more prolonged indirect developments described previously for Caridina spp. Its discovery has allowed the identification of a complete sequence of progressively abbreviated larval developments within the genus. The larval development of C. mccullochi is described in detail and a number of generalisations are discussed concerning the selective nature of the changes associated with the progressive reduction of the larval phase in the genus.
10.2307/1548132|The hearts of Praunus flexuosus and Mysis relicta have single layered myocardia and single layered epicardia. The epicardia of the two mysids are identical. The myofibers are polarized in M. relicta only. There are no variations in the membrane systems. T tubules are mainly found at the H level; those at the Z level are less conspicuous. Couplings, internal and peripheral, are located at the H level. The sarcoplasmic reticulum is well-developed and continuous over the Z band. Nerve terminals are described.
1549793|Prevalence of certain celestial and terrestrial cues was tested in the zonal recovery behavior and orientation of the fiddler crab Uca cumulanta. Experiments were conducted in the field bordering a mangrove forest on the eastern Venezuelan coast. Uca cumulanta exhibited zonal recovery behavior based on different orientational references, including celestial cues (sun and polarized sky light) and terrestrial cues (landscape vision and substrate slope). Sun azimuth orientation was time-compensated. Apparent solar position and polarized sunlight pattern were celestial cues which, as tested, prevailed over landscape references and beach slope--terrestrial cues--in cueing the direction of the orientation response shown by crabs.
10.2307/1547902|A new genus and species, Spiophanicola spinulosus, is described as a representative of a new family of poecilostomatoid copepods parasitic on three species of polychaetes: Spiophanes berkeleyorum Pettibone, S. missionensis Hartman, and S. kroyeri Grube collected off Huntington Beach and Santa Monica in southern California. Phylogenetic analysis of the nereicoliform families has revealed that there are three major lines of evolution, namely, the clausidiid-synaptiphilid line, the clausiid-nereicolid line, and the catiniid-complex. The Spiophanicolidae is closest to the Serpulidicolidae on the clausiid-nereicolid line, which contains the bulk of the nereicoliform families. Another new family, the Entobiidae, is established to accommodate Entobius Dogiel, 1908, a genus that lives in the intestine of polychaetes.
20487702|The morphological variation of Aegla neuquensis and A. riolimayana was studied using a geometric morphometric. Specimens included both allopatric and sympatric populations from rivers and lakes of the Argentinean Patagonia. Cephalothorax shape was analyzed throughout 16 landmarks representing the half configurations of all specimens after symmetrization process. Ordination analysis of the weight matrix revealed a clear distinction between the two species. Multivariate test run on the weight matrix for A. neuquensis and A. riolimayana was highly significant (P &lt; 0.0001). Females and males of the two species differ significantly (P &lt; 0.0001). Females of A. neuquensis and A. riolimayana present a wider posterior region, probably to carry eggs and juveniles. The first relative warp clearly indicates a difference in the shape of crabs inhabiting rivers vs. those living in lakes (P &lt; 0.0001). Lake specimens show a more compact rostrum than river individuals. This is probably associated with the difference in the dynamics of both systems. The shape of A. neuquensis in allopatric populations appears to be similar to the shape of A. riolimayana, while sympatric populations appear much closer to the "typical" A. neuquensis shape. Thus, allopatric populations appear in some way to expand their shape toward A. riolimayana.
1549596| From 1997 to 2001, the effects of female size (cephalothorax length [CL]) and reproductive status on egg size (diameter, dry weight) and larva CL at hatching were investigated in two Homarus americanus populations in the Gulf of St. Lawrence (les-de-la-Madeleine, Anticosti) and one at Grand Manan (Bay of Fundy), Canada. The estimated size at 50% maturity was used to identify small (likely primiparous) females for each population. Multifactor, mixed-hierarchical ANOVA models were used to investigate the variability of eggs and stage I CL among years and populations. In all comparisons, the main source of variability in the egg and stage I larva size was females (within and among). Nevertheless, for the les-de-la-Madeleine population in each year except 2001, the mean stage I larva sizes from small (CL < 79 mm), probably primiparous females were significantly smaller (P < 0.0085) than the mean larva sizes from larger females. However, female CL per se explained very little of the variance in mean larval size at hatching (r<sup>2</sup> = 0. 23, P < 0.05 and r<sup>2</sup> = 0.23, P = 0.22 in 2000 and 2001, respectively, when the entire size range of reproductive females was considered). Hatching larvae tend to be smaller in primiparous females or females maturing at a small size; however, over the entire size range of reproductive females, larval size at hatching is almost independent of female size (CL). It is as if, above a minimum viable size, there is a constant small range of egg/larval sizes produced in H. americanus. Conservation measures dealing with the imposition of a minimum legal size may be a means of increasing the number of females that will spawn at least once or twice within a population. However, the impacts of first-time spawning on quality of eggs and larvae need to be fully investigated to assess the response of the population's egg production and recruitment potential of this measure. 
10.2307/1549522|Some fiddler crab species (genus Uca) are known to mate either on the surface or underground. Here we describe these two modes of mating in Uca lactea perplexa and compare them with these mating modes in other ocypodid crabs. All surface matings, which lasted from 1.2-5.1 min, occurred near the burrow entrance of the female. There was a weak, but significant, positive correlation between the sizes of surface-mating males and females. About 65% (44/68 pairs) of the males were larger, and 32% (22/68) smaller than their mates. Four of 36 (11%) females that were collected after surface mating and held in the laboratory ovulated fertile clutches. Females mated underground after they left their own burrows and either preceded or followed courting males into their burrows where they stayed, mated, and ovulated a clutch of eggs. Males significantly more often attempted to attract females to follow (67/75 courtships, 89%) rather than precede (8/75, 11%) them into their burrows, and relatively more of 44 females that mated in burrows of males followed (64%) than preceded (36%) their mates underground. However, this difference between the relative frequencies of the two kinds of courtship and their success suggests that females are more likely to mate in burrows that they enter first. All females that mated underground ovulated fertile clutches. Although individual males attempted both surface and underground mating, males that mated underground were larger than those that surface-mated. Unlike surface matings, they also were larger than their mates. The two different modes of mating, and sequences that lead to underground mating in U. lactea perplexa, are found in related ocypodid crabs, but the conditions governing their use are not yet clear.
1549946|The nuclear ssu RDNA gene of several isopods (Crustacea, Peracarida) was sequenced to study its phylogenetic information content. Several areas had to be cut out of the alignment of 31 isopod sequences and selected outgroup arthropod sequences due to the lack of alignable patterns. The final alignment had 2,533 positions and 43 sequences. The length of the isopod nuclear ssu rRNA genes varies between 2,098 and 3,402 bp. In some clades the gene length increases; in others like the cymothoids and bopyrids, long deletions occur. Some insertions are specific for major groups (e.g., amphipods, isopods). Most elongation areas evolve rapidly and are not alignable among higher taxa. Information content is visualized with spectra of supporting positions. Only a few groups are unambiguously supported with a signal distinctly higher than background noise. The results of maximum parsimony analyses are congruent with major aspects of earlier hypotheses on isopod phylogeny. Some contradictions are discussed. The latter are mainly based on a lack of reliable information. A major monophyletic group found in the molecular phylogenies and also supported by distinct morphological characters is named Scutocoxifera tax. nov., composed of the Oniscidea, Valvifera, Sphaeromatidea, Anthuridea, and Cymothoida. SEM photographs are presented to document the apomorphic state of the coxa in the Scutocoxifera.
10.2307/1548383| Physicochemical hatching stimuli of the north European anostracan Siphonophanes grubei (Dybowsky) were identified on the basis of field measurements and laboratory experiments. A small pool inhabited by this species in Denmark exhibited high pCO<sub>2</sub> and low temperature pO<sub>2</sub>, and pH while ice-covered just before the spring thaw. During thaw, when newly hatched nauplii were first caught, pCO<sub>2</sub> decreased and pO<sub>2</sub> pH, and temperature increased. In the laboratory eggs of S. grubei require a warm period (> 15C) for at least 21 days before embryonic development at lower temperatures (< 10C) can proceed to prehatched, dormant nauplii, taking 42-136 days. Final hatching was stimulated by an elevated pCO<sub>2</sub> comparable to that observed in the field before thaw, taking effect when sufficient oxygen became available during thaw. A model of the factors regulating the life cycle of this anostracan throughout the year is presented. 
4540310|Feeding behavior of barnacles may be determined by various factors such as water flow direction, flow velocity, type and location of substratum, predators, systematics, and more. In this study, two shallow-water barnacles from the Red Sea, Amphibalanus (= Balanus) amphitrite and Tetraclita rufotincta, and one from the Mediterranean, Perforatus (= Balanus) perforatus, were examined. Four feeding behavioral parameters were tested under changing conditions of flow direction: cirral fan turning angle, beat duration, beat rate, and percentage of time spent collecting food. When exposed to water, Tetraclita and Amphibalanus collected food vigorously and continuously, regardless of flow direction, while Perforatus perforatus spent far less time and effort collecting food. The differences in feeding behavior may indicate that food is more abundant for the Mediterranean barnacle than it is for the two Red Sea species. The nocturnal behavior of Tetraclita can be attributed to the higher abundance of food particles at night, and/or a diminished risk of predation at night.
40665250|A sacculinid rhizocephalan parasite was recently rediscovered in New Zealand after original recordings from collections in 1931. This new species of Heterosaccus occurred in 93.5% of 1118 Metacarcinus novaezelandiae (Decapoda: Cancridae) collected from Wellington Harbour between May 2006, and March 2007. Of the parasitized crabs, 22.1% had a rhizocephalan externa, 62.7% had a scar, and 15.2% had only the interna. Prevalence of Heterosaccus sp. was similar for male and female crabs and all were castrated. Many of the infected males displayed major morphological changes, which included a wider pleon and extra pairs of biramous pleopods compared to uninfected males (fminisation). Newly emergent externa and externa filled with eggs or embryos were found throughout the year, which indicates a year-round reproductive cycle. However, virgin externae were more common at the beginning of the southern hemisphere summer. A literature survey of Rhizocephala in the South Pacific revealed overall few described species (n = 20), records of nine genera, and several reported but unidentified species in new hosts. The South Pacific clearly has a rich rhizocephalan fauna, but little is known about the ecology of these parasites in this part of the world.
10.2307/1549293| The juvenile hormone analog methoprene causes both cytologic and biochemical alterations in larval and adult stages of the blue crab Callinectes sapidus. This insect growth regulator, used for mosquito control, caused (at a concentration of 10 M) profound ultrastructural changes in the cuticular epithelial cells of postmolt adult blue crabs studied in vitro; these changes included loss of secretory organelles as well as distention and blebbing of the outer membrane of the nuclear envelope. Biochemically, 10 M methoprene caused decreased deposition of extracellular cuticular chitin and protein, as well as a remarkable intracellular accumulation of chitoprotein precursors. These findings suggest that methoprene alters exocytosis and deposition of cuticular components. In vivo studies indicated that 5-10 M methoprene is able to penetrate the embryonic investment coat to localize in lipovitellin. Exposure to methoprene at environmental concentrations (2-10 M) produced morbidity and mortality in the form of an overall reduction in the number of successful hatching and lethargic behavior exhibited by the surviving zoeae. Methoprene exposure (3.3 M) was also toxic to megalopae, delaying the molt to the first crab form and resulting in death of 80% of larvae after 10 days. 
1549835|Male and female reproductive anatomy of a "spearer" mantis shrimp, Squilla empusa, is described using light and scanning electron microscopy as well as dissections. The genital region of females is located medially on the sixth thoracic sternite. It consists of a pair of gonopores connected by a medial genital slit, which leads to a cuticlar sperm storage organ that is shed with every molt. Sperm and accessory material have been located in the seminal receptacle. The accessory material appears to serve as a sperm plug. Females have three internally located cement glands that are visible through the exoskeleton on the thoracic sternite surface. The cement-gland material forms a matrix that holds individual embryos together in a uniform mass. Cement glands develop in synchrony with the ovaries, and development is divided into three stages. Posterior to the gonopores is a medial pore from which material from the cement gland is released. Reproductively active females have ovaries that are oriented anteriorly to posteriorly and are visible dorsally and ventrally through the exoskeleton. Males have paired penes that arise from the last pair of walking legs on the eighth thoracic sternite. The distal end of each penis has two openings: 1) one from the vas deferens that transfers sperm and 2) one from the accessory gland duct that contains sperm plug material for the female seminal receptacle. Male penes are not symmetrical; the left penis is significantly longer when compared to the right penis. Under laboratory conditions, most females that did not have immediate access to males before oviposition produced unfertilized eggs. Two females produced fertilized eggs; one lacked contact with a male for four weeks, and one had constant male contact. The seminal receptacle may normally serve as short-term sperm storage, even though long-term storage was documented. Molting is not related to oviposition. Females produce consecutive broods of eggs an average of 40.6 days apart. Based on the location of the oviducts with respect to the female seminal receptacle, fertilization occurs immediately after the eggs are extruded from the oviducts.
10.2307/1549306|Allathelges pakistanensis, new genus, new species, is described as a parasite of Paguristes perspicax near Karachi, Pakistan. Allathelges is distinguished from other athelgine genera by the following characters: female, head no longer than broad, oostegite 1 folded and extending well beyond head, all pereiopods evenly spaced, no posterolateral extension of oostegite 5, 5 pairs of biramous pleopods, no uropods; male, head separated from pereion, pleonal margins not indicating fused pleomeres. Allathelges is most similar to Athelges from which it differs by having 5, not 4, pairs of biramous pleopods in the female. The other 4 known species of the Athelginae in the Indian Ocean are reviewed. Anathelges mossambica and Athelges caudalis are so poorly known that it is uncertain whether their generic placements are correct; Athelges aegyptius was well described and correctly placed; and Athelges neotenuicaudis is reassigned to the genus Parathelges.
20487821|As historically recognized, three stygobitic species of the subgenus Aviticambarus, genus Cambarus inhabit Mississippian limestone caves along the southern edge of the Southern Appalachians and Highland Rim in southeastern Tennessee and Northern Alabama, U.S.A. These include Cambarus hamulatus, C. jonesi, and C. veitchorum. All stygobitic members of the genus Procambarus inhabit caves in Florida, Cuba, and Mexico with exception of P. pecki (in the monotypic subgenus Remoticambarus), which exists in only three caves with C. jonesi in Northwestern Alabama. It was hypothesized that Procambarus pecki was derived from a primitive Procambarus stock that gave rise to the genera Cambarus and Orconectes based on the morphological shapes of the gonopods. Excluding the unsampled rare C. veitchorum, here we present 16S rDNA phylogenetic evidence, contrary to former morphological-based inferences, for the recognition of five distinct Aviticambarus lineages including P. pecki. Cambarus laconensis is a new species restricted to one locality in Northern Alabama along the southern border of the Highland Rim. Cambarus speleocoopi is also a new species of subterranean crayfish restricted to Marshall County, Alabama. These two cryptic species, with distributions that do not overlap any other stygobitic species, were discovered during a previous phylogeographic survey of cave crayfishes in the Southern Appalachians. For cave crayfishes in particular, similar morphology owing to convergent evolution in replicate subterranean environments, obscures phylogenetic relationships and cryptic stygobitic lineages.
10.2307/1548092|The complete larval development, consisting of two zoeal stages and a megalopa, and the first crab stage is described for the shallow-water western Atlantic spider crab Microphrys bicornutus. Data from laboratory cultures indicate that the species can complete its planktonic development in less than a week, and is able to attain first crab stage in as few as 10 days. The zoeal stages of M. bicornutus show a great many similarities to known zoeae in other genera within the subfamily Mithracinae, including species of the American genus Mithrax, and to Macrocoeloma, and to a lesser extent the Indo-West Pacific genera Tiarinia and Micippa. Morphological features shared among both the zoeal and megalopal stages of the various mithracine genera are compared, and phylogenetic relationships within Microphrys, Mithrax, and Macrocoeloma are proposed.
10.2307/1547999|Residents of Malabuyoc on the west coast of Cebu in the Philippines use a bamboo tube trap for capturing the edible land crab Cardisoma carnifex. Traps are inserted into the mouths of occupied burrows where crabs are caught alive and unharmed as they emerge for nocturnal foraging. The technique of tube-trapping might prove useful in the scientific study of Cardisoma and other burrowing crabs and in selective harvesting of animals for consumption.
41315721|Survival, metabolic and reproductive activity of Itunella muelleri was tested in several combinations of temperatures (2-30C) and salinities (from fresh water to salinity of 34%o). Proportions of individuals alive after 18 or 22 days was high in all experimental combinations except in fresh water at 2C and at 30C at salinities of 4 and 16%o. Metabolic activity, as measured by the production of faecal pellets, was low in fresh water regardless of temperature. Metabolic activity was also very low at 2C regardless of salinity. Maximum activity was found at 20C and 22C with little difference between salinities of 4, 8, 16, and 32%o. Production of nauplii during the first 29 days was nil in fresh water regardless of temperature, and also nil at 2C and 30C regardless of salinities. The maximum production was found in the combination of 22C and salinity of 16%o. The results are discussed in relation to expected ambient conditions in the natural habitat of the species.
4094208|Population characteristics such as population structure, growth, mortality, and size at sexual maturity of P. gravieri inhabiting warm temperate waters were investigated using size-frequency distribution data (January 1999 to December 2000). Sexual differences for carapace length/total weight and carapace length and total length were statistically significant in the intercept of the regressions in the former relationship and the slope in the latter, respectively. Population size based on size-frequency distribution between female and male and between two years were described. Population density was high in March and April during two years of sampling. Sex ratio was biased toward females for most of the months sampled. Growth was continuous and seasonally oscillated throughout the year. Adult females were larger and grew faster than males. The von Bertalanffy growth parameters for two-year pooled samples between females and males were estimated as
41315677|Aspect of reproductive ecology of Caudina typus and Caudina sakishimensis were studied in six headwater streams in Kikai-jima Island, Southern Japan. Monthly surveys were conducted from June 2005 to June 2008. Shrimp specimens were collected with a hand scoop net. The population size of C. typus was lowest during high precipitation periods but showed immediate recovery attributed to successful recruitment and increased following the major spawning activities, while that of C. sakishimensis remained stable throughout the study period. The breeding season of C sakishimensis was estimated to extend from March to November, with a main breeding season lasting from June to September, while that of C. typus lasted from March to December. Overall ovigerous females comprised 50% to 80% of mature females of C. sakishimensis during the main spawning season, which indicated that this species remained and spawned mainly in the headwaters. Both C. sakishimesis and C. typus carried a large number of small sized eggs. This study revealed that the spawning season, egg size, and brood size are similar in both species; usage of headwater streams was different between C. sakishimensis and C. typus. Caudina sakishimensis employed these water bodies as spawning ground while C. typus used them as nursery ground.
1549802|A new species of ingolfiellid Amphipoda, Ingolfiella beatricis, collected from groundwater in a cave near Ljubljana in Slovenia is described. It is the first ingolfiellid, possessing developed "ocular lobes", found in inland fresh groundwater and is therefore of biogeographic interest. Its morphological characters suggest a marine origin, a supposition that is strengthened by the marine relationships of accompanying fauna.
10.2307/1548584|Hindgut epithelial cells of the oak-woodland pillbug Armadillo officinalis (Isopoda: Oniscidea: Armadillidae), were studied for their ATPase activity. The products of the enzymatic activity were localized in the membranous infoldings of the hindgut cells. It was concluded that Na<sup>+</sup>, K<sup>+</sup>-ATPase was probably present in these cells. The significance of these findings for the water balance of these animals is discussed.
10.2307/1548379|Hansenulus trebax, a new genus and species of Copepoda Nicothoidae, is described and recorded as an ectoparasite within the marsupia of four species of Mysidacea. Infested mysids were collected mostly from the Columbia River estuary. Two copepod-bearing mysids were collected near San Juan Island, Washington, and one each from near Kodiak Island, Alaska, and the eastern Bering Sea. A key is given for the three nicothoid genera whose species are parasites of mysids.
1549662|The spermatozoal ultrastructure was investigated in male penaeid shrimp Artemesia longinaris from Mar del Plata (Buenos Aires Province, Argentina) fishing grounds. The spermatozoon of A. longinaris is a typical dendrobranchiate sperm, basically consisting of a subspheroidal main body and a long spike. The complex acrosomal structure is comprised of the acrosomal vesicle, formed by the acrosomal cap and spike, and the subacrosomal substance. A central, rounded protuberance arises from the concave side of the cap opposite the spike. As inferred from longitudinal and transverse sections, the spike is filled with densely packed longitudinal filaments, which are coiled and form a loose helix. The occurrence of an apomorphic protuberance at the base of the acrosomal cap in A. longinaris, Parapenaeus longirostris, and Penaeopsis serrata justifies the grouping of these three genera into the tribe Parapeneini. The filamentous inner structure of the spike appears to indicate a closer proximity between A. longinaris and P. serrata than between either of them and Parapenaeus longirostris.
10.2307/1548554|The cave- and seepage-dwelling cyclopoid copepod Speocyclops demetiensis (Scourfield, 1932) has been recorded scattered throughout middle and southern Europe. In 1986 this species was identified in a small seepage pond near Kristiansund, western Norway. Since then, repeated records of both males and females have been made in two localities in the same area. These are the first reported finds of this species, and of the genus Speocyclops in Scandinavia, and the northernmost ever recorded. The geographical occurrence of this species over widely different climatic regions suggests that it has a remarkable phenotypic and ecological plasticity, and may be more common than hitherto recognized. A remarkable ecological adaptation is the absence of ovisacs and shedding of single eggs.
10.2307/1548528|A new stygiophilic alpheid shrimp from Upolu, Samoa Islands, is described and illustrated. Hamalpheus acanthops, new genus, new species, is the only alpheid shrimp definitely known from a marine lava tube. The new genus is characterized by a conspicuous spiniform process of the anterior eyestalk and a modified caudal fan with unique holdfast adaptations. The new genus is most closely related to Betaeopsis Yaldwyn, from which it is distinguished by the presence of the above-mentioned features. A key is also provided to the 29 alpheid genera currently known from the Indo-West Pacific Region.
10.2307/1548437|A new genus, Exopontonia, is proposed for a single example of a new species of small palaemonid shrimp of unknown commensal association or habitat, collected from the inner reef flat of Ashmore Reef, Timor Sea. The new species, E. malleatrix, is described and illustrated, and is distinguishable from all other palaemonid shrimps by the remarkable chela of the first pereiopods. The second pereiopods are dissimilar, the left resembling that of a Pontonia and the right, of Paratypton, the only species known to inhabit cysts in live coral hosts.
10.2307/1547958| An incomplete account, based on a single individual, is given of an undescribed juvenile female of a dajid isopod (possibly Heterophryxus appendiculatus G.O. Sars). It was found in a horizontal plankton haul at 100 m depth off northwest Africa. Its dissimilarity to the adult is discussed, as are some features of structural and biological interest. /// Une note incomplte, base sur un seul individu, donne la description de la femelle juvnile d'un Isopode Dajidae (peut-tre Heterophryxus appendiculatus G.O. Sars), pche  100 m de profondeur au large de l'Afrique du nord-ouest dans un prlvement planctonique horizontal. Ses diffrences avec le stade adulte sont exposes, ainsi que quelques caractristiques structurales et biologiques. 
10.2307/1548037|In captivity the percentage of multiparous Chionoecetes bairdi that mated prior to extrusion of their annual egg clutch was 62-100% and varied with sex ratio. In test groups where one male was held with eight or fewer females, over 90% of the females mated before egg extrusion but the percentage declined when more females were present. Ten was the maximum number of females mated by a single male during one breeding season. Viable egg clutches were produced by 97 and 71% of females using sperm stored in their spermathecae for one and two years, respectively. The remaining ripe females, held isolated from males, either produced egg clutches composed totally of nondividing eggs or never extruded eggs. Some nonovigerous females that had been isolated from males for two years were allowed to mate and subsequently produced viable eggs. Autopsy revealed that these females had both old and fresh sperm in their spermathecae, suggesting that the older sperm were not viable. Females forced to use stored sperm to fertilize three successive annual egg clutches produced only nonviable eggs in the third year.
10.2307/1549560|A review of the taxon heretofore known as Pagurus obtusifrons (Ortmann, 1892) has shown that it is conspecific with Pagurus yokoyai Makarov, 1938, which has recently been transferred to the genus Propagurus McLaughlin and de Saint Laurent, 1998. Thus, the name Propagurus obtusifrons should be used for the species that has been called as Pagurus yokoyai. The species to which the name Pagurus obtusifrons has been applied represents a new species, here described as Pagurus confusus. These two species are described and illustrated in detail. The new species is also compared with P. arcuatus Squires, 1964, and P. parvispina Komai, 1997.
40665263|Ruffia patagnica, a new genus and species of phreatogammarid amphipod, is described from a coastal cave on Madre de Dios Island (Chilean Patagonia). This is the first record of the family outside continental waters of New Zealand and New Caledonia. The new taxon displays some of the more distinctive features of the family, such as gnathopods with the palm margin lined with numerous unicuspid robust setae and with a denticulated inner margin of the dactylus; fifth pereiopod clearly smaller than pereiopod six and seven; "coxal gill" (= exopod) absent from the seventh pereiopod; ostegites broadened; urosomites with posterodorsal robust setae; and third uropod equiramous with an elongated peduncle and with unsegmented cylindrical rami, the latter provided with numerous robust setae. In addition, the sternites of all pereionites, pleonites, and urosomites show a portion of integument delimited by hyaline frill that is presumably osmoregulatory in function, and is equivalent to the pair of sternal gills displayed by other phreatogammarids on several body somites. The new genus is unique among phreatogammarids in displaying sexual dimorphism in the third epimeral plate, in the protopod of the third pleopod, in the armature of the first uropod, and in the endopod of the second uropod. Even though Phreatogammaridae have been suggested to be related to the broadly distributed marine family, Melphidippidae, their restriction to continental waters of former Notogean territories points to vicariance by plate tectonics of a non-marine ancestor rather than to dispersal as the main mechanism leading to their current distribution pattern.
10.2307/1548520| In the red swamp crayfish Procambarus clarkii oocyte development was classified into seven stages according to morphological characters: (1) oogonial (<10 m), (2) immature (10-65 m), (3) avitellogenic (66-160 m), (4) early vitellogenic (161-245 m), (5) midvitellogenic (246-455 m), (6) late vitellogenic (456-980 m), and (7) postvitellogenic and resorptive. Stage 1 (oogonial) is a multiplication stage, and oocyte maturation occurs in stages 2-6. Follicle cells become arranged around the oocytes in stage 3. Stages 4, 5, and 6 are the yolk granule development stages, with strongly acidophilic yolk granules accumulating in the cytoplasm. Yolk granules first appear at the periphery and then gradually spread throughout the cytoplasm. The ovarian index increases steadily up to stage 6, but in stage 7 the ovarian index decreases. The incorporation of <sup>14</sup>C-leucine into ovarian or oocyte proteins occurs throughout vitellogenesis. When ovarian tissue was incubated with the eyestalk neuroendocrine tissues, leucine incorporation was inhibited, whereas when other neuroendocrine tissues, brain, subesophageal ganglion, or thoracic ganglia, were added to the incubation medium, leucine incorporation into ovarian proteins increased significantly. The inhibition produced by the eyestalk tissues was presumably due to the well-documented ovary-inhibiting hormone, whereas the stimulation produced by the other organs was presumably due to an ovary-stimulating hormone. 
10.2307/1549096|The morphology of the foregut of the ectoparastic branchiuran Chonopeltis australis is described from serial transverse, longitudinal, and frontal sections of whole parasites and from SEM micrographs. The foregut is differentiated into four histomorphological regions: a preoral cavity, housed inside the proboscis and containing the tongue and mandibles; and ascending esophagus supplied with constrictor, longitudinal, and dilator muscles; a horizontal esophagus supplied with constrictor muscles only; and an esophageal funnel, containing cuticle-lined inner and recurrent walls, reminiscent of the cardia of muscoid flies. The mandibles apparently do not function as lacerating organs, but instead cram mucus and cellular detritus into the preoral cavity. Five dentigerous plates, guarding the oral aperture, function as a filter during feeding. The muscle complex in the walls of the ascending esophagus facilitates movement of aliment through the foregut into the anterior midgut. The comparative morphology and functional significance of each part of the foregut are discussed.
10.2307/1547955| The amphipod fauna living on Sargassum of two shores (one sheltered and the other exposed) in Itanham, southern coast of So Paulo State, Brazil, was studied. Although nestling species were more conspicuous than tube-dwelling and inquiline species on both shores, the species composition differed slightly between the two localities. Caprella dilatata, Jassa falcata, and Hyale media were co-dominant species on the exposed shore, while only Hyale media was dominant on the protected shore. The morphological adaptations of the species to wave exposure may explain the dominance of certain species at the two localities. Diversity and dominance values were higher during the study period on the exposed shore, except for three months. 
4540250| Macrobrachium hainanense is a large palaemonid shrimp (total length up to 7 cm) present at high densities (>2 individuals m) in pools of low-order forested streams in Southern China. The present study investigated the reproductive biology and sexual dimorphism of this shrimp in Tai Po Kau Forest Stream (TPK) and Tai Shing Stream (TSS), Hong Kong. Recruitment occurred during the wet season (May to August). Macrobrachium hainanense, a truly freshwater species, has abbreviated larval development, and the study populations had smaller broods than euryhaline species of this genus. Most females probably produced only a single brood of 20-75 eggs each breeding season. They showed no size-specific fecundity. Egg development in the laboratory took over 53 days, and eggs grew larger during development. The reproductive output (RO) of females was 11% for each brood, lower than for most other species of Macrobrachium. Lifetime RO was 21%, assuming a single brood in each of two seasons. The population male-biased sex ratio was 1.7:1, although the sizespecific sex ratio was 1:1. Females reached maturity at 15-17 mm carapace length (CL) while males matured later at 18-22 mm CL. Females bred at two and three years of age, while males bred three times at two, three, and four years. Interstream variation in size at onset of sexual maturity was found, with shrimps at TPK maturing later than at TSS. Discriminant Analysis revealed that mature males and females were distinct in their abdominal depths and carapace lengths with females having deeper abdomens (for egg brooding) and smaller carapaces. Juvenile males could be distinguished from females by the presence of the appendix masculina. The minimum lifespan for females of M. hainanense was approximately 29 months and for males, 48 months. Competition for females may be responsible for the longer lifespan and larger size at maturity of males. 
10.2307/1548532|The cyclopoid copepod Metacyclops cushae, new species, was collected from temporarily water-filled depressions in greater New Orleans, Louisiana. The species possesses a combination of characters unique in the genus: the antennule of 11 articles, legs 1-4 spine formula 3,4,3,3, leg 4 endopodite article 2 with only 1 terminal spine, legs 1-4 couplers lacking ornament, and medialmost terminal caudal seta shorter than lateralmost terminal caudal seta. This is the first confirmed published report of the genus Metacyclops from the North American continent.
10.2307/1548893|This comprehensive update of the distribution of crayfishes of the genera Cambarus and Fallicambarus in Ontario includes substantial material collected since 1965 and a reexamination of previous records. Revised provincial range limits are presented for two wide-ranging, open-water species, C. bartonii bartonii and C. robustus, as well as for 2 obligate burrowers of more restricted distribution, C. diogenes and F. fodiens. Previously unreported locality records represent range extensions, fill in geographic gaps in known ranges, or confirm the persistence of populations for periods of several decades. Limits to the ranges of the 4 species appear to be established by patterns of postglacial migration and habitat preferences. A diagnosis of the current status of each of these species suggests the potential impact of anthropogenic perturbations, such as lake acidification and wetland destruction, for the future of these crayfishes in Ontario.
10.2307/1548039|Dungeness crabs, Cancer magister, were collected at subtidal and intertidal sites during four quarterly 3-day diel sampling periods in June and September 1980, and January and April 1981. During each period, trawls were made during day and night, and high and low tide conditions. Crabs were significantly more abundant at the subtidal site. Crabs left the flats during low tide, causing a slight but insignificant increase in low tide densities in the channel. Crabs were more abundant by day at the subtidal site, but more abundant by night at the intertidal site. This phenomenon was statistically significant in January, and over all data combined, and was concluded to be a response to the availability of food, particularly the shrimps Crangon spp. Crab and shrimp densities on the flats were highly positively correlated in September and January, but negatively correlated in June. Reduced catches during spring sampling were associated with very low salinities at the intertidal site and low tides at the subtidal site. These findings have application in the management of estuarine dredging practices.
4094216|The ecology of two species of tree-climbing crabs, Malagasya antongilensis (Rathbun, 1905) (Potamonautidae) and Labuanium gracilipes (H. Milne Edwards, 1853) (Sesarmidae), collected from container microhabitats (phytotelmata) in rainforest in the Masoala Peninsula, Madagascar, is described. This is a rare report of a tree-climbing phytotelmic sesarmid crab living in the rainforest canopy, and the first record of a species of true freshwater crab in the canopy, albeit at a relatively low height. The difficult-to-access rainforest canopy surveys were made as pan of the Canopy Raft Program (Radeau des Cimes). The occurrence of crabs in water-filled plant containers in rainforest habitats is discussed.
1549834| On the basis of a sampling program performed monthly, a total of 12,033 fiddler crabs, Uca uruguayensis, were collected at the southern end of the Samborombn Bay, Ro de la Plata estuary, Argentina, from February 1995 to March 1996. Density ranged from 133 to 207 ind/m<sup>2</sup> over the 13-mo study period. The overall proportion of male crabs was 0.62. For small crabs, sex ratio was 1:1, but as crab size increased, sex ratio first became female biased and then male biased. Crabs carried eggs from mid-spring to late summer. Prevalence of the parasite Leidya distorta varied between 5.24% and 17.8% throughout the study. Infested male crabs 10.5 mm carapace width, which represented only 5.9% of the crabs collected, housed 68.8% of the total parasites recovered. Cryptoniscus larvae were much more frequent among molting (soft) than intermolt (hard) crabs. The cryptonisci infesting intermolt (hard) crabs were aggregated; i.e., they showed a contagious distribution. Females of L. distorta were actively breeding in spring and summer. In autumn, reproductive activity gradually decreased, and by winter, all the adult female parasites showed empty marsupia. The growth of immature parasites appears to stop in winter and resume in spring. The size of the adult marsupial female parasite was positively correlated with that of the host. Because only 1.1% of the mature female crabs carried marsupial parasites, it is unlikely that L. distorta plays a regulatory role in the reproductive potential of the host population. 
10.2307/1548009|The first urohaustoriid amphipod from the New World is described. It is closely related to genera from Australia and probably is a vicarious descendent of the old Gondwanan haustorioid pool from the early Mesozoic age.
10.2307/1548411|The galatheid Munidopsis polymorpha Koelbel, 1892, is found at high population density in an anchialine pool (Jameos del Agua) on Lanzarote. Ovigerous females on an average carry 1-4 eggs. Larval development is advanced. Only 2 zoeal stages, which are unable to undergo locomotion, precede molt to a small crab. Munidopsis polymorpha is not preyed upon in the Jameos del Agua. Population density is regulated less by available food than by the number of available hiding places for resting phases. Population density is probably increased by the fact that the highly territorial crabs periodically alternate in feeding in the same grazing areas and in hiding. The percentage of ovigerous females and the average number of eggs per female is negatively correlated with the number of specimens per area. During the years of investigation from 1976-1989, the number of ovigerous females and the average number of eggs per female have decreased considerably in parts of the pool. Consequently, the general population density has become drastically reduced. This is attributed to the construction and opening of the Jameos del Agua for tourism.
10.2307/1548582|Yolk production of the marine shrimp Penaeus vannamei was measured using an antibody to a subunit of the yolk protein complex. The effects of unilateral eyestalk ablation on protein synthesis of the hepatopancreas and ovary were measured in vitro. Initially, activity in both tissues increased; 21 days after eyestalk ablation activity levels in both tissues returned to levels equal to or lower than preablation levels. The yolk protein content of the tissues increased shortly after eyestalk ablation and reached a maximum of 8% in ovarian tissue, but less than 1% in the hepatopancreas. Yolk proteins in the hemolymph were detected using an enzymelinked immunoassay. Both intact controls and eyestalk-ablated shrimp had as much as 1 mg/ml yolk protein in the hemolymph during ovarian maturation. Newly released shrimp eggs had an average of 53 ng yolk protein per egg. Eyestalk ablation induced a rapid increase in protein synthesis in both ovary and hepatopancreas. During ovarian maturation, yolk proteins were transported through the hemolymph in this marine shrimp.
4094226|We describe three diploid gynandromorphs in Anemia. Two belong to A. parthenogenetica and represent the first report of gynandromorphy for the species. One specimen was a female with a globular brood-pouch and gynandromorphic second antennae, whilst the other was a female with a closed malformed brood-pouch filled with live nauplii, and a long, mobile, penis-like structure projecting from the left side of the genital segments. Offspring from the latter parthenogenetic gynandromorph developed as normal all-female parthenogenetic Artemia. The third gynandromorph belongs to the zygogenetic species A. franciscana, being a female with claspers as previously reported in the same taxon. The occurrence of parthenogenetic gynandromorphs is best explained in light of sex determination mechanisms supporting the view that gynandromorphy might be triggered by a mitotic chromosomal mutation during early embryonic development.
10.2307/1548069|We performed ablation and electroantennulogram experiments to determine the site of pheromone reception in the crayfish Orconectes propinquus. The inner or outer branches of the antennules were bilaterally ablated from test male and female crayfish. In "inner ablation" males, behavioral responses to female chemicals were unchanged relative to controls. However, a highly significant reduction in response occurred in "outer ablation" animals. Tests with female ablates yielded similar results, indicating that the outer antennular flagella mediate pheromone reception in this species. We did not obtain reliable results from the electroantennulogram studies and suggest that previously reported electroantennulograms from crayfish may be artifactual.
1549576| The complete larval development of the land hermit crab Coenobita compressus is described from specimens reared in the laboratory at 26C. Eighty-eight percent passed through five zoeal stages and 12% passed through four zoeal stages before metamorphosing 21-33 days after hatching. Megalopae left their water dishes as soon as seven days after metamorphosis, buried themselves in damp sand approximately 29 days after metamorphosis, and emerged as young crabs 1-5 days later. Coenobita compressus zoeae can be distinguished from the other seven described coenobitids by the setation of the maxillule and antenna, whereas the megalopa can be distinguished by the segmentation of the second and third maxillipeds. Characters are also given to distinguish C. compressus zoeae from those of sympatric marine hermit crab zoeae. 
10.2307/1549100|Electrophoretic analysis of 17 loci coding for 15 enzymes was used to investigate the genetic variation and relationships among 7 species of Penaeus and 3 species of Metapenaeus from the South China Sea. The proportion of polymorphic loci (P<sub>0.95</sub>) ranges from 0.059-0.235 and observed heterozygosity from 0.007-0.049, indicating low genetic variability in the shrimps. The phenetic dendrogram based on Nei's genetic distance comprises 2 clusters, one consisting of species of Penaeus and the other species of Metapenaeus. Among Metapenaeus, M. affinis and M. ensis are more closely related to each other than to M. joyneri. Among Penaeus, P. (Penaeus) monodon and P. (P.) semisulcatus are closely related. P. (Fenneropenaeus) merguiensis and P. (F.) penicillatus are also closely related, but P. (F.) chinensis is more related to species of the subgenus Penaeus than to the other species of Fenneropenaeus. P. (Marsupenaeus) japonicus and P. (Melicertus) latisulcatus cluster together. The large distance value between these 2 species supports their subgenus separation. The results of this study show that the current subgeneric division of Penaeus appears to be a natural one.
10.2307/1548363|Lithodes ferox (Filhol) is a deep water anomuran crab that inhabits the upper continental slope (300-1,000 m) off West Africa. The distribution and patterns of abundance of this species have been studied based on demersal fishery research data. The study revealed the occurrence of a seasonal bathymetric migration. The species rarely occurs at depths less than 400 m in summer, while there is a dispersion of the population towards shallower waters (up to around 300 m) in winter. These movements appear to be mainly related to the reproductive biology of the species (ovigerous females account for most females in winter in the shallowest stratum) as well as to upwelling-related seasonal decreases of oxygen levels on the bottom. Recruitment to the adult population takes place in deep water. Juvenile crabs are found almost exclusively in areas deeper than those inhabited by the adult population. Sex-ratio distribution shows a clear tendency for the species to form unisexual groups. Males tend to be captured with other males and females with other females.
1549884| Nauplius larvae (Stages I-VI) and cyprids of Tetraclita squamosa (Brugire, 1789) and Tetraclita japonica (Pilsbry, 1916) were cultured and their morphologies compared using light microscopy and scanning electron microscopy (SEM). Using a mixture of Skeletonema costatum Greville, 1866, Isochrysis galbana Parke, 1938, and Tetraselmis Stein, 1878, sp. as food, the larvae of both species completed naupliar development and metamorphosed to cyprids in 14 days at 20C. The body shape and size of the larvae of both species are similar. The major diagnostic morphological difference is the setation of the antennulae and mandibulae. From Stage V to VI, the antennulae of T. japonica bear one more preaxial seta than T. squamosa. From Stage IV to VI, the mandibulae of T. japonica also bear one more simple seta on the endopodite than T. squamosa. The size, shape, antennular morphology, and surface sculpturing of the cyprids of the two species are similar when observed under SEM. The morphology of T. squamosa and of T. japonica is compared with those of the larvae of other Tetraclita species, and taxonomic relationships within the possibly monophyletic Tetraclitidae are discussed. 
10.2307/1549433|Sexual and regional variations in the morphology of the spotted anemone shrimp Periclimenes yucatanicus were evaluated, based on 99 specimens from the Bahamas, Turks and Caicos Islands, Netherlands Antilles, Honduras, and the Florida Keys. For each shrimp, measurements were made of 74 characters (continuous variables), and data from an additional 17 characters were recorded in categorical form (discrete variables). Continuous variables were consolidated to 45 prior to data transformation and analysis. Of 62 final variables assessed, 14 were statistically significant. Sexual differences were minor (on the average, females were larger than males based on carapace length), and no important regional differences were apparent. The spotted anemone shrimp appears to be taxonomically homogeneous across the locations examined.
10.2307/1549097|Eurycope cornuta is typical of the many advanced asellotes that have reevolved the ability to swim, albeit now backwards. Pereiopods V-VII are modified as paddles, and their respective body segments are conspicuously enlarged to accommodate the bulky extrinsic musculature of the limbs. However, fundamentally, the skeletomusculature of these appendages is the same as that of unmodified ambulatory pereiopods on other isopods. Even though the architecture of E. cornuta is extensively modified for swimming, the animal is reluctant to do so. The significance of this is discussed.
10.2307/1548071|Morphometric studies were carried out as part of resource assessment surveys on deepwater pandalid shrimps in both the northern and southern tropical Pacific Ocean. Previous works have suggested that pandalid shrimps, including those of some tropical species, are typically protandrous hermaphrodites. In this study, however, measurements of certain male secondary sexual characteristics were positively correlated with shrimp size. There was no evidence of degeneration of these characteristics in larger individuals as would be expected with protandrous hermaphrodites. We conclude that shrimps of the tropical pandalid species examined are dioecious and that sex reversal does not occur.
1549966| The reproductive biology of Arenaeus cribrarius from Ubatuba, So Paulo State, Brazil, was studied. Swimming crabs were sampled monthly for two years with otter trawls in two bays. A total of 941 males and 1,012 females were examined. Mating took place mainly in autumn involving postmolt females and intermolt males. At that time, gonad regression was verified in adult males, due to spermatophore transfer, and the molting of adult females. Ovigerous females or females with mature gonads were present year-round but more frequently captured during spring and summer. We found that 1% of all adult females were premolt, which indicated the occurrence of another mature instar and thus the absence of a well-defined terminal molt after puberty. Intermolt males were captured through the whole study period. 
1549346|The complete larval development of Philyra platychira de Haan, 1841, from hatching to the megalopal stage, was obtained by laboratory rearing. Three zoeal and one megalopal stages are described and illustrated in detail. In the subfamily Philyrinae, it is unusual that the zoea has a lateral swollen protuberance on the carapace that in the third stage develops into a spine. The Philyra zoeae could be easily distinguished from the zoeae Arcania and Myra by having no lateral carapace spine, 2+1 setae on the endopod of the maxilla, and three small teeth on the posterolateral margin of the telson. In the family Leucosiidae, Philyra is as advanced as the leucosiines, whereas Arcania and Myra are the most ancestral group, based on the zoeal characteristics. Therefore, it is considered that the subfamily Philyrinae might be a significantly heterogeneous group.
10.2307/1548631|This study describes the sensory structures on the antennae and antennules of the puerulus and postpuerulus stage juveniles of the western rock lobster Panulirus cygnus. Both stages have short and long spines, which probably function in protection and in contact-detection. Both also possess setae structurally similar to those shown to be near-field vibration receptors in other crustaceans. Both have aesthetasc setae on the antennules and petaloid setae on the antennae, with both types of setae appearing to be chemosensory. The puerulus stage has an almost continuous linear series of pinnate setae that overlie each other and also the segmental boundaries along the antenna in such a way that the series is well positioned to act as a detector for vibration of the whole antenna. This arrangement is unique to the puerulus stage, which is also noted for its 40-60-km directional swim from the offshore waters to the coast. We suggest that the complex receptor system formed by the antennae and the pinnate setal system plays a role in navigation by allowing the animal to orient to vibrational clues associated with the coast.
1549302|The complete larval development of Liocarcinus corrugatus is described, based on laboratory-reared material. The species has 5, or occasionally 6, zoeal stages and a megalopal stage. Morphological characters of larvae of L. corrugatus were compared with this and other species of Liocarcinus reported from other regions.
1549501|Among the 516 taxa of thalassinideans so far described, there is a strong latitudinal increase in species numbers from high latitudes towards the equator in both hemispheres. Numbers of species in the northern hemisphere are similar to those in the southern one. Thirty-two percent of the species are found in the Indo-West Pacific and 22% in the Southwest Atlantic. All species are benthic and live either in marine or brackish water. Ninety-five percent of all thalassinideans inhabit shallow water (0-200 m); only three species have been found below 2,000 m. Especially the families Callianassidae, Upogebiidae, Thalassinidae, and Strahlaxiidae occur in the intertidal to very shallow waters (0-20 m), while most members of the Axiidae and Calocarididae are bathyal (200-2,000 m).
10.2307/1549140| Digestive capabilities of the commercially important slipper lobster Thenus orientalis were determined by comparing the range and concentration of digestive enzymes produced with the preferred diet of this and other slipper lobster species. Thenus orientalis is a specialized predator of bivalve molluscs, which are located by probing and digging the substratum. The edible flesh is removed by wedging, a progressive prying the shell valves apart, using the sharp keratinized pereiopod dactyls. The range and concentration of digestive enzymes produced reflects the carnivorous diet of T. orientalis. The proteases trypsin and chymotrypsin are produced in high concentrations, the former representing a considerable proportion (up to 13%) of digestive gland protein. Detection of -amylase and -glucosidase indicates that T. orientalis is capable of hydrolyzing glycogen, the major storage polysaccharide in bivalve adductor muscle. These features indicate a digestive capability specialized for the hydrolysis of flesh. Significant N-acetyl -D-glucosaminidase activity revealed an ability by T. orientalis to hydrolyze chito-oligosaccharides and suggested that it can digest chitin from crustacean exoskeletons that have been found in the diet of other scyllarids. Digestive fluid pH (5.9) is consistent with the acid pH optima of carbohydrases, verifying that they are well adapted for extracellular digestion. 
20487794|A new species of Nipponbathynella Schminke, 1973 is described from Korea: N. pectina n. sp. Based on its novelties the generic diagnosis of the genus is amended by which particular weight is given to the structure of the male thoracopod VIII. N. pectina is the third species of the genus and has two unique traits: the carination of the back of each somite, and the comb-shaped uropod.
4094158|The study of the population structure of A. armillatus was based on monthly collections (March 2000-February 2002) from two tidal flats-Sao Francisco Beach (SF),
10.2307/1549230| The present study was done to establish the lethal salinity (LC<sub>50</sub>) and the effects of an abrupt change in the salinity on the oxygen consumption and the growth of postlarvae (PL10-PL21) of Litopenaeus setiferus, and their integration as assimilated energy. Postlarvae of L. setiferus presented a mean LC<sub>50</sub> at 8, and a time of response of 2 h. Thereafter, LC<sub>50</sub> remained constant for the next 96 h. The effect of salinity on oxygen consumption and growth rate changed with the age of postlarvae. From PL10 to PL15, the highest oxygen consumption was obtained at 10 and the lowest at 40. During this time, growth rate increased with salinity with the maximum value in 40 and lowest at 10. From PL15 to PL21, the highest oxygen consumption was obtained at 30 and 40. In 30 and 40, the growth rate was lower than that observed in animals maintained in 10. The assimilation-salinity relationship changed with the age of the organisms. From PL10 to PL15, assimilated energy increased with a decrease in the salinity, and from PL15 to PL21, assimilation increased directly with an increase in the salinity. The inverse relationship between oxygen consumption and growth has been observed in other estuarine organisms and suggests that, when animals are found in an osmotically favorable medium, the processes of capture and distribution of the ingested energy are more efficient. These mechanisms change with age. From PL15 to PL21, an increase in the salinity produced an increase in the assimilation. This was a result of an increase in the respiratory efficiency and, as a consequence, a reduction of the net growth efficiency. 
41315762|The present study investigates morphologically similar species in the amphipod genus Niphargus, with special emphasis on three presumably closely-related species: N. fontanus, N. aquilex, and N. schellenbergi. The distribution ranges of these species overlap in Central Europe, and ambiguity of the current diagnostic characters has likely resulted in misidentifications. To address this issue, we carried out molecular-phylogenetic analyses of Cytochrome Oxidase Subunit 1 gene (COI) and 28S rDNA sequences for 34 individuals of the three species from 27 sites in Central Europe and Great Britain. We also included 14 GenBank sequences for two additional species, N. virei and N. rhenorhodanensis, to increase the resolution potential among our in-group taxa. In addition, about 100 specimens of the three species were examined for a reappraisal of diagnostic characters. Representative specimens taken from various subterranean habitat types were examined for each of the three species. A new morphological key, utilizing improved characters, is presented to clearly distinguish between N. fontanus, N. aquilex, and N. schellenbergi. Molecular-phylogenetic analysis using COI sequence data indicates geographically well-delimited clades for N. aquilex and N. fontanus. Our data suggest that some previously recorded niphargids from the Harz Mountains of Germany, initially identified as N. fontanus or N. aquilex, were all N. schellenbergi.
10.2307/1548591|Secondary sexual characters of the first two pleopods of male and female Parapandalus narval are described and compared to those of other pandalids. Whereas morphology does not deviate from other pandalids in females, males differ from temperate pandalids regarding endopod form of pleopod 1 and the copulatory organ. As evidenced by morphometric measures, the species does not participate in sex reversal. In contrast, the shape of the endopod of the male pleopod 1 remains the same, whereas the appendix masculina grows with positive allometry, not degenerating, as male size increases. Consequently, P. narval conforms to the reproductive pattern of tropical pandalids, in which dioecy occurs.
1549672|Intra- and inter-specific competition for shelter, in relation to prior residence, sex differences, and body-size effects, was studied in the laboratory to assess the potential impact of the alien crayfish species Pacifastacus leniusculus on the endangered Japanese endemic crayfish species Cambaroides japonicus. The resident was placed in an aquarium, which contained a single shelter of preferred size for both C. japonicus and P. leniusculus. After 24 h, the intruder was introduced into the aquarium. In the experiments using different sex pairs of crayfish of approximately equal size, male residents had a significant prior residence effect against female intruders in both crayfish species in the intraspecific contests. However, residents of P. leniusculus dominated C. japonicus regardless of the sex in interspecific contests. In experiments using male crayfish pairs of different sizes, larger individuals had more successful possessions of the shelter against smaller individuals regardless of crayfish species. The body-size advantage strongly influenced the outcome of the both intra- and inter-specific contests regardless of residents or intruders and overcame the prior residence effect in both species. These results suggest that P. leniusculus is superior to C. japonicus in shelter competition if P. leniusculus invades the habitat of C. japonicus.
10.2307/1548856|Vitellin (Vn) and vitellogenin (Vg) were detected in the blue crab Callinectes sapidus by nondissociating polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (PAGE). Vn was purified by gel filtration chromatography followed by PAGE, and anti-Vn immune serum was raised in rabbits. A slot blot analysis indicated that anti-Vn immune serum reacted with the ovarian homogenate from which Vn was isolated. In a double immunodiffusion test, single precipitin lines were found between the center well containing immune serum and surrounding wells containing purified Vn, ovarian homogenate, purified Vg, or female hemolymph. The precipitin lines were continuous, suggesting that the immune serum precipitated proteins of complete identity. Finally, a Western blot analysis revealed that immune serum specifically bound Vn and Vg. The IgG fraction was purified from anti-Vn immune serum and used to develop a quantitative enzymelinked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). The Vn standard curve was linear over the range of 62.5-1,500 ng Vn. The sensitivity of the ELISA was 148 ng/ml. Male hemolymph yielded background optical density values, confirming the specificity of the assay. Serial dilutions of ovarian homogenate or female hemolymph produced sample titration curves that were parallel to the Vn standard curve. Thus, the ELISA is suitable for quantification of Vn and Vg in ovary and hemolymph, respectively.
10.2307/1548906| Previous studies of the benthic community in the Mondego estuary revealed that Cyathura carinata has spatially and temporally stable populations, has significant biomass throughout the year, and is one of the most abundant species in the estuary. The present work was carried out to study its population dynamics and life cycle in relation to physicochemical factors, and to estimate its productivity within intertidal mud flats. Cyathura carinata was sampled every two weeks from November 1990 to December 1991. It exhibited a contagious spatial distribution within the eulittoral zone, and its abundance changed seasonally, decreasing gradually from midfall to late spring, and increasing again from early summer to the following fall. Abundance appeared to be inversely related to emersion periods, and positively correlated with salinity and nitrate concentrations, while higher temperature and sediment organic enrichment appeared to have a negative effect on the abundance of organisms. Nevertheless, the correlations between abundance and environmental factors could not be considered as defining cause-and-effect, since environmental factors were also intercorrelated. Protogynous hermaphroditism was hypothesized, with males being present from March to September. Sexual activity began in early spring and recruitment took place through the summer. Two cohorts were produced, one in June and a second in August. Fecundity was significantly correlated with female size. In addition, higher salinities and pH favored higher fecundity. Although seasonal variations in growth rates were observed, growth was continuous through the life of the animal. Growth rates practically ceased during the winter, increased gradually from late winter to a maximum between early summer and midfall, and decreased again until the following winter. Life span was roughly estimated at 18-22 months. Sexual differentiation was estimated to occur within a period of 49-54 days from birth, for females, and 146-208 days for males. Sexual maturation in females was estimated to occur in 240-357 days (8-12 months). Cyathura carinata is a semiannual species in the Mondego estuary, with iteroparous females and an univoltine life cycle. Growth production (P) and elimination production (E) were estimated as, respectively, 5.6-9.9 and 11.8-22.3 g m<sup>-2</sup> year<sup>-1</sup> ash-free dry weight. P/B and E/B ratios were estimated, respectively, as 1.65-2.03 and 3.74-4.37. Despite several differences with regard to the reproductive period, all populations of C. carinata studied along the European coasts show univoltine life cycles. Due to stable populations and life cycle characteristics, this species appears ideal for comparative ecophysiological and ecotoxicological studies in European estuaries. 
10.2307/1549192|The genus Allopetrolisthes consists of 3 species, all of them endemic to the southeastern Pacific (Peru and Chile). The first description of the early developmental stages of a representative of Allopetrolisthes is presented. The morphology of the prezoea, the 2 zoeal stages, the megalopa, and the first crab stage of A. angulosus is described and illustrated. Comparisons of the larvae of A. angulosus with those of species of Petrolisthes from the Pacific coast of the Americas revealed strong similarities of the larval appendages between these 2 groups. The combination of the presence of (1) denticles exclusively on the internal margin of the telsonal setae in both zoeal stages and (2) 2 rows of spiniform setae on posterior spines of the carapace in zoea I is proposed as a possible generic larval characteristic of Allopetrolisthes.
10.2307/1548407| On an average, males of Lernaeocera branchialis (L.) needed a shorter time to inseminate a group of females than males of Lepeophtheirus pectoralis (Mller). The higher insemination rate of L. branchialis may represent adaptations to the two-host life cycle of the female, and is also partly achieved because most males invest less in females inseminated after the first successful mating. Laboratory experiments also showed that males of L. branchialis did not increase their rate of spermatophore production in the presence of a possible competitor. The size of the first pair of spermatophores was not correlated with the size of the male in either copepod species, but a comparison between L. branchialis and L. pectoralis showed that males of the former species produced the largest spermatophores relative to their size. Females of L. branchialis did not benefit nutritionally from relatively large ejaculate volumes by increased survival in their second pelagic phase. However, production of relatively large ejaculate volumes may be beneficial to the male in that it may reduce the time needed to effectively inseminate a female. The relatively large spermatophores of males of L. branchialis may thus represent an indirect consequence of the female's two-host life cycle. In both copepod species most matings resulted in insemination of the female. In L. branchialis this success depends mainly on the virility of the male, whereas in L. pectoralis the placement of the spermatophores is more haphazard, and successful mating depends both on the virility of the male and the precision of the placement of the spermatophore pairs. 
1549883| Larvae of Chinochthamalus scutelliformis (Darwin, 1854) (Cirripedia: Chthamalidae) from Hong Kong were cultured in the laboratory. Larval development includes six naupliar stages and a nonfeeding cypris stage following the ground patterns of Cirripedes. Larvae reached the cypris stage in 20 days at 21C compared to 13 days at 28C. Morphological features including the cephalic shield, frontal horns, labrum, hind body, antennules, antennae, and mandibles in all nauplius and cypris stages were described and illustrated using a combination of light microscopy and scanning electron microscopy. Attempts were made to compare morphological differences between the nauplii and cyprid of C. scutelliformis with those of Chthamalus malayensis and Chamaesipho species. Observations of the nauplii of Chinochthamalus scutelliformis supported Foster's suggestion to move this species from the genus Chamaesipho to the genus Chinochthamalus. 
10.2307/1549155|The taxonomy of Thelphusula, a Bornean genus of gecarcinucid fresh-water crabs is revised. Two new species, T. sabana and T. tawauensis, both from Sabah, are described. A new genus and new species, Coccusa isophallus, which closely resembles Thelphusula, is described from Kalimantan. The affinities of Terrathelphusa adipis are reassessed and the species is transferred to Coccusa.
20487841|Fairy shrimps (Anostraca) live in temporary waters. Dominant among their predators are aquatic insects, especially diving beetles (Dytiscidae). Mastication of the eggs of the fairy shrimp Branchipus schaefferi and their passage through the digestive tract of smaller beetles, like Ilybius fenestratus, has a positive effect on hatching afterwards. Dytiscidae could be important vectors for aerial dispersal of diaspores among ponds which are not directly connected to a stream channel. Such long-distance dispersal can be of critical importance for population survival and gene flow among communities living in temporary habitats.
10.2307/1548506|The structure and function of the reproductive tracts of the spider crab Inachus phalangium were investigated, focusing on sperm transfer, sperm storage in the seminal receptacles, and spawning. Males produce and store spermatophores as well as part of the seminal fluid in the anterior and median vas deferens. The major part of the seminal fluid is produced and stored in the posterior vas deferens. Rosette glands fill the basal third of the first pleopods and open into pores on the pleopod tips. It is suggested that their secretions mix with seminal fluid during copulation and cause hardening of the seminal products. A male's ejaculate consists of sperm gel and a sperm packet formed by densely packed spermatophores. The seminal receptacle consists of a dorsal sperm storage and a ventral insemination chamber, separated by the muscular velum. The sperm storage chamber wall is lined with holocrine gland epithelium which secretes into the receptacle lumen. Shortly before spawning an oviduct opens ventrally into the insemination chamber, which is connected by the vagina with the sternum. During spawning some spermatophores at the ventral part of the lowest sperm packet are dissolved, and the sperm form a suspension in the insemination chamber, where passing oocytes are inseminated. The flexible vagina is opened for mating and spawning by muscular contractions. Females may store sperm for over 6 months and can fertilize up to 6 broods without remating.
10.2307/1549132|On an intertidal sand flat in western Kyushu, Japan, adults of the ghost shrimp Callianassa japonica Ortmann inhabited the upper tidal zone in 1979. Their distribution later expanded greatly to occupy almost the entire sand flat by 1983, the situation remaining unchanged until the end of the study in 1990. Both larval settlement and adult migration accounted for the expansion of the distribution. The positions of the tidal zones, which had the highest densities of newly settled juveniles, shifted, along with the distribution expansion of adults, but were always around the seaward margin of the adult habitat, with densities gradually decreasing shoreward. After maximum distribution expansion was attained, the densities of adults were higher seaward along the elevation gradient, reflecting spatial variations in juvenile density. Occupation of deep-sediment layers by juveniles and hence their escape from mortality-causing factors near the sediment surface might be facilitated through the bioturbation of sediments and by the presence of burrows of established adults. This appears to be responsible for the observed distribution patterns.
10.2307/1548610|The effect of cheliped autotomy on limb regeneration was studied in the East African fiddler crabs Uca lactea and U. chlorophthalmus. Autotomy of either a minor or major cheliped accelerated regeneration of ambulatory limbs in male Uca. The degree of acceleration of regeneration was generally comparable to that observed in eyestalkless male Uca. The autotomy of one minor cheliped in female Uca was without observable effect. Autotomy of two minor chelipeds in females gave acceleration of regeneration comparable to the autotomy of one cheliped in males. The effect of minor cheliped autotomy was comparable in both species studied.
10.2307/1547878| Size-weight relationships are presented for small (<60 mm carapace width) juvenile blue crabs, Callinectes sapidus, where the stage of the ecdysial cycle, the number of pereiopods, and the locality of capture were held constant. Regression models for the prediction of wet weight, dry weight, and ash-free dry weight (AFDW) from various size measurements indicated that no differences occurred between juvenile males and females for any of the models tested. The best model for the prediction of dry weight was the logarithmic equation, ln dry weight = -11.247 + 2.918  ln width. Wet weight also could be accurately predicted from carapace width, as well as from volume and length. 
10.2307/1548741| The gland filters of Penaeus japonicus are two seta-lined ampullae which originate from the thickened cuticle lining the epithelium of the ventral pyloric stomach. The two ampullae are arranged in an inverted "V" shape from the dorsal to the ventral surface. Each ampulla consists of an upper ampullary half and a lower ampullary half, with a slight dilation between them. The setae lining the upper and lower ampullary halves form a setal screen guarding and guiding the passage of food. Masticated fine food particles from the cardiac stomach can pass through a small dorsal slit above the interampullary ridge and then flow into the two lateral ampullae. The fine food particles enter the lower ampullary channels and then longitudinal grooves which are confluent at the posterior of an ampulla. The width of the seta-lined lower ampullary channels is about 1.0 m, and the width of the longitudinal grooves is approximately 16 m. In this study, the detailed structure of the gland filters in Penaeus japonicus is described for the first time. 
20487766|The spermatophore morphology and spermatozoal ultrastructure of Diogenes pugilator are described. The spematophore is typically tripartite made up of an ampulla, a very long stalk and a foot. The two halves making up the ampulla meet at a lateral ridge. The sperm is ovoidal in shape and composed of a large, almost cylindrical, acrosome, which occupies most of the cell volume, capped by a conical operculum, and cupped posteriorly by a cytoplasmic region comprising the nucleus and three arms. The sizes of the different parts of the spermatophore and of the sperm are given and their exterior morphology and ultrastructure described and compared to congeners. The available spematozoal and spermatophore data is used to place D. pugilator within a sperm phylogeny of the hermit crab family Diogenidae.
10.2307/1549548| Most grapsid crabs are benthic species that live in intertidal or subtidal marine or brackish water. Columbus crabs, Planes spp., which live associated with living or inanimate floating objects in the open ocean are an exception. A group of crabs was found on flotsam stranded on a beach near Mar Chiquita (3745S, 5726W), Argentina, and identified as Planes marinus. This is the first report of this oceanic species in the southwestern Atlantic Ocean. The crab was previously collected in the Pacific Ocean, from British Columbia to New Zealand, and at St. Helena Island (southeastern Atlantic Ocean). Surface oceanic currents are postulated as a possible transport mechanism between the highly isolated collection sites. This paper includes morphometrical data that allowed the identification of the species and several biological characteristics (sex ratio, relative growth and sexual dimorphism, incidence of limb autotomy and regeneration, epibiosis, and fecundity). Both P. marinus and most littoral marine grapsids have strong sexual dimorphism (male chelae are larger), a high incidence of autotomy, and a similar egg size and number (the latter related to female size). This information suggests that the life history and behavior of P. marinus, a typical "pelagic" crab, is similar to its benthic littoral relatives. 
10.2307/1548785|Development of the stomach, with emphasis on the filter system, was investigated in the metanauplius, calyptopis, and furcilia stages of the Antarctic krill Euphausia superba. The metanauplius lacks an elaborated stomach as well as a connection between the esophagus and the midgut. In calyptopis I, the stomach becomes functional. The armature of the cardiac stomach consists of basic components such as lateral and ventral projections and stout spines, but not a primary filter. The latter develops before molt beneath the cuticle and is seen in the exuvial space of calyptopis II. With molting to calyptopis III, the primary filter is elaborated and becomes capable of sorting food particles and of separating a dorsal food from a ventral filtration channel. Although in furcilia IV the spacing of spines in the primary filter is nearly identical to that in the adult specimens, the filter spines in calyptopis III are more widely separated. In all larval stages examined (except furcilia IV), the development of the pyloric stomach is delayed with respect to that of the cardiac stomach. Residues of a pyloric secondary filter system were not found in developing stages of Euphausia superba.
10.2307/1548720|This paper reports the results of preliminary research on planktonic Ostracoda collected during the first Italian Oceanographic Expedition to Antarctica (1987-88). A total of 311 samples at 33 stations (31 in Terranova Bay and 2 farther offshore in the Ross Sea) was collected. At each station, samples were taken at various depths from different layers (usually 50-100 m deep), and an integrated sample from the entire water column was collected. Ostracods--all conchoeciine Halocyprididae--were found in 272 samples (87% of the total); all the specimens (54,224) were examined individually. Taxonomic identification at the species level was made for adults (6,587, i.e., 12.15% of all individuals). Four species were identified (the highest density and the relative abundance are reported in parentheses): Alacia belgicae (4.00 ind m<sup>-3</sup>,82.69%), Metaconchoecia isocheira (1.30 ind m<sup>-3</sup>,16.65%), Alacia hettacra (0.13 ind m<sup>-3</sup>,0.61%), Metaconchoecia skogsbergi (0.07 ind m<sup>-3</sup>,0.05%). Some juvenile stages were tentatively identified as Paraconchoecia cf. brachyaskos. In almost all the stations the dominant species was Alacia belgicae, which seems to be a true Antarctic endemic species. It occurred in 2 distinct size ranges. Density distribution of both total ostracods and adults of the dominant species has been analyzed considering samples collected at different depth layers. In Terranova Bay, ostracod density did not show any sharply defined spatial distribution pattern. A positive correlation (P < 0.0001) was found between ostracod density and sampling layer depth. At most stations, densities were higher in intermediate and deep layers, where ostracods sometimes even assumed the role of the dominant planktonic component in terms of numerical importance. The distribution pattern by depth seems consistent with the detritivorous and carnivorous role of Ostracoda in the trophic structure of the Ross Sea zooplankton community.
10.2307/1549152| A population of the hermit crab Diogenes pugilator from the northeastern Atlantic (Barbate, Straits of Gilbraltar, Spain) was studied. The results show continuous recruitment throughout the year, within a size range from 0.4-1.02 mm in cephalothoracic shield length, as a consequence of the prevalence of ovigerous females throughout the year. The sex ratio was in favor of females. Results of size-frequency distributions from different locations show that there was no clear segregation of sizes by sexes or depths. Five cohorts can coexist, although a decrease in the number of specimens was observed in the second year studied, perhaps induced by human influences in the area (the building of a new harbor and the restoration of the beach). The values of the Von Bertalanffy parameters (K and L) showed slight differences between sexes and between years within sexes, as is shown in the ' index analysis. The estimated maximum longevity of the individuals in the population studied was about 2 years, but normally the cohorts lived in the study area for approximately 1 year. 
40927835|The genus Hippolyte is represented by typically small shrimps with intriguing mechanisms of reproduction. In order to study possible variability in reproductive aspects among different populations, we conducted an exhaustive comparative study of H. obliquimanus from South (Brazil) and Central American (Costa Rica) waters. The study focuses on fecundity and reproductive output. Mean size of ovigerous females was significantly larger, and both mean reproductive output and mean fecundity were significantly higher in specimens from Costa Rica then in those collected in Brazil. Embryo volume was significantly smaller in the Costa Rican population, and in both populations embryos doubled their volume during embryogenesis. We discuss and compare our findings with the information available regarding H. obliquimanus and other hippolytid shrimp. The reproductive traits of both populations of H. obliquimanus show some important differences which may reflect adaptations to local environmental conditions, demonstrating a high plasticity of reproductive features of the species in Brazilian and Costa Rican waters.
10.2307/1548870|A new cave location and description of the female of Typhlotricholigioides aquaticus Rioja is given. A brief comparison of troglobitic Typhlotricholigioides and Mexiconiscus is made. Both genera are also briefly compared to troglobitic Cantabroniscus from Spain. Brackenridgia is compared to Cylindroniscus and family placement of Cylindroniscus in Trichoniscidae is confirmed.
10.2307/1548243| Morphometry, reproductive biology, diet, and epizoite infestation of Ovalipes stephensoni (Brachyura: Portunidae) are described. The results are based on observations of 347 specimens collected by demersal trawl on the continental shelf of the eastern United States from 13-198 m, between 28 and 37N, and on 26 specimens from the National Museum of Natural History collections in Washington, D.C. All seven morphometric relationships observed (carapace length, body depth, propodal length, width and depth of crushing chela, and abdominal width) exhibited allometric growth to some extent. Sexual dimorphism was demonstrated for chelar propodal length and abdominal width. Prepubertal and pubertal molts were inferred from two changes in allometry of the male chelar propodal length and female abdominal width. Allometric maturity was correlated with gonad, pleopod, and gonopore development. Males reach full maturity at a carapace width of 61 mm; females complete maturation by the time they reach 51 mm in width. Ovalipes stephensoni is heterochelic and heterodontic with the crushing claw occurring on the right side in 91.6% of the specimens observed. There is little evidence that cheliped laterality changes with age (size). Although this species is an opportunistic carnivore, bivalve mollusks, cephalopods, and small crustaceans comprised the bulk of the diet. Relatively heavy infestations of lepadid barnacles, Octolasmis muelleri, were found in the branchial chamber. Lesions of the ciliated protozoan Synophrya hypertrophica were present in the gill lamellae. 
4094151|Numerous taxa have the ability to autotomize parts of their bodies to increase survivorship in dangerous or stressful situations. Effects of autotomy on a surviving individual's subsequent ecological function is not well understood for most species. In this study, we provide the first quantification of autotomy patterns within a population (frequency of injured individuals) and within an individual (frequency of missing pereopods, or limbs) of the Asian shore crab Hemigrapsus sanguineus. This crab, member of the family Grapsidae, is a recent introduction to the eastern coast of North America. Of 95 crabs sampled, 42% were missing at least one limb, with larger crabs missing more limbs than smaller crabs. Of the sample, 16% were missing at least one cheliped, with chelipeds more likely to be lost than walking limbs. These rates of limb loss are comparable to those of other crabs in their native ranges. Limb loss patterns affected feeding rate and size of prey consumed. Crabs missing one cheliped fed slower than those with both chelipeds, but consumed a similar ratio of small to large prey as crabs with both chelipeds. Crabs with no chelipeds, which fed at the slowest rate, consumed a larger ratio of small to large prey than crabs with either one or two chelipeds. These feeding results suggest that frequency of limb loss in H. sanguineus autotomy levels has potential to affect several population- and community-level processes.
27753939|Macrobrachium carcinus, one of the largest freshwater shrimp of the cast coast of the Americas, is commercially fished in certain parts of the region. We present data concerning the reproductive biology of the species, and compare findings with those published for other species of Macrobrachium. Ovigerous females were collected monthly between March 2004 and April 2005 in the San Juan River, northern Costa Rica. Egg bearing females ranged in size from 120.1 to 190.1 mm total length. Fecundity increased with female size and, up to 242,437 eggs, can be considered as high compared to other species of Macrobrachium. Average egg volume increased gradually during embryogenesis from 0.065 to 0.088 mm3, representing an overall increase of 35.4%. Eggs can be considered as small, typical for Macrobrachium species depending on brackish water to complete larval development. Reproductive output of M. carcinus varied between 4.0% and 21.0%, and was independent of female size; these values are within the range reported for other species of Macrobrachium and other marine caridean shrimp.
1549798|An epizoic stalked barnacle, Octolasmis angulata, was identified within the branchial chambers of Charybdis callianassa, a swimming crab from Moreton Bay, Queensland, Australia, making this crab a new host for O. angulata. In the present study fifty-two crabs, 30-49 mm carapace width, were dissected, and thirty-three were found to have the epizoite. The number and position of the O. angulata within the branchial chambers were noted. Octolasmis angulata is principally found attached to the cuticle of the anterior chamber wall in the epibranchial space, although attachment to the gills does occur. Charybdis callianassa is also parasitized by the sacculinid barnacle Heterosaccus lunatus, and one such parasitized crab contained eighty-seven O. angulata, the highest number recorded in the present study. The factors governing O. angulata distribution within the branchial chambers of C. callianassa are discussed.
10.2307/1549535|In 1879 Norman described Spencebatea abyssicola, new genus, new species, on the basis of a single specimen from a deep-sea site off Ireland. The species was transferred to the genus Cumella by Stebbing in 1913, where it has remained. A reexamination of the specimen indicated that it belongs to the genus Procampylaspis, since it possesses the recurved, tooth-bearing dactyl on maxilliped 2 which characterizes the genus. Seven other genera also exhibit modified dactyls on maxilliped 2, and in addition, have styliform mandible molars, thus forming a coherent group within the family Nannastacidae.
27753934|Estuarine intertidal zones are characterized by variable salinity regimes due to seasonal and daily fluctuations. Salt-marsh inhabitants, such as the mud fiddler crab Uca pugnax, are physiologically adapted to this habitat. Crustacean growth and development are energy demanding and sensitive hormonal processes which are susceptible to natural stressors. This study investigated physiological and metabolic changes in the molt cycle of U. pugnax in response to different salinity levels by assessing the survival, respiration, and post-molt tissue protein and carbohydrate content. Crabs were subjected to a limb regeneration and ecdysis challenge under four different salinity regimes. For the study, a limb was removed and its regenerative growth was photographed every two days. After ecdysis, crabs were dissected, and the tissues collected were analyzed for their protein and carbohydrate contents. Crabs held at 60 and 75 ppt seawater showed 100% mortality. Crabs at 60 ppt did not undergo basal limb growth. During limb regeneration, abnormal limb growth occurred solely in males. Post-molt 40 ppt crabs showed elevated respiration rates compared to 10 ppt crabs. Females and 25 ppt crabs had significantly more free carbohydrates in epithelial tissue than males and crabs at 10 and 40 ppt. As salinity decreased, epithelial protein content in females decreased while males experienced no change. Salinity did not affect the amount of acid, water or base-soluble exoskeleton protein. These physiological responses indicate that U. pugnax males and individuals exposed to extreme salinities are more likely to be impacted by salinity stress during limb regeneration and ecdysis.
20487736|This study compares timing of egg extrusion, embryo development, timing and duration of eclosion, and incubation periods of Kodiak, Alaska, primiparous and multiparous Tanner crabs (Chionoecetes bairdi) reared in identical conditions to determine if and how these variables differ between reproductive states. Female reproductive state (primiparous or multiparous) and dates of egg extrusion were recorded, eggs were sampled monthly to determine egg stage and area, and larvae were collected daily during eclosion to determine timing and duration of eclosion. Primiparous Tanner crabs extruded eggs on average 103 days earlier than multiparous females and embryos developed similarly between groups. Both groups exhibited an embryonic developmental diapause at the gastrula stage, but the length of diapause was approximately 6 months for the primiparous group and 3 months for the multiparous group. This diapause appears to synchronize eclosion. The eggs of primiparous Tanner crabs were significantly smaller than the eggs of multiparous females for a few months after extrusion, but the differences may not be biologically significant. Eclosion was relatively synchronous between the two groups, however the mean eclosion date was 10 days earlier for primiparous females and on average, eclosion took 7 days for primiparous females and 12 days for multiparous females. Primiparous Tanner crabs have an average incubation period of 489 days which is 92 days longer than the average multiparous female incubation period of 397 days. Results of this study clearly illustrate that reproductive cycles differ between primiparous and multiparous Tanner crabs which may result in different reproductive potentials. Differences between primiparous and multiparous Tanner crabs must be understood and included in models for effective stock assessment, fishery management plans, and rebuilding plans.
10.2307/1548053|Twelve species of Galatheidae and one species of Chirostylidae numbering 6,928 individuals were retrieved from trawl collections made on the continental shelf, slope, and rise in the Middle Atlantic Bight. The most abundant species collected was Munida iris iris which constituted >90% of the total catch of galatheoidean anomurans. Three other species (Munidopsis rostrata, Munida valida, and Munida longipes) comprised >1% of the total number of Galatheoidea. The bathymetric distribution of Munidopsis spp. was confined to depths >500 m, whereas all except two Munida spp. were collected from the continental shelf and upper slope. Munida spp. and Eumunida picta produced large numbers of small eggs, whereas eggs from Munidopsis spp. were large and few in number. Ovigerous females of all species examined, except Munida microphthalma and Eumunida picta, had larger carapace lengths than males and other females. For most species, there was little evidence of reproductive seasonality since ovigerous females were collected throughout the year; however, ovigerous females of Munida longipes, Munidopsis bairdii, and Eumunida picta were collected only in fall or winter. Parasites of Galatheoidea were mainly bopyrid isopods and rhizocephalan barnacles. The incidence of parasitism was low for all species examined.
10.2307/1548189|Sampling for infaunal decapods in shallow-water habitats of the southern Indian River lagoon near Fort Pierce, Florida, has yielded members of two new species, one representing a new genus near Leptalpheus Williams. Fenneralpheus chacei, new genus, new species, is named from one specimen taken in the Indian River and a second from off Key West, Florida. The second species described, Salmoneus cavicolus, new species, from the Indian River, comprises the first record of the genus from Florida. Both species are probably commensals with other macroinvertebrates, but their hosts are unknown.
4094207| This study examined the circadian feeding cycles of two sympatric decapod prawns, Palaemonetes argentinus (Nobili, 1901) and Macrobrachium borellii (Nobili, 1896), as a coexistence mechanism. The work was done in some shallow lakes of the alluvial valley of the Paran River (Santa Fe, Argentina). Both prawns consume similar food items, but they differ in their feeding times. Macrobrachium borellii stomach fullness was greater during night than day, whereas P. argentinus foraging activity occurred by day. Trophic niche breadth was wide and similar in both species during the day but was expanded in P. argentinus at night when M. borellii feeding activity increased. Niche overlap fluctuated without a definite pattern. Adaptive modifications of circadian feeding rhythms play an important role in the coexistence of these species. 
1549699|A year's monitoring of a population of Maja squinado in Galicia, NW Spain, revealed the seasonal formation of pods. From September to November 1994, we analysed samples from five pods located in two areas near the coast, Mexilloeira and O Carreiro, as well as specimens living in isolation in the same area. These pods were made up mainly of juveniles, except for the aggregation detected in September in O Carreiro, where 72% of the animals were adults. The sex ratio was around 1:1 in juveniles, with a predominance of females in the adult population. No differences were found in the proportion of juveniles vs. adults, sex ratio, size range, or intermoult stage between animals in pods and isolated specimens. The arrangement of the animals in the pod as well as the large number of specimens in the premoult or postmoult stage would suggest that these pods serve as a form of protection.
10.2307/1549039|The zoeal and megalopal stages of Pagurus armatus (Dana) reared under laboratory conditions are described and illustrated. Development in this, the second Pacific species of the bernhardus group to be documented, is compared with the larval morphology described for three other species of this group. With one exception, the length of the posterolateral spines of the fifth abdominal somite, species of the group show considerable morphological similarity. Zoeal morphology lends support to the hypothesis that the bernhardus group is monophyletic.
4540321|Whether male Tanner crabs, Chionoecetes bairdi, undergo a terminal molt associated with a change in claw allometry has long been debated. We measured molting hormone levels in captured male C. bairdi to assess the potential for molting. We plotted a frequency histogram of chela height to carapace width ratios and found a bimodal distribution of crabs with a ratio of approximately 0.18 separating the two modes. Male crabs with a ratio less than 0.18 were classified as "small-clawed" (SC) while crabs with a ratio greater than 0.18 were classified as "large-clawed" (LC). Circulating molting hormones between SC and LC crabs were compared. Significantly lower ecdysteroid levels were found in LC crabs, indicating that this morphotype had negligible potential for molting. Circulating ecdysteroids were measured in SC males of different shell conditions (soft, new, old, and very old) and no significant differences were found. This research suggests that the molt to LC morphology is a terminal molt. The results from this study have important implications for fisheries management because sub-legal LC males will not recruit into the fishery and removal of larger males may have long term effects on population size structure.
4540282| A new genus and species Bathione magnafolia of bopyrid infesting the deep-water galatheid crab Munidopsis depressa is described on the basis of material collected in the southern Gulf of California, in depths between 835 and 870 m and extreme hypoxic conditions (0.007 and 0.29 ml O/L). Females and males of the new species were compared with females and males of 21 closely related pseudionine genera. Infestation rates by these bopyrids of M. depressa were estimated from 1.2% to 2.5%. Pseudione humboldtensis Pardo, Guisado & Acua, 1998, shares many characters with the new species and is transferred to the new genus. 
27753940|The green crab Carcinus maenas invaded the Gulf of Maine over a hundred years ago and has become a well-established member of coastal ecosystems. Carcinus is most abundant in the intertidal zone despite higher availability of invertebrate prey in the nearby shallow subtidal. A previous study revealed a higher mortality rate for Carcinus in the subtidal than in the intertidal zone. Two other decapods, the American lobster Homarus americanus and Jonah crab Cancer borealis, have their highest abundance in the shallow subtidal. These three species have similar diets and predation among and within species occurs. We performed a laboratory experiment to investigate the effects of H. americanus, C. borealis, and larger conspecifics on mortality and behavior of Carcinus. Homarus americanus was the most effective predator on Carcinus, consuming 27% within 24 h. In contrast, only 5% of Carcinus were eaten by C. borealis and none by conspecifics. The presence of American lobsters had dramatic effects on Carcinus behaviors: hiding and climbing increased while walking and standing on the open substrate decreased. In contrast, Carcinus showed no significant changes of behavior in the presence of C. borealis or larger conspecifics. The consumptive and non-consumptive (behavioral) effects of lobsters on Carcinus appear to be one major cause of the scarcity of Carcinus in subtidal communities. These effects are also likely to reduce Carcinus predation on the small invertebrates that are common prey for all the large decapods in this ecosystem.
1549631|The spotted spiny lobster, Panulirus guttatus, is a reclusive, reef-dwelling species and appears to be restricted to coral reef habitat for its entire benthic existence. Little is known about its population dynamics, and much of the data that are available is derived primarily from trap-caught individuals and may therefore be biased. We avoided this problem by diving at night on patch reefs in the Florida Keys (U.S.A.) to collect lobsters when they are most accessible and used mark-recapture methods to estimate their growth and size at maturity. Molt increment for lobsters greater than 50 mm CL was estimated to be 1.5 mm for females and 1.6 mm for males, while molt interval was 50.6 weeks for females and 50.0 weeks for males. Growth rate was calculated to be 0.02-0.37 mm CL/week depending on size and sex. On average, males grew faster than females, but the rate of growth decreased with increased size for both sexes. Female size at maturity was estimated at 32 mm CL, based on both the minimum size of egg-bearing females and the size at which 50% of the females produced eggs. We estimated size at maturity for males to be 36-37 mm CL, using the onset of allometric growth of the second walking leg as an indicator of male maturity. Panulirus guttatus is a diminutive species, and its size at maturity is small compared to other species of spiny lobster, although its growth rate is comparable to other species. These unusual life history characteristics may reflect selection for traits advantageous to life in small, architecturally complex habitat patches.
10.2307/1549361|Most crustaceans carry their embryos in a brood chamber or ovisac. However, among the pelagic Crustacea nearly all halocyprid ostracods, most calanoid copepods, euphausiids, and dendrobranchiate decapods (Penaeoidea and Sergestoidea) shed their eggs into the water column. Planktonic Branchiopoda produce resting eggs which remain dormant in the sediment as part of their life cycle. Eggs of calanoids of species within the superfamily Diaptomoidea may also survive dormant in the sediment. The eggs of some Aetideidae adhere to suitable substrates. The freely spawned eggs of other calanoids do not appear to be able to survive in the sediment and their spawning strategies and egg characteristics, and those of Euphausiacea, minimize the risk of their eggs reaching the sea bed. The eggs of free-spawning decapods are buoyant, but demersal development has been suggested for some penaeids. The distributions of brooders are not directly limited by the egg or incubation characteristics, but those of free spawners may be thus limited. The production of dormant eggs enables populations to survive when conditions are unfavorable for the pelagic stages, but only in depths in which newly hatched nauplii or juveniles can return to the strata where they can feed to continue development. In contrast, free spawners with nonresistant eggs are at a disadvantage in shallow waters. Free spawning enables populations to reproduce rapidly where food supply is intermittent, particularly in high latitudes.
10.2307/1548492|A new family of harpacticoid copepods, Adenopleurellidae, is proposed to accommodate the genera Adenopleurella, new genus, Sarsocletodes Wilson, Miroslavia Apostolov, and Proceropes, new genus. The genus Sarsocletodes is removed from the Laophontidae T. Scott on the basis of the reduced nature of leg 1 which cannot be attributed to heterochronic (neotenic) events. Sarsocletodes secundus Smirnov is placed in a new genus, Proceropes, on account of the primitive P1 and P5, and is considered the most primitive member of the family. Miroslavia longicaudata is excluded from the Cletodidae T. Scott and is most closely related to the type genus Adenopleurella, new genus, described from the Great Barrier Reef. The family Adenopleurellidae is placed in the superfamily Laophontoidea T. Scott and can be differentiated from the other families by the unique pleural glands, the reduced P1, and the bisetose antennal exopod. There is no relationship with Platychelipus Brady, which should be retained in the Laophontidae. A phylogenetic analysis of the adenopleurellid genera is presented.
27753979|The amphipod genus Stygobromus occurs in a variety of subterranean habitats in North America, including caves, phreatic (groundwater) lakes, and superficial subterranean habitats (seeps and epikarst). The habitats share the absence of light but differ in other features, such as pore size of the habitat, available food, and degree of seasonality. Measurements of body size, antennal size, and antennal segment number of type specimens were compared for 56 species occurring in the eastern United States. Except for differences in body size, differences among species in the four different habitats were not significant. Body size was related to relative pore size of the habitat, e.g., epikarst, with the smallest spaces, had the smallest species. However, in all habitats, there was one very large species (&gt; 15mm); these enigmatic species apparently occupy a distinct ecological niche, perhaps being more predatory. Differences in relative antennal size showed no significant differences among habitats, and differences in number of antennal segments were marginally significant (P = 0.06) among habitat types and not in the predicted pattern. Differences among habitats in seasonality and available food seemed to be a minor part of the selective environment; absence of light seemed to be a major part of the selective environment.
10.2307/1548142|Over 1,300 fossil decapods have been collected from the Upper Cretaceous Coon Creek Formation in Union County, Mississippi. The fauna is dominated by Dakoticancer australis Rathbun, 1935 (raised from subspecies rank) (49%), with smaller proportions of numerous other taxa: Protocallianassa mortoni (Pilsbry, 1901) (26.9%); Hoploparia tennesseensis Rathbun, 1926 (10.1%); Linuparus canadensis (Whiteaves, 1885) (4.7%); Tetracarcinus subquadrata Weller, 1905 (2.8%); Notopocorystes testacea (Rathbun, 1926) (2.7%); Paguristes whitteni, new species (2.8%); Raninella tridens Roberts, 1962 (0.8%); Eryma flecta Rathbun, 1926 (0.3%), and Cristipluma mississippiensis, new species (0.1%). Paguristes whitteni, new species, is represented by an enigmatic series of 30 claws. Cristipluma mississippiensis, new species, is based on a single specimen. Its scarcity in the shallow water Coon Creek fauna attests to the probability of Cristipluma already at that time inhabiting deep water (as is the case with the recent retroplumids found mostly in deep Indo-Pacific waters).
10.2307/1547855|The Kentucky cave shrimp Palaemonias ganteri is known only from base level cave passages in the Mammoth Cave System, Kentucky. Since the shrimp was not seen between 1967 and 1979, it was assumed to be extinct. Between May 1979 and February 1981, I looked for shrimp in base level pools by searching visually or by seining and dip netting once a month. SCUBA divers on four occasions searched deep pools and submerged cave passages. No live shrimp were found in residual pools, where they were readily observed before 1967. A few shrimp were found in deep pools of streams and in submerged passages. Foraging at the water surface was observed.
1549349|The fouling community at Algeciras Bay exhibits the general features of other warm-temperate fouling communities in which the bryozoan Bugula neritina is a major competitor for space during summer. This bryozoan was sampled in order to study spatio-temporal changes of the peracaridan fauna of Algeciras Bay (Strait of Gibraltar). The results of this work point out the relevance of studying the life cycle patterns of both the living substratum and its associated fauna prior to analyzing the possible classification or ordination of the stations. There was a good correlation between the height of B. neritina and temperature and between the colony dry mass and the number of peracaridan individuals. Numerical analyses allowed the identification of two groups of stations based on the distribution and abundance of the peracaridan faunas in Algeciras Bay, the internal and the external stations. The external stations had higher diversity, regarding both evenness and species richness, than in the internal stations, where some species, e.g., Jassa marmorata, Phtisica marina, Ischyrocerus inexpectatus, were strongly dominant. Seasonal variation of the substratum, Bugula neritina, and the peracaridan fauna which lives on it minimized the differences between external and internal stations. The ability to utilize B. neritina as living space can be a key to the success of some peracaridan species such as Jassa marmorata, Ischyrocerus inexpectatus, and Podocerus variegatus. Moreover, the temporal and spatial offset in the maximal density shown by some amphipod species might indicate the existence of biological relationships such as competition or predation.
1549962|The problem of intersexuality was studied in the freshwater crayfish Samastacus spinifrons by examination of sexual characters of 1,114 specimens captured at nine fluvial populations and a lake population in southern Chile. The existence of this phenomenon was verified in the populations of rivers Contaco, Forrahue, Chico, and Hueyusca. In the first three cases, the percentage of intersexes was 1.5%, 2.7%, and 12.5%, respectively, and in the fourth case it ranged between 0% and 9.8%. A total of 41 intersex specimens was captured in which six gonopore patterns were identified. The dissections showed that 30 of them had testes, seven had ootestes, and four had ovaries. Moreover, all had gonoducts of both sexes, except for one of those with testes which had only sperm ducts, and one of those with ovaries that had only oviducts. It was also found that all intersex specimens had an abdomen with masculine morphological characteristics. This evidence, added to those found in the literature, confirm that in river populations of S. spinifrons, there is a variable percentage of intersex individuals, probably corresponding to transitional stages of a sex change from male to female.
10.2307/1548560| Distribution and abundance patterns in relation to some environmental parameters and population size structure have been studied in the deep-water portunid crab Bathynectes piperitus in the Benguela upwelling region. The highest densities were found between 300 and 400 m depth, especially between latitudes 24S and 28S, associated with oxygen levels higher than 0.51 ml/l, and bottom temperatures of 7-8C. Sediment granulometry did not appear to play a crucial role in determining the distribution pattern of the species; high abundances of B. piperitus occurred on sediments with 20-80% silt-clay content. Sex ratio was highly male-biased at both depth extremes of the distribution. The main recruitment area was found between 200 and 300 m in latitudes 23S and 24S. No single environmental parameter appears to be responsible for the species' main distribution patterns in this area. 
1548931|The mating behavior of the white shrimps Penaeus (Litopenaeus) setiferus and Penaeus (Litopenaeus) vannamei was observed for comparison with mating behaviors in other subgenera of Penaeus. In accordance with video analysis and visual observations, the mating behavior of P. setiferus was divided into 4 sequential stages. During the Chase stage, the male closely trails the female, mirroring the female's changes in direction. In the Probe stage, the male approaches the female ventrally and probes the thelycal region of the female with its antennules. The Embrace stage is characterized by the male inverting itself, juxtaposing ventral surfaces with the female, and wrapping its pereiopods around the carapace of the female. In the final stage, the Flex, the male collapses its uropods, hooks its abdomen slightly, and rotates perpendicular to the midline of the female forming a U-shape around the female. Penaeus vannamei exhibited a mating behavior similar to that of P. setiferus. However, the reduction in the angle of rotation and abdominal curling during the Flex stage differed from that of P. setiferus. A generalized model for mating behavior within the genus Penaeus is proposed.
10.2307/1549422|A highly modified copepod, Tarificola bulbosus, new genus, new species, parasitizes the zooids of the compound ascidian Polycitor crystallinus at Tarifa Island (Strait of Gibraltar). The external anatomy of the adult female, the nauplius, and the swimming copepodid are described. Relationships between Tarificola and other highly transformed copepod genera, based on the external anatomy of the female, the nauplius, and the swimming copepodid, are given. Tarificola is probably host-specific, since it is not found in other ascidians in the same biotope.
4094189|Ontogenetic changes in gregariousness by pre-reproductive animals, like that observed in juvenile Caribbean spiny lobsters (Panulirus argus), may be adaptive and reflect size-specific changes in the effectiveness of aggregation in promoting survival. Alternatively, aggregation may simply result from changes in the distribution or availability of suitable habitat structure, or from other behaviors that enhance survival. There are currently two hypotheses explaining the potential benefits of gregarious behavior in juvenile spiny lobsters, both of which focus on increasing survivorship by reducing predation pressure: the group benefit hypothesis and the guide hypothesis. The group benefit hypothesis argues that aggregations of juvenile lobsters reduce individual susceptibility to predators because groups are better able to fend off attackers or benefit by dilution of risk. The guide hypothesis suggests that aggregation is a consequence of shelter seeking behavior, in which individuals searching for shelter follow conspecific odors, thus reducing the time they spend in the open exposed to higher predation rates. The guide mechanism should be most effective in areas of low shelter density. We used an individual-based, spatially-explicit model describing recruitment of juvenile spiny lobster in the Florida Keys to compare behavioral models incorporating a guide effect and group benefit under conditions of high and low shelter densities. We found that the guide effect significantly enhanced survival only under the most extreme circumstances where shelter was scarce, the risk of predation highest, and the effective distance of the guide effect strongest. In contrast, small increases in direct group benefit led to significantly higher population abundances under a wide range of conditions.
10.2307/1548750|The endoparasitic copepod Mesoglicola delagei Quidor is redescribed based on material obtained from the Strait of Gibraltar. Morphological problems concerning the antennule, antenna, maxilla, maxilliped, genital apertures, and caudal rami are clarified with the aid of SEM. Aspects of the biology and parasitism of this species are revised in accordance with previous literature and our personal observations. The taxonomic status of this copepod and relationships between the Mesoglicolidae and other families of copepods are discussed.
10.2307/1548453|Clam shrimps in the genus Eulimnadia (Branchiopoda: Spinicaudata) cover their eggs with tertiary envelopes that on close examination exhibit species-specific morphologies. Most of the other characters used by previous students of this group are misleadingly variable. I review the 12 species described from North America. Egg morphology suggests that only 5 of these are valid. To these 5, I add 2 new species clearly recognizable by egg morphology.
10.2307/1548201|Specimens of the cephalocarid Hutchinsoniella macracantha, which were resin-embedded and sectioned for light microscopy, revealed degenerated compound eyes anterior to the labrum. The presence of compound eyes in the cephalocarids adds support to the hypothesis that cephalocarids are an early derivative of an urcrustaceanlike organism that has changed little since Paleozoic times.
10.2307/1549057| Larvae from 3 adult Ibacus peronii were reared through 6 phyllosomal instars and a nisto before metamorphosing into juveniles. Two phyllosoma instars previously attributed to I. peronii (see Ritz and Thomas, 1973) were not observed during the present studies. We suggest that these belong to Ibacus alticrenatus. Six larvae successfully metamorphosed into nisto larvae and subsequently into juvenile stages. Of these juveniles, 3 were successfully cultured for 1 year on a diet of fresh mussels (Mytilus edulis). In a second experiment, larvae were reared at 2 temperature regimes (20.7 and 23.3C). Considerably higher survival rates were achieved at the lower regime, although molting frequency decreased. During 1 year at ambient temperatures the juveniles developed from a mean carapace length of 12.2 mm at the first molt to 39.8 mm at the sixth molt. The mean intermolt period was 49 days. 
1549219| The occurrence of dark brown melanized spots indicative of the presence of crayfish plague fungus (Aphanomyces astaci Schikora) was investigated in three Finnish lakes inhabited by the introduced American signal crayfish (Pacifastacus leniusculus Dana) in 1979, 1983, 1985-1988, 1990, 1993, and 1994. The crayfish were caught with crayfish traps during August-September, 7-8 weeks after the moult. In one lake in which P. leniusculus population had developed from juveniles imported from Sweden in 1971, the crayfish showed no signs of infection. The lake also contained a population of the native noble crayfish (Astacus astacus L.). The coexistence of the two species for nearly 30 years in the same habitats in this small lake indicates the absence of crayfish plague. In two lakes P. leniusculus populations originated from adults imported from Lake Tahoe, U.S.A., in 1969. In 1979 the prevalence of infected P. leniusculus in the lakes (n = 1,841) was high, 52% in Lake Karisjrvi and 47% in Lake Iso-Majajrvi. By 1988 the prevalence had decreased to only 11% and 12%, respectively. During the 1990s, the number of infected specimens began to increase, reaching 24% in Lake Karisjrvi in 1993, and 18% in Lake Iso-Majajrvi in 1994. The black spots most commonly occurred on the walking legs (40% and 39%, respectively) and the chelae (28% in both lakes). The mean number of spots per crayfish was 2.0 and 2.4; many (43% and 36%, respectively) were > 3 mm in diameter. Crayfish plague does not appear to have affected the P. leniusculus populations in the study lakes in any way, nor have any mortalities been reported in either lake. 
40927839|We compared seasonal changes in population structures and surface activities in the fiddler crab Uca arcuata between temperate (Yoshinogawa, Japan) and subtropical localities (Shinko, Japan). At Yoshinogawa, male courtship behavior was observed from April to July and pair formation from May to July, whereas at Shinko such mating behavior patterns were observed over two periods (June to September and February to March). Thus, the subtropical population appears to have a longer breeding period than the temperate population. Waving occurred from June to August at Yoshinogawa and during all months (except October and November) at Shinko. Waving frequency was higher during courting periods at all localities, although lower at Shinko compared with Yoshinogawa. Maximum body size and the size at maturity were smaller at Shinko than at Yoshinogawa. Surface and underground couplings were observed at Yoshinogawa, whereas only surface coupling was observed at Shinko. These differences and similarities are discussed from the viewpoint of habitat conditions and population characteristics.
10.2307/1548748| Synalpheus regalis (Decapoda: Alpheidae) is described from the demosponges Xestospongia cf. subtriangularis (Petrosiidae) and Hyattella intestinalis (Spongiidae) on the Belize Barrier Reef at Carrie Bow Cay. The new species is a member of Coutire's gambarelloides species-group, and more specifically is one of a complex of morphologically very similar species, including S. rathbunae, S. filidigitus, and at least one other undescribed species. Like most members of the gambarelloides group, S. regalis lives exclusively within the internal canals of living sponges, and at the type locality is found in only 2 of the 21 sponge species that harbor commensal shrimps. Such host specificity is typical of Caribbean species of Synalpheus. The pattern of shrimp distribution among sponge species, and among individual sponges, suggests that suitable habitat at this site is saturated and that competition for living space is intense. The resulting restriction of species of Synalpheus to those hosts in which they are competitively superior may thus be an important determinant of their characteristic host specificity. 
1549458|We examined the use of the inner and outer rami in integrating the several behavior patterns used in feeding. Crayfish commonly suffer loss of, or damage to, antennules, during agonistic interactions. We analyzed the effects of antennular ramus ablations on the response of crayfish to sucrose, in terms of the feeding behavior patterns shown. Dissolved sucrose can be detected by crayfish without antennular rami, probably by sensilla elsewhere on the body (e.g., pereiopods or maxillipeds). When antennular rami are present, the introduction of sucrose solution causes an increase in the rate of 3 antennular movement patterns. The greatest increase is in Large Amplitude Movements, a phasic motor pattern that sweeps through the greatest volume of water. The next step in feeding, Substrate Searching with the dactylate pereiopods, is briefly initiated even without antennular rami. However, both the normal continuation of Substrate Searching, and also the subsequent feeding Leg-to-Mouth Movements (preingestion), depend on the presence of either inner or outer antennular rami, but do not require both.
40665247|We evaluate the morphological variation of cirri of two intertidal barnacles in response to different wave-exposure regimes and population densities during growth. Length, diameter and number of segments of the third and sixth cirri were determined in Jehlius cirratus and Notochthamalus scobrosus, two dominant sympatric species in the rocky intertidal zone of Chile. Aggregated and isolated individuals of both species were collected in two coastal localities. Reciprocal transplant experiments were undertaken between waveprotected and wave-exposed zones, in addition to experimental modification of density during growth. For both species, individuals inhabiting wave-protected zones had cirri that were longer, thinner, with a greater number of segments, than in those inhabiting waveexposed zones. The sixth cirri of 7. cirratus were longer, thicker and had more segments in specimens growing at high densities, than in individuals growing in isolation. In N. scabrosus, no density dependent effects were observed in cirral structure. Thus, phenotypic responses differed between species, depending on the morphometric or meristic variable of the cirral pair evaluated. Forty-five days after J. cirratus density conditions and wave-exposure regime were modified in the transplant experiments, changes were observed in cirral length, diameter, and number of cirral segments. No modification was observed in the cirral characteristics over time in specimens whose density was artificially reduced during growth. Results indicate that morphological structures associated with filtration and respiration, vary according to density and degree of wave-exposure. We suggest that cirral phenotypic variability can serve as an adaptive mechanism associated with the changing availability and access to food and contributes to explaining the success of these organisms in environments with high spatial-temporal fluctuations in biotic and abiotic factors.
20487838|Freshwater prawns of the genus Macrobrachium of Taiwan are diverse, rich in amphidromous species, but poor in land-locked and endemic species. The fauna showed higher similarity to those of the Philippine Islands and Ryukyu Islands than that of the China mainland. Based on their geographical distribution patterns in the Indo-Pacific region and their phylogenetic relations reconstructed from the nuclear 28S rDNA sequences, we hypothesize their most likely biogeographical origins and dispersion routes. For the 16 known species of Macrobrachium of Taiwan, 13 species were amphidromous. Their biogeographical origins were: 1) in the eastern region of tropical Southeast Asia islands, dispersing to Taiwan through the Philippines islands for M. australe, M. lar, M. latimanus, M. gracilirostre, M. jaroense, M. esculentum, M. lepidactyloides, and M. placidulum; 2) in the western region of tropical Southeast Asia islands, dispersing to Taiwan through the Philippines and/or mainland China for M. equidens, M. latidactylus, and M. mammillodactylus; 3) in mainland China for M. formosense; and 4) on the island of Taiwan for M. japonicum. For the remaining three species, M. asperulum, a land-locked prawn, and M. nipponense, a non-obligatory amphidromous prawn, originated in mainland China. M. shaoi is the only endemic prawn to Taiwan and its life cycle is still unknown.
10.2307/1549333|A previously unknown genus and species of cyclopoid copepod, Stolonicyclops heggiensis, was discovered in seepage areas on Heggie's Rock, a granite monadnock in Georgia, U.S.A. The genus is characterized by leg 5 fused to the somite, with 1 dorsal seta and 2 ventral setae on a small knob; the antennule of 11 segments in the female; the swimming legs with 2-segmented rami, except leg 4 endopodite segments partly fused in the female; the spine and seta formulae of swimming legs 2,3,3,3 and 5,4,4,4, respectively; the lack of a seta on the medial (inner) corner of the coxopodite of legs 2-4; leg 4 endopodite segment 2 with 5 appendages; and the lack of sexual dimorphism in the swimming legs, except for the difference in leg 4 endopodite fusion. In several respects, S. heggiensis resembles Bryocyclops (Palaeocyclops) jankowskajae Monchenko from Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan. However, the lack of modified appendages of leg 3 in the male of S. heggiensis precludes assigning it to the genus Bryocyclops. The nature of leg 3 of the male and other plesiomorphic characters of S. heggiensis may indicate that its ancestor diverged earlier than Palaeocyclops from the Bryocyclops ancestral line.
1549870|The evolutionary history and classification of the palaemonid shrimps has been the subject of constant speculation and debate. At present, all major systematic treatments have been based on morphological characteristics. To help resolve the phylogenetic relationships, and thus enable the creation of a classification system that reflects evolutionary history, a region of the 16S mitochondrial rRNA gene was sequenced for a number of Australian Palaemonidae. The resulting phylogenetic analyses indicated the presence of major anomalies in the current classification of Australian Palaemonidae. Significantly, three species belonging to three separate genera, Macrobrachium intermedium, Palaemon serenus, and Palaemonetes australis, are closely related, with genetic differences more characteristic with that of congeneric species. The results also demonstrate non-monophyly in Australian palaemonids with respect to both Palaemonetes and Macrobrachium.
1549481|Raysquilla manningi represents a new genus and species of eurysquillid stomatopod from the Australian Northwest Shelf. Raysquilla manningi is most closely related to species of Eurysquilla and Sinosquilla but is unique within the family because it lacks spines or spinules on the dorsal surface and posterior margin of the sixth abdominal somite and has the outer spine of uropodal protopod longer than the inner. A key to the genera of the Eurysquillidae is included.
10.2307/1547894|Within any particular geographic area certain species of crayfish predominate: reasons for this predominance may be found in the demographic response of crayfish populations to such factors as nutrient addition, predation (including exploitation by man), or interaction with other crayfish species. Polytrophic crayfish utilize both primary and detrital production, both of which are governed by nutrient availability and energy distribution. The result is a sharply pulsed cycle of food availability at high latitudes in contrast to a more continuous cycle at low latitudes. Through modifications in their demographic response, life cycles of crayfish are adjusted to both the environmental conditions and resulting food availability prevalent at various latitudes. Often the end result is a match of young-of-the-year production to food production at each latitude. Most year to year differences in the cohort (year class) production of various species are due to fluctuations in mortality rates rather than to adjustments in growth or fecundity rates. The highest production rates are achieved by species with low mortality rates that coincide with the period of greatest growth (early age/size groups). Major impacts on these production rates are: exploitation, nutrient addition, and/or addition of new crayfish species. Exploitation, particularly in high latitudes, can increase the influence of environmental conditions on cohort mortality rates. Nutrient addition further modifies the cohort survival of certain species, depending on the latitude as well as on the presence of opportunistic competitors which may be better adjusted bioenergetically to exploit the prevailing food production cycle.
20487834|The objective of the current study is to understand population characteristics of the grass shrimp Palaemonetes pugio by describing growth, population structure, mortality, fecundity, and size at sexual maturity from a lagoon system inlet in the southwestern Gulf of Mexico. The shrimps were collected between January and December 2007 by otter trawl of 1-mm mesh size; salinity and water temperature were recorded simultaneously. Regressions were applied between total length (TL) and total weight (TW) of females and males. Growth parameters were estimated by length-frequency distributions with 0.01-mm length interval of carapace using the von Bertalanffy growth function (VBGF), mortality was calculated with an exponential model. To represent fecundity, the potential model was selected. The average salinity and temperature values were 6.39  2.49 ppt and 27.63  1.59C, respectively. The number of females was higher than for males in winter and spring, suggesting a reproductive strategy that increases the probability for the male of finding a receptive female. The K (Bertalanffy growth coefficient) values were 0.48 for males and 0.43 for females. This could indicate a reduction of female energy investment in growth, directing it rather to reproduction. The instantaneous mortality estimates (Z) suggest a relationship with the reproductive period; the highest mortality was encountered from April to September. Female size at sexual maturity was estimated to be 2.41 cm TL, showing that ovarian development starts in winter and continues until early spring. Consequently, P. pugio showed faster growth, a seasonally oscillating growth pattern, a rather short life span, a somewhat high mortality, and an early onset of sexual maturity, which is considered to be similar to r selected species.
10.2307/1549368|Vitellogenesis in the mud crab Scylla serrata was investigated in vivo using the radiolabeled amino acid [<sup>14</sup>C]phenylalanine to trace the synthetic site(s) of the major yolk protein lipovitellin. The incorporation of [<sup>14</sup>C]phenylalanine into the synthesized proteins of different tissues, such as ovary (OV), hepatopancreas (HP), subepidermal adipose tissue (SAT), and hemolymph (HL) of vitellogenic phases I and II, provided the first in vivo demonstration of possible extraovarian synthesis of lipovitellin precursor, vitellogenin, in S. serrata. The results indicated that among different tissues of vitellogenic phase I, SAT and HP actively take part in synthesizing the yolk proteins which are immediately released into the HL. This is evidenced by a high level of [<sup>14</sup>C]phenylalanine incorporation into the protein fraction of the HL. The incorporation of [<sup>14</sup>C]phenylalanine into the synthesized proteins of the OV indicates the fact that OV is also capable of synthesizing the precursors to some extent. However, a dramatic increase of [<sup>14</sup>C]phenylalanine incorporation into the synthesized ovarian proteins of vitellogenic phase II, concurrent with a decline in the level of [<sup>14</sup>C]phenylalanine incorporation into the HL proteins, suggests the probable sequestration of the synthesized proteins from an extraovarian site. The data also suggest a dual role for the HP, in-as-much as it synthesizes and stores the vitellogenin prior to its release into the OV for sequestration during intense vitellogenesis.
10.2307/1548501| The allometric relation for standard O<sub>2</sub> uptake rate (MO<sub>2</sub>) was investigated in the crayfish P. leniusculus ranging from 0.0334-69.40 g at 12C. When converted to watts the relationship had a mass exponent of 0.789 and a mass coefficient of 0.282 (intercept at 1 kg). Another intraspecific study on kelp crabs (Weymouth et al., 1944) had an identical mass exponent, but different mass coefficient which may be species specific. Interspecific analysis of published data for aquatic decapods produced a significantly higher mass exponent (0.877) and a lower intercept (0.128). The value of intra- versus interspecific allometric analysis is discussed in the context of a prospectus for future investigations. 
10.2307/1548320|Distribution of a captive population of blue crabs was monitored for one year in a closed, recirculating cooling pond at a steam electric-generating plant. The majority of crabs was found in the warmest region of the lake, regardless of absolute temperature. Thermal entrapment was eliminated as a causative factor in establishing this distribution pattern, since the rate of acclimation to temperature changes as gauged by oxygen consumption rate measured in the laboratory was extremely rapid and independent of the direction of the change in temperature.
10.2307/1547968|The anatomy of three species of hyperiid amphipods of the genus Cystisoma is discussed. Aspects of the digestive, muscular, nervous, and reproductive systems are described and compared with previous descriptions and illustrations.
10.2307/1548408| In order to determine the effects of salinity on adult and larval survival, egg deposition, egg hatching, and metamorphosis, shrimp (Palaemonetes paludosus) were held in the laboratory and exposed to treatment salinities ranging from 0 to 35 ppt. Tests of adult survival indicate a 96 h LC<sub>50</sub> between 30 and 35 ppt. Shrimp became ovigerous in salinities of 0-20 ppt (27C), with ensuing egg hatching and metamorphosis limited to 0-5 ppt. Starved larvae hatched from field-caught ovigerous females in 0 ppt were able to metamorphose in salinities of 0-30 ppt; the 96 h LC<sub>50</sub> for these larvae was between 30 and 35 ppt at temperature of 24C. These results suggest that P. paludosus can complete its life cycle in brackish water. 
1549633|The reproductive biology of female Dungeness crabs was studied with crab-pot and dive-transect sampling in five bays within or near Glacier Bay National Park and Preserve, southeastern Alaska, in April and September yearly from 1992 to 1998. A large percentage of nonovigerous, mature females was found in April, a time when females were expected to be brooding eggs that hatch in May and June. Our study examined differences between ovigerous and nonovigerous females collected in April and September samples to corroborate our previous laboratory study in which we found nonannual egg extrusion among Dungeness crabs. Seasonal differences in the catches of ovigerous and nonovigerous females, crab sizes, shell condition, and appendage injury were examined. Additionally, all crabs collected from two bays were tagged beginning in the fall of 1995; tagging was conducted twice annually. Our pot and dive data indicate that females, particularly larger ones, do not extrude eggs annually. Larger females have lower molting probabilities, which limits mating potential and increases reliance on stored sperm. The tagging study confirmed that at least some females do not extrude eggs in one year and then extrude eggs at a later time without molting, thus skipping at least one reproductive season. A reproductive cycle of Dungeness crabs in Alaska is introduced which includes earlier egg extrusion by larger females and nonannual egg extrusion.
10.2307/1548253| The cyprid molt cycle was examined in Balanus amphitrite. The duration of the cyprid instar was variable. While some cyprids settled and metamorphosed within several days, others did not settle at all during the 12-day observation period. The premolt period (stage D) began at different times in different regions of the integument. Anterior, posterior, and ventral regions of the carapace valves underwent apolysis within 10-12 h following ecdysis to the cyprid, while the dorsal carapace epidermis did not undergo apolysis until attachment to the substratum, which occurred at various times during the 12-day period. 20-Hydroxyecdysone, at concentrations of 1-10 g/ml seawater, did not accelerate early premolt apolysis in the anterior, posterior, or ventral carapace valves. However, the integumental activities associated with postattachment metamorphosis (dorsal carapace apolysis, epidermal morphogenesis, thoracic adductor muscle degeneration) were stimulated by 20-HE in a dose-dependent manner. Some 20-HE exposed cyprids underwent metamorphosis without prior attachment to the substratum. 
10.2307/1549275|The phylogeny of extinct and extant clawed lobsters is interpreted using a morphology-based phylogenetic analysis. Twenty-one genera, representing two clades, are grouped into either the redefined family Nephropidae or the new family Chilenophoberidae. Chilenophoberids, the primitive sister group of nephropids, share a close common ancestry with members of the Erymidae, and arose by the Middle Jurassic. Nephropids arose by the Early Cretaceous. Among clawed lobsters, no one morphological character is generally more reliable than any other as a guide to phylogeny. Homoplasy in aspects of groove pattern, ornamentation, and the appendages is widespread. The ubiquity of homoplasy in lobster evolution argues against the practice of erecting suprageneric taxonomic groups based on a few, intuitively selected characters. Cretaceous lobsters strongly resemble Recent ones, and no long-term, directional evolutionary trends were detected.
10.2307/1548430|General changes in the distribution of Penaeus semisulcatus infested by the bopyrid parasite Epipenaeon elegans in Kuwait waters agree with the migratory patterns deduced from the movements of tagged shrimp in Kuwait Bay in 1979. The growth rates of infested males appear to be accelerated by infestation and infested males are castrated by the parasite. Recruitment of infested and uninfested shrimp occurs mainly in May, June, and July. In some years, limited recruitment of uninfested shrimp occurs in October and November. The total mortality rate calculated for infested shrimp in 1978, when autumn recruitment did not occur, was not significantly different from the mean value calculated independently from 1979-1984 by means of the ELEFAN analytical method. For 1979, when significant autumn recruitment occurred, an aberrantly low value of the total mortality was obtained for infested shrimp. Studies of infested shrimp may provide insight into the migrations and mortality rates of uninfested shrimp in the Kuwaiti population of P. semisulcatus.
10.2307/1548778|The African fresh-water crab Sudanonautes africanus (A. Milne Edwards, 1869) is redescribed from a large series of specimens from 5 countries. The species is redefined by a combination of characters of the carapace, chelipeds, and gonopod 1. The distribution of S. africanus is revised to include the coastal rain-forest regions of Nigeria and Central Africa (from south Cameroon to lower Zaire), and to exclude the West African region west of the river Niger in Nigeria. Sudanonautes africanus is one of the second intermediate hosts of the human lung fluke (Paragonimus).
4126717| A new species of pennellid (Pennellidae, Copepoda), Sarcotretes longirostris n. sp., is described based on specimens collected from bluefin driftfish (Psenes pellucidus Ltken) found in the stomach of short-finned pilot whale (Globicephala macrorhynchus Gray) caught in the western North Pacific off central Honshu, Japan. The new species differs from its congeners in the possession of 1) a long proboscis (longer than the cephalothorax); 2) a pair of blunt, lateral cephalothoracic processes (holdfast); and 3) a long neck that is distinctly longer than the trunk. This is the first species of copepod parasite reported from a representative of the genus Psenes. 
1549733| The effects of six-day starvation and subsequent 30-day ad libitum refeeding on the growth responses of juvenile Chinese shrimp, Fenneropenaeus chinensis, (with weight range 0.486-0.569 g) reared under different temperatures (18, 22, 26, and 30C) have been examined. The shrimp responded to a switch from starvation to ad libitum feeding by exhibiting hyperphagia and a growth spurt. At the end of the experiment, the starved-ad libitum fed shrimp maintained at 18, 22, and 26C weighed approximately the same as the controls fed ad libitum throughout the experiment, whereas those at 30C failed to catch up in weight to the control shrimp. In the initial six days of realimentation, the previously starved shrimp showed significantly lower food conversion efficiency (wet weight gain per unit food intake) than the controls, but from then on, there were no significant differences. The results suggest that hyperphagia was the mechanism responsible for compensatory growth in Chinese shrimp. Six-day starvation led to significant increase in moisture and reductions in protein, lipid, and energy content of the shrimp. At the end of the experiment, however, there were no significant differences in body composition. This indicated that compensatory growth was accompanied by a full recovery in body composition. Molt increment (g) and intermolt period (days) were greatly affected by starvation in combination with temperature: at 18, 22 and 30C, not at 26C, the previous six-day starvation brought about a significant prolongation in the intermolt over the whole experiment; at two lower temperatures (18 and 22C), not at two higher temperatures (26 and 30C), the starved-ad libitum fed shrimp had markedly increased molt increment compared with the controls. 
10.2307/1548472| The diagnosis of the South American parastenocaridid harpacticoid genus Potamocaris Dussart, 1979, is extended. "Parastenocaris" dentata Dussart, 1979, is synonymized with Potamocaris bifida Dussart, 1979; species included in the genus for the first time are Parastenocaris bidens Noodt, 1955, and Parastenocaris bidentata and Parastenocaris tridentata Dussart, 1981. Two new species, Potamocaris cuiabaensis and P. estevesi, are described from Brazil. Members of the genus appear to be confined to sand substrates in the drainage basins of the Rio Paran and smaller coastal rivers in southern Brazil and northern Argentina. 
1549892|A summary of terminologies and nomenclature currently or previously employed to describe tanaidacean appendages and somites are presented together with a proposed new standardized terminology for the order Tanaidacea. Standardized expressions and nomenclatures are suggested for all tanaidacean somites, appendages, and their articles, as well as for the orientation of tanaidacean appendages.
10.2307/1547998| The complete larval development of Gecarcinus lateralis lateralis (Frminville, 1835), a gecarcinid land crab from Bermuda, is described and illustrated based on larvae reared in the laboratory. The species passes through six (possibly five) zoeal stages and one megalopal stage. The development through six zoeal stages to the young crab stage takes at least 29 days. Morphological characters of G. l. lateralis larvae are compared with gecarcinid species of which the complete larval development is known, i.e., Cardisoma guanhumi and C. carnifex. /// Description du dveloppement larvaire de Gecarcinus lateralis lateralis, un crabe terrestre de Bermuda, cultiv en laboratoire. L'espce est caractrise par six (ou cinq) stades zo et une mgalope, qui sont dcrits et figurs. Le dveloppement larvaire depuis l'closion jusqu'au premier stade crabe, dure au moins 29 jours. Les caractres morphologiques sont compars avec d'autres espces des Gecarcinidae, dont le dveloppement complet est connu, i.e., Cardisoma guanhumi et C. carnifex. 
10.2307/1548337|The gastric mill structure has been related to utilization of food resources and to phylogenetic relationships in euphausiids. Although the possibility that species in the same genus have a gastric mill with similar morphology has been reported, it is still unclear whether this similarity is present in all species of euphausiids. Therefore, I have examined detailed morphology of the gastric mills in 8 species of Thysanopoda. The well-developed gastric mill of this genus comprises a pair of cluster spines and a pair of lateral teeth. The filter press present in Bentheuphausia amblyops is absent in all species of Thysanopoda. Comparison of the species of Thysanopoda indicated 2 different arrangements of the gastric mill with respect to presence or absence of lateral teeth. One is the well-developed gastric mill of T. cornuta, T. cristata, T. egregia, T. obtusifrons, T. spinicaudata, and T. tricuspidata; the other is the gastric mill without lateral teeth of T. acutifrons and T. aequalis. I report here that the gastric mill in Thysanopoda is diverse in morphology. On the basis of the gastric mill morphology, phylogenetic relationships of euphausiid genera are discussed.
10.2307/1548256| Stomach contents of 1,025 Tanner crabs (Chionoecetes bairdi) >40 mm carapace width (CW) from three areas and nine sampling periods were examined quantitatively near Kodiak Island, Alaska; 857 (84%) of the crabs contained food. Arthropods (mainly juvenile C. bairdi) dominated the food weight. Fishes and mollusks (mainly the bivalves Macoma spp. and Yoldia spp.) were the second- and third-most important food groups, by weight. No significant difference in quantity of food was observed between sexes; however, significant differences were apparent in quantity of food consumed in sampling periods, areas, depths, size groups, and crab exoskeleton classes. Consumption was greatest during November and February, when the crabs were outside of the bays in localized deep-water areas (126-150 m) on the Kodiak Shelf. Small Tanner crabs (40-99 mm CW) generally contained more food than did large crabs (100-179 mm CW), and new-shell crabs consumed a greater amount of food than did old-shell crabs. Stomach contents of an additional 475 Tanner crabs 40 mm CW were examined near Kodiak Island by the frequency-of-occurrence method of analysis; 449 (95%) contained food. Mollusks (mainly the bivalves Axinopsida serricata and Nucula tenuis), fishes, decapod crustaceans, and polychaetes were found, in decreasing frequency of occurrence. Sediment was also frequently found. 
1549062|A hyperbenthic copepod, Platycopia orientalis, new species (Platycopioida), collected from sandy bottom off Okinawa, southern Japan, is described together with its copepodid stages III-V. This is the first record of the order Platycopioida in the Indo-Pacific region. The paired gonopores are located ventromedially on the genital somite in females and ventrodistally in males. The developmental patterns of the antennules and legs 1-5 are unique compared with the common pattern in copepods. The distal 14 segments of the antennules are constant from CIII-CVI in the female, whereas fusion of segments in the male occurs at the molt from CV to adult. The addition of segments to the endopod and exopod of leg 1 and to the endopods of legs 2-4 is suppressed during the last molt. The proximal spine on the first exopod segment of legs 3, 4, and 5 appears at CIV, CV, and CVI, respectively, one molt after the separation of the segment which carries it.
10.2307/1549327|Polyonyx bella, new species, collected from tubes of the polychaete worm Chaetopterus variopedatus is described from Taiwan. This species resembles P. vermicola Ng and Sasekumar of the P. sinensis group, but can be differentiated by the color patterns on the carapace and chelipeds, the absence of a distinct sinus on the median part of the inner margin of the carpus of the major chela, the narrower ventral posterior projection of the carpus of the ambulatory leg, and the absence of a projection on the outer distal margin of the ischium, as well as possessing a proportionately broader and shorter propodus of the third maxilliped. Information on its reproduction and swimming behavior is also presented.
10.2307/1547851| Hydrostatic pressure in the haemocoele of Armadillidium vulgare adults ranges between 40 and 185 mm H<sub>2</sub>O (2.99-13.66 mm Hg), while the oxygen consumption varies from 13.43 l O<sub>2</sub>/mg body wt./h in the males to 14.59 l O<sub>2</sub>/mg body wt./h in the females. The specific variations in the oxygen consumption rate and the haemolymph pressure during ecdysis in an adult isopod were studied. The significance of these findings is discussed. 
4540319| With intensified harvesting and environment deterioration during the past two decades, a rapid decline in the number of coconut crabs, Birgus latro, which is a protected species listed in the IUCN Invertebrate Red Data Book, has occurred on many islands. Thus, it is important to protect this species by establishing conservation areas and/or replenish natural population by larval cultivation. In this study, the development modes were analyzed and the effect of enriched diet on larval growth and survival were examined. Two types of zoeal development patterns were found. In general, zoeae took 29-33 days to complete five zoeal stages and metamorphose to glaucothoes. However, some zoeae directly metamorphosed from the 3rd zoeal to glaucothoe stage in 2528 days. Morphologically, these zoeae with accelerated development had thoracic appendages that appeared like the fifth stage zoeae, but with the telson, antennule, and antenna similar to those of the third stage zoeae. When fed Artemia nauplii enriched with nutritious substances, the zoeae had significantly greater survivorship and sizes, particularly at the fourth and fifth zoeal stages. Accelerated development may suggest early adaptation to a terrestrial lifestyle. The adaptation of larval development related to glaucothoe size and zoeal life span is also compared and discussed for eight terrestrial hermit crab species of Coenobitidae. The comparison suggests four adaptive modes of larval development and these are described as mangrove adaptation, larger glaucothoe adaptation, smaller glaucothoe adaptation, and hypersaline adaptation. The selective advantage of each mode may reflect a response to the uniqueness of each specific habitat. 
10.2307/1548788|The larval development of Paratya australiensis consisted of 8 stages and lasts between 28 and 45 days in the laboratory. Stages I-IV were regular, but stages V-VIII were irregular with "mark-time molts" and a "skipped stage" common. Metamorphosis occurred after 7-12 ecdyses. This development is intermediate between the abbreviated development of Caridina spp. and the extended development of other atyids. Eggs and early stage larvae were larger and brood sizes were smaller in P. australiensis collected from riverine locations than those collected from an estuarine location in the same river system. There were no differences in development between laboratory-reared larvae from the two habitat types. The apparent plasticity of development is discussed in relation to environmental conditions.
10.2307/1549035| A new species of ampithoid amphipod has been found which bores into and occupies the interior of abraded stipes of kelps on the Pacific coast of North America. Adult bisexual pairs cohabit the stipes with their offspring of several generations. Peramphithoe stypotrupetes, new species, is diagnosed, illustrated, and its boring habits are described. The type for the genus, Peramphithoe femorata (Kryer, 1845), is redescribed and illustrated, and compared with the new species. Peramphithoe stypotrupetes can be distinguished from P. femorata and other eastern Pacific species of the genus by its shorter pair of first antennae and narrower pereiopod 3 and 4 bases. Relationships are compared cladistically and biogeographically, and presented in a key. 
10.2307/1548687| The bioluminescent potential of individual ostracods collected on a cruise to the northern Sargasso Sea in July 1986 was measured using a shipboard laboratory photometer. Photometrics revealed that most, but not all, of the species of Conchoecia tested produced bioluminescent light (1-12 10<sup>10</sup> photons per individual) during mechanical stimulation. The most abundant species, Conchoecia spinirostris, captured in the net collections during the cruise was not bioluminescent. In those bioluminescent species in which both females and males were available for testing, both sexes were bioluminescent. The bioluminescent potential of these planktonic ostracods is similar in magnitude to that reported for other mesoplankton, such as copepods, larvaceans, and large dinoflagellates. 
4126721|Large branchiopod crustaceans inhabiting ephemeral ponds are well adapted to their highly unpredictable habitat with a life cycle that includes a short-lived adult stage and a long-lived, desiccation-resistant egg stage. One well studied large branchiopod is the clam shrimp Eulimnadia texana, an androdioecious species with populations comprised of males and self-compatible hermaphrodites. Likely due to the harsh environments in which the eggs are found, e.g., dry areas with high heat and high irradiation, extraction of DNA from individual eggs for genetic analyses can be problematic. Here we report a number of modifications that we have tested allowing for increased efficiency and success in extracting high quality DNA from the eggs, nauplii, and adults of E. texana that may prove useful for similar studies of other species of large branchiopods.
1549677|The growing demand for highly priced marine ornamental species has contributed to the endangered status of coral reefs. A list of 128 of the most heavily traded marine ornamental decapod crustacean species is tabulated. The development of commercial culture techniques, the knowledge of the larval development, and the association with vertebrate and invertebrate organisms are presented for these species. Forty-nine of the species are caridean shrimp, with the Hippolytidae family alone accounting for 15. Anomuran and brachyuran crabs are the next most traded groups (32 and 27 species, respectively), with the pricey stenopodidean shrimp, Astacidea, and Palinura lobsters being represented by a considerably lower number of species (7, 7 and 6, respectively). The main bottlenecks impairing the commercial culture of ornamental shrimp and lobsters are their long larval development and poor survival rates. The main constraint for the development of culture techniques for hermit and brachyuran crabs is their low commercial value. The ecological impacts of harvesting ornamental species are still poorly studied. Nevertheless, the collection in considerable numbers of hermit and small majid crabs (e.g., Clibanarius and Mithraculus) from tidal areas, fish cleaning shrimp (e.g., Lysmata and Stenopus), and the crown-of-thorns sea star eaters Hymenocera, is likely to have serious impacts on the ecosystem. The cooperation between researchers working on larval biology, population dynamics, ecology, aquaculture, and fisheries is essential to properly manage the collection of marine ornamental decapods.
1549614|Several peracarid crustaceans have been shown to engage in extended maternal care for their growing offspring after the juveniles hatch from the brood pouch of the female. In this study, we describe the maternal care of the epibenthic gammaridan Parallorchestes ochotensis Brandt and examine its ecological implications. The juveniles stayed in the female's expanded brood pouch for at least seven weeks after hatching. The duration of extended maternal care of P. ochotensis was comparatively longer and the growth of P. ochotensis juveniles slower than reported for other epibenthic peracarids. The juveniles molted at least twice whilst in maternal care. This species probably has an annual life span, and they reproduce only once a year. In P. ochotensis, maternal care was shown to constrain juvenile growth in the experimental predator-free conditions, contrary to other epibenthic peracarids. Most epibenthic peracarid species with extended maternal care are suspension feeders, but P. ochotensis is an herbivore so probably maternal care of this species limits juvenile feeding opportunities and results in a decrease of juvenile growth. However, where normal predation exists, maternal protection contributes significantly to juvenile survival. In P. ochotensis, to enhance relatively low fecundity in conditions where predation pressure is high, extended maternal care for relatively long periods is necessary to protect offspring even if it constrains juvenile growth.
10.2307/1548314|The locomotor activity and oxygen consumption rate of two strandline, cryptozoic amphipods, Orchestia gammarellus and Orchestia mediterranea, were characterized with consideration to the "strength" of any endogenous component in the pattern, which was illustrated with reference to the persistence and precision of the endogenous rhythm. Both locomotor and respiratory activity displayed cyclic patterns, with heightened levels associated with the nocturnal phase of an LD schedule. Under constant laboratory conditions a clear, but short-term, 7-10 day, circadian pattern of locomotor activity was recorded in both species. Evidence for an endogenous respiratory cycle was equivocal with heightened, but statistically nonsignificant, nocturnal oxygen consumption rates noted. No data were obtained in either species of Orchestia to suggest any circatidal influence in locomotor or respiratory activity. The persistence and precision of the locomotor rhythm of both species, together with the poorly defined cyclic oxygen consumption pattern are taken to support the proposition that epifaunal/cryptozoic species, exemplified by O. gammarellus and O. mediterranea, while exhibiting a degree of endogenous control, also regulate their activity using concurrent environment information as cues.
20487741|A new genus and species of bopyrid isopod infests the deep-water galatheid crab Munidopsis beringana collected at a depth of 4100 m off the central coast of California. The head of the female Goleathopseudione bilobatus n. gen., n. sp. is separated from the first pereiomere as in Pleurocryptella, but differs from this and Bathione in having three pairs of lamellae in the barbula and well-developed coxal plates, in the shape of the biramous sub-cylindrical pleopods, and in the absence of uropods. Goleathopseudione is morphologically similar to Pleurocryptella with respect to the absence of lateral plates, and to Bathione with respect to the unsegmented maxillipedal palp. The male of the new genus is close to Pleurocryptella as they both have a well-developed bi-articulated maxillipedal palp, and it is different from it and Bathione in having a sub-ovoid flap covering the sixth segment dorsally. Goleathopseudione is the third genus of bopyrid isopod that infests the host genus Munidopsis in the eastern Pacific, and the second described for a depth greater than 4000 m.
10.2307/1548934|The prevalence and abundance of sessile, external epibionts on 47 malacostracan species (Amphipoda, Hoplocarida, Decapoda) from the Gulf of Thailand were studied. Densities of microepibionts (bacteria, diatoms, protozoa, fungi) and macroepibionts (macrofauna, macroalgae) on carapaces were estimated. Bacteria were detected on every malacostracan species. Between 0.70 10<sup>3</sup> and 28.72 10<sup>3</sup> cells per mm<sup>2</sup> were found. The densities on most species were below 1 10<sup>4</sup> mm<sup>-2</sup>. Diatoms were recorded on 18 species. Diatom densities ranged from 0.02-7.38 10<sup>3</sup> cm<sup>-2</sup>. Protozoa occurred in very low numbers (maximum = 0.5 10<sup>3</sup> cm<sup>-2</sup>) on the carapaces. Protozoa were found on 8 species. Fungal spores were detected on 18 species. Their number ranged from 0.1-2.2 cm<sup>-2</sup>. Macroorganisms were recorded on 9 species. They covered usually less than 10% of the carapace surface. Hyasthenus diacanthus (Majidae) was the most heavily fouled host. An average of 63% of the carapace surface was covered by metazoans (sponges, hydrozoa, actinians, polychaetes, barnacles, ascidians). However, most crabs appeared to be little fouled, indicating that they possess efficient antifouling mechanisms. An investigation of densities of epibionts on 3 species of crabs (Sphaerozius nitidus, Etisus c.f. laevimanus, Metapograpsus quadridentatus), shells of living oysters, and artificial and natural hard substrata collected at the same location showed that crabs were less heavily fouled than the other substrates. Molting, grooming, chemical defense mechanisms, and environmental factors may account for some of the patterns observed in the prevalence and abundance of colonizers on their hosts.
10.2307/1549316|As in many aquatic organisms, the gill epithelium is the main site of the uptake of copper and toxicity in the shore crab. Long term pre-exposure to sublethal doses of water-borne copper has been shown to lead after some weeks to progressive recovery from the initial toxic effects. We report experimental results that shed light on some of the mechanisms underlying these acclimatory effects. The metal adaptation seems related to an important reduction of copper uptake from the ambient medium and to a better efficiency of metal transfer from hemolymph to the tissues. As a consequence, steady-state hemolymph levels of exogenous copper are strongly decreased during a further lethal exposure in pre-acclimated crabs compared to controls. A 17-day sublethal pre-acclimation period appears, however, to be too short to improve the resistance of the animals to a further challenge at usually lethal doses of copper.
4094123| A new alpheid shrimp genus, Richalpheus, new genus, is established for R. palmeri, new species, from Panglao, Philippines, and based on a single specimen collected from a presumed thalassinidean burrow in a shallow lagoon. Richalpheus appears to be most closely related to Amphibetaeus Coutire and Leptalpheus Williams (sensu lato). Richalpheus and Amphibetaeus share the presence of a non-functional fossa-tooth system on the fingers of the major cheliped, but the new genus differs from Amphibetaeus by the absence of pereiopodal epipods and the presence of only four segments in the carpus of the second pereiopod. The syntypes of Amphibetaeus jousseaumei, a species not collected since the original description by Coutire, remain untraceable except for one major cheliped. Amphibetaeus jousseaumei is redescribed based on the original descriptions and illustrations of Coutire scattered in older French publications, and on the newly rediscovered, diagnostic major cheliped, which is designated as lectotype of A. jousseaumei. 
10.2307/1548204| The complete larval development of the spider crab Mithrax (Mithrax) pleuracanthus from hatching to first crab stage was obtained by culture in the laboratory. A prezoea, two zoeal stages, and one megalopal stage are described and illustrated. Larvae were reared in 12 different combinations of temperature and salinity. Best survival to first crab stage occurred at 25C and salinities of 30 and 35 and at cyclic temperatures of 30-35C in 35 salinity. Development to first crab was 14 days (at 25C) and 9-10 days (at 30C, cyclic 30-35C). Morphological characters of M. pleuracanthus larvae were compared with those of two other members within the genus. The subgenera Mithraculus and Mithrax were originally based on only adult characters, but it is suggested that a reevaluation of these subgeneric diagnoses should be considered to include larval characters. 
10.2307/1548605|Stygobromus pusillus (Martynov), a poorly known stygobiont amphipod crustacean from Teletskoye Lake in Siberia, is redescribed on the basis of two topotypes. Synurella apscheronia Derzhavin, another poorly known stygobiont species, is reevaluated and assigned to Stygobromus. The occurrence of these two species in Eurasia, where they are far removed geographically from all other species of Stygobromus which inhabit subterranean groundwaters in North America, is of considerable zoogeographic interest. Morphological and distributional data suggest that Stygobromus was more common in northern parts of the Holarctic region prior to climatic changes in the Pleistocene.
10.2307/1548913|A new species of siphonostomatoid, Aphotopontius acanthinus, is described from deep-sea vents at the East Pacific Rise. Although close to Aphotopontius mammillatus Humes, 1987, the female of A. acanthinus is distinguished by the genital double-somite being wider than long, not indented laterally, and possessing a pair of anterior lateral spiniform processes; the male by the elongated extension on the fifth segment of the antennule having a tripartite tip plus a spiniform seta and a much smaller seta. It is hypothesized that the large population of Aphotopontius acanthinus is sustained by the high production of chemosynthetic bacteria at the vents. Video photographs show the copepod living on the carapaces of brachyuran crabs, on limpets, and on bacteria-covered inorganic and organic surfaces.
4094241| A new species of freshwater crab Microthelphusa viloriai, from the Andean range of Venezuela is described and illustrated. The type species of the genus, M. rodriguezi is redescribed on the following examination of the single specimen so far known. Data on the geographical and altitudinal distribution of the species of Microthelphusa are also presented. /// Se describe una nueva especie de las estribaciones de los Andes venezolanos, Microthelphusa viloriai, y se redescribe la especie tipo del gnero M. rodriguezi. Adems se presentan datos sobre la distribucin geogrfica y altitudinal del gnero. 
1549776|Biometrical analyses have been carried out on 26 population samples of Carcinus from the Pacific (1), Atlantic (17), and Mediterranean (8), to investigate the validity of the taxonomic division of the genus into C. maenas (Atlantic) and C. aestuarii (Mediterranean). Consideration of carapace width to carapace length and carapace width to carapace depth ratios, and a set of 10 biometric characters by canonical variates analysis, showed that there were two different statistical populations in the European data set apparently corresponding to Atlantic and Mediterranean specimens of Carcinus. There was still overlap of individuals between the Atlantic and Mediterranean data sets, such that individual crabs could not be assigned unequivocally to one group or the other on the basis of shape. The presence or absence of setae on the frontal distal margin of the cheliped carpus varied geographically. Mediterranean crabs possessed prominent setal brushes, while crabs from the Atlantic north of (and including) Porto in Portugal lacked these setae. Crabs from the other Portuguese sites, from the Palmones estuary in southern Spain, and from Gibraltar did, however, sometimes have a few setae on the cheliped carpus. This observation indicates lack of complete genetic separation of the Atlantic and Mediterranean populations of Carcinus, with the potential existence of a hybrid zone between them. The morphological data do not support the separation of European Carcinus into two taxa distinct at the species level, but additional genetic data are needed to verify the presence of any real gene flow and a hybrid zone between Atlantic and Mediterranean crab populations.
10.2307/1549418|A 3-year histological study of disease prevalence in 657 blue crabs, Callinectes sapidus, dredged from 31 sites within Maryland portions of Chesapeake Bay during autumn and winter revealed the presence of many diverse parasites and symbionts. A large number of crabs exhibited hemocytic infiltration and encapsulation. Parasites and symbionts identified included viruses (Baculo-B and RLV-RhVA), a rickettsia-like microorganism (RLM), an unusual strandlike organism, unidentified microsporidians and gregarines, both parasitic (Mesanophrys chesapeakensis) and symbiotic (Lagenophrys callinectes and Epistylis sp.) cilates, the nemertean Carcinonemertes carcinophila, and trematode metacercariae, some hyperparasitized by the haplosporidian Urosporidium crescens. Significant differences in disease and parasite frequencies were observed among survey periods. The prevalence of some tissue responses and parasites exhibited seasonal patterns of infection and infestation.
27753971|The present paper reports six genera nine species of Palaemonidae collected from Clipperton Island, eastern tropical Pacific, including three new species of the pontoniine genus Chacella: C. bicornuta, C. quadricornuta, and C. sexicornuta. We provide a key to identify all the six known species of Chacella. /// Cette tude mentionne six genres et neuf espces de Palaemonidae de l'atoll de Clipperton, dans le Pacifique tropical est, incluant trois espces nouvelles de Pontoniinae du genre Chacella: C. bicornuta, C. quadricornuta et C. sexicornuta. Une cl de dtermination est propose pour reconnatre les six espces du genre Chacella.
1549622| We collected Nyctiphanes simplex in Barkley Sound, Canada (4854N, 1256W) between May and September 1998. This was during the most intensive ENSO (El Nio Southern Oscillation) event recorded and when southward current velocities were anomalously low. This is a range extension of about 330 km NNW of where N. simplex was collected previously by plankton sampling gear and about 65 km NNW of where it was found in fish stomachs. Animals ranged between 10 and 20 mm total length and were at various states of maturity. We present length-frequency and maturity stage distributions as well as length-mass relationships. Results from an ongoing herring diet monitoring programme showed that they did not feed on N. simplex. 
10.2307/1549415| Mating behavior and relative fecundity, egg weight, and egg volume were investigated in the banded coral shrimp Stenopus hispidus. The effect of fluctuating temperature (4-6C and 1.5-2C difference between day and night) on fecundity was also tested. The relative fecundity was 1,229  467 (mean  SD) eggs/brood/g of female (wet body weight, WBW); egg volume was 0.0628  0.0050 mm<sup>3</sup> (mean  SD); and dry egg weight was 35.1  2.9 g/egg (mean  SD). Linear relationship between total length of the shrimp and relative fecundity was significant (P = 0.01), and there was a significant negative relationship between egg volume and relative fecundity (P = 0.03). High temperature fluctuation (4-6C) resulted in lower dry egg weight (P = 0.0079). Mating behavior in Stenopus hispidus is described for the first time. It occurs in the following sequence: antennule contact, erection of female body, grasping, mating, and spawning. Females can mate successfully within 24 h after molting. 
1549695|To investigate the extent of protandric simultaneous hermaphroditism (PSH) in the genus Lysmata, observations were made on the sexual system of L. californica, a species from the warm-temperate eastern Pacific. Observations on a large number of female-phase individuals (FPs) from a museum collection indicated that FPs with broods containing advanced embryos spawn again (successively) soon after brood hatching. Female-phase individuals maintained in pairs went through successive cycles of embryo brooding concomitant with gonadal vitellogenesis, hatching, molting, and spawning. Time-lapse video observations confirmed that FPs are able to copulate as males and inseminate postmolt, prespawning FPs. Prespawning FPs maintained alone did not produce successful broods of embryos. Thus, FPs of L. californica are outcrossing simultaneous hermaphrodites. Size-frequency distributions of sexual phases showed that individuals develop first in the male phase (MP) and then change to the female phase. Individuals apparently change from MP to FP in a single molt, as shown by (a) "transitional" individuals that were fully MP externally but whose ovotestes were full of vitellogenic oocytes and (b) a distinct change in the presence/absence and growth of pleopod characters from MP to FP. Female-phase individuals retain male gonopores from the MP phase, and relative growth of male ejaculatory ducts is similar in MPs and FPs. Pleopod flanges related to embryo attachment and incubation are somewhat masculinized in FPs of L. californica. The sexual system of L. californica is similar to that of L. wurdemanni from the Gulf of Mexico and L. amboinensis from the Indo-West Pacific. Protandric simultaneous hermaphroditism is probably widespread if not ubiquitous in the genus Lysmata.
1549693|Zoeal stages of Conchodytes nipponensis, not previously known from Korea, are described from laboratory-reared material. This is the first account of the larval development of a species from the genus Conchodytes and the first larval description of a pontoniid species from Asian waters. The Gnathophyllidae had been considered as a synonym with the Pontoniinae by Bruce, whereas others regard both groups as distinct. Morphological comparisons between the first zoea of C. nipponensis and that of Gnathophyllum americanum indicate that the Gnathophyllidae have great affinity with the Pontoniinae. According to the viewpoint of some authors, similar larvae do not necessarily signify related adults. Therefore, the Pontoniinae and the Gnathophyllidae may be distinct.
41315736|The pandalid shrimp Plesionika izumiae is a relatively common shrimp in the coastal waters of Japan, except off northern Honshu and Hokkaido. This is one of the dominant species in the benthic community of Kagoshima Bay, southern Japan. The reproductive biology including, reproductive period, size at sexual maturity, embryo size and brood size of P. izumiae was studied in the bay. All females were examined for the presence of embryos attached to the pleopods and the developing embryos were classified into four stages. Ovarian development was also observed based on morphological observation. Ovigerous females occurred throughout the year with higher percentage during May to November, indicating this was the main reproductive period. Ovarian maturation was observed during the incubation process of embryos, suggesting that females were potentially capable of multiple spawning during a reproductive period. The size at sexual maturity was estimated to be 8.5 mm in carapace length based on the method using the size at which 50% of the females were ovigerous. Embryo size was independent of the body size (carapace length) of females but increased with development. There was a positive correlation between brood size and body size, while a significant reduction of embryos was observed during the course of development.
10.2307/1548723|Fifteen parasites and symbionts were found in the tissues, in the branchial chambers, and on external surfaces of the sand crab Portunus pelagicus. Female crabs possessed more species of parasites and symbionts, and had a more specialized fauna than did male crabs. Females also had a higher prevalence of the peritrich ciliate Operculariella sp., a tetraphyllidean cestode, and the barnacles Octolasmis spp. Juvenile crabs had fewer parasites than mature crabs, being regularly colonized by only 2 parasites (the lecanicephalid cestode Polypocephalus moretonensis and the microphallid trematode Levinseniella sp.), and 2 symbionts (the barnacles Octolasmis spp. and Chelonibia patula). There were positive correlations between intensity of infection and host size (carapace width) for only 1 parasite and 2 symbionts (P. moretonensis, the nemertean Carcinonemertes mitsukurii, and Octolasmis spp., respectively). Not surprisingly, the molt condition of the crab influenced the abundances of the sessile external symbionts. Crabs in the postmolt condition had fewer Operculariella sp., C. patula, and Octolasmis spp. The abundances of the motile Carcinonemertes mitsukurii and the internal parasites and symbionts were not, however, affected by the molt condition of their hosts.
1549578| Larval stages of the spider crab Goniopugettia sagamiensis (Gordon, 1931) (subfamily Epialtinae) collected from the continental shelf break are described based on laboratory-reared materials. Larval development of G. sagamiensis consists of two zoeal and one megalopal stage as typical in majid crab larvae. It took 31-35 days from hatching to the crab 1 stage at 14.1-18.5C. The diameters of eggs of the present species are relatively large (1.04-1.24 mm), and the larvae have a mass of yolk granules throughout the larval stages. The larvae metamorphosed into the crab 1 stage without feeding. Such a lecithotrophic development as found in the present species is only known in Chlorinoides longispinus (De Haan, 1839) (subfamily Majinae) among the majid species of Japan. General morphology of the zoeal stages of G. sagamiensis is similar to C. longispinus, for example, the rudiment of the mandibular palps in the zoea 1 stage. 
27753982|In order to elucidate the functional and molecular mechanisms employed during accessory sex gland seasonal development, we performed suppression subtractive hybridization (SSH) experiments in the crab, Eriocheir sinensis, by constructing forward and reverse cDNA libraries enriched with up- or down-regulated transcript genes. A total of 175 ESTs were obtained from 180 randomly picked clones in the two libraries, with an average insert size of 450 bp, and a cloning efficiency &gt; 90%. Comparative sequence analysis of ESTs with sequences reported in public genomic databases identified 88 unigenes, 35 of which were homologous to reported proteins, with the remainder unidentified. Unigene Annotation identified some unigenes via the Gene Ontology classification. Some of these unigenes had greater activity in the early stage of gland development, with an inferred function in cellular processes (involved in cell proliferation and differentiation), and the other genes with inferred functions in protein synthesis, energy metabolism, and signal transduction were more prevalent during the peak stage of gland development. Hence, genes elevated during the early stage may play roles in the process of rapid cell growth, while those elevated during the peak stage may play important roles in protein synthesis and secretion, as well as sperm capacitation and fertilization. SSH results were validated by the real-time PCR analysis of five candidate genes, whose expression correlated well with the SSH results, and exhibited relative expression levels that were five fold greater than those observed in the SSH libraries, confirming the SSH success.
10.2307/1548911|The first larval stage of Axiopsis serratifrons (A. Milne Edwards) is described and illustrated. The larva has a smooth carapace, abdominal somites 2-5 with dorsal spines, endopod of antenna with 3 setae, mandibles symmetrical, endopod of maxillule and maxilla 2-segmented, maxillipeds 1 and 2 with 3-segmented endopod, maxilliped 3 with unsegmented endopod, and telson without median process. This is the first larval stage of an Axiopsis to be identified with certainty.
10.2307/1548595|A caprellid amphipod, Aciconula acanthosoma, new species, is described from nearshore waters of Santa Catalina Island, California. Previously the genus Aciconula was monotypic, known only from the western Pacific species A. miranda. The new species was common and persistent during 15 years of sampling, and was found on 12 types of substrata and in the gut contents of eight species of fishes. It is distinguished from A. miranda primarily by the spination of the head and pereionites.
1549657|The oxygen consumption of Nephrops norvegicus animals collected from the upper continental slope (400 m depth) in the northwestern Mediterranean was monitored under constant conditions of darkness and temperature. Two experiments were performed starting at the beginning of the expected day and at the beginning of the expected night phases, respectively. Mean oxygen consumption values recorded during the expected night were significantly higher than those recorded during the expected day. The slopes of the time series of oxygen consumption data of the two experiments were recalculated in consecutive 1-h intervals, being then averaged for corresponding 1-h time intervals. The plotting over a 24-h cycle of these mean hourly-values revealed a global nocturnal increase in the oxygen consumption in the laboratory. This result is discussed and compared with previously reported catch patterns accounting for emergence from burrows in the field, and locomotor and cardiac activity rhythms recorded in constant conditions in the laboratory in animals from the same depth.
1549818|The complete larval development of Crangon uritai Hayashi and Kim is described from laboratory-reared material. This species has five zoeal stages and one postlarva. Detailed morphological descriptions and illustrations of each stage are provided. The larvae of C. uritai present two remarkable differences compared with those of other congeneric species, C. affinis and C. hakodatei: the number of zoeal stages, and in possessing one submarginal seta of antennal scale in zoeal stages. One outstanding simple seta on the rostrum is the only remarkable difference in the postlarval stage.
1549689|Two-weeks starvation caused 45% decrease in the metabolism of the Antarctic amphipod Abyssorchomene plebs. Glutamic acid (Glu) in the concentration of 10 mM increased reactions of starved animals three times, but did not change reactions of the fed ones. Two-hours exposure of both starved and fed amphipods in the kynurenic acid (Kyn) solution in the concentration of 0.1 mM blocked the reactions of the latter group for glutamic acid (Glu). The reactions of invertebrates for glutamic acid (Glu) and kynurenic acid (Kyn) are similar to the well-known antagonistic reactions in the brains of vertebrates.
1549573|A new species of Porcellidiidae, Porcellidium poorei, is described from the seagrass beds of Port Phillip Bay, Victoria, Australia. The validity of all genera of Porcellidiidae is discussed, and Murramia, Acutiramus, Kioloaria, Kensakia, and Mucrorostrum are synonymised with Porcellidium. The family diagnosis is expanded. A key to the genera is provided.
10.2307/1548415|A new species of the homolodromiid crab genus Dicranodromia A. Milne Edwards is described from the western Atlantic. The new species, Dicranodromia felderi, differs from D. ovata A. Milne Edwards, the only previously reported member of the genus in the western Atlantic, in having more slender appendages, ventral margins of the ambulatory legs bearing a strong keel rather than being rounded, and a more acutely spined anterior border on the carapace. Certain characters of the holotype of D. ovata, a badly damaged female, are redescribed, and it is suggested that at least 2 of the female paratypes, as well as some of Rathbun's (1937) figures and description of D. ovata, belong to another undescribed Atlantic species. The new species is compared to all other species currently placed in the genus.
20487784|The hypothesis of an amphidromous life history pattern, with a female hatching migration from the river to an estuary, larval development in saltwater, and a return upriver migration by postlarvae (juveniles) was tested in the river shrimp Macrobrachium ohione in the Atchafalaya River, Louisiana, U.S.A. in 2006. A possible female migration from the river to the Atchafalaya Delta estuary (AD) to hatch incubated embryos was tested by comparing reproductive status of females sampled monthly from stations 146 km (Butte La Rose = BLR), 42 km (Berwick = BR), and 0 km from AD. Females only occurred in traps at AD only during the reproductive season (March to August) but were present throughout the year at other stations. The highest percentages of prehatching females occurred at the AD and BR stations while prehatching females were relatively rare at the upriver BLR station. Salt water requirements for larval development were tested by incubating first stage larvae from individual hatches in freshwater and saltwater (15 ppt) treatments (n = 10). The first stage (nonfeeding) larvae did not molt to second stage (feeding) larvae in freshwater, with significant mortality beginning after day 5. In saltwater, survival was high and most hatching larvae molted to stage 2 after 4-5 days of hatching. An upstream migration of juveniles began in mid-July 2006 and continued until October. Juvenile migrators were observed swimming near the surface from approximately one hour after sunset until at least early morning in a band of hundreds to thousands of individuals 1-2 m wide along the shore. Body size of migrators increased from downstream to upstream, suggesting that juveniles are feeding and growing during the migration. Hypotheses about whether formerly abundant far northern populations migrated to and from the sea are discussed. The decline of the species in the northern part of its range might be partially explained by human impacts on the juvenile migration and subsequent upstream recruitment.
10.2307/1548116|Cyclaspis bacescui, new species, is described from specimens collected from the eastern Gulf of Mexico at depths of 11 to 53 m. The new species is most similar to Cyclaspis costata Calman, 1904, and Cyclaspis strigilis Hale, 1944, but differs from them by (1) the relative shape and dimensions of the carapace, (2) the relative lengths and spination of the thoracic appendages, and (3) the spination of the uropodal endopod and exopod.
10.2307/1549432|The ion-permeabilities and the ultrastructure of the sternal epithelia were studied in 7 species of gammaridean amphipods. Evidence has been obtained that the sterna can be divided into 2 categories: ion-transporting and non-ion-transporting types. The sterna of Sternomoera japonica, Grandidierella japonica, Melita setiflagella, and Corophium uenoi, belonging to the former category, are covered by ion-permeable cuticular layers lined with a thick epithelium, which is characterized by both a shallow apical infolding system (AIS) and a well-developed basolateral infolding system (BIS). The AIS is composed of frequent lamellar infoldings without mitochondrial association originating from the apical sides of the epithelia and involves virtually every part of the apical cell membrane, forming elaborate intercellular channels in the subcuticular space. In contrast, the BIS consists of deep infoldings of the basolateral cell membranes and extensive interdigitations between epithelial cells, which are both associated with a large number of mitochondria. This BIS involves the greater part of the cell membrane and constitutes a complicated, giant labyrinth of the intercellular spaces above the basal lamina. The AIS and BIS never communicate in the sternal epithelia, though they sometimes interpenetrate. On the other hand, the sterna of Jesogammarus jesoensis, Jesogammarus hinumensis, and Haustorioides sp., belonging to the latter category, are composed of an ion-impermeable, thick cuticular layer and a thin epithelium characterized by a paucity of mitochondria and complete lack of the BIS and AIS, which are common to those of the ordinary epithelium of the body surface. The results suggest a rather widespread occurrence in amphipods of a variety of extrabranchial ion-permeable areas of the body surface. They also suggest that the sterna lined with thick, specialized epithelia, together with the gills, are involved in the active transport of electrolytes in osmoregulation as well as respiration.
1549407|Adult ecology, egg production, larval development, salinity tolerance, and starvation resistance of the grapsid crabs Armases ricordi and A. roberti were studied in Jamaica. The species have different adult habitats. Armases ricordi lives in dry hot habitats up to 200 m from the shore, whereas A. roberti lives on the banks of fresh-water rivers up to 9.6 km from the sea, a relatively moist habitat with moderate temperature variations. Newly deposited eggs were significantly larger in A. roberti (0.40 mm) than in A. ricordi (0.35 mm). Both species produced many eggs per clutch, more than one clutch in an intermolt stage, and at least one clutch of eggs was fertilized without remating. Ovigerous females of A. ricordi migrate to the sea for larval release, whereas A. roberti apparently release the larvae into the river to be transported to the sea. In both species, larval development takes place in the sea and consists of 4 zoeal stages. Duration of larval development did not differ between A. ricordi (16.1 days) and A. roberti (16.9 days), but the megalopa stage in A. roberti (12.0 days) was longer than in A. ricordi (9.1 days). In both species, larvae depended on food intake in order to complete development, and the duration of survival in starved larvae varied significantly between hatches. Larvae of Armases roberti, hatched with a larger body size, showed a higher endotrophic potential and the first crab stage was larger than in A. ricordi. The range of salinity tolerated for development to the megalopa was 20-45 ppt in A. ricordi and 15-45 ppt in A. roberti. The species differed greatly in salinity tolerance in the first zoeal stage, with 100% of the larvae surviving fresh water only for 1 h in A. ricordi, but for 2.5 days in A. roberti, allowing the first zoea of the latter to be transported to the sea from distant inland habitats. The differences between A. roberti and A. ricordi in endotrophic potential, body size, and fresh-water tolerance of the first zoea are likely to be related to the larger egg size and, hence, larger yolk provisioning per egg in A. roberti. We discuss the significance of migration and larval release pattern in relation to inland distribution of adults for species with marine planktonic development.
4126714|Megalopal and first crab stage morphology of Cyrtograpsus angulatus Dana was studied in specimens from Mar Chiquita Lagoon, Argentina and an identification key for the megalopae of the four southwestern Atlantic varunid crabs is proposed. Some anomalous first crabs were observed that differed in the carapace shape and in the orientation of the ocular peduncle. These crabs survived in laboratory cultures, molting to the following stage with normal aspect. An anomalous Chasmagnatohus granulatus first crab was also found in the field. We speculate that these odd crabs appeared after a complete, but defective, ecdysis. Since the ultimate body structures to be separated from the exuvia are probably the cephalic appendages and the eyes, their survival in the field would be difficult since vision may help them to detect predators.
1549644| Procambarus (Austrocambarus) cavernicola, a new species of stygobitic crayfish known only from Gabriel Cave, Oaxaca, Mexico, is described. The new species is characterised by a body that lacks pigmentation, except for small purple spots on the eyes; with small setae on the tip of the eye; elongated chelipeds, with the surface of chela covered with small tufts of short setae; first pleopod of form I male with mesial process elongated and conical, triangular central projection, reduced cephalic process and cephalic shoulder forming convex border; annulus ventralis with preannular plate covered with short setae, postannuluar plate oval-shaped, with blunt tubercles. The new species is morphologically similar to other stygobite members of the subgenus Austrocambarus from the Oaxaca-Veracruz area, whose relationships are discussed. The distributions and levels of adaptation to the subterranean environment of 16 cave-inhabiting taxa of Procambarus in Mexico are reviewed. /// Procambarus (Austrocambarus) cavernicola, una nueva especie de acocil estigobio conocida solo en la Cueva Gabriel, Oaxaca, Mxico, es descrita. Esta nueva especie se caracteriza por un cuerpo sin pigmentacin, con excepcin de un pequeo punto purpura sobre los ojos; con pequeas setas en la punta del ojo; quelpedos alargados, la superficie de la quela cubierta con pequeos parches de cortas setas; el primer plepodo del macho de la forma I con el proceso mesial alargado y cnico, la proyeccin central triangular, el proceso ceflico reducido y el hombro ceflico formando un borde convexo; annulus ventralis con la placa preannular cubierta con cortas setas, la placa postannular reducida, en forma oval, con tubrculos desafilados. La nueva especie es morfolgicamente similar a los otros miembros estigobios del subgnero Austrocambarus de la regin Oaxaca-Veracruz, de las cuales se discuten sus relaciones. Se revisan la distribucin y los niveles de adaptacin de las 16 especies del gnero Procambarus que habitan los ambientes subterrneos en Mxico. 
1549215|Collection of new fossils from the west coast of North America has resulted in additions to the Carpiliidae, Goneplacidae, Panopeidae, and Pilumnidae in the fossil record. Features of the dorsal carapace of members of each of these families, as defined using modern biological classification techniques, are useful in assigning the new fossil taxa to these four families. Description of new taxa and reassignment of several previously described taxa have resulted in a reevaluation of the fossil record of those groups on the west coast of North America. New species include Orbitoplax tuckerae, Panopeus prosakrolophos, and Panopeus torus. New combinations include Branchioplax carmanahensis (Rathbun, 1926), Orbitoplax weaveri (Rathbun, 1926), Panopeus baldwini (Kooser and Orr, 1973), Panopeus olearis (Rathbun, 1926), and Panopeus soledadensis (Rathbun, 1926).
10.2307/1548007|The second known genus of Phoxocephalopsidae is described; it differs from Phoxocephalopsis in the loss of mandibular structures. This family exhibits characters plesiomorphic to the more diverse North American Haustoriidae and the more diverse Australian Urohaustoriidae.
1549950|The maxillae (fourth limbs) of myodocopine Ostracoda are difficult to interpret correctly because of their complexity, which has led to inaccurate descriptions of the limb in the literature. Maxillae of species of the Sarsiellinae are described and illustrated herein in their natural orientation on the body of the animal, and clues are presented to assist in more accurate descriptions of the limb when compressed under a cover slip. It is shown that the anterior-to-posterior sequence of the three endites of the protopod in the Sarsiellinae is the reverse of that in the Cypridinidae, Philomedidae, and Rutidermatidae.
10.2307/1548186|Based on examination of specimens from the Florida Keys and from museum collections, the described species of the genus Neopontonides Holthuis are briefly reviewed and N. chacei, new species, is described from shallow waters of the Caribbean area. Neopontonides chacei has symmetrical second pereiopods, which distinguish it from the other described species of the genus. It is a symbiont of the gorgonian Pseudopterogorgia americana. Two hippolytid shrimps, Hippolyte nicholsoni Chace and Tozeuma sp., also were found associated with P. americana. The association of the Pacific species N. dentiger Holthuis with a gorgonian host is confirmed and Leptogorgia setacea is reported as a gorgonian host for N. beaufortensis Borradaile. Illustrations and a key for separating N. beaufortensis, N. chacei, and N. dentiger are presented. Based on the absence of an exopodal flagellum on maxilliped 1, distinctive differences in armature of antenna 2, and other morphological and ecological criteria, N. principis Criales cannot be accommodated by Neopontonides and a new genus Pseudopontonides is erected to receive it. The new genus appears to be most closely related to Pontonides Borradaile. The taxonomic status of Pontonides and Pseudopontonides is briefly discussed. An artificial key to these two genera and their species, and to other related genera that lack exopodal flagella on their first maxillipeds, is presented.
1549773|Species of the hermit crab genus Diogenes that either were described by Herbst or attributed to him have been reevaluated, and the ambiguity, both in matters of species authorship and species identity, have been assessed. The species that Herbst incorrectly identified as Cancer diogenes Linnaeus has not, to date, received an available name; therefore, the new name, Diogenes alias, is proposed. The actual holotype of D. miles Fabricius has been identified, and a neotype has been selected for D. custos Fabricius. The "true" D. custos has proved to be the senior synonym of D. affinis Henderson, and the misinterpreted D. custos of numerous authors have been reassigned to D. dubius Herbst. Diogenes platvoeti McLaughlin and Clark (a new name for D. intermedius De Man, non D. pugilator intermedius Bouvier) has been found to be a junior synonym of D. hainanica Wang and Dong and both taxa are synonymous with D. mixtus Lanchester.
4540272| Growth at moult (for both the prepubertal and terminal moults), and moulting seasonality in the spider crab Maja brachydactyla in the Ra de A Corua (NW Spain) was quantified within a mark-recapture experiment. Crabs 70-130 mm carapace length (CL) underwent a mean increase at moult of 32.4% from their pre-moult size, with no significant differences between sexes or moult types. Generalised Linear Models (GLMs) were used to construct growth models, employing a combination of information from the mark-recapture study and previous studies performed in laboratory and extensive culture to characterize driving factors. The first model revealed that study method growth did not differ between males and females. However, the effects of the study method (mark-recapture, laboratory, and extensive culture), the pre-moult CL and the interaction between them were significant. The smallest-sized crabs underwent a greater increase in size in the laboratory and culture studies, while the largest individuals underwent greater growth in the field. In the second model, the significant effects were pre-moult CL, moult type, and the interaction between the two variables, indicating that larger crabs showed higher growth rates in prepubertal moults. Mean intermoult period estimated for prepubertal moults in the field ranged 50-86 days, which was slightly lower than the 84.7 days observed in the laboratory. Prepubertal moults occurred primarily in spring and autumn in the field, while under culture conditions, the crabs moulted mainly in the spring. The intermoult period for terminal moults was estimated to be 90 days, slightly lower than the 104 days from the laboratory. The terminal moult took place generally in summer (June-September) both at sea as well as in culture. The intermoult period of juveniles at sea was highly variable, and some of the specimens did not moult for more than 5 months. 
10.2307/1548625|The topography, external structure, and ultrastructure of hitherto unknown exocrine dermal glands are described in one of the two adult male forms of the ascidicolous marine copepod Pachypygus gibber. The glands are located in the pleural lateroventral zone of the cephalosome. They are composed of three cells: secretory cell, intermediary cell, and canal cell. The secretory cell undergoes transformations involving four successive phases. The final phase leads to an autolysis of the cellular components with emptying of the cell content. An interesting feature is the spatial association of the glandular cells and their pores with sensory cells and their pores, the latter being considered as a chemoreceptor organ. The secretion is thereby in direct contact with dendritic ends devoid of cuticular cover, which protrude outside the copepod via the sensory pores. The various characteristics of this "sensory-glandular" complex, present exclusively in the atypical male (which has an additional free planktonic phase as an adult), lead to the hypothesis of a functional cooperation between the glandular apparatus and the sensory organ.
10.2307/1547930|Changes in nucleic acid concentration as a result of starvation followed by feeding were determined over a 30-day period in juvenile Callinectes sapidus Rathbun. RNA concentration decreased by 31% within three days of starvation. The decrease was continuous over the 30-day starvation period and reached a level 27% of the control crabs by day 30. DNA concentration decreased by 21% between days three and six but remained stable during the rest of the starvation period. Juvenile C. sapidus exhibited a high capacity for recovery from long-term starvation. DNA concentration increased by 35% and 22% when crabs were fed for five days after being deprived of food for 15 and 30 days, respectively, while RNA concentration increased by 129% and 91%. We have found RNA concentration and the ratio of RNA to DNA to be a reliable and sensitive index of nutritional stress in view of the large and rapid changes in nucleic acid concentration, especially during the early stages of starvation.
1549240|Spinal distribution and form in the hindgut lumen were observed in the crayfish Procambarus clarkii with the scanning electron microscope. The morphology of the circular and longitudinal muscles in the hindgut were observed by light microscopy. A relationship between spinal distribution and hindgut movement was suggested. The spines were finer, longer, and positioned closely together where the spongy reticular tissues and circular muscles had not developed. (1) At the anterior part of the hindgut, short thick spines were found on the tilelike cuticular surface of the anterior rectal pads. Density was about 2 spines per 10  m<sup>2</sup>. The spiny cuticle, the surface of which was segmented into hexagonal or pentagonal tiles, covered the ridges of the rectal pads. A thin layer of circular muscles was observed at this region of the hindgut. (2) At the middle part of the hindgut, the spines became longer and finer as they approached the anus. Density was about 7.5 spines per 10  m<sup>2</sup>. The thin layer of circular muscles remained unchanged. (3) At the posterior part of the hindgut, the spines were fine and short. Density was about 3 spines per 10  m<sup>2</sup>. Four to 6 layers of thick, well-developed circular muscles were observed. Spine density was measured using NIH Image. All spines pointed in the direction of the anus. From these results, we suggest that the spines are closely related to differences in the physical movement in various sections of the hindgut. This is indicated by the thickness of the circular muscles and rectal pads in the respective regions.
10.2307/1548099|We predicted that measurable numbers of new snail shells are transferred daily to hermit crabs in habitats where gastropods frequently prey upon other gastropods. The rate of new shell acquisition by hermit crabs, Pagurus longicarpus, was monitored daily in northeastern Gulf of Mexico salt marshes where crown conchs, Melongena corona, prey heavily upon marsh periwinkles, Littorina irrorata. Periwinkle shells, marked while housing live snails, appeared on P. longicarpus at daily rates ranging from 1 to >20 for selected areas of approximately 60 m<sup>2</sup> in three marshes. The maximum number (22.8) of new periwinkle shells appearing among P. longicarpus in the immediate are (300 m<sup>2</sup>) represented 16.5% of crabs present there each day.
10.2307/1548907|Examination of mouth parts is a standard method for determining the position in the molt cycle of individual male snow crabs. We showed that the color of the carapace can also be used to determine whether a crab is about to molt. A third, destructive, method is to tear off the dorsal carapace and look for the presence of a second carapace. During a bottom trawl survey in April 1991 in Conception Bay, Newfoundland, we found that green carapace color and a well-developed second carapace were strongly correlated and each was strongly associated with mouthpart classification D<sub>1</sub> or above. During a subsequent trap survey in May 1991, we found crabs with the normal reddish coloration that had seemingly partially formed second carapaces and mouthparts in the C or D<sub>0</sub> stage. However, further work is necessary to describe and validate the early stages of carapace formation. We concluded that the collection of crabs with a green carapace is a viable way to obtain crabs for growth studies, because they will molt in the near future, thus minimizing effects of captivity. We collected 79 green crabs and maintained them in the laboratory until they molted. All but one molted within 24 days of capture. Growth per molt was similar to that estimated for another Newfoundland snow crab population, based on the same approach, but was greater than earlier estimates derived from longer-term laboratory studies.
4094188|Beginning in the late 1980s, lobster (Homarus americanus) landings for the state of Maine and the Bay of Fundy increased to levels more than three times their previous 20-year means. Reduced predation may have permitted the expansion of lobsters into previously inhospitable territory, but we argue that in this region the spatial patterns of recruitment and the abundance of lobsters are substantially driven by events governing the earliest life history stages, including the abundance and distribution of planktonic stages and their initial settlement as Young-of-Year (YOY) lobsters. Settlement densities appear to be strongly driven by abundance of the pelagic postlarvae. Postlarvae and YOY show large-scale spatial patterns commensurate with coastal circulation, but also multi-year trends in abundance and abrupt shifts in abundance and spatial patterns that signal strong environmental forcing. The extent of the coastal shelf that defines the initial settlement grounds for lobsters is important to future population modeling. We address one part of this definition by examining patterns of settlement with depth, and discuss a modeling framework for the full life history of lobsters in the Gulf of Maine.
10.2307/1548206|Collections with opening-closing midwater trawls to a depth of 2,400 m and with bottom trawls were used to describe the vertical distributions of pelagic crustaceans from the surface to the sea floor at 3,000 m off Oregon. Twenty-nine species of decapod shrimps, representing 14 genera, were captured. The number of species and individuals decreased with increased depth. Sergestes similis predominated in catches in the upper mesopelagic and epipelagic waters and comprised 74 percent of the individuals in the entire water column. Only four species exhibited definite diel vertical migrations (S. similis, Bentheogennema burkenroadi, Gennadas propinquus and Pasiphaea chacei). Most species, especially carids, were nonmigratory. Some depth stratification by size and sex was noted. The size of eggs brooded by female carids showed no consistent trend to increase with increasing depth for closely related species. Within the carids and penaeids, meso- to bathypelagic species have decreased egg number compared to epipelagic species; nevertheless within the carids, the number of eggs brooded per female was always highest for the deepest living species within a genus, which were also the largest sized species. Reproductive effort showed some trends with depth, but may also be influenced by other variables, such as available food resources.
10.2307/1549054|The ontogeny of the foregut in Euphausia pacifica was investigated by direct observations, using scanning electron microscopy with the dry fracturing method. The results show how the adult structures of the gastric mill are formed by the progressive transformation of larval structures. The gastric mill is lacking in all calyptopis stages, but the lateral process appears in calyptopis II and III. By furcilia I, the lateral process is replaced by the basic adult form of the gastric mill. The development of the gastric mill is gradual. In early furcilia stages it consists of a pair of poorly chitinized lateral teeth and a pair of undeveloped cluster spines. The number of spines on the lateral teeth increases from 2 in furcilia II to 6 in furcilia VI. The filter press does not appear in any larval stages. Significant changes in foregut morphology occur between calyptopis I and II, and between calyptopis III and furcilia I, although they do not closely follow the change of diet. It is likely, therefore, that ontogenetic changes in foregut morphology are more related to the phylogenetic history of euphausiids than to diet. Comparison of the morphology of the mandibles and the foregut for the larval stages of E. pacifica indicates that there is no inverse correlation between the mandibles and the gastric mill in masticatory ability during ontogeny.
10.2307/1547877| Of 565 individuals of Scyllarides latus (Latreille, 1803) from landings on Pico Island, Azores, during the summer of 1982, 55% were males, and 45% females, of which 75% were ovigerous. The mean carapace length for males and females was 92.4 mm and 94.8 mm, respectively. The weight/length relationship for males is expressed by W = 0.0020L<sup>2.825</sup> and for females W = 0.0065L<sup>2.580</sup>. The number of eggs per brood varied from 151-356,000. The egg-bearing period lasted for approximately 6-8 weeks, with spawning starting in late June. Eggs hatched into naupliosoma larvae. The naupliosoma stage observed in an aquarium lasted approximately 40-60 min. The larvae swam with the help of their antennae. The main diet of S. latus in summer consists of limpets (Patella spp.). The principal predator of the commercial stock is the dusky grouper (Epinephelus guaza). The lobsters migrate to deeper water at the beginning of October and return to the coast in May. Molting takes place in winter. In aquaria, 7 individuals molted between 28 November and 28 February. After results of this study were known, the Secretariat of Agriculture and Fisheries of the Regional Government of the Azores changed the closed season for catching this species from 1 August-30 April to 1 May-31 August. /// Foram estudados 565 exemplares de cavaco, Scyllarides latus (Latreille, 1803) provenientes de capturas na ilha do Pico, Aores, durante o Vero de 1982. Destes, 55% eram machos e 45% fmeas, das quais 75% ovadas. O comprimento mdio da carapaa para os machos e para as fmeas era de, respectivamente, 92.4 mm e 94.8 mm. A relao peso-comprimento para os machos  expressa por W = 0.0020L<sup>2.825</sup> e para as fmeas por W = 0.0065L<sup>2.580</sup>. O nmero de ovos por ninhada variaram entre os 151 e os 356 mil. O perodo de transporte dos ovos dura aproximadamente 6-8 semanas iniciando-se a postura no fim de Junho. Da ecloso dos ovos forma-se a larva naupliosoma. Observado num aqurio, este estdio durou entre 40 e 60 min, participando as antenas na natao larvar. No Vero, a base da alimentao de S. latus consiste de lapas (Patella spp.). O principal predador deste stock comercial  o mero (Epinephelus guaza). No princpio de Outubro os cavacos migram para guas mais profundas voltando  costa em Maio. A muda ocorre no Inverno. Em aqurio, 7 indviduos mudaram entre 28 de Novembro e 28 de Fevereiro. Depois de se conhecerem os resultados deste estudo, a Secretaria de Agricultura e Pescas do Governo Regional dos Aores alterou o perodo de defeso para a captura desta espcie de 1 de Agosto-30 de Abril para 1 de Maio-31 de Agosto. 
10.2307/1548614| The present study deals with the juvenile morphology of Clibanarius sclopetarius (Herbst, 1796) reared in the laboratory. Ovigerous females were collected in intertidal and shallow estuarine waters at So Sebastio on the northern coast of the state of So Paulo, Brazil. Hermit crabs were maintained in filtered sea water in a climatically controlled room at 25  2C until hatching. Larvae were cultured individually with nauplii of Artemia salina as food. Ten or more crab instars after megalopa were obtained, of which five were studied intensely and their most representative structures illustrated and described. The developmental period of C. sclopetarius until the fifth juvenile crab instar was completed in 171 days (mean value) from hatching. Sexual dimorphism was evidenced by the appearance of secondary sexual characteristics in the fifth juvenile instar. 
1549846|We describe Elasmopus warra (Crustacea, Amphipoda) from Pearl Beach in the vicinity of Sydney, Australia. We also investigate the patterns of spatial variation of Elasmopus in coralline algal turf on rocky intertidal shores in this area and examine experimentally the role that two architectural characteristics of coralline turf, the length and density of fronds, have in determining these patterns of abundance. Initial sampling showed that E. warra was more abundant in coralline turf in low- than in mid-shore areas, and often its abundance varied between patches of turf low on the shore. The results of experiments showed that the length of fronds had a much greater effect on the abundance of E. warra than the density of fronds. In low-shore areas, increasing the length of fronds negatively affected the abundance of E. warra. Such a relationship has rarely been reported in the literature, and possible causes for this relationship are discussed. This study showed that the nature of effects of marine plant architecture on the abundance of small crustaceans depend on local conditions and the architectural characteristics being investigated.
10.2307/1548841| The spermatozoan of Uca tangeri consists of a large spherical acrosome, a cup-shaped filamentous nucleus, which extends into numerous radiating arms, and a thin cytoplasmic band. Oocytes from ripe ovaries and sperm from seminal receptacles were mixed in filtered sea water, fixed at different times, and examined under a scanning electron microscope. Several spermatozoa became attached by the arms to the surface of each oocyte. The sperm bound to oocytes underwent the acrosome reaction, which started with swelling of the acrosomal vesicle followed by extrusion of its contents. Subsequently, the perforatorium projected forward  1 m beyond the apical end of the extruded acrosomal vesicle contents. As the ejected perforatorium becomes the leading edge of the reacted sperm, it is thought to be the constituent at which level membrane fusion between both gametes must occur. 
20487816|The six naupliar stages of Acartia (Acanthacartia) steueri Smirnov, a calanoid copepod of the family Acartiidae, are described by both light microscopy and scanning electron microscopy. Each stage is discriminated by the number of setae on the distal segment of the antennule. The nauplii of A. steueri can be distinguished from those of two con-subgeneric species, Acartia (A.) californiensis Trinast and A. (A.) bifilosa Giesbrecht, by both the combination and the constancy in all naupliar stages of the exopodal setal counts of the antenna and mandible.
4540248|Oniscidean isopods brood the eggs in a fluid-filled marsupium, and embryos undergo prolonged lecithotrophic development. After sloughing of the vitelline membrane (second embryonic molt), the mancas remain in the marsupium for several more days before emerging as free-living juveniles. Calcium is required for cuticle mineralization in crustaceans, and the time-course of net calcium uptake during these early developmental stages is thus of interest. We studied calcium uptake during embryogenesis and manca development in Armadillidium vulgare using Ca microelectrodes and atomic absorption spectrophotometry. Total Ca increased approximately 17-fold during egg development, from
10.2307/1548024|Time-lapse cinematography was used to record the daily activity patterns and the specific behaviors performed in a dense population of a small xanthid crab, Cataleptodius floridanus, on Glover's Reef, Belize, Central America. The crabs' activities were filmed in the extreme low intertidal zone on Long Cay, Glover's Reef, where the population exceeds 100 individuals/m<sup>2</sup> in coral rubble. Daylong films taken at a rate of one frame/15 s showed that few or no C. floridanus were active outside their burrows when the tide was high. Activity levels increased as the tide fell, and greatest activity occurred during low tides in the afternoon. To obtain detailed records of the time crabs allocated to various activities, films were made at two frames/s for 30 min during peak activity periods. An average crab spent about 68% of its time inside its burrow out of sight. Of the remaining time 23% was spent feeding, about 3% coming out of the burrow, 2% going into the burrow, 2% performing burrow maintenance tasks, and less than 1% in each of the following categories: extended foraging bouts, stone rolling, agonistic encounters, and courtship. Entrances and exits from burrows were quick, averaging less than seven s each, but burrow-tending bouts averaged 40 s long, and feeding episodes averaged almost 70 s. Most of the crabs stayed within a few cm of their burrow entrances.
10.2307/1548827|New galatheid squat lobsters, Munidopsis glabra, from the continental slope of the northwestern Gulf of Mexico, and M. penescabra, from continental slope areas of the northwestern Gulf of Mexico and the western North Atlantic off Georgia, are described and illustrated. Munidopsis glabra is closely related to western Atlantic M. abbreviata (A. Milne Edwards, 1880). Munidopsis penescabra has affinities with eastern Pacific M. scabra Faxon, 1893, and M. tanneri Faxon, 1893, and with closely related western Atlantic M. sharreri (A. Milne Edwards, 1880) and M. kucki Baba and Camp, 1988.
10.2307/1549515|Specimens of the puerulus stage of the rock lobster Jasus edwardsii were collected as they settled from the plankton. They were raised in a closed marine aquarium system. The molt cases were collected with each ecdysis during growth. The development of the Cuticular Articulated Peg (CAP) organs on the walking legs of sequential molts from the same animals was studied using scanning electron microscopy. The number of CAP sensilla in the organ increased with each molt. The size of individual CAP sensilla and the distance between them increased during growth, with the result that the length of the organ also increased. Sensilla could be added or lost at each molt. The number of sensilla in each organ increased steadily, because the rate of addition was greater than the rate of loss. Most new sensilla were added to the organ proximally and most losses occurred distally. New proximal sensilla appeared fully formed. As the animals grew, the distal sensilla became gradually smaller until finally they were lost by a process of resorbtion. This is the first example of development of a crustacean proprioceptor by ordered, sequential turnover of receptor elements. Since each sensillum is associated with a single neuron, the pattern of development has implications for the way in which the sensory nervous system associated with the receptors develops.
4126715|Nine specimens of retroplumid crabs collected from the late early or early middle Eocene Tallahatta Formation in southern Alabama form the basis for description of a new species, Costacopluma grayi. The discovery confirms the extension of the range of the genus into the Eocene and represents the first occurrence of Costacopluma in the United States. As a result of the geologic range extension, the genus is now known to be contemporary with two other retroplumid genera, Retrocypoda, and Retropluma.
10.2307/1549285|A new family and superfamily are proposed for Galatheacaris abyssalis, new genus, new species, found in a deep-water sample of the Galathea collections. The new superfamily is characterized by a pectinate sinus between the mandibular processes, an articulated palp on the first and second maxillae, the third maxilliped with 7 segments, the dactyli of the third maxilliped to fifth pereiopods similar and unspecialized, the first and second pereiopods with peculiar microscopic subchela-like structures, all pereiopodal exopods prominent, and small epipods on the third maxilliped to the fifth pereiopod. Relationships to similar caridean superfamilies are considered, and biological remarks are provided.
10.2307/1549295|Like other decapod crustaceans, the green crab Carcinus maenas can actively amputate limbs by the process of autotomy. The loss of limbs may have consequences for the future fitness of an individual, since it is likely to impose energetic costs, including a reduced foraging efficiency. This study examined the occurrence of limb loss and the effects of claw autotomy on the diet of green crabs. Green crabs were collected from May-October 1995 from sites in New England. All crabs (N = 1,504) were examined in the field, and 402 adult crabs (>30 mm wide) were included in the analysis of gut contents. Overall, females experienced more injuries (38.4% missing at least 1 limb, N = 277; 17.89% missing 1 or both claws, N = 129) than males (32.18% missing at least 1 limb, N = 252; 14.8% missing 1 or both claws, N = 116). The overall incidence of autotomy generally increased with increasing crab size, but the incidence of claw autotomy did not. The most common identifiable materials in the guts were the hard parts of molluscs, arthropods, and annelids. The contents of the guts differed between sites, but was not significantly different for crabs missing claws than for intact crabs. Thus, the loss of a single claw does not seem to alter crab diet.
10.2307/1548843| Potamid crabs were last reported in France by Risso (1827) as a population of Potamon fluviatile near Nice. A population of potamid crabs is presently established along at least 15 km of the Hrault river in southern France. From morphological observations, these crabs were preliminary identified as Potamon (Pontipotamon) ibericum. 
10.2307/1549130|In anchialine cave pools, sinkholes, and wells of Jamaica, three species of the paracypridine tribe Thalassocypridini dominate the podocopid ostracode faunas. Dolerocypria convoluta, new species, Thalassocypria sarbui, new species, and Pontoparta hartmanni Keyser are described. A newly discovered pair of globular organs in T. sarbui may be associated with osmoregulation.
41315712|The Bering Strait marks the northern species boundary for blue king crabs (Paralithodes platypus), but the life history of the population at this latitude has never been described in scientific literature. Blue king crabs were collected in shallow (10-23 m) waters near King Island (n: males = 199; females = 260) in July of 2005 and from near Little Diomede Island (n: males = 40; females = 19) in April of 2007 for morphometric, fecundity and hatch timing information. Crabs from Little Diomede and King Islands showed no significant difference in male carapace length (CL) by location and were smaller than blue king crabs from more southern parts of the state (mean CL  SE: 108.45  0.70 mm). Females from King Island (mean CL  SE: 99.47  0.52 mm) were significantly larger than female crabs collected from Little Diomede Island (mean CL  SE: 93.11  2.96 mm) and male crabs (mean CL  SE: King = 107.98  0.73; Diomede = 110.13  2.24) were significantly larger than female crabs at both locations. Weight of female crabs (mean  SE: 810.0  61.9 g) increased with CL according to a non-linear function; Crab weight = 0.00165*(CL) 2.8995 (r = 0.86). Fecundity estimates based egg counts (mean  SE: 62,955.6  4981.2) were slightly higher than visual estimates of hatched larvae (mean  SE: 56,570  6690). Timing of larval release differed significantly between female crabs held in the laboratory for 1 and 13 months. Crabs held for 1 month began hatching in mid-May 2008 with more larvae released per day and over a shorter duration (12 d). Crabs held for 13 month released fewer larvae per day over a longer duration (20 d) starting in mid-February 2009. Long-term laboratory holding may impact hatch timing due to differences in ambient temperature and perhaps other suppressed seasonal effects of the artificial environment.
20487707|The superfamily Portunoidea including extinct lineages is herein evaluated via cladistic analysis of adult morphological characters and traditional systematics. Nearly every fossil species has been examined via type material, or if this was not possible, through illustrations and original descriptions. The analyses indicate that the superfamily is much more diverse at the family level than has previously been recognized, and three subfamilies, Catoptrinae, Carcininae, and Macropipinae, are herein elevated to family status. One new family, Longusorbiidae; two new genera, Euronectes and Viaophthalmus; and two nomen nova are named herein in addition to the recognition of seven new combinations. The fossil record of each of the resulting families is evaluated and summarized, indicating that the superfamily extends into the Cretaceous but that many of the families are indeed much younger lineages.
10.2307/1549243|In the brachyuran crab Metopograpsus messor mating occurs only among "hard" (intermolt) individuals. Our present light and electron microscopic studies reveal that the spermatophores received by the females during coitus are discernible within the spermathecae until 24 h postmating. The study demonstrates time-dependent dissolution of the spermatophores of M. messor within the spermathecal lumen. The spermatozoa of M. messor were subjected to electron microscopic analysis. In addition to decapod and brachyuran features, the spermatozoa of M. messor display characters typical of the heterotreme-thoracotreme assemblage crabs, such as acrosomal length: width ratio (1.2), and the concentric arrangement of the acrosomal zones around the perforatorium. While the "onion ring" lamellation of the outer acrosome zone represents a typical thoracotreme character, the occurrence of the accessory opercular ring is indicative of its affinity to the Grapsinae-Sesarminae subfamilies within the Grapsidae.
41315708|The macrocrustacean community of brackish polder waters in Flanders was investigated based on a twenty year survey comprising 430 biological samples taken at 218 different locations. A clear shift in the gammarid community could be observed. After its introduction, the alien Gammarus tigrinus, originating from North America, reached high abundances and became widely spread in the polder waters within a few years. Simultaneously, a decrease in the prevalence of the indigenous brackish water gammarids G. duebeni and G. zaddachi occurred. However, at the same time a decrease in the salinity of the polder waters also was observed. Uni-and multivariate data analysis revealed a clear difference in the environmental preferences of G. tigrinus, G. duebeni, and G. zaddachi. The alien species preferred lower salinities, lower orthophosphate concentrations, and a higher oxygen concentration compared to the two indigenous species. Besides the decrease in prevalence of the native gammarids, a decrease was also observed in prevalence of two other indigenous brackish water crustaceans: Palaemonetes varians and Neomysis integer. It appears that the decrease in salinity is the most important factor causing the decline of the indigenous gammarids and not the introduction of the alien G. tigrinus.
10.2307/1548715|European lobsters, Homarus gammarus, delivered to the wholesale market in Birmingham, England, had experienced 12-14 h of exposure to air during shipment from coastal suppliers. Lobsters judged to be in good condition on arrival at the market had low postbranchial oxygen partial pressures (PaO<sub>2</sub>,1.9 kPa) but maintained circulating oxygen contents closer to submerged levels (CaO<sub>2</sub>,0.27 mmol l<sup>-1</sup>) chiefly by conserving oxygen combined to hemocyanin (CHc O<sub>2</sub>,0.24 mmol l<sup>-1</sup>). In addition, they had accumulated some CO<sub>2</sub> (PaCO<sub>2</sub>,1.13 kPa) and lactic acid (9.0 mmol l<sup>-1</sup>) but were not acidotic (pHa, 7.71) due to an elevation in buffer base ([HCO<sub>3</sub><sup>-</sup>]a,21.7 mmol l<sup>-1</sup>) These changes paralleled those observed in a laboratory study of exposure of H. gammarus to air, which revealed that internal buffering of a potential acidosis plus increased oxygen affinity of hemocyanin restored oxygen transport, enabling prolonged survival. On resubmergence, recovery of PaO<sub>2</sub> and PaCO<sub>2</sub> was complete within 1 h with a slower recovery in [HCO<sub>3</sub><sup>-</sup>] a and an initial rise in lactate levels by 3.3 mmol l<sup>-1</sup> after 30 min, before a gradual return to submerged values over 24 h. Lobsters delivered in poor condition were severely hypoxemic <latex>$(\text{CaO}_{2}\ \text{and}\ \text{CHc}\ \text{O}_{2}<0.1\ \text{mmol}\ \text{l}^{-1})$</latex> due either to a pronounced and uncompensated acidosis (pHa, 7.21-7.57) or, in late premolt lobsters, to low oxygen-carrying capacities. On resubmergence, these lobsters showed abnormal patterns of oxygen and acid-base adjustments with only 25% of the animals sampled surviving 24 h in the holding tanks. The ability of lobsters to survive exposure to air during commercial shipment was influenced by the presence of a period of "ponding" before transport to market, journey time from supplier to market, transportation temperature, levels of disturbance, and molt stage.
41315691|The distributions of freshwater fauna in the La Plata Basin, including decapods, are dynamic; their actual distributions depend on not only their movements but also on environmental fluctuations. The La Plata system has a diverse range of environments, which are colonized by crustaceans with complex evolutionary histories. Our aim was to elucidate the distribution patterns and relationships of current freshwater decapod fauna in terms of the different geo-climatic processes at work in the La Plata system. We recognized 13 zones based on their unique environmental characteristics. Species lists were assembled through field samples, examination of museum collections, and literature analysis. Faunistic similarity was evaluated using the Jaccard index and cluster analysis. A parsimony analysis of endemicity (PAE) was applied to determine the most parsimonious of all possible tree topologies. There were 69 species freshwater decapods analyzed in the La Plata Basin. The Mata Atlntica (MA), Paran Superior (PS), and Uruguay Superior (US) zones are distinguished by their high species richness values, whereas the western and southern basin regions exhibit the lowest species richness values. The Paraguay-Pantanal (PP) and Paraguay-Pilcomayo-Bermejo (PPB) zones share some prawn taxa with the Amazon Basin. The eastern zones of the La Plata Basin were grouped by the presence of several species of the genera Parastacus, Aegla, and Trichodactylus. The northern, central, and western zones were characterized by species of the genera Dilocarcinus, Sylviocarcinus, and Zilchiopsis. According to the PAE analysis, two major zones were recognized in relation to the presence of freshwater decapods (eastern and western-central zones). In the western-central zones, three sub-areas were identified; one shares species with the Amazon basin the others have a relationship with the eastern and northern regions and represents a region that is strongly influenced by a temperate climate and therefore possesses diminished species richness values.
20487735|Larval release by adult fiddler crabs occurs during the ebbing tides, but its timing relative to the day-night and tidal amplitude cycles depends upon tidal form, e.g., shows phenotypical plasticity. Crabs (Uca thayeri) from Florida's East Coast are exposed to semidiurnal tides and release their larvae at night, whereas crabs from Florida's West Coast are exposed to mixed tides and release their larvae during the afternoon. The purpose of this study was to determine whether the larvae would hatch at other times, specifically those dictated by females from a different coast. To find out, clusters of eggs at similar stages of development, 24-72 h in advance of release, were reciprocally transferred between females from each location. Release of both the transferred and maternal larvae occurred synchronously, at the time dictated by the female's tidal regime. These results indicate that fiddler crab embryos can either advance or delay their hatching clock to match the temporal regime dictated by a brooding female.
10.2307/1549104|The mating behavior of the sand bubbler crab Scopimera globosa was studied in an intertidal area of Fukuoka, Japan, from 1988-1991. This species mates both on the surface and underground, as do some fiddler crabs. In surface copulations, wandering males mate sequentially with resident females beside burrows of females. In underground copulations, resident males chase and capture wandering females, carry them to their burrows and push them below. Males then enter their burrows and plug them within minutes. Pairs presumably copulate in these burrows. Unlike the fiddler crabs, however, most females that stayed in burrows of males did not have mature ovaries and wandered again within a few days. Consequently, only 30% of the females that stayed in burrows of males spawned in those burrows. After the spawning, males abandoned their burrows, while females remained in them during incubation. Thus, forced copulation characterizes the mating system of this species, though there is room for female choice. Mating success was much lower in underground than in surface copulation. However, males that succeed in forcing females into their burrows may gain a reproductive advantage, because the sperm of the last male to mate with a female prior to egg extrusion is used to fertilize most of the eggs.
20487809|This study provides morphological descriptions of three distinct types of hemocytes and one type of oenocyte newly observed in the body cavity of several freshwater ostracode species (Candona candida, C. neglecta, Herpetocypris reptans, H. incongruens, Eucypris virens, Psychrodromus olivaceus, Notodromas monacha, N. persica and Scottia birigida, all Podocopida, Cypridoidea). These cells were found in both males and females and in both juveniles and adults predominantly in inter-lamellar space, along the dorsal margin of the body cavity and in the anteroventral part of the body cavity. In TEM, large granulocytes with a number of pseudopodia and remarkable rounded granula were observed. Their affinity to muscle syncytia and a role in phagocytosis of exogenous particles is distinct. Oenocytoid-like cells with homogenous cytoplasm, rich in polyribosomes and with few membrane-delimited vesicles, were caught in the peripheral parts of body cavity accumulating in special multicellular formations. The oenocytoid-like cells were observed in two cases also by light microscopy. Two types of plasmatocytes (agranular and granular) with numerous pseudopodia were observed in TEM to be involved in phagocytosis of cell debris. Moreover, the plasmatocytes are located in close vicinity with the multicellular formations of oenocytoid-like cells and envelope them or form a sheath. Oenocytes were shown by light microscopy using histological staining to occur in huge amounts in juveniles. In adults their frequency becomes considerably lower. Possible functions of these cells are discussed in the context of invertebrate haematology, physiology and immunology.
1549642|This paper aims to elucidate the structure and characteristic mineralization of the gastric mill cuticle in the crayfish Procambarus clarkii (Girard) using light and transmission electron microscopy. Structure and mineralization of the lateral teeth of the gastric mill in the intermolt stage are documented. The lateral tooth is composed of two types: incisor-like teeth and molar-like teeth. The tooth structure is divided into three regions: "large-cusp region" is the protuberance region in the incisor-like teeth, "small-cusp region" is the protuberance region in the molar-like teeth, and "marginal region" is the surrounding region. The cuticle is divided into epicuticle, exocuticle, endocuticle, and membranous layer. The cuticle of the large-cusp region lacks epicuticle and endocuticle, while the cuticle of the small-cusp region lacks the epicuticle. The cuticle of the marginal region is composed of epicuticle, exocuticle, endocuticle, and membranous layer. Ultrastructurally, the exocuticle of the mill is composed of an electron-lucent matrix, pore canals, and electron-dense matrix surrounding the pore canals. The exocuticle in both cusp regions differs from that in the marginal region by the presence of a lamellar structure in the marginal region, which is composed of packed lamellae. During mineralization, needle-shaped crystals are deposited in the endocuticle. These crystals are found to consist of hydroxyapatite by electron diffraction and EDX. In conclusion, the structure of the gastric mill differs from that of the integumental cuticle, and the differences occur mainly in the exocuticle.
1549971|Secondary production of the amphipod Synchelidium lenorostralum was examined on a temperate sandy shore, southern Korea, on the basis of monthly samples from July 1996 to June 1997. Secondary production was estimated by the size-frequency method. Biomass structure showed two peaks in fall and spring, with maximum biomass in April. Biomass in the spring breeding period was higher than that in the fall. The annual secondary production of S. lenorostralum was 1.09 g DW m<sup>-2</sup> yr<sup>-1</sup> with an annual P/B ratio of 5.68. Secondary production of S. lenorostralum fell within the range observed for other amphipods from intertidal sandy shores, whereas the P/B ratio was higher than that recorded previously. The combination of high abundance and a high P/B ratio suggests an important role for S. lenorostralum in the sandy shore ecosystem as a trophic link from primary producers to higher consumers.
10.2307/1548403| The time course of change in rates of oxygen consumption by whole bodies and isolated tissues and the levels of total carbohydrates, glycogen, proteins, amino acids, and the activity levels of succinate, isocitrate, lactate and glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase, phosphorylase, aspartate and alanine aminotransaminase, and glutamate dehydrogenase were measured over a period of 3 weeks after ablation of eyestalks, with or without injection of eyestalk extracts, and in postmolt Ozitelphusa senex senex. The results support the inference that one or more principles, presumably of neurosecretory origin, are secreted during intermolt by the eyestalks and act to restrain total metabolism as indicated by oxygen consumption and inhibition of dehydrogenases in the tissues and to regulate carbohydrate and protein metabolism as indicated by hyperglycemia and hypoproteinemia. The parameters studied fall into 2 categories, according to whether the changes are more or less in early stages of destalking ( 7 days) or in later stages ( 14 days). The time sequence of changes after ablation of eyestalks are different and the pattern of response to injection of eyestalk extract indicates that a period after eyestalk ablation intervenes before induced premolt condition. 
10.2307/1548377|The effects of electroejaculation techniques upon sperm cell and spermatophore production in the giant prawn Macrobrachium rosenbergii were investigated extensively. Animals received electrical stimuli according to various regimes: fixed 24-h interval between stimuli; decreasing interval between stimuli; increasing interval between stimuli; stimulation postmolt only; daily abdominal stimulation; and no electrical stimulation. The mean percentages of successful electroejaculation attempts for the 29-day period ranged from 81.1-100%. Of the individuals tested, 45% were capable of extruding some portion of a spermatophore after as little as 3 h postejaculation. While mean ejaculum size decreased significantly over the experimental period, no structural or ultrastructural abnormalities were observed in either sperm cell or spermatophore morphology. The spawns of 44 female prawns artifically inseminated with study-group ejacula exhibited normal percentages of fertilization. Several undesirable conditions resulted from the use of electroejaculation, including coxal ulcerations, limited muscle necrosis, and melanization of reproductive tissues. The relevance of these results for increased profitability in and feasibility of commercial aquaculture and selective breeding programs is considered.
4094213| Commercial fishers of blue swimmer crabs in Western Australia use ice-water slurries to pacify crabs and thereby minimise the damage caused by on-board handling. This study investigated the effect of exposure to ice-water slurries on the mortality and recovery rate of male and female blue swimmer crabs, and on egg loss and the viability of the surviving larvae of ovigerous females. The temperatures (0-15C) and durations (15 seconds to 30 minutes) of exposure in the trials were within the range used by commercial fishers in order to determine the combination of temperature and duration that would pacify the crabs while minimising recovery time. Exposure to ice-water slurries did not kill the crabs except in the most extreme treatments, e.g., 0C for 30 minutes. However, both temperature and exposure time had a significant effect on recovery time, which decreased with increasing temperature. Treatments above 6C had little impact, with crabs recovering instantly, even with 60-second exposure. Exposure to low temperatures did not result in significant egg loss, although females may lose part of their egg mass during on-board handling. Similarly, the effect on the developing larvae was not apparent unless the ovigerous female died. Although exposure of ovigerous and nonovigerous crabs to ice-water slurries had only minimal immediate effects, exposure to 6C for 30 seconds is recommended, as it adequately pacifies crabs for handling and results in a minimum recovery period which may be important in minimising secondary effects. 
1549970|Seasonal zonation patterns of amphipods with various life styles and feeding habits were analyzed in a temperate sandy shore surf zone using a sledge net. The range in distribution of the burrowers Synchelidium lenorostralum and Urothoe convexa did not change seasonally: the former was usually found in the sandy shore from 1.0 to 3.0 meters below mean sea level (MSL) and the latter from 3.0 to 0 m below MSL. On the other hand, the distribution ranges of the nestlers Pontogeneia rostrata and Allorchestes angusta and the epifaunal tube-dweller Jassa slatteryi were restricted from 1.0 m above to 2.0 m below MSL, showing seasonal movement from below MSL in winter to above MSL in summer. Distribution centers of P. rostrata and A. angusta were located at 1.0 m below MSL and at 1.0 m above MSL in summer, respectively. This implies that habitat segregation occurred in summer. Gut contents analysis revealed that S. lenorostralum fed mainly on harpacticoid copepods, while P. rostrata, A. angusta, and U. convexa fed on phytoplankton and detritus. It is likely, therefore, that in summer, the segregation between P. rostrata and A. angusta may reduce competition for food. We suggest that feeding habits and life styles of amphipods in the sandy shore surf zone may be important factors controlling seasonal zonation patterns.
10.2307/1547946| Sea whips, Leptogorgia virgulata L., occurring in Thalassia testudinum (Knig) meadows in northwestern Florida support an epifaunal community which is dominated by the caprellid amphipod Caprella penantis Leach. Caprella penantis densities were 23 times greater when T. testudinum died back during the winter than when T. testudinum was more dense. Observations made during seasonal collections indicate that most fish predators of C. penantis are absent during the winter. Caprella penantis densities may have been decreased by fish predation, but the density increases were due to reproductive output. When C. penantis densities on sea whips decreased, postlarval and juvenile decapod crustaceans colonized the sea whip. The reptantians remained on the sea whips through several molts and then dropped from the sea whips to join the benthic macrofaunal community. Epibiotic communities, therefore, have been demonstrated to be involved in at least three important marine ecosystems processes: (1) they serve as a concentrated and recognizable food source for nekton, (2) epibionts graze periphyton and detritus from the biotic substratum, thereby preventing smothering, and (3) some benthic invertebrates temporarily join the epibiotic community during their transition from planktonic to epibenthic life styles. 
27920104|Available data on the lipid content and composition of the Antarctic krill Euphausia superba Dana are summarized. Female total lipid content increases during the summer as the ovary matures, and there is also some evidence of an increase in the lipid content of males and immatures as winter approaches. The storage lipid is mainly triacylglycerol and there is less than 1% wax ester. Fatty acids are moderately unsaturated, though less so in the ovarian lipid, and the triacylglycerol contains up to 4% phytanic acid. These data suggest that krill feed on phytoplankton during the summer bloom, but that, unlike E. crystallorophias, E. superba does not rely on a lipid store to survive the winter.
10.2307/1547890|20-Hydroxyecdysone (20-HE) stimulated the initiation of premolt (apolysis) in third and fourth instar Rhithropanopeus harrisii larvae in vivo and in spines explanted from third and fourth instar larvae in vitro. The premolt-initiating activity of 20-HE, in vitro, was inhibited by extracts of third or fourth instar zoeae, megalopae, and shrimp eyestalks. The results suggest that apolysis in crab larvae may be controlled by both 20-HE and MIH.
20487814|The population structure of the land crab Johngarthia lagostoma was studied on Ascension Island from 2005-2007, predominantly during the period of the seaward breeding migrations; approximately 4000 crabs were examined. Sex ratio varied according to location of sampling. Males predominated in permanent residential areas on high ground. Sexes were equal along migration routes to the sea. Females predominated in the breeding sites on the shore. Very few immature crabs (&lt; 60 mm CW) were found. Males had modal and maximum sizes of 100-109 mm and 120 mm CW, females of 90-99 mm and 110 mm, respectively. An aging population is indicated. Crabs &lt; 40 mm CW were all dark coloured, and colour variation into yellow, purple and intermediate morphs developed between 40-50 mm CW. Overall colour distribution of the population was 85% yellow, 5% intermediate, and 10% purple. Yellow morphs were more abundant in females (89%) than males (81%). The predominance of yellow morphs may be an adaptation to reduce heat stress.
41315750|The setae involved in the gill-cleaning mechanism of six species of Japanese sentinel crabs are described. The setae are classified as belonging to five types: anchor, serrate, simple, digitate-scale-setule, and normal setule setae. The anchor setae are further divided into ten sub types based on the combinations of digitate-scale setule, normal setule, anchor type, and the shape of their tip. Setae on outgrowths and tips were compared with those identified in previous studies. As a result, the single row half anchor setae were found only in the subgenus Macrophthalmus and might be used as a special characteristic in the subgenus.
10.2307/1548769|When pairs of similar-sized old-shell and new-shell male Chionoecetes bairdi Rathbun were presented with multiparous mates, the old-shell males dominated during 70% of the copulations. In 39% of all copulations, possession of the female was contested. Old-shell males won 69% of those contested matings. Males that recently molted did not copulate with either primiparous or multiparous females.
10.2307/1548982|Pachychelium barnardi, new species, from Argentina is described and figured, and its relationships with other species of the genus are discussed. The occurrence of other lysianassids on the Argentine continental shelf is noted; the distributional ranges of Tryphosites chevreuxi Stebbing, 1914, and Tmetonyx serratus Schellenberg, 1931, collected from benthos dredgings by the Shinkai Maru, are extended geographically and bathymetrically.
1549216|Investigations into morphological and genetic differentiation of the potamonautid fauna of southern Africa revealed the presence of two morphotypes collected from the Drakensberg, KwaZulu-Natal. Both forms have been regarded as Potamonautes depressus in museum collections. The taxonomic status of the two forms was investigated genetically and morphometrically using samples from five localities. The two morphotypes could be distinguished on the basis of colour, with the northern morphotype being bright orange in colour, slightly smaller, and with a more thickly set carapace than the brown to green-brown southern morphotype. Allozyme electrophoresis utilizing 21 presumptive loci showed the two morphotypes to separate at a genetic identity value of 0.599. Five loci proved to be diagnostic between the two forms, with strong heterogeneity present at a further three loci. Discriminant functions analysis of seven carapace variables showed the two morphotypes to be morphometrically distinct. The southern morphotype was identified as Potamonautes depressus s. str., and it was concluded that the northern morphotype represented an undescribed species, described here as Potamonautes clarus sp. nov. The new species is compared to known Potamonautes species from South Africa.
10.2307/1548955| Larval development in the laboratory of the pilumnid crab Benthopanope indica (de Man, 1887) consisted of 4 zoeal and 1 megalopal stage. Complete larval metamorphosis required at least 24 days at 20-25C. The morphology of the larval stages is described in detail, and comparisons are made with the known larvae of other species of the genera Benthopanope, Pilumnopeus, and Heteropanope. The zoea of Benthopanope is clearly distinguished from those of the 2 other genera in having a hooked dorsal spine, no lateral spines, and lateral knobs on abdominal somite 2. 
10.2307/1548650| Observations with regard to the spatial distribution of juvenile Chionoecetes opilio, with a carapace width (CW) <30 mm, were made in populations located off the north shore of the Gulf of St. Lawrence during the summer of 1982. Sampling was conducted using beam trawls at depths of 25-175 m over various substrate types, from sand to mud. The bottom temperature at various depths was also determined. Resultant findings indicate that juvenile snow crabs are widely distributed over areas in which temperatures are <3C, sediments contain >40% mud, and depths >60 m. In addition, the sex ratio was 1:1 without segregation between sexes for crabs <30 mm CW. Size frequency distributions had a strong mode at 7 mm during the whole season, while a second mode at 10 mm appeared in July. Crabs with CW >15 mm were virtually absent in beam trawl samples. 
1549770|Eleven families of the isopod suborder Valvifera are diagnosed, and a key to differentiate them is presented. Three families, Antarcturidae, Rectarcturidae, and Arcturididae, are erected as new on the basis of a cladistic analysis of 14 families, genera, and genus-groups. Phylogenetic relationships between the families are suggested. The genera of each family, 81 in all, are listed. The generic name Austridotea, previously a nomen nudum, is made available within the Idoteidae. Differentiation of the families is based on fusion of the head and pereionite 1, length of the peduncle of pleopod 1, the male first pleopods, and fusion of the penes. Three families (Chaetiliidae, Holognathidae, Idoteidae) have pereionite 1 free from the head; pereiopod 1 subchelate, similar to others or larger; all pleopods simple and similar; and penes free or a basally fused penial plate. Those families with pereionite 1 fused to the head, pereiopod 1 smaller than other pereiopods and with different structure, an elongate pleopod 1 peduncle, and a fused penial plate have either the exopod of the male pleopod 1 laminar and excavate laterally (Arcturidae) or the exopod thickened and diagonally grooved (Arcturididae, Antarcturidae, Austrarcturellidae, Holidoteidae, Pseudidotheidae, Rectarcturidae, Xenarcturidae).
1549512|The number of species of Decapoda Brachyura in the marine waters of the Americas is estimated to be 1,086. The regions under study extend from the Arctic (north) to Cabo de Hornos (south) and include the eastern and western coasts of the continents. Continental shelf species to depths of 200 m (and 300 m in some cases) within fourteen zoogeographical provinces and two subprovinces are considered. A total of 40 brachyuran families are recognized, with the xanthids having the largest number of species. The number of genera is 311. The distribution of brachyurans in the study area shows the same features as the rest of the decapods, with a larger diversity of species in tropical regions, decreasing gradually toward higher latitudes.
40665218|Darwin recognized the coral inhabiting barnacles as congeneric belonging to Pyrgoma. Ross and Newman (1973) assigned those with fused shell and elongated scuta to the genus Savignium. Later those with tooth like articular projection on tergum were assigned to Trevathana dentata. We sequenced and analyzed the divergence of three mithochondrial genes (12S rDNA, 16S rDNA, COI) of Savignium crenatwn from two host coral, of Neotrevathana elongata from Echinopra and of T. dentata from five host corals genera, Leptastrea, Platygyra, Favia, Favites, and Cyphastrea. Based on the molecular analysis of these genes we show that members of populations of the nominal species T. dentata occupying different host corals display clear genetic differences, suggesting that the barnacles from these five different coral genera represent five distinct biological species. These species display host specificity at the generic level. Barnacles colleted from the same host genus but different geographical regions, clustered in the same clades. We described morphological characters of the shell, opercular valves, and limb characteristics, trophi and cirri, of barnacles from these host coral. We concluded that the material extracted from Leptastrea conform with Darwin's type and the specific epithet of Trevathana from Leptastrea should continue to be dentata, specimens from the four other host corals are four new species of Trevathana; namely T. mizrachae n. sp. from Platygyra, T. margaretae n. sp. from Favia, T. jensi n. sp. from Favites, and T. sarae n. sp. from Cyphastrea. The morphological data confirm the results of the molecular analysis that species of coral inhabiting barnacles are highly genus-level hostspecific.
1549489|A new genus and species, Eumanningia pliarthron, is described based on a specimen collected during the MUSORSTOM 7 cruise on the outer slope of Wallis Island, South-West Pacific, in depths of 890-915 m. Using available identification keys, this specimen would be placed in the genus Merhippolyte Bate, but as it differs from all species of this genus in several characters, of which the most obvious are: presence of three strong movable postrostral spines, posterior part of the third abdominal somite produced in an extremely large sharp tooth, left second pereiopod very long and with merus and carpus subdived into an unusually high number of articles, a new genus is created.
1549961| A two-year field study of the population of Macrobrachium olfersi from the Guaec River, So Sebastio, Brazil, revealed a predominance of adult females over adult males, which is expressed by an overall sex ratio of 4.3:1. Relationship between sex-ratio is a function of body size and is related to differential growth with males attaining larger body size than females. Ovigerous females were present in every monthly collection, indicating that reproductive activity was continuous. Periods of higher reproductive activity were observed during the warmer and rainy months. The smallest ovigerous female sampled was 28.1 mm of total body length. Mean fecundity was 1,227 eggs per female (mean total length: 39.9 mm) with a positive correlation between fecundity and female body size. Mean egg sizes (shortest and longest axes) were 0.449 and 0.579 mm at early embryonic development and 0.489  0.648 mm at late embryonic development. Based on color and size of ovaries, five distinct developmental stages were recognized. Embryonic development of incubated eggs was usually accompanied by concomitant ovarian maturation, indicating consecutive spawnings during reproductive life span. Fully developed spermatozoa were recognized in histological preparations in males as small as 15.3 mm of body length while previtellogenesis was detected in a female of 26.5 mm of body length. 
40665254|Niphargus cf. groehni is described from a piece of Eocene Baltic amber. This is the third case when a fossil niphargid amphipod has been discovered. Morphological peculiarities of this specimen and its affinities with other niphargids are discussed.
40665253|The reproductive strategy of red spiny lobster Palinurus elephas from the north coast of Tunisia was investigated. We examined ognesis oi P. elephas by studying the histology of the ovaries. Seven growth substages of ocytes were distinguished: 1) early primary ocyte, Stl; 2) late primary ocyte, St2; 3) primary vitellogenic ocyte, St3; 4) early secondary vitellogenic ocyte, St4; 5) late secondary vitellogenic ocyte, St5; 6) hyaline ocyte, St6; and 7) atretic ocyte, Atr. The kinetics of oognesis of females is characterized by six successive ovarian development phases: Juvenile, sexual resting, beginning of vitellogenesis, vitellogenesis, spawning and post-spawning and recuperation. The ocyte diameter frequency distributions were established for each mature female sampled and fitted by a Weibull function: $f(x,a,b) = 1 - e^{ - (xa^{ - 1} )^h }$ . At the mature ovarian phases, two populations of ocytes were distinguished; a fairly synchronous population of large vitellogenic ocytes (St3 or St4 or St5), and a heterogeneous population of smaller ocytes from which the next clutch will be recruited. In terms of ovarian organization, P. elephas can be considered as "group-synchronous." The presence of only one clutch of yolked ocytes able to be ovulated once during the breeding period suggests that the red spiny lobster spawns only once during every sexual cycle, i. e., P. elephas can be classified as species with a unique spawning period. By definition, such species are known as "synchronous ovulators" and also as "total spawners."
1549292|Larvae of the brachyuran crab Hemigrapsus oregonensis were raised in the laboratory from broods obtained from egg-bearing females collected at a site previously contaminated by a spill of crude petroleum hydrocarbons and from a site not recently contaminated. Larvae from both sites were raised throughout development on 2 diets of the rotifer Brachionus plicatilis, one in which the rotifer was cultured on the green alga Dunaliella tertiolecta, the other cultured on the brown alga Isochrysis galbana. Percentage mortality per stage for larvae from the contaminated site was equal to or lower than for larvae from the clean site. There was no difference in duration of zoeal development nor for megalopal weight for larvae from either site on either diet. Larvae raised on rotifers fed Dunaliella showed higher mortality during the fifth zoeal stage, longer zoeal duration for stages II-V, and lower megalopal weight than did those raised on rotifers fed Isochrysis. Results indicate that previous exposure to petroleum hydrocarbon contamination during brooding has no effect on subsequent zoeal development when larvae are not directly exposed to contamination. Differences in larval response to diet demonstrate that the nutritional value of heterotrophic prey will depend upon what the prey has previously fed upon, either in the laboratory or in nature.
40665265|The karyotype of the Australian crayfish Cherax destructor was studied by examining metaphase chromosome spreads from the testis tissues (TE) and the mitotic cells in division from the regeneration callus of the new forming limb (FL). The sampled tissues showed the same results. A total of 111 mitotic metaphases, 67 TE + 44 FL, were examined and the diploid chromosome number ranged from 179 to 207 per metaphase with a mode at 188, the latter being considered the diploid chromosome number (2n = 188) of the species. The karyotype consisted of 70 metacentric, 42 submetacentric, 48 subtelocentric and 28 telocentric chromosome pairs. The sex chromosomes were cytologically indistinguishable.
1549959|The shape of sternal calcium carbonate deposits (CCD) preceding moult was used as a diagnostic character to distinguish between reproductive and non-reproductive females in six species of terrestrial isopods belonging to different families. Samples in the wild at the beginning of the reproductive season revealed females with CCD of incomplete shape, with a diamond-shaped opening at the level of central furrow. All the females showing this pattern made a parturial moult a few days later, while all females showing complete CCD made a normal moult. A laboratory experiment confirmed that these characteristics were diagnostic for females performing a secondary vitellogenesis. These females were receptive to mating at that time, provided the stage of the intermoult cycle was not too early. Screening the CCD shape is therefore a non-destructive method that can be used for routine diagnosis of females' reproductive status in terrestrial isopods.
1549687| A new species, Thaumatocypris rudjakovi, from near Madagascar is described and illustrated. The specimens studied previously had been referred to T. echinata Mller, 1906 by Rudjakov (1993). The description includes the analysis of appendage muscles. The species T. echinata is discussed, and a key is presented to genera of the Thaumatocyprididae. 
4094178|Puerulus and early juvenile stages of the spiny lobster Palinurus mauritanicus Gruvel, 1911 from the western Mediterranean are described and illustrated, and their morphological characteristics are compared with those described in other palinurids. This constitutes the first detailed morphological description of a puerulus of the genus Palinurus. The puerulus of P. mauritanicus presents a carapace already with some spines characteristic of the adult phase, which allows to differentiate it from the congeneric species Palinurus elephas (Fabricius, 1787) co-occurring in most of its distribution area. The puerulus of P. mauritanicus can be differentiated from those described for pueruli of the genera Panulirus and Jasus by the presence of very long, flagellated, and setose exopods on maxillipeds 2 and 3. The puerulus of P. mauritanicus resembles those described for Projasus by the presence of the crista dentata on the third maxilliped. The morphology and differential colouration of the early juvenile with respect to the adult are described.
10.2307/1549549|External morphological changes in embryos of the hair crab Erimacrus isenbeckii (Brandt) reared in the laboratory were observed. Embryonic development was divided into 9 stages based on morphological changes: precleavage stage, cleavage and blastula stage, gastrula stage, naupliar stage, metanaupliar stage, pigmented-eye stage, heartbeat-initiation stage, prezoea stage, and prehatching stage. Embryos spawned by a female in January developed to the gastrula stage by March. Embryos from another female developed from the gastrula stage to the prehatching stage from March to December, and hatched in January. These results suggest that the incubation period under laboratory conditions was about 12 months. Since one female collected in February still carried prezoea-stage embryos, the embryonic growth rate in the laboratory was expected to be higher than in the field. It is thought that the length of the incubation period is affected by many environmental factors, but the embryonic growth rate is mainly controlled by water temperature. Thus, around Hokkaido, where specimens studied were collected, incubating females may be distributed in temperatures cooler than in the laboratory.
1549172| We used nucleotide sequence data from the ribosomal RNA (rRNA) gene cluster to determine the affinities of rhizocephalans reported to be Sacculina carcini which parasitize different portunid hosts: the green crab Carcinus maenas from Sweden; C. maenas from England; Liocarcinus marmoreus from Ireland; and Liocarcinus holsatus from Wales. There were no differences in nucleotide sequence data from the 3 region of the small subunit (SSU) (160 bp) and internal transcribed spacer 1 (ITS1) (274 bp) rRNA of these parasites. The same region was sequenced from Sacculina granifera from Queensland, Australia, parasitic on Portunus pelagicus; Sacculina oblonga from Kyushu, Japan, parasitic on Cyclograpsus intermedius; and an undescribed rhizocephalan from Victoria, Australia, parasitic on Nectocarcinus integrifrons. The consensus nucleotide sequence of S. carcini from the ITS1 rRNA differed from S. granifera by 52% (146/282 sites), from S. oblonga by 56% (162/289 sites) and from the rhizocephalan from N. integrifrons by 33% (94/284 sites). The consensus nucleotide sequence of the 3 region SSU rRNA of S. carcini and the rhizocephalan from N. integrifrons, which included the V9 domain, differed from S. granifera and from S. oblonga by 6% (9/160 bp). The high divergence rate of ITS1 rRNA sequence between species of Sacculina makes it a valuable diagnostic tool for parasites in this genus. On that basis, the nucleotide sequence data suggest that S. carcini infests at least two genera of crabs from a broad geographic distribution. This may limit the use of this parasite for biological control of introduced populations of green crabs. 
10.2307/1548521|Responses of male and female Atlantic sand (Uca pugilator) and Atlantic marsh (U. pugnax) fiddler crabs to simulated bird predators were observed in South Carolina. When approached on the surface by a "predator," male and female sand fiddler crabs retreated at the same speed across the marsh surface. When reaching a burrow, male and female crabs initially descended similar distances; however, after each burrow was probed with the bill of an avian predator, females descended significantly further overall than did males. When chased, sand fiddler crabs initially retreated significantly farther into their burrows than did marsh fiddlers. However, after probing, both species had retreated similar distances overall. Sand fiddler crabs remained in their burrows three times longer than did marsh fiddler crabs. Our results suggest that crab antipredator behavior varies as a function of cost versus benefit, both within and across species.
10.2307/1548447|Observations of postlarvae of the American lobster Homarus americanus in large tanks indicate that the postlarvae start to exhibit bottom-seeking behaviors, such as diving, between 2 and 6 days after molting into the postlarval (fourth) stage. This correlates well with earlier suggestions that lobster postlarvae are pelagic until about midway through the postlarval period. However, field observations of the molt stages of postlarvae caught in Block Island Sound and in Buzzards Bay in the summers of 1985-1987 indicate that they may be pelagic until quite late in the postlarval period. In addition, differences in the frequency distributions of the molt stages of field-caught animals between Buzzards Bay and Block Island Sound and among years suggest considerable flexibility in the timing of settling.
1549817|A new genus, Pseudohalmyrapseudes, and species, P. aquadulcis, of apseudomorphan tanaidacean from a freshwater spring in the Northern Territory, Australia, is described and illustrated. The new genus is placed in the family Parapseudidae and is closely related to Halmyrapseudes but differs by possessing: 1) a four- or five-articulated inner antennular flagellum; 2) a male cheliped lacking carpal lobes and with a defined tooth on the dactylus; 3) setae on the dorsal margins of the basis of the pereopods 2-4; 4) the ventral margin of merus and carpus of pereopod 6 bearing simple setae. Pseudohalmyrapseudes is suggested to occupy a phylogenetic position between Halmyrapseudes and Longiflagrum. Apseudes mussauensis conforms to the diagnosis of Pseudohalmyrapseudes and is transferred to this genus.
4540322|Idotea balthica has long been studied for intraspecific variation at the phenotypic and ecological level. Recent work found deep genetic divergences among several regional populations of this species in the North Atlantic. Here we report development of microsatellite loci for Idotea and use these newly developed markers to evaluate population structure among the mitochondrial clades. We also provide a detailed morphological evaluation, including SEM description of relevant traits in one of the more divergent groups. Phenotypically, the examined clades do not differ significantly, though individuals from populations in Virginia (U.S.A.) have more setose pereiopods than European and other museum specimens. The preliminary microsatellite data presented here suggest that these markers should be of utility for a variety of small-scale ecological and behavioral analysis in some related Idotea species. Although microsatellites are inappropriate for species designations, there is significant differentiation among mitochondrial lineages indicating that nuclear loci may show similar differentiation as mtDNA among regions. Together the subtle morphological variation and microsatellite data suggest that additional nuclear gene sequencing and reproductive studies are warranted to determine the taxonomic status of these regional forms.
10.2307/1549367|The maxillae of myodocopine Ostracoda are difficult to interpret correctly because of their complexity. This has led to inaccurate descriptions of the limb in the literature. Clues are presented to assist in more accurate descriptions.
10.2307/1547912| The purpose of this study was to develop a successful culturing system for Ceriodaphnia dubia/affinis. Seventeen different algal foods were offered to C. dubia/affinis, and their effect on fertility and longevity observed. The best single algal food of these seventeen, in terms of neonate production, was Ankistrodesmus convolutus cultured in an inorganic defined medium supplemented with crystalline B<sub>12</sub>, biotin, and thiamine. This green alga is cultured and fed to C. dubia/affinis axenically, and the zooplankton are maintained in sterile culture although the animals themselves are not bacteria-free. Demographic data obtained from individual animals reared at 20C and at 24C showed that reproductive frequency is greater at 24C than at 20C, but the mean brood size is somewhat larger at the lower temperature. Longevity studies showed that animals survive longer periods at the lower temperature. One female lived 125 days and during that time produced 29 broods. Starvation data confirmed the success of the experimental diet, in that neonates carried sufficient lipids from their mothers, survived and matured to reproduce, in the absence of food, for approximately eight days. A successful batch culturing system is described. 
1549494|Lepidophthalmus manningi, new species, is described from intertidal and shallow subtidal margins of estuarine embayments, ephemeral tidal ponds, and river mouths in the states of Veracruz, Tabasco, and Campeche, eastern Mexico. This apparent endemic of the southwestern Gulf of Mexico is ornamented by conspicuous sclerotized plates on ventral surfaces of the abdomen, a feature it shares with several other tropically distributed species in the western Atlantic and eastern Pacific. Lepidophthalmus manningi is very close in morphology to the recently described L. richardi from Belize, its apparent sibling, but can be distinguished by unique features in sculpture and shape of not only the ventral abdominal plating, but also in structures such as the eye tubercles, major chelipeds, and the anterior two pleopod pairs, dorsal abdominal tergites, and the uropods. It is readily distinguishable from two other Gulf of Mexico species, both of which lack ventral sclerotized plates on the abdomen. The latter include the widely distributed warm-temperate species, L. louisianensis, which ranges throughout the northern Gulf of Mexico and into Tamaulipas, Mexico, and a second southwestern Gulf endemic form that remains undescribed and is currently under study. Disjuncture of appropriate habitats in the northern Yucatan Peninsula and limited dispersal ability in the genus appear to account for isolation of L. manningi from its Caribbean sibling.
10.2307/1548925|The ontogeny of neuropeptide-expressing neurons during larval development of the crustacean central nervous system is as yet poorly understood. Recently, homologues of the molluscan neuropeptide FMRFamide have been isolated from the central nervous system of adult crustaceans. In order to identify sets of neurons which might express FMRFamide-related neuropeptides and to follow their development, whole mount preparations of the brain and ventral nerve cord of laboratory-reared spider crab larvae (Hyas araneus) were labeled with an antibody against the tetrapeptide FMRFamide. The distribution and morphology of FMRFamide-like immunoreactive neurons, their primary neurites, and neuropils were mapped throughout development of the stages zoea 1 and zoea 2. Ontogenetic alterations in the staining pattern were recorded and the results compared to the distribution of FMRFamide-like immunoreactivity in other crustaceans.
10.2307/1548540|The ultrastructure of the sperm of Pleuroncodes planipes indicates that the sperm is comprised of a nucleus, lamellar region, acrosome, and arms or spines typical of reptantian decapods. The acrosome is elongate and has several areas of differing electron density. A core of material continuous with the subacrosomal material extends into the acrosome. The lamellar region is posterior to the acrosome and consists of numerous membranes, mitochondria, and bands of microtubules. The arms or spines extend the length of the nucleus. Within the spermatophores, the arms reside in depressions or indentations of the composite plasma/nuclear membrane. The spines contain microtubules which extend from one spine to another by passing through the lamellar region in close association with the mitochondria. The sperm become surrounded with several layers of PAS positive material as they pass from the testis and posteriorly through the vas deferens. These secretions comprise the wall of the pedunculate sperm mass and surrounding layers of the spermatophore.
20487701|The major chelae of reproductive male crayfish contain both smooth and plumose setae and are used for the perception of female odors. A comparative and morphological analysis of setae found on the major chelae of reproductive (form I) and non-reproductive (form II) male crayfish, Orconectes rusticus was performed in order to elucidate the distribution and function of smooth and plumose setae. In particular, the distribution of setae between reproductive forms was quantified as well as putative sensory functions, based on morphological characteristics, for both smooth and plumose setae. To accomplish these goals, scanning electron microscopy, a porosity assay, anterograde labeling, and acetylated tubulin (AT) immunocytochemistry were used. We found that form I crayfish have significantly more pockets of sensory setae and individual smooth setae on their major chelae when compared to form II males. Scanning electron microscopy revealed a terminal apical pore-like structure in smooth setae that was absent in plumose setae. Congruent with this finding, smooth setae absorbed crystal violet stain and DiI which labeled putative neural fibers. Conversely, plumose setae did not show any crystal violet or DiI staining. Furthermore, smooth setae contain fiber-like processes that are AT-immunoreactive and are located below the chitinous exoskeleton of the chelae. These fibers extend from the base of the smooth setae to the pore-like structure located at the distal tip. AT-immunoreactive fibers were not present in plumose setae. These results imply that smooth setae on the major chelae are putative chemoreceptors and plumose setae may serve a mechanosensory function. Coupled with previous behavioral studies, these results suggest that a dimorphism in the major chelae, found between male reproductive forms, enhances sensory perception during reproductive behaviors.
10.2307/1548101| Faughnia serenei herewith described is based on four specimens collected from the South China Sea and its vicinity. One of the specimens (a female of 86.5 mm) was identified by Serne in his work of 1962 as Pseudosquillopsis (Faughnia) dehaani. The present study reveals that Serne's specimen, together with three other specimens preserved in the USNM, belongs to an undescribed species that is the third known species of the genus. 
10.2307/1547986|The palustral talitrid amphipod genus Uhlorchestia Bousfield, 1984, is endemic to marshes of Spartina of the North American Atlantic coast. On the basis of newly developed characters and phyletically ordered character states, Uhlorchestia spartinophila, new species, and Uhlorchestia whleri (Shoemaker, 1930) are herewith described and figured. Uhlorchestia uhleri is a larger, more southerly species (North Carolina to Texas), confined to the upper, more brackish portions of coastal marshes, mainly in association with Spartina patens. Its character states are, in balance, slightly more plesiomorphic than those of the smaller, more northerly U. spartinophila, new species (central Maine to northeastern Florida) that dominates the middle to lower, more saline regions of salt marshes, mainly in association with Spartina alterniflora. Both talitrid species are often parasitized by protozoans and larval helminths. Parasitized individuals are characterized by changes in color and behaviour.
41315753|The grooming behaviors of the Hawaiian river shrimp, Macrobrachium grandimanus (Caridea: Palaemonidae), are examined in this study. This species has a dense aggregation of setae (termed the "setal patch") located on the major second cheliped. The function of this setal patch is unknown but hypothesized to be utilized in grooming activities. The grooming behaviors were documented in terms of appendages used to groom, groomed body areas, type of grooming behavior (pick, brush, or scrape) and a time budget for grooming. The most frequently used grooming appendages are the third maxillipeds and first pereiopods, while the most frequently groomed body region is the antennules. The most frequently used grooming behavior is a scraping action; the body region groomed for the longest amount of time is the branchiostegite (gill cover) region where the gill chamber is located. The time budget for grooming was 24.7%, which suggests approximately six hours per day are dedicated to grooming. Multiple statistical analyses of the grooming behaviors of M. grandimanus indicate the setal patch is not associated with grooming either as a grooming appendage, or a groomed body region. Ideas for possible functions of the setal patch are presented.
27753981|Reproduction was studied in the land crab Johngarthia lagostoma on Ascension Island in the central South Atlantic from 2005 to 2008. Both sexes are mature by 60-70 mm carapace width (the sample &gt; 4,000 crabs consisted almost entirely of mature specimens). Breeding occurs around the east and south shores of the island, but was studied predominantly at the only easily accessible site at North East Bay. The annual breeding migration extends from January to May, with peak migration in March in most years. The intensity of migration varies between years, and is not obviously related to rainfall. There is lunar entrainment, with increased numbers at the shore in the first quarter, but largest numbers in the last quarter. Both males and females migrate, but with females in greater numbers. At the shore 80% of the crabs are females. A few females mate and lay eggs in the upland residential areas, a greater number do so on the migration route, but the majority only after reaching the shore. Reproductive investment per brood averaged 5% on a dry weight basis, and fecundity averaged 72,000 eggs.
1549844|Three species of harpacticoid copepods are newly reported from long- and short-hydroperiod groundwater and surface freshwater habitats in Everglades National Park, Florida, U.S.A. One is new to science and described herein; Nitokra evergladensis, new species, differs from congeners mainly in details of setation and spination of the endopodites of the swimming legs, the ornamentation of the anal operculum, and the shape and setae of the caudal ramus. Records of members of the genus Nitokra in fresh waters in the U.S.A. are reviewed, and a key to their identification is presented. We present a supplementary description of Attheyella americana, a widespread species previously unrecorded in southern Florida, based on material from the Everglades. Collections of the rare species Bryocamptus newyorkensis in the Everglades have extended its distribution considerably southward. We redescribe both sexes on the basis of specimens collected from Everglades National Park and also from Great Smoky Mountains National Park, Tennessee, and discuss the geographical distribution and habitats of the species. The Everglades "freshwater" harpacticoid fauna is depauperate, having a large proportion of species adapted to marine habitats.
10.2307/1549417|Burrows of Squilla mantis, studied by resin casting, revealed for the first time the presence of an alpheid shrimp, Athanas amazone, within the burrow of the stomatopod. Colors in life of A. amazone collected from this source are described.
10.2307/1548547| The anomuran crab Emerita portoricensis often occurs in the intertidal zone of sandy beaches in the Caribbean. Four sites on Puerto Rico, within Mayagez and Aasco bays, were sampled for 2 years in order to construct size-frequency distributions and determine relative growth and survival of each sex. Emerita portoricensis was regarded as a dioecious species, since no intermediate forms were found in any of the 30,755 specimens. Size frequency distributions of male and female mole crabs were not significantly different between sites. However, the maximum length of the carapace of male mole crabs (11 mm) was shorter than that of females (19 mm). Growth curves based on size-frequency distributions indicated that females grew significantly faster than males. Densities of males were greatest following recruitment. The percentage survival of young individuals (<5 months of age) was higher for males than females and percentage survival of older mole crabs was greater for females. Results of this study indicate that sexual heterogeneities in size structure of populations can be explained by differential growth and survival of the sexes. 
10.2307/1549197|New generic diagnoses are given for Paracleistostoma arabicum and Cleistostoma kuwaitense, crabs from the Arabian Gulf belonging to the Camptandriinae. A modified key based on Manning and Holthuis (1981) is constructed to separate these new genera from other members of the subfamily. In addition, descriptions are provided for the first zoeal stage of 6 intertidal brachyurans from Qatar.
40927832|This review examines some of the characteristics and highlights some notable articles of the Journal of Crustacean Biology (JCB) in its first 30 years of existence. A total of 2052 articles appeared in JCB from the first issue in February 1981 to the end of 2009. The number of articles by volume increased from 50 in 1981 to 93 in 2002 and then declined to around 70. From 1981 to 2009, article size varied around a mean of 11 pages (pre-2005 format) but mean number of authors and references by article increased by a factor of 1.87 and 2.20, respectively. JCB content is predominated numerically by taxonomy and systematics (36% of all articles), but other research areas (anatomy, physiology, development, growth-reproduction, life history, behavior, ecology, conservation) were also represented from the outset. JCB's 2-year impact factor increased significantly from 1991 to 2009. Longer-term impact of JCB is evident in the fact that almost half of all JCB articles were cited in 2009 and that the mean age of those cited articles was only slightly less than the mean age of all JCB articles (12.6 vs 13.3 years). However, citations to JCB differ widely across research areas, with articles in taxonomy cited on average at less than half the rate of articles in the areas of ecology or conservation. The most cited JCB articles by combination of research area and decade of publication deal primarily with higher crustaceans (malacostracans) and are reviews or original research articles with cross-disciplinary appeal.
10.2307/1547911| Atya innocous and Potimirim glabra (Atyidae) occur in permanent and temporary fresh-water streams in the Atlantic and Pacific drainages of Panam. Their mouthparts, mandibles, and foreguts are compared to test the hypothesis that these structures are related to diet. Atya innocous occurs in moderate to fast-flowing streams, feeding on minute particles collected from the water column or bottom. Potimirim glabra inhabits quiet pools, scraping periphyton from leaf surfaces and decaying organic detritus. The feeding appendages of both species are modified for handling fine particles of food. The mandibles have a strong incisor process but are not used for crushing large food items. The primitive nature of the mandible and foregut suggests the placement of the family Atyidae at the base of the caridean evolutionary tree. The use of the foregut in the construction of phylogenies within the Decapoda is discussed. 
10.2307/1549454|The monomeric subunit composition of the O<sub>2</sub> carrier hemocyanin was examined in a sample of American lobsters from Long Island Sound. The findings were compared with data obtained from a sample of animals that had been held under relatively stable conditions in the laboratory for months or even years. Both samples were somewhat polymorphic. The Long Island Sound sample was no more variable than the laboratory sample, however, indicating that the limited variation is a characteristic of the species and not a product of acclimation to stable conditions.
1549636|Geothelphusa dehaani (White, 1874) is sympatric with G. exigua Suzuki and Tsuda, 1994, in Ohsumi Peninsula and with G. marmorata Suzuki and Okano, 2000, in Yakushima Island, southern Kyushu, Japan. Geothelphusa dehaani is widely distributed in Japan, whereas G. exigua and G. marmorata are endemic in riverine habitats at their respective locations. Visual and trapping surveys were conducted to examine the habitat preference and elucidate the factors maintaining sympatry among the three species. Results showed that G. exigua and G. marmorata are mainly aquatic, whereas G. dehaani is amphibious. Geothelphusa dehaani is more associated with land habitats under sympatry but equally extends in water and on land when singly constituting a population. All species exhibit varying degrees of nocturnalism, but G. marmorata is more active at night than either G. dehaani or G. exigua. Differences in habitats and activity patterns among the Geothelphusa species were attributed to their microenvironments and the effects of interspecific competition under sympatry.
10.2307/1547857|The highly abbreviated development of Caridina singhalensis, endemic to Sri Lanka, is described. The peculiar morphological features found in the larvae are compared to those of the two other examples of direct development described in the Atyidae. The marked morphological similarities among the reduced larval phases, independently evolved in C. singhalensis and the Japanese species (C. brevirostris and C. denticulata ishigakiensis), allow the identification of a syndrome associated with direct development in the genus.
10.2307/1548675|We evaluated the interrelationships between egg size, maternal length, and habitat type for the fairy shrimp Streptocephalus seali from a variety of localities. Our analyses demonstrated a correlation between female length and egg size for samples from California, Florida, and Montana, and for pooled data using all samples. However, there was no such correlation for the sample from Louisiana. The regression between egg size and female length for meltpool populations that generally produce larger eggs is significantly different from the regression for the rainpool populations that typically form smaller eggs. Belk (1977) first observed this difference in egg size between meltpool and rainpool populations in a comparison of S. seali from Arizona and Louisiana. We confirmed this difference and extended it to include samples from Alabama, California, Florida, Montana, North Carolina, and Chiapas, Mexico. Other factors demonstrated to significantly affect egg size are habitat latitude, habitat altitude, and the interactive effects of the independent variables evaluated. We concluded that egg-size variations between populations of S. seali inhabiting rainpools and meltpools reveal evolutionary responses to differing ecological situations.
4540253|Eyestalk length, internal eye structure, pigmented eye area, and pigments in eyes and exoskeleton were studied in two stygobiont crayfish, Procambarus cavernicola and Procambarus oaxacae reddelli. Results were compared with the epigeal crayfish Procambarus olmecorum, all three species inhabiting the karstic region of Acatlan, Oaxaca, Mexico. The stygobite species have shorter eyestalks and reduced pigmented areas compared with the epigeal species. For both eye and integument pigments, the stygobite species have a reduction in their total absorbance spectra compared to the epigeal species. Internal eye structure and organisation are reduced in both stygobite species, but to a greater extent in Procambarus cavernicola. These results are discussed in relation to the time of cave colonisation, the degree of adaptation, and the energy economy hypothesis.
10.2307/1549056|Seven collections of the deep-sea isopod Bathynomus doederleini Ortmann were made, using baited traps in waters of eastern Taiwan between 300-500-m depth from June 1990 to February 1992. Body length, developmental stage, and gonad development were recorded for individuals. Individuals (N = 2,007) ranged from 28-138 mm in length with seasonal variation in size distribution. Recruitment (manca stage) was high between May and September. Mature individuals with fully developed secondary sex organs represented 3.6% of all the samples collected. Males, with penes, could be identified at a smaller size (body length 50 mm) than females (88 mm), which had vestigial or developed oostegites. Eight of 10 mature males, i.e., with appendices masculinae, all larger than 100 mm, had testes. A higher frequency (> 73%) of large females (> 100 mm) possessed developed ovaries than small females (13% between 88-100 mm). Among egg-carrying females no correlation was found between size and fecundity. No seasonality of reproductive activity was observed. The sex ratio was significantly different from 1:1 among large individuals (> 95 mm), and was biased toward females.
10.2307/1549464| Relationships between relative growth of various body parts, gonadal maturation, and functional maturity were examined in male and female Panulirus japonicus by regression techniques and histological study of the ovary, testis, and vas deferens. Relative growth of the first pleopod and the first and second pereiopods against the carapace length (CL) is described best by two power regressions for both sexes, except for the male first and second pereiopods, which are described by three power regressions. Sexual differences in relative growth were observed when size exceeded 28-mm CL for the pleopod, and 52- and 54-mm CL for the first and second pereiopods, respectively. In all sizes less than these CLs, regressions between males and females were not significantly different from each other. For female pleopods, an inflection point was observed at 43-mm CL, whereas it occurred at 52- and 54-mm CL in male pereiopods. Females with immature ovaries often were less than 45-mm CL and their gonadosomatic indices were less than 1%, whereas all females greater than and including 45-mm CL had developing or ripe ovaries. In males, sperm were present in the testis and vas deferens of all individuals examined histologically (37-mm CL). In individuals greater than and including 54-mm CL, ratios of the diameter of the middle vas deferens to that of the posterior vas deferens were almost constant, and high sperm density was observed in the middle vas deferens, whereas in some individuals less than 54-mm CL sperm were absent in a part of the middle vas deferens and the ratio was low. These histologically observed values correspond well with the inflection points of the relative growth regressions for female pleopods (43-mm CL) and those in male pereiopods (52- and 54-mm CL). This indicates that the inflection points are closely related to gonadal maturation in females and functional maturity in males. 
10.2307/1548385| Observation of setal morphology of the basal endite of the maxilla is successfully used for defining molt stages of the snow crab Chionoecetes opilio. The basal endite of the maxilla is easily dissected and can be preserved for up to 48 h in a 10-ml vial filled with ambient salinity sea water at 2-3C, during which time a reliable staging can be ensured. Frozen endites are not suitable for the observations of setal morphogenesis due to a pronounced epidermal retraction and extrusion of new setae. Three molt periods (postmolt, intermolt, and premolt) can be identified. The premolt period is further subdivided into 3 stages (D<sub>0</sub>,D<sub>1</sub>, and D<sub>3-4</sub>). For snow crab, prediction of the beginning of the molting season is critical due to the economic problems encountered by the fishing fleet when low quality molters are found in abundance in the catch. Identification of molt stages by the technique presented in this paper will allow such a prediction and provide a biological basis for fishery management. 
1549866|A number of harpacticoid copepods were collected during two series of sampling campaigns in a coastal lagoon and in a brackish system in northern and southern Sinaloa (northwestern Mexico), respectively. Four enhydrosomid species were recognized. Three of them are new to science. Enhydrosoma lacunae is reported for the sixth time. This record extends the distribution of the species from the Caribbean Sea to the Eastern Tropical Pacific, and it is suggested that it is an invasive species borne in water ballast of ships. Enhydrosoma parapropinquum sp. nov. bears a strong resemblance to E. propinquum, but these species are different in shape of the caudal rami and female fifth leg. Enhydrosoma casoae sp. nov. and E. solitarium sp. nov. showed to be closely related to E. vicinum. These three species seem to be related by the structure and armature formula of the female fifth swimming leg. Enhydrosoma casoae sp. nov. and Enhydrosoma solitarium sp. nov. can be separated from each other by the ventral spinular ornamentation of urosome and spinular ornamentation of female P5 baseoendopod.
1549742|Stage IV phyllosoma larvae of the packhorse lobster, Jasus verreauxi (H. Milne Edwards, 1851), were observed while feeding to determine the processing ability and involvement of mouthparts. Phyllosomata were presented live brine shrimp, Artemia salina (Linnaeus, 1758), mussel flesh, Perna canaliculus (Gmelin, 1791), and jellyfish, Aurelia sp., and were given chemical or tactile stimulation to induce a feeding response. Larvae were observed tearing their food with maxillipeds 2 and 3, before maceration by maxillipeds 2 and maxillae 1, mastication by mandibles and labrum, and subsequent ingestion of finer particles via a suction action induced by foregut contractions. Phyllosomata became entangled in food material and did not feed when provided soft tissue, such as jellyfish and mussel gonad. Maxilliped action increased when larvae were provided with harder prey, which indicated greater energetic investment required to process the food. Our observations suggest that phyllosomata are capable of processing fleshier prey items than Artemia, which is traditionally used as food in artificial culture. An ideal food source for phyllosomata should not readily break up and foul the water, should be free of microbes, and should be energetically economical to capture and masticate.
40927857|An arthropod phylogeny derived from nucleotide sequences (Regier et al., 2010) did not consider either the morphology or the development of crustaceans. Examples of a morphological transformation and developmental data appear to provide only limited support for the cladogram because similar morphology and development are found among distantly related crustaceans, while differing morphology and development are found among closely related crustaceans. One reason for the incongruity may be a method of sequence analysis that results in statistical support values. This method samples a population of purposefully-generated cladograms, although there has been only one history of life on earth; in effect the purposefully-generated cladograms are instrumental artifacts.
10.2307/1548859| Field and laboratory studies were made in Monterey Bay, California, on Holmesimysis costata, an ecologically important mysid crustacean in West Coast kelp forests that is currently being used as a water quality indicator organism. Nearly all the mysids were found in the upper portions of the kelp canopy. Relative abundance, size, and male/female/juvenile frequency of occurrence varied substantially throughout the 2-year study. Abundance, ranging monthly from 254-3,359 individuals per 300-1 sample, correlated with sea-water temperature the first year, but not the second. Laboratory growth rate, determined by measuring carapace length, was approximately linear for the first 37 days after hatching (16 m day<sup>-1</sup>), after which it increased and became more variable until sexual maturity was reached at 62 days (females 41 m day<sup>-1</sup>, males 35 m day<sup>-1</sup>). Brooding females were collected thoughout 1 year, but highest fecundities (maximum 45 juveniles in 1 female) occurred between May and August. Mean field fecundities (27.4  6.6 juveniles per female) were higher than those of laboratory-reared females (16.4  4.3). These results indicate that there is high year-round production of these mysids, with peak production in summer when predation by recruiting rockfishes would be most intense. 
1549170| Observations of Chaceon affinis, from the French deep submersible Nautile, were made at the Menez Gwen hydrothermal vent site (Mid-Atlantic Ridge, 3750N) in June 1994. This was the first time that specimens of this species were seen in the inner periphery of an active vent field. Almost all specimens were observed very near mytilid mussel beds, and on one occasion a crab was seen eating the remains of one of these vent mussels. In addition, baited fish traps were deployed in the close vicinity of the active vent field for periods of 24 h. The yield of these catches was much higher than the one obtained at a similar depth in a place without any influence of an active vent field. It is suggested that the population of C. affinis living in the vicinity of this vent field can profit from the amount of biomass available inside it. 
10.2307/1548357|Single cell analysis has been performed on motoneurons innervating the muscles of the antennular distal segments of Callinectes sapidus. Experiments were performed on perfused, isolated "head" preparations in which two spontaneous antennular movements occurred: withdrawal and flicking. The secondary neurites of cells thought to be involved in these two antennular movements were shown to occupy different regions of the lateral antennular neuropil by Lucifer Yellow injection. Single shocks delivered to the sensory nerve coming from a previously quantified mechanoreceptive input from hair sensilla on the antennular proximal segment produced a complex, multicomponent response in motoneurons considered to be involved in withdrawal behavior. Distal segment motoneurons belived to be responsible for antennular flicking were inhibited by hair sensillar afferents. These anatomical and physiological findings suggest the presence of an underlying organization in so-called "diffuse" antennular neuropil.
10.2307/1549040|The Jonah crab Cancer borealis and the Atlantic rock crab C. irroratus occur together in waters of the continental shelf and slope of the northwestern Atlantic Ocean between southeastern Canada and southeastern Florida, U.S.A. Characters that distinguish superficially similar juveniles of these species are presented. At carapace widths less than about 20 mm, juveniles can be distinguished by: (1) edges of the anterolateral teeth and orbital margins, granular in C. irroratus, serrate in C. borealis; (2) shape of the outer orbital tooth, rounded to more or less rectangular and coalesced with adjacent anterolateral tooth in C. irroratus, but with these teeth sharply pointed and well separated in C. borealis; and (3) surface of carapace, relatively smooth in C. irroratus, but granular and setose in C. borealis. Comparative illustrations are given.
27753948|A total of twenty microsatellite loci included dinucleotide, trinucleotide, and tetranucleotide microsatellite loci were isolated for Sinopotamon yangtsekiense using the FIASCO protocol. Genotyping of 30 individuals showed that the number of alleles ranged from 2 to 22, with observed heterozygosity ranging from 0.103 to 0.900 and expected heterozygosity ranging from 0.100 to 0.957. The polymorphism information content per locus ranged from 0.093 to 0.932. Cross-species amplification was investigated in seven related taxa. The results suggested that the developed microsatellite loci are specific to Sinopotamon and have potential for limited use in cross-genus amplification within Potamidae. These microsatellite markers should prove valuable tools for population genetic studies of the species Sinopotamon.
10.2307/1548653|Recent collection sites for Artemia sp. in saltworks and natural brackish ponds in Sardinia, Italy, are listed. They are: Carloforte, Sant'Antioco, Cagliari Spiaggia, Simbirizzi, Sale Porcus, and su Pallosu. All the reported populations are bisexual. Among the numerous natural ponds inspected, in only three the brine shrimp Artemia sp. was found sympatric with another anostracan, Branchinella spinosa. The two species partially coexist in the adult form and seem to be separated by salinity tolerance levels. As to the remaining ponds, the recorded salinity values suggest the possibility of colonization by Artemia sp., in spite of its absence at the time of the survey.
1549483|The rediscovered holotype specimen of the "eastern Pacific" Lysiosquilla desaussurei (Stimpson) (Lysiosquillidae) is a specimen of the amphi-American Cloridopsis dubia (H. Milne Edwards) (Squillidae). Most specimens referred to Stimpson's taxon after 1857 are either misidentified Lysiosquilla scabricauda (Lamarck) or a new species of Lysiosquilla, ranging from Baja California Sur, Mexico, south to Costa Rica and possibly Peru, which is described herein.
10.2307/1548409| Weekly estimates of female abundance and daily egg production rates were made for Pseudocalanus spp. during 1987 and 1988 in Auke Bay, southeastern Alaska. The sampling, which included measurements in primary production, was done during April and May when larval fish initiate feeding on copepod nauplii. The objective of the study was to examine the relative importance of female abundance and daily egg production rates for Pseudocalanus spp. in determining production of nauplii during the study period. In both years primary production rates exceeded 500 mg C m<sup>-2</sup> d<sup>-1</sup>. At this level of primary production Pseudocalanus spp. should not have been food-limited in either year. The average egg production rates per individual female during the 2 years were identical: 2.6 eggs  female<sup>-1</sup>. The average populations of female Pseudocalanus were 4,765 and 7,656 individuals  m<sup>-2</sup> in 1987 and 1988, respectively. The larger populations of female Pseudocalanus spp. in 1988 resulted in higher overall egg production and better feeding conditions for larval fish. Thus, during the period when larval pollock began feeding on nauplii, female copepod abundance was more important than temporal differences in egg production rates in determining production of nauplii. A complete understanding of the copepod-larval fish relationship in Auke Bay will require explanation of the causes for interannual variability in abundance of adult female Pseudocalanus spp. 
10.2307/1549011|All thoracic limbs of Hutchinsoniella except for the ninth contain a small gland composed entirely of podocytes. At the periphery of the gland, each podocyte bears foot processes associated with the investing basal lamina; centrally, there is no conspicuous lumen. Such postcephalic podocytes, either in compact glands or in a more diffuse arrangement, have also been found in decapods, mysids, and isopods, and perhaps occur in other crustaceans as well. Podocytes are known to filter hemolymph and to pinocytotically extract constituents of the filtrate for modification and storage of residues. Histologically, the thoracic limb glands of Hutchinsoniella are identical to the end sac of the maxillary and antennal glands, but differ in not having a lumen or exit duct. The second maxilla lacks this gland, even though it is identical to thoracic limbs in every other way. On the basis of podocyte histology and distribution in the animal, we conclude that these glands are serially homologous to the end sac of the maxillary and antennal glands, and are descendant from the segmentally repetitious ancestral excretory system.
10.2307/1548294|Observations of the escape responses of Euphausia superba and Euphausia crystallorophias under pack ice (O'Brien, 1987) and of Nyctiphanes australis in southeast Tasmania (unpublished observations) are discussed together with previously published data on the escape reactions of these and other euphausiids. Similarities in the form of the escape response for surface-swarming species of euphausiids are apparent. It is proposed that there are three levels of escape response whose manifestation is primarily dependant upon the aggregative state of the prey and the size and proximity of the predator. The adaptive significance of the three levels of response is discussed in relation to predator evasion.
10.2307/1549329|A new species of the genus Bathytanais is described and its impact on the unstable taxonomy of the family Paratanaidae is discussed. A full description of the adult female and the manca of Bathytanais juergeni, new species, is presented. Males remain unknown for the genus. Scanning electron micrographs of B. juergeni reveal that the carapace consists of articulated plates, not a uniform carapace, and that the coxae of pereiopods 4-6 are expanded to form sternal plates. The genus Bathytanais is retained in the family Paratanaidae, but the family is redefined. The related families/sub-families Anarthruridae, Typhlotanaidae, and Leptognathiinae are critically reviewed. The taxonomic concepts that were suggested by Sieg for the above-mentioned families fail when setal homologies are critically evaluated. The number of articles in the uropodal rami, often used in generic and family diagnoses, is found to be ambiguous, owing to partial fusion of articles.
10.2307/1549419|Morphological criteria and mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) were analyzed to examine the taxonomic and systematic relationships of the endangered crayfish species Austropotamobius pallipes. Morphological data confirmed the difficulty of differentiating the 3 subspecies: A. p. pallipes, A. p. italicus, and A. p. lusitanicus. MtDNA analysis by RFLP using 6 endonucleases revealed 5 haplotypes and allowed unequivocal identification of the subspecies. The nucleotide sequence divergence among haplotypes characteristic of each subspecies ranged from 10.93-13.6% and may be explained by an ancient geographical separation of each subspecies. This distribution of genetic variation agrees with the presumption of 3 refugial regions during the glaciation periods, possibly the Iberian Peninsula, southern France, and the Balkans. UPGMA analysis from nucleotide distances placed A. p. italicus and A. p. lusitanicus in a cluster separate from A. p. pallipes, suggesting that A. p. italicus and A. p. lusitanicus are more closely related.
1549907|The recent renewed interest in the Indian stygofauna has led to the discovery of another interesting copepod representative, from the almost exclusively marine family Diosaccidae Sars, 1906. Neomiscegenus n. gen. and Neomiscegenus indicus n. sp., from the subterranean freshwaters of the Krishna River at Vijayawada, Andhra Pradesh, are described. The new genus belongs to that evolutionary line of Diosaccidae that encompasses the genera Amphiascoides Nicholls, 1941; Paramphiascella Lang, 1948; Paramphiascoides Wells, 1967; and Miscegenus Wells, Hicks, and Coull, 1982. The genus Miscegenus has the highest number of synapomorphies with Neomiscegenus, including the shape of the caudal rami and the armature formula of the swimming legs. A peculiar shape of the genital field in the female and the armature of the antennal exopod in both sexes are the most important autapomorphies of the new genus, while the fine structure of the sexually dimorphic second leg in the male is probably plesiomorphic. The phylogenetic position of the new genus is briefly discussed.
40927848|Three species of Triconia belonging to the conifera-subgroup are described from Korean waters (NW Pacific). A new species, Triconia hirsuta, was found that can be distinguished from its sibling T. conifera by a paired patch of long setules on the anterolateral margin of the genital double-somite in the female, and an unusual position of caudal seta II branching off at almost a right angle to the caudal ramus. Males have not been found so far. Both sexes of T. conifera (Giesbrecht, 1891) and T. borealis (Sars, 1918) from Korean waters are redescribed with the addition of morphological details and/or differences not noted in earlier descriptions. Morphological characters of Korean T. conifera are in close agreement with specimens described from the Mediterranean Sea and the Pacific, but differ in several parameters from T. conifera from the Red Sea, which is regarded as a distinct, though closely related, species requiring re-examination. Published data on the community structure and zoogeographical distribution of oncaeids of the conifera-type in the NW Pacific are summarized, and the remaining uncertainties concerning the distribution of species of the conifera-subgroup in these areas are pointed out.
10.2307/1548932| The introduced spider crab Pyromaia tuberculata has recently colonized eutrophic bays in Japan. In Tokyo Bay, this crab annually recolonizes an area of the upper bay which is subjected to severe hypoxic and anoxic water and subsequent extinction of benthic animal populations every summer. This research was designed to clarify egg and larval growth characteristics of P. tuberculata, and to shed light on how this species is able to effectively colonize such eutrophic areas. Three sets of experiments, incubation time, egg growth, and larval development, were conducted. Incubation time decreased with rising temperature, ranging from 3 months at 8C to 7 days at 26C. Egg growth was classified in 4 stages by structure as noted from external observation, and eye spots appeared in the final stage (last quarter of the incubation period). The larvae passed through first and second zoeal and megalopal stages. The experimental results, combined with field observations, indicate that P. tuberculata is capable of breeding, incubating, hatching, and metamorphosing to first crab throughout the year in Tokyo Bay. These reproductive and larval growth characteristics allow this species to annually recolonize the upper areas of Tokyo Bay. 
10.2307/1548182|A new genus and species of procaridid shrimp, Vetericaris chaceorum, and a new atyid species, Halocaridina palahemo, are described from the island of Hawaii. The new genus, regarded as more primitive than Procaris, is characterized by the possession of a larger number of gills than Procaris, including arthrobranchs and pleurobranchs on the third maxilliped and pereiopods 1-4, elongate pleopodal endopods, appendices internae on pleopods 3-5, and elongate dactyls on pereiopods 1-5. Reexamination of the two genera of procaridids would seem to indicate a greater affinity with the caridean shrimps than with the dendrobranchiate shrimps. The new Halocaridina differs from its only congener in several features, including a shorter rostrum, a more inflated carapace, and less inflated chelae. Reference to Pleistocene geological history, and present-day hydrological conditions strengthen the argument for relatively deep anchialine refugia from which dispersal took place, to explain the distribution of anchialine shrimps.
10.2307/1548616|A new genus, Scolodiaptomus (Copepoda: Calanoida: Diaptomidae), is proposed for Diaptomus corderoi Wright, 1936, from southeastern Brazil. Scolodiaptomus corderoi is redescribed. The genus is defined principally by characters of the female: the prominent spine on the anterior face of the first exopod article of the fifth leg, and the partial dorsal division of the genital segment. Important distinguishing characters of the males include the proportions of spines on the right antennule, and proportions and structures of the fifth legs. The genus is closely related to Notodiaptomus Kiefer, 1936. Notodiaptomus brandorffi, new species, is described from northeastern Brazil. Some current problems in the taxonomy of neotropical diaptomids are discussed.
10.2307/1549521|Techniques for collecting information on spermathecae without dissection were evaluated on the giant crab Pseudocarcinus gigas. Techniques tested were: biopsy, ultrasound, conventional x-radiography, computerized tomography (CT) scans, and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Attempts at biopsy and ultrasound imaging were unsuccessful. Spermathecae were imaged by x-radiography, although resolution was poor, suggesting that it can be applied only to gain general information, such as determining whether mating has occurred. High resolution images were produced with CT and MRI. Resolution by MRI is of such detail that internal structure of spermathecae is imaged. Nonlethal techniques allow animals to be used repeatedly, which permits monitoring of changes during mating, sperm storage, and extrusion.
20487789|We present the first complete description of a life cycle for a marine ostracode that uses bioluminescence for courtship. The life cycle of Vargula annecohenae consists of five juvenile instars separated by molts and an adult instar following the terminal molt. Body size is tightly conserved within each instar; therefore, most individuals can be reliably identified to instar by the length-to-height regression of carapace size. Sexual dimorphism becomes apparent in the penultimate A-I instar and remains evident through adulthood. Each juvenile instar of V. annecohenae lasts between 10 and 27 days, resulting in an estimated total juvenile development time of three months. Females have multiple broods and give birth to crawl-away juveniles following a 26  1.6 day incubation period. Adults live up to 188 additional days, and thus V. annecohenae has a potential life span of up to nine months. This species is one of the large number of myodocopid ostracode species that use bioluminescence for courtship, and our description of its life cycle provides a foundation for future work on the intricate mating systems and the complex ecological interactions within this group.
10.2307/1549187| We address the role of temperature and maturation rate in limiting the distribution and co-occurrence of 2 ephemeral pool branchiopods, Branchinecta sandiegonensis and Streptocephalus woottoni (Anostraca), in southern California. Branchinecta sandiegonensis occurs in pools of variable depth (from <5 cm to >30 cm) and duration, while Streptocephalus woottoni is found only in deeper pools (>30 cm) of longer duration. These 2 species co-occur in a few pools, but their adults are never observed simultaneously. To better understand these patterns, field-collected cysts of both species were hatched at an array of constant and 12-h fluctuating temperatures. Maturation rates were compared in aquaria at room temperature (20-22C) and by field observation. Both species hatched best at cooler temperatures (10C and fluctuating 5-15C), but S. woottoni was more eurythermal. Both were inhibited at higher temperatures unless these temperatures were included in a fluctuating regime. After hatching, B. sandiegonensis did not mature at 5C. In laboratory and field observations, B. sandiegonensis matured quickly (1-2 weeks) at moderate temperatures and died before S. woottoni reached maturity. These results indicate that temperature plays a role in restricting the distribution of these species to the coast, where temperatures are favorable. Slower maturation rate helps to explain the absence of S. woottoni from shallow, potentially short-lived pools and why the 2 species co-occur but do not coexist as adults in deeper pools. 
41315673|Sand fiddler crab males, Uca pugilator (Brachyura: Ocypodidae), use their single enlarged claw as a weapon in fights for burrows and as a signal to attract females to burrows. Seventy-three males from a South Carolina marsh were in reared in the laboratory to determine if body size at the time of claw loss affects the morphology of the claw that subsequently regenerates. Thirty-six males were induced to autotomize claws and regenerated new ones. Thirty-seven males retained original claws. Across four molts, males regenerating claws gained more in claw length but less in body width and overall mass than males retaining original claws. The first molt accounted for these differences as males regenerating claws gained relatively little in body size but added much in claw length. Regenerated claws were more slender, having smaller dimensions of the manus relative to claw length. As the manus houses the claw closer muscle, regenerated claws are expected to be less powerful and appear more designed for signaling. Both regenerated and original claws became more slender with increasing length, suggesting that across a lifetime pressures arising from combat are reduced relative to those arising from mate attraction. Among regenerated claws, the height of the manus relative to claw length and the development of teeth and tubercles that facilitate pinching were greater when original claws were lost at smaller body sizes. Consequently, distinguishing original from regenerated claws can be difficult. An index, the score of tooth and tubercle development times the manus length divided by the product of carapace width and pollex length, discriminated claw types among reared crabs as well as sophisticated statistical techniques. Use of the index suggests that the frequency of regenerated claws increases with population density among neighboring natural populations. The relative size of regenerated claws was greater among males that had relatively large original claws prior to autotomy, suggesting that males may continue to signal their quality by regenerating a new claw that is relatively long.
10.2307/1548035| The physiological and behavioral ecology of the terrestrial amphipod Arcitalitrus sylvaticus (Haswell, 1880) was investigated. Four main aspects were examined: thermal tolerance and thermal acclimation, water loss, resistance to desiccation (as survival), and orientation along a humidity gradient. Thermal tolerance was not affected by the body weight of the amphipod but could be altered through acclimation to higher temperatures. Transpiration rates were affected by body weight, i.e., small amphipods lost water faster than larger amphipods. In dry air (20% relative humidity) and moist air (100% relative humidity) transpiration rates were directly affected by temperature. The survival of A. sylvaticus was tested at various temperature-humidity combinations; survival for periods longer than 48 h was achieved only at relative humidities of 100% at temperatures less than 30C. In an experimental chamber designed to maintain an internal gradient of 50-100% relative humidity, a higher frequency of position records was recorded on the more humid side. In contrast, amphipods placed inside a chamber with a uniform relative humidity of 100% showed no preference to chamber side. The results provide evidence that A. sylvaticus adapts to the terrestrial habitat through behavioral rather than physiological mechanisms. 
10.2307/1548047| Reticulate hemispherical bullae, 150 m in diameter, are present on the outer wall of the inner orbital fossa of Dakoticancer overanus Rathbun, 1917. The surface of this structure is covered by a netlike hexagonal pattern of furrows, bisected by shallower secondary furrows. The function of this structure is unknown, and it is undescribed in extant crabs. 
10.2307/1547918|Numerous specimens of a new, deep-water stomatopod, Altosquilla soelae, new genus, new species (Bathysquillidae), have been collected from the Australian Northwest Shelf area, at depths of 400-456 m. This new species is the first representative of the Bathysquillidae to be found in Australian waters. Altosquilla soelae is immediately distinguishable from all other stomatopods by the presence of five pairs of conspicuous, dorsally curved, mobile spines along the posterior margin of the telson.
10.2307/1549304|Sequence data for the small-subunit, 18S ribosomal-DNA gene (1,800+ nucleotides), representing 10 crustaceans (three branchiopods, a cephalocarid, a phyllocarid, a hoplocarid, a syncarid, a eucarid, and two copepods) and three arthropod outgroups (Chelicerata, Insecta, Myriapoda), were analyzed by maximum parsimony and neighbor-joining methods of phylogenetic inference as a test of several competing hypotheses about relationships among crustaceans possessing foliaceous limbs (e.g., branchiopods, cephalocarids, and phyllocarids). Results strongly support three clades among the crustacean ingroup: a branchiopod clade, a (cephalocarid + copepod) clade, and a malacostracan clade that includes the phyllocarid leptostracan Nebalia sp. as a basal lineage. Relationships among these 3 clades remain unclear. The (cephalocarid + copepod) relationship, although strongly supported (bootstrap proportion = 93) in this analysis, is suspect because of a highly divergent sequence and a very long branch for the cephalocarid Hutchinsoniella macracantha. There is little doubt, however, that the presence of foliaceous limbs does not define a monophyletic clade comprising branchiopods, cephalocarids, and phyllocarids. This limb morphology may be a symplesiomorphic feature of the Crustacea, but it appears likely that it has had multiple origins.
10.2307/1549375|A new genus, Pseudopetalophthalmus, is established for P. japonicus, new species, collected from Japanese waters. Pseudopetalophthalmus is closely related to the genus Petalophthalmus, but distinguished from it by the rostrum lacking an acute process, the antennal scale armed with a single spine at the distal end of the naked part of the outer margin, the mandibular palp with the third segment 0.25 as long as the second segment and bearing 7 spines, the maxilla with a short exopod and an expanded distal lobe, and the telson with a truncate apex with spines arranged in definite series of 9 groups. The generic diagnosis of Petalophthalmus is amended to include Petalophthalmus australis.
1549956|Austinotheres new genus and Raymondia new genus are erected to receive as type species the oyster crab Pinnotheres angelicus Lockington, 1877, which is redescribed, and the knife-clam crab Pinnotheres clavapedatus Glassell, 1935, respectively. Austinotheres can be separated from other Pinnotheridae by the combination of the following characters: walking legs 2 asymmetrical in length, and the third maxilliped having a carpus that is larger than the combined propodus and dactylus. Raymondia differs from other Pinnotheridae in having a clavate propodus of the first and second walking legs of the female and in the large dactylus of the third maxilliped that inserts on the midlength on the ventral margin of this article and extends far beyond the tip of the propodus.
10.2307/1548768|Following nocturnal intertidal foraging migrations, the supralittoral sand-beach talitrid amphipod Talitrus saltator establishes a discrete burrow zone at the top of the shore in which individuals remain quiescent during the daytime. The position of the burrow zone and the depth to which individuals burrow varies both on a seasonal and spring-neap tidal basis. During winter, T. saltator typically burrows higher upshore, usually beyond the influence of tidal inundation above EHWS, and to a greater depth. Following a spring migration downshore, the population maintains a burrow zone between mean high water spring and mean high water neap during the summer breeding period of May-August. During this time, individuals tend to burrow to a shallower depth and the burrow zone alters on a semilunar basis to avoid spring tide inundation. Individuals also display burrow-position and burrow-depth variations in respect to reproductive condition, with egg-bearing females found higher upshore, and also in respect to age, since developing juveniles are typically found lower on the shore and burrow to shallower depths than adults. The variations in burrow-zone location and burrow depth adopted are interpreted as behavioral mechanisms associated with the amphipod's efforts to reduce diurnal desiccation stress.
10.2307/1548960|All 6 naupliar stages of Mesocyclops edax Forbes, 1891, are described. Naupliar development is compared within the subfamily Cyclopinae Kiefer, 1927, and external morphological characters are discussed with respect to previous studies and in the light of phylogenetic relationships. Nauplii of M. edax show a number of peculiar autapomorphies but have more characters in common with species of Thermocyclops than with species of Mesocyclops studied previously. A key to the identification of the naupliar stages is provided.
10.2307/1548964|The species of the rare spiny lobster genus Palinustus A. Milne Edwards, 1880, are reviewed, based on a total of 54 specimens. Although the characteristics used previously to separate the species are rather variable, all 4 named species are nevertheless considered to be valid; with P. truncatus A. Milne Edwards, 1880, restricted to the western Atlantic, P. mossambicus Barnard, 1926, known only with certainty from the eastern coast of Africa, while both P. waguensis Kubo, 1963, and P. unicornutus Berry, 1979, are widely distributed in the Indo-West-Pacific. A new species, P. holthuisi, is found in Taiwan and Japan. The distinguishing characteristics of all the species are described in detail, together with line drawings and photographs. The different species have distinct coloration and color photographs of live or fresh specimens are provided where possible. A key to the species is given for their identification.
10.2307/1548992|The body cuticle of the cephalocarid crustacean Hutchinsoniella macracantha Sanders, 1955, carries two types of small setae which differ in their external shape and number of ciliated sensory cells. It also has two types of pores, one being a gland opening, the other containing the tip of a cilium. The setae and the pore type containing a ciliated sensory cell are considered chemosensory organs.
1549161|The inheritance of a blue body color phenotype found in Cherax destructor (the yabby) was investigated in a series of experimental crosses including both F<sub>2</sub> and backcrosses. The blue phenotype, which can be easily distinguished from the normal color phenotype in newly released juvenile yabbies, was found to be inherited as an autosomal recessive trait. Color phenotype was independent of age for juveniles maintained over a 12-week period, and no association was found between color and sex. The potential for the use of this blue trait as a genetic marker in growth comparisons of yabby strains is discussed.
41315709|The freshwater shrimp Caridina gracilipes is widely distributed in the Indo-Pacific, and both landlocked and amphidromous populations occur in southern Taiwan. In this study, we collected monthly samples between September 2006 and August 2008 from a lake and a stream, representing landlocked and amphidromous populations, respectively. We found the amphidromous individuals were larger and grew faster than the landlocked individuals. The mature females in the landlocked population are in general small compared to the amphidromous population, and their eggs were larger but fewer than the amphidromous females. Ovigerous females could be found year-round in both populations, but the main recruitment was in September. The life span of females was longer than males; that of amphidromous were longer than landlocked populations. We found that populations of C. gracilipes in the subtropical region have evolved different biological and reproductive strategies based on their landlocked and amphidromous life histories.
10.2307/1548075|The deeply scalloped cornea of Meiosquilla oculinova (Glassell, 1942) appears to be unique among crustacean eyes in overall shape, facet curvatures, and skewing of ommatidia.
10.2307/1548824|The estuarine crab Rhithropanopeus harrisii (Gould) was originally found along the North American Atlantic coast and in 1991 was reported for the first time on the Iberian Peninsula. The larvae of this species were found only in the upper reaches of the Mondego estuary, Portugal, during spring and summer months, from late April to September. Larval density was highest during June. The reproductive season of R. harrisii occurs within the range of the highest water temperature. This study shows a temporal coherence in the larval patterns of occurrence during 2 years of sampling, and indicates that larvae of R. harrisii are more abundant near the surface during night flood tide, but near the bottom during ebb tide. This suggests a net larval landward transport, which results in retention near the area of adult spawning. The aim of this study was to analyze the seasonal and spatial occurrence and tidal abundance of larvae of R. harrisii in the estuary of the Mondego river, Portugal. In addition, patterns of the temporal distribution of the larvae on the geographic range where the crab larvae have been found are briefly reviewed.
10.2307/1548227| Ulophysema oeresundense Brattstrm, 1936, is a highly specialized crustacean that spends its adult life enclosed in different organs of its sea urchin host. The morphological adaptations of the integument of U. oeresundense for making close contact with the host cells were studied. The body is enclosed in a double-walled mantle covered on the outside by a single layer of choanocyte-like cells of host origin. The outer mantle epithelial cells underlie a thin electro-dense epicuticle, which has a dense network of highly differentiated villi-like structures. The wall of the mantle contains branches of the intestine, but the gut epithelium in adult specimens shows pronounced degeneration and its role in nutrient uptake is doubtful. The mouth parts are atrophied. The mantle cavity functions as a brood chamber, and its integument is provided with "anchoring" hooks that, together with the long and hairy projections of the body surface, probably prevent the eggs and larvae from being expelled. A great number of sensory organs with a putative rheoreceptive function are observed among the outer epithelial cells of the mantle cavity. The specialized epicuticle and the microvilli of the epithelial cells of the mantle are considered a route for molecular interchange. 
10.2307/1549049|The dorsal organ is a sensory system found widespread among the Crustacea. Seen externally, it is typically composed of a pore (or a small group of pores) centrally placed with 4 sensory plates arranged, often equidistantly, around it. It lies in the midline of the carapace. The innervation of this organ in the natantian Macrobrachium intermedium is shown to originate at the tritocerebrum of the brain and to follow a ventrolateral course along the rim of the antennular muscles in the thorax before turning medially along the edge of mandibular adductor muscles and linking with the dorsal organ.
41315751|Growth and morphometric characteristics of the caridean Palaemon longirostris Milne Edwards, 1837, were studied in the Gironde estuary population. Their first comparison with earlier studies in this estuary and in the Mira River provided the first step towards developing environmental indicators using a species represented at the European scale. Mean individual growth was modelled for each sex using the classical von Bertalanffy growth model and the seasonal model that integrates periods of lower growth. Morphometric relationships, in particular the spatio-temporal variability in the relative weight of individuals, were explored according to sex and physical parameters of the environment. Females grew to larger size than males. Growth estimates showed the importance of accounting for the seasonal variations to evaluate non-biased growth. Sex and the presence of eggs for females showed significant interaction within the carapace length -total length relation as well as for the carapace length -weight relation. Body condition was significantly greater in spring and summer for both sexes and was significantly correlated with salinity, but only for males. Comparison with the Mira River was limited to the range of data available. However, the population of the Gironde estuary, being similar in both recent and historical studies, showed morphometric differences when compared to that of the Mira River. Indeed, the growth performance index was higher in the Gironde estuary and likely linked to temperature constraints. Conversely, differences between males and females were much higher in the Mira River than in the Gironde estuary.
1549821|The relationships between mean intensity and prevalence of infestation of Pseudione humboldtensis and the size and sex of the hosts, the squat lobsters Cervimunidia johni and Pleuroncodes monodon, from three fishing grounds in northern Chile are described. The prevalences were 13.6% and 6.8% for C. johni in Coquimbo and Huasco, respectively, while in P. monodon they were 18.2% and 0.6% in Coquimbo and Caldera, respectively. Between fishing grounds, no significant differences were found in the prevalence of infestation between male and female C. johni, but in Coquimbo, the prevalence of infestation in P. monodon was significantly higher in females. The sizes of infested squat lobsters were significantly lower than those of uninfested hosts. Males and females parasitized by P. monodon showed significantly lower body weights than uninfested hosts. Parasitized males of C. johni showed lower body weight than uninfested males. Only 0.6% of ovigerous females of C. johni and none of P. monodon were infested. The near absence of infested ovigerous females suggests castration process in females. A nonlinear relationship was detected between host size and parasite size for both females and males. Multiple infestations of P. humboldtensis were found in both host species, but they were more common in P. monodon. Given the high prevalence of multiple infestations (50%) and the significantly lower body weights of infested P. monodon, we suggest that this host is more vulnerable to P. humboldtensis than is C. johni.
20487729|We evaluate whether the abundance of the freshwater crabs Aegla itacolomiensis and A. platensis is related to any or all of 11 environmental variables. We sampled 205 Surber samples (33  33 cm) in a stream five meters wide in southern Brazil. For each Surber sample we obtained measures of flow velocity, depth, type of substrate, and availability of coarse particulate organic matter. The relationships between abundances of the two species and the environmental variables were assessed by regression trees. Only 2 of the 11 environmental variables were important in describing the abundances of the two species, both of them related to availability of coarse particulate organic matter. The abundance of Aegla itacolomiensis was related positively to quantity of fragmented leaves and, to a lesser degree, to quantity of twigs. For the abundance of A. platensis, quantity of twigs, followed by fragmented leaves, were the most important environmental factors. The quantity of recently fallen, unfragmented leaves was unimportant. We conclude that the two species of Aegla select locations with abundant old plant fragments that are usually colonized by fungi and bacteria. This conclusion is corroborated by previous studies indicating that Aegla spp. feed mostly on plant fragments.
10.2307/1548885|The antibiotics penicillin-G and streptomycin sulfate, commonly used to grow axenic cultures of diatoms, consistently reduce mortalities in experiments using laboratory cultures of the gammaridean amphipod Corophium spinicorne. These antibiotics do not change average weight-specific growth rates of the test organisms. Applications of antibiotics can reduce the variability within nutritional and survival-related experiments, and thus differences between treatments can be detected. This technique can improve the results from bioassay and toxicity tests using amphipods when bacterial-induced mortalities appear to impact the quality of test data.
40665210|Sand bubbler crabs Scopimera inflata are central place foragers that spend long periods feeding on nutritionally poor surface sediment adjacent to their burrows. Individuals make series of excursions from their burrows usually moving progressively in clockwise or anticlockwise directions so that they feed on areas of "virgin" sediment on successive forages. However, they foraged further from the burrow than was predicted by a model of central place foraging. Foraging crabs were under intense predation pressure from the redcapped plovers Charadrius ruficapillus in the study area. Success rates of plovers in capturing crabs were high. Crabs can escape attacks by retreating back into their burrows but normally waited for less than a minute before recommencing to forage. This may be sufficient to escape a second plover attack because plover waiting times at burrows were only about 10 s in duration.
1549833|The omnivorous crayfish Procambarus clarkii fed selectively on several species of macrophytes, preferring delicate fresh plants that had filamentous or finely-branched architectures. When the macrophytes were dried, powdered, and reconstituted into an alginate gel (thus eliminating among-species differences in physical characteristics), crayfish preferences were altered; previously tough plants that were high in nitrogen and protein were preferred over previously delicate plants that were low in nitrogen and protein. Even though plant structure influences feeding decision of crayfish, the structurally identical macrophyte gels were fed upon differently, demonstrating that nonstructural traits are important feeding determinants. However, plant tissue constituents such as nitrogen, protein, phenolics, lignin, cellulose, or ash were not significantly correlated with feeding preferences. Two high-nitrogen plants that were avoided by crayfish as fresh and as reconstituted tissue (Nuphar luteum macrophyllum and Alternanthera philoxeroides) possessed extracts that reduced crayfish feeding in laboratory assays, demonstrating that macrophyte metabolites can deter some herbivores. As is often observed with large generalist herbivores and omnivores in terrestrial and marine systems, the freshwater crayfish made feeding decisions based upon multiple plant cues (structure, nutrition, chemical defenses).
10.2307/1548083|Parastenocaris texana, new species, from submerged sands of Mill Creek, Newton County, Texas, is described. It is distinguished from the known species of the genus by the features of legs 3 and 4 of the male. Parastenocaris texana is the first Nearctic member of this genus described from stream sands, and its occurrence greatly extends the southern range for North American Parastenocaris. Most specimens were found at 20-30 cm depths in submerged riffle sands.
10.2307/1548872| Two new species of pontoniine shrimps from Moambique are described and illustrated. The first species, Periclimenes nomadophila, is the third pontoniine species found to be associated with scyphozoans and the first record of association with a pelagic jellyfish (Rhopilema nomadica). Character differences between closely related species are tabulated and a key to the different species in the Periclimenes obscurus group is presented. The second described species, Tuleariocaris sarec, is the fourth species in its genus. All are associated with sea urchins. Tuleariocaris sarec clings tightly head down, to the spines of its host. A key to the species of the genus Tuleariocaris is presented. 
20487703|Structure of the mouthparts and foregut of Panulirus ornatus phyllosomata (stages I-VI hatchery reared, IX-X wild caught) were examined using scanning electron microscopy and histology to gain an understanding of ingestive and digestive processing mechanisms, to identify potential shifts in diet during development, and to suggest appropriate physical characteristics for the development of a suitable formulated diet for commercial aquaculture of this species such as size, texture, and buoyancy. Mouthpart and foregut structure indicates that P. ornatus phyllosomata are capable of ingesting zooplankton of any hardness during this life history stage and are only limited by their ability to capture and manipulate prey as the mandibular molars are well developed to masticate prey further. Mouthpart morphology changes little during development, however, the disposition of the mouthparts and size of the mouth aperture increases with each successive stage of development, suggesting a greater capacity to manipulate and ingest larger prey. The foregut of all developmental stages consists of a single chamber, with well-developed grooves, channels and setae, but lacks a gastric mill. Presence of well-developed main brushes, lateral setae, and development of a functional filter press at stage IV suggests an increased ability to triturate and filter prey internally, reducing both the time spent externally manipulating prey with the mouthparts and the vulnerability to predation in the open ocean. The results presented here suggest that formulated diets larger than &gt; 428 m, with a firm/hard consistency that allow the dactyli of the second and third maxillipeds to penetrate the diet without causing fouling of the setae would be suitable.
10.2307/1548301| Intermediate larval and postlarval stages occasionally occur among intact lobsters, and can be produced in large numbers by eyestalk ablation. These intermediate stages result from incomplete metamorphosis, and occur in several forms, designated IVa, IV, and V. Stage IVa is an additional larval stage, intermediate between stages III and IV. Stage IV is a postlarval lobster that retains some larval morphology which it loses at the next molt. Stage V occurs when a stage IVa lobster fails to lose all of its larval characters when it molts to stage V. The principal behavioral and morphological features of these intermediate stages are described and compared. /// Les principales caractristiques morphologiques et comportementales des stades intermdiaires IV et IVa sont dcrites. Ces stades existent  faibles taux parmi des homards intacts au quatrime stade et peuvent tre massivement produits par ablation des pdoncules oculaires. Le stade IV est considr comme un stade postlarvaire qui garde certains caractres morphologiques larvaires, perdus  la mue suivante. Le stade IVa est un stade larvaire supplmentaire, intermdiaire entre les stades III et IV. Il garde de nombreux caractres larvaires qui disparaissent aprs une et dans certains cas deux mues. Dans le dernier cas, le stade IVa est suivi par le stade V qui est dcrit. Les stades IV et IVa sont compars aux stades intermdiaires antrieurement dcrits chez Homarus. 
10.2307/1548519| To examine the effect of habitat on urate metabolism in crabs, we measured the activities of xanthine oxidase (XOD), xanthine dehydrogenase (XDH), and uricase in the hepatopancreas of two species of aquatic crabs, the blue crab Callinectes sapidus and the stone crab Menippe mercenaria, and two species of land crabs, the blackback land crab Gecarcinus lateralis and the blue land crab Cardisoma guanhumi. Only aquatic crabs showed measurable activities of uricase: 11.5  1.1 nmol urate oxidized per min and per g tissue for C. sapidus (N = 4) and 1.2  0.7 nmol min<sup>-1</sup> g<sup>-1</sup> (N = 11) for M. mercenaria. These crabs also exhibit a higher XDH activity than XOD activity (approximately 4-5 fold). This is also the case for C. guanhumi but not for G. lateralis which has similar low activities of both enzymes. The possible physiological implications of these results are discussed regarding nitrogenous excretion, blood oxygen transport, and the adaptation of crabs to a terrestrial habitat. 
10.2307/1549075|The complete larval development of the Australian terrestrial hermit crab Coenobita variabilis McCulloch is described from laboratory-reared specimens. Development consists of two brief, nonfeeding zoeal stages and one megalopal stage. The megalopal stage does feed, but will metamorphose only on land. This is the first case of abbreviated development known in the Coenobitidae. Both zoeal stages exhibit character development typical of all stages of other coenobitids, allowing for easy identification of the species but preventing a clear determination of which stages were eliminated during the evolution of the abbreviated developmental mode. Compared to known megalopae of other coenobitids, the megalopa shows no evidence of advanced development.
4540318|The complete larval development of the sesarmid crabs Pseudosesarma bocourti (A. Milne-Edwards, 1869) and P. moeschii (de Man, 1892) was obtained through laboratory culture. The previously unknown larval stages of both species, consisting of four zoeal stages and a megalopa, are morphologically almost identical and thus described and illustrated as one.The morphology of the zoeae and megalopae is similar to that known from other species of Sesarmidae, but zoeal stages of three species of Pseudosesarma can be differentiated from other known larvae of sesarmids by the presence of the very long curved posterolateral processes on pleomere 5. While zoeal stages of P. bocourti and P. moeschi are morphologically very similar, the megalopae of both species can be easily distinguished by the setation on the uropod (1,5 in P. moeschii versus 1,6 in P. bocourti).
10.2307/1548771|Hutchinsoniella macracantha is a simultaneous hermaphrodite. The small, paired ovaries are cephalic. From each, a long oviduct runs posteriorly to the eighteenth trunk segment, where it loops forward and runs toward the sixth trunk segment. The paired, sausage-shaped testes are dorsal to the midgut in the anterior end of the abdomen. A vas deferens runs down from the anterior end of each testis to join the oviduct. A common gonoduct exits on the posterior face of the sixth thoracopod. The ovaries contain no nurse or follicle cells, although projections from the epithelial cells and oocytes intertwine in the core of the ovary. The mechanism for translocating oocytes along the oviduct is problematical; a conveyor belt hypothesis is offered. Vitellogenesis does not begin until the posterior loops of the oviduct. Only 1 pair of oocytes matures at a time. Spermatogonia are scattered over the length of the testes. Each multiplies to form a small cluster of simultaneously developing spermatocytes; there are no cytoplasmic bridges or nurse cells. Within the testes, sperm formation is asynchronous and continuous. In addition to the acrosome, nucleus, and aflagellar central rod, each sperm cell forms voluminous vacuoles in the remaining cytoplasm; the associated volume increase probably causes mature sperm to enter and move through the testicular central lumen into the vas deferens. There is no obvious morphological obstacle to self fertilization. Each huge (approximately 0.4 mm long) ovum is attached to the ninth thoracopod with cement secreted by glands located midventrally in the ninth thoracic segment.
10.2307/1548590|Because the fishery for the blue crab Callinectes sapidus in South Carolina primarily targets males, it was hypothesized that intensive fishing of male crabs could affect the number of adult females that are inseminated. Adult female crabs were obtained monthly from coastal South Carolina and dissected to determine the condition of the ovary and seminal receptacle. Results indicated that 97% of the adult female blue crabs were inseminated. Seminal receptacles that contained no sperm or spermatophores were small and flaccid. This condition occurred at all four stages of ovarian development, but the greatest percentage (57%) of crabs with flaccid seminal receptacles had advanced-stage ovaries. A protracted annual breeding season and the ability to store sperm for at least two spawnings appear advantageous in maximizing reproductive output.
10.2307/1548240|Monstrilla canadensis McMurrich, not M. serricornis Sars, is the male of M. helgolandica Claus. Gallien (1934) reported finding both M. serricornis and M. helgolandica in the same host, but his figures and description of the male in fact represent M. canadensis. Several other reports of M. serricornis are also the results of misidentifications. Both sexes of M. helgolandica are described and illustrated.
20487726|The population structure and energetic burden of bopyrid isopod parasite Orthione griffenis on the eastern Pacific mud shrimp Upogebia pugettensis are estimated from size and weight relationships between parasite and host. U. pugettensis weight loss increases with O. griffenis weight but the high variance in the relation indicates that direct weight comparisons are insufficient to reveal most of the host-parasite energetic interactions. Environment, reproductive development, age, molt stage and the feeding histories of the hosts and parasites, not apparent from weight ratio comparisons, are likely to be important factors in their interaction. The high prevalence of O. griffenis among U. pugettensis and positive correlation between host weight loss and parasite weight nevertheless, indicate large impacts of these parasites on mud shrimp populations are occurring with corresponding effects on estuarine dynamics in Pacific Northwest estuaries.
10.2307/1549036|The architecture and ultrastructure of the alimentary canal in Lepeophtheirus salmonis is described and compared with that of other copepods. The midgut of L. salmonis cannot be divided into different zones, and, hence, differs from most other copepods in this respect. The midgut cells seem to be involved in secretion/excretion, absorption, and intracellular digestion. Three different distinct cell types are identified in the midgut epithelium. Two of these cells could represent early and late stages of the same cell type. Bacteria were found in association with the midgut, both in the midgut lumen and in the midgut cells. Large colonies of bacteria were also found on the surface of L. salmonis. It is suggested that L. salmonis may function as a vector in the spread of pathogenic diseases in salmonids.
10.2307/1548449|Twenty-nine percent of trapped nonovigerous females and 69% of trapped ovigerous lobsters were found to be V-notched, during a three-year survey of trap hauls conducted in October 1982-1984 by the Maine Lobstermen's Association. The size-frequency distribution of V-notched lobsters is biased towards larger females relative to that of unmarked females. Calculated numbers of annual eggs per V-notched lobsters were about nine times greater than for unmarked lobsters as a result of their larger size, hence a greater proportion of sexually mature lobsters with higher fecundity. These preliminary results indicate the need to include V-notched lobsters in Maine fishery surveys and assessments and to investigate the possibility of V-notching as a management tool for the Gulf of Maine fishery region.
10.2307/1548905|The mesopelagic vertically migrating penaeid shrimp Sergestes similis was studied in situ in Monterey Bay, California, at depths ranging from 291-569 m using a remotely operated submarine equipped with a video camera. Instances both of routine swimming and of escape behavior were observed. In routine swimming, S. similis (mean total length 43.5 mm) swims at an average of 7.4 cm/s. Propulsion is provided exclusively by the pleopods, which beat in an adlocomotory metachronous wave at approximately 4 Hz. The pereiopods are generally held close to the underside of the thorax. The long second antennae (hereafter "antennae" unless first antennae are specified) are invariably deployed in a characteristic position, with the relatively inflexible proximal portion, over 1 body length long, directed anterolaterally and angling slightly ventrally, and the flexible distal portion, over 2 body lengths long, trailing posteriorly from a distinct articulation or "kink" at the end of the proximal portion. The antennae clearly respond to tactile stimuli, and perhaps have chemosensory function as well. Sergestes similis was never observed to stop swimming except for briefbouts of grooming or momentary reactions to tactile contacts on the antennae. Downward swimming was always active, and was not accomplished by passive sinking. The extremely long, setose antennae would be expected to produce substantial drag which must be overcome by metabolically generated thrust. Thrust of the pleopods is maximized during the propulsive stroke by extending and separating the pleopods and spreading the setae, while drag is minimized on the recovery stroke by retracting the pleopods and holding them in apposition to one another and by folding the setae. The escape reaction in this species is the typical decapod tail flip.
10.2307/1548489|Egg and clutch sizes of the fresh-water prawn Macrobrachium nipponense (de Haan) varied remarkably among local populations, corresponding to the hydrogeographic features of their habitats; spawning of many small eggs (approximately 0.05 mm<sup>3</sup> in volume per egg) in a single clutch at river mouths, a few but large eggs (approximately 0.1 mm<sup>3</sup> in inland fresh waters, and a moderate number of intermediate-sized eggs in brackish-water lagoons. The weight of egg mass deposited in one spawning also varied among populations from 15.6-24.3% in dry weight ratio to the female body weight. This change seemed to come largely from temporary environmental factors. Accordingly, the variation of clutch size among populations was partly due to temporary environmental factors, and partly due to the difference in egg size. This species is considered to be splitting into local populations with distinct reproductive traits through reproductive isolation in patchily distributed inland waters. Adaptive significance of varied egg and clutch sizes is discussed with emphasis on the role of larval dispersal.
10.2307/1548787|Recently completed, comprehensive surveys of the living and fossil brachyurans from New Zealand permit an analysis of the paleobiogeographic history of the group. Among the 18 families known from the modern fauna, 50% are represented in the fossil record. The modern fauna is comprised of fewer family-level taxa than are present in Japan, China, or West Africa, which reflects limited low latitude influence. Development of some elements of the New Zealand brachyuran fauna can be traced into the Cretaceous. As early as the Eocene, a characteristic fauna, with high latitude, temperate affinities, had developed. Tethyan, or tropical and subtropical, taxa are less common than previously presumed. The New Zealand brachyuran fauna was established largely prior to separation of the southern continents and development of the circum-Antarctic current system.
41315714|Re-examination of the holotype of Ibacus cottreaui Roger, 1946, originally considered to be a scyllarid decapod, confirms that it is an isopod referable to the genus Cirolana Leach, 1818.
41315738|I reviewed the penaeid literature for characters 'traditionally' used to discriminate Litopenaeus setiferus, Farfantepenaeus aztecus, and F. duorarum and examined early life stages (ELS) with 3 + 0 to 8 + 2 rostral teeth based on these characters. The species identity of most of the specimens examined were verified 'a priori' with a multiplex PCR assay that targeted the 16S rRNA mitochondrial gene. My objectives were to re-evaluate 'traditional' characters by re-examining ELS for differences in morphology and timing of character development based on number of rostral teeth rather than body size, and, to identify a reliable suite(s) of characters to discriminate taxa in areas where distributions overlap. I found the absence of spinules along the dorsal carina of the sixth pleomere in young with < 4 dorsal teeth (DT), and the supposed difference in length of the third pereopod relative to the distal margin of the eye to be unreliable characters for generic discrimination. Differences in the thoracic sternal spine pattern, rostrum depth at the third DT, and relative lengths of segment one of the inner and outer antennular flagellum are 'new' characters for genus and/or species level discrimination discussed here. Differences in antennal scale shape and sixth pleomere length can help discriminate F. aztecus from F. duorarum, but these characters should be used cautiously in areas where distributions overlap, especially during summer and early fall when water temperatures and rates of growth and development are high. Young with  7  8 + 1 teeth and a sixth pleomere length > 2.5 mm can be assigned to F. aztecus, regardless of collection date, because all comparably developed F. duorarum and L. setiferus examined had a sixth pleomere length < 2.5 mm. Given temporal and species-specific differences in rates of growth and development that contribute to morphological variability, number of rostral teeth provides a more consistent criterion than body size to determine which characters reliably discriminate taxa.
10.2307/1549059|The species of Acanthocyclops with 17-segmented antennules are a subtly variable group in Wisconsin. Principal Components Analysis of 313 individuals suggests there are 3 distinct species. Two of these species, A. vernalis and A. brevispinosus, show little or no within-species morphological variation. The third species, A. robustus, expresses a range of spininess, depending on the season. Descriptions and a key are provided for the Wisconsin species.
1548940|Gnathophausia childressi, new species (Mysidacea: Lophogastrida), discovered by Dr. J. J. Childress in 1985, is described. It was caught in the benthic boundary layer (BBL), in the deepest parts of the San Clemente Basin (at about 2,000 m), and has also been observed in the adjacent East Cortes Basin (about 1,800 m), where it has never been found in pelagic trawls fishing to depths of 1,500 m. It is closely allied to the rarest species of the genus, G. affinis, known only from the Atlantic at depths of 2,100-2,700 m, being in a manner its Pacific twin. Gnathophausia affinis apparently has the same benthopelagic habitat, which perhaps explains why it is rarely sampled. A noticeable reduction of the mandibles of G. childressi is an adaptation to this habitat. The paragnaths of all species of Gnathophausia are asymmetrical, lying closely against the posterior face of the mandibles. The left paragnath has molariform processes and it has been said that it is involved in mastication in cooperation with the movements of the left mandible. In fact, the two paragnaths are more probably involved in this function by their own musculature, perhaps a reminiscence of an ancestral function. They are not generally considered as appendages, but this is now questionable.
4126718|A review of the isopod genus Chiridotea Harger, 1878 is presented. Five species are recognized from the eastern United States and the northern Gulf of Mexico (Chiridotea almyra, C. arenicola, C. coeca, C. excavata and C. tuftsii). C. nigrescens is regarded as a junior synonym of C. coeca. Diagnoses and descriptions are given for each species, neotypes are selected for C. coeca and C. tuftsii, and a key for species identification is presented.
10.2307/1548790|Each gill rachis of Nephrops norvegicus bears numerous spines along its length. These are of two types, large and small; the first rises directly from the gill axis, while the second has a small rim around the base. The first type is not innervated, but the second type internally carries 3 dendrites enclosed in a complex sheath which extends up into the lumen of the spine. The sheath is formed by thin processes of at least 15 enveloping cells and the whole is surrounded by extracellular material forming a caplike structure. Only 1 sensory cell body was detected (though others may be as yet unrecognized) at the base of the sheath and is characterized by the presence of numerous dense vesicles and granules and a single basal body. The cuticle of the socket and cone of the spine displays an unusual structure. It is proposed that these spines may form a gaseous (possibly O<sub>2</sub>) detection system.
10.2307/1549129|Males of the giant Malaysian prawn Macrobrachium rosenbergii appear in a hierarchically arranged series of three morphs referred to as blue claw, orange claw, and clear claw males. Since transformation from the subdominant clear and orange claw morphs to the dominant blue claw morph entails changes in the size and color of claws, we examined the fiber composition of the claw muscles using histochemical techniques for detecting myofibrillar ATPase and NADH-diaphorase. The claw opener and closer muscles remain uniform in all three morphs. The small opener muscle has exclusively slow, high-oxidative fibers, while the large closer muscle has a central band of fast, low-oxidative fibers sandwiched on either side by slow, high-oxidative fibers.
10.2307/1549050|Protein, lipid, and carbohydrate content were determined for hemolymph, ovary, and hepatopancreas of the brown shrimp Crangon crangon (Linnaeus) relative to ovarian development. Total organic content (pooled proteins, lipids, and carbohydrates in all three tissues) increases from oogenesis through vitellogenesis. The protein component accounts for the greatest increase, followed by lipid and carbohydrate. All measured chemical species in the depleted ovary (following oviposition) decrease to the values observed in oogenic ovaries. Increase in total protein content is associated with the increase in ovarian protein content; hemolymph and hepatopancreatic protein increase only slightly prior to previtellogenesis, and decrease during vitellogenesis. Total lipid increase is traceable to hepatopancreatic accumulation prior to vitellogenesis; subsequent decrease during vitellogenesis is associated with increases in hemolymph and ovarian lipid contents. Changes in total carbohydrate content are also due to hepatopancreatic accumulation during previtellogenesis, and subsequent decrease during vitellogenesis. Hemolyph carbohydrate content increases when hepatopancreatic content decreases. The ovary never accumulates large quantities of carbohydrates. Although the concentrations of proteins, lipids, and carbohydrates vary considerably, certain patterns related to ovarian development and maturation are evident. These trends, and shifts in chemical content associated with changes in the size (volume) of the tissues and organs (hemolymph, ovary, hepatopancreas), are discussed in terms of biochemical conversion and transport of the compounds between organs during the reproductive cycle.
10.2307/1549236|Cover-seeking behavior of juvenile and adult crayfish, Procambarus clarkii, was examined in relation to the importance of darkness (shadow) and thigmotactic cues. Crayfish were observed individually in small aquaria 5 times per day, with at least 30 min between observations, for a 3-day period. Their positions were recorded as either within or outside shelter(s) provided. Experiment Ia presented crayfish with a choice between a clear thigmotactic shelter or open area. Adults were observed in the open area significantly more than in the shelter. Juveniles were also observed in the open area more often, but the difference was not statistically significant. Experiment Ib presented crayfish with a choice between a dark thigmotactic shelter and open area. Adults were observed more often in the open area, but the difference was not statistically significant. Juveniles were observed in the dark thigmotactic shelter significantly more often than in the open area. In Experiment II, crayfish were given a simultaneous choice among a clear thigmotactic shelter, a dark thigmotactic shelter, and open area. Adults were observed in both open area and dark thigmotactic shelter significantly more often than in the clear thigmotactic shelter. Juveniles were observed in the dark thigmotactic shelter significantly more often than in the open area and were never observed in the clear shelter. For Experiment III, crayfish were given a simultaneous choice among a dark reduced-thigmotactic shelter, a clear thigmotactic shelter, and open area. Adults chose the dark reduced-thigmotactic shelter significantly more often than the clear thigmotactic shelter, but not significantly more often than the open area. Juveniles chose the dark reduced-thigmotactic shelter significantly more often than either the open area or the clear thigmotactic shelter. Experiment IV gave crayfish a choice among a dark reduced-thigmotactic shelter, a dark thigmotactic shelter, and open area. Adults chose the dark reduced-thigmotactic shelter significantly more often. Juveniles chose the dark thigmotactic shelter significantly more often than the dark reduced-thigmotactic shelter, but not significantly more often than the open area. Darkness appears to be the controlling factor in the cover-seeking behavior of both juvenile and adult P. clarkii. The preferential use of larger shelters by adult P. clarkii could reduce the limiting effects of shelter availability and might reduce competition for shelter between adults and juveniles, increasing juvenile recruitment. Differences observed in shelter use between adult crayfishes, P. clarkii and O. rusticus, which prefer the same shelter as juveniles, may give P. clarkii an advantage over O. rusticus in a species invasion.
10.2307/1549267|Recent additions from Cocos Island, Costa Rica, to the collections of the Natural History Museum of Los Angeles County have increased the number of species in the brachyuran crab families Leucosiidae, Calappidae, and Parthenopidae known from the island from 4 to 10. Two of these are described: Thyrolambrus verrucibrachium, new species, and Osachila kaiserae, new species. Review of all material in the LACM collections for these species has resulted in range extensions and increases in the known maximum size for several of the species. The increase in species richness suggested by these collections may make Cocos the most speciose single island in the eastern Pacific, after the remaining crab families are studied. The zoogeographic relatedness of the oceanic islands of the eastern Pacific is supported, and the link between Cocos and the Revillagigedo Islands is strengthened.
4540295|The size of the western rock lobster broodstock is variable over the range of the Western Australian fishery, due to regional differences in the density and length structure of the stock and the female's size at maturity. Management regulations do not currently discriminate in the protection afforded to the broodstock in the different regions. This study has examined whether regional and size differences in early egg diameter, phyllosoma length at hatch and phyllosoma competency, are related to lipid class and fatty acid composition, protein composition and water content in late stage eggs and early stage phyllosoma larvae. A positive relationship, particularly to phyllosoma competency, would have management implications for the protection of broodstock in different parts of the fishery. Females were sampled in three size groups captured in two sampling regions (Abrolhos Islands 60-70 and 80-90 mm CL; coastal 80-90 and > 95 mm CL). Mostly, eggs and larvae from different maternal size classes and regions were not significantly different with respect to lipid class and fatty acid composition, protein composition and water content, and larval competency. The lipid classes of eggs differed significantly (P < 0.02) between the three maternal size-classes; fatty acids differed significantly between both eggs and phyllosoma grouped by maternal catch site and size-class (P = 0.02 and 0.003, respectively); and there was no correlation between biochemical differences and larval competency. These results imply that maternal identity and subsequent diet may have a greater influence on larval competency in P. cygnus than the maternal attributes (size and capture site) that were tested.
10.2307/1548114|Right-handedness of the major cheliped was found in 97.3% of 2,784 male specimens of U. vocans from collections of the National Museum of Natural History (U.S. National Museum) and the 1979 R/V ALPHA HELIX expeditions to the western Pacific. A comparable figure of 96.8% right-handedness was obtained for 281 specimens of the rarer U. tetragonon. Since the collections span the known geographical ranges of both species, it would appear that a strong bias for right-handedness is a universal trait for each. The two species are thus an exception to the right-left equality of handedness previously thought to prevail for the genus. Recently published studies provide possible clues to the mechanism for the determination of right-handedness and its functional significance.
1549566|Most crustaceans inhabiting temporary pools have resting stages that can remain dormant for many years. Only a fraction of the resting stages hatch each time the pool floods, as a safeguard against unpredictable events resulting in complete reproductive failure. There is likely to be a selective advantage in the ability of resting stages to respond to signals indicating likely environmental conditions and to adjust their hatching fraction in response. We examine whether such an ability exists in the resting stages (diapausing eggs) of the ostracod Heterocypris incongruens, which inhabits temporary freshwater pools in northern Israel. The active stages are subject in some seasons to predation by larvae of the fire salamander (Salamandra salamandra L.). We predicted that a lower fraction of H. incongruens eggs would hatch in water in which S. salamandra larvae had been kept than in water that had not contained S. salamandra larvae. We found no such effect. We discuss possible reasons for the absence of the expected response. A lower proportion of H. incongruens eggs hatched in water with higher conductivity. This may reduce the risk of active stages being killed by desiccation before being able to complete their life cycle
10.2307/1549363| Respiratory gas transport and acid-base state were investigated in the crab Potamonautes warreni breathing air or water for at least 24 h to assess the role of the lungs and gills. The efferent pulmonary and arterial samples had similar O<sub>2</sub> content and thus either the lungs received most of the hemolymph flow or the lungs and gills were of equal importance during air-breathing. The gills were more important in immersed crabs. The O<sub>2</sub> partial pressure in arterial hemolymph decreased from 8.6 kPa in air-breathing crabs to 4.5 kPa in water-breathing crabs. Despite an increase in O<sub>2</sub> diffusion limitation during water-breathing (L<sub>diff</sub> = 0.78) compared to air-breathing crabs (L<sub>diff</sub> = 0.57) the arterial-venous O<sub>2</sub> content difference did not change. In immersed crabs, the CO<sub>2</sub> content of the hemolymph (6.1 mmol-L<sup>-1</sup>) was half that in air-breathing crabs, but the pH remained unchanged at pH 7.4. Potamonautes warreni showed no specific adaptations to the >1400-m altitude of its habitat other than apparently relatively improved O<sub>2</sub> diffusion. Potamonautes warreni performed well during exercise in air. Crabs exercised at slow speed (1.8 mmin<sup>-1</sup>) experienced smaller hemolymph acid-base perturbations (pH = 0.18) than crabs exercised at fast speed (pH = 0.36; 3 mmin<sup>-1</sup>). While the partial pressure of O<sub>2</sub> in the arterial and efferent pulmonary hemolymph during 20 min of fast exercise decreased from near 9 to 6 kPa or less, the hemocyanin O<sub>2</sub> saturation was maintained near 80% and the arterial-venous O<sub>2</sub> difference doubled. An increase in Hc-O<sub>2</sub> affinity in exercising animals partially offset the Bohr effect and assisted in O<sub>2</sub> uptake at the gas-exchange surfaces. The relative importance of lungs and gills in gas exchange after exercise in air was apparently similar to that in resting crabs. There was little requirement for anaerobiosis during submaximal exercise. Hemolymph L-lactate levels peaked at 3.6 mmolL<sup>-1</sup> after 20 min of fast exercise and were similar to L-lactate levels in the muscle. 
10.2307/1547897|I present evidence that antennal appendages contribute to male reproductive success in Eubranchipus serratus Forbes. Males will mate or clasp females in an attempt to mate repeatedly. However, receptive females typically reject a number of mating attempts before finally accepting a mate. Males with their antennal appendages removed succeeded in inseminating only 13 females out of 250 mating attempts while intact males were successful in 53 of 253 tries ( <sup>2</sup> = 27.4, df = 1, P < 0.005). During unsuccessful mating attempts, receptive females were able to reject courting males by freeing themselves from the clasping males in less than 6 s in over 60% of cases regardless of whether the males had antennal appendages or not. The data suggest a mate recognition function for the antennal appendages.
10.2307/1548090|Aggressive interactions and competition for shelter were studied in simplified laboratory environments among the crayfish Orconectes virilis, O. propinquus, and O. rusticus. O. rusticus was clearly superior to O. virilis, with O. propinquus generally intermediate. These results are consistent with ongoing displacements in northern Wisconsin. However, in another part of the study involving competition for preferred substrate, little displacement occurred even at high densities; caution is therefore suggested in assessing the importance of aggressive interactions to species displacements.
10.2307/1547927|Estuarine crabs usually show hatching periodicities closely synchronized with tidal, lunar, or solar day periodicities. To define their timing, we monitored hatching activity either directly (by observing females during hatching) or indirectly (by measuring larval densities during nocturnal ebbing tides). Larval densities in the Newport River, at a site (Beaufort) near the ocean, revealed two patterns. Intertidal species (Uca spp., Panopeus herbstii) showed highest densities twice monthly, during the spring tides. Subtidal species (Neopanope spp., three pinnotherids, the blue crab Callinectes sapidus) showed larval densities which, on the average, were similar during all ebbing tides. We speculate upon the selection pressures that may have shaped these differences and propose a hypothesis to explain why the patterns are adaptive. Fiddler crabs were used to determine when, in relation to high tide (HT), hatching occurred. Most larval release in the laboratory and under field conditions occurred within 1 h after HT. To determine what environmental cue might synchronize semimonthly hatching rhythms in fiddler crabs, we compared the timing of larval release at two local sites where tidal amplitude pattern was identical but HT time differed each night by an average of 1.92 h. The results suggested that fiddler crabs respond to tidal amplitude and not the time interval between HT and the onset of darkness.
10.2307/1548929|The aesthetasc sensilla of the mysid Lophogaster typicus are distributed on the lateral flagellum of the antennules (first antennae). They essentially conform to the typical aesthetasc structure. Compared to aesthetascs described in other crustaceans, there are divergences in this structure: there is only 1 outer dendritic segment per sensory cell, and the outer part of the hair is flattened in Lophogaster. In males, the lateral flagella also carry a varying number of slender sensilla, located between the aesthetascs. The male-specific sensilla are innervated by mono- and biciliary sensory neurons. The phylogenetic implications of the morphology and distribution patterns of the aesthetascs and male-specific sensilla are considered.
1549710|The large percentage of nonovigerous adult female crabs in situ gave rise to the question of whether egg extrusion occurs annually in Dungeness crabs in Alaskan waters as is reported for lower-latitude populations. Accordingly, we studied seasonal variation in gonadal development for 280 male, nonovigerous female, and ovigerous female crabs, reared in flow-through tanks from October 1997 through October 1998. Gonadosomatic indexes (GSI) were determined monthly from March through October 1998 for nonovigerous females, ovigerous females, and males. Oocyte area was also measured for females over the same period. Approximately 10 crabs from each treatment group were sampled monthly. Male GSI increased significantly over time. Nonovigerous females had significantly higher GSI and oocyte areas than ovigerous females. The GSI in October decreased significantly from the GSI in September among nonovigerous females in the laboratory and field, suggesting resorption of gonads. Most mature females do not extrude eggs annually in southeastern Alaska; however, under laboratory conditions, some females can extrude eggs in consecutive years.
10.2307/1547916|The stomatopod crustacean Heterosquilloides armata is reported for the first time from the Gulf of Mexico, and an additional record from off New Jersey is presented. Variation in the shape of the rostral plate and the posterior margin of the telson within the species is discussed.
1549790| Typically 90% of the eggs in clutches fertilized by hardshell Prince William Sound Lithodes aequispinus males 107 mm carapace length initiated division. Golden king crab males with only one chela and those with post-molt carapaces 11 days old were effective parents. Some test males had exclusive access to three ripe females. Their first and second mates all produced viable clutches with 81-100% of eggs exhibiting development. Not all males induced a third female to ovulate. The percentage of eggs initiating division in the clutches of their third potential female mates ranged from 56 to 100%. 
1549749|Until now morphological and molecular datasets have failed to agree on phylogenetic relationships within the Crustacea Thecostraca (=Facetotecta, Ascothoracida, and Cirripedia). Three recent phylogenetic studies using 18S ribosomal DNA sequences from selected Cirripedia (Thoracica, Rhizocephala, and Acrothoracica) and Ascothoracida revealed Acrothoracica and Ascothoracida as a monophyletic group. This result disagrees with several larval and spermal morphological features supporting Cirripedia as a monophyletic group. We reanalyzed the same molecular data set including a new Facetotecta sequence using neighbor-joining and maximum likelihood, but incorporating the model of evolution that fits the data best, and maximum parsimony approaches. Our results strongly support the morphological hypothesis that the cirripedes form a monophyletic group, with the Acrothoracica as sister group to the Thoracica + Rhizocephala. Moreover, all the phylogenies showed the Facetotecta as the sister group to the remaining Thecostraca (Ascothoracida + Cirripedia).
1549336|Ink particles injected into the hemolymph of the American lobster (Homarus americanus), spiny lobster (Panulirus interruptus), crayfish (Procambarus clarkii), and ridgeback prawn (Sicyonia ingentis) were rapidly removed from circulation, and most were sequestered within nodules in the gills. The morphology of the gills and the nodules were examined from the time of injection until the following molt. The process by which ink was cleared from the gills was the same in all four species. Nodules formed within 10 min after injection and were composed of hemocytes loosely attached to one another and binding small quantities of ink. Within one week, nodules became spherical and more compact with accumulations of ink surrounded by layers of flattened hemocytes. By one month, hemocytes in the nodules had degenerated leaving melanized masses which lay between the gill epithelium and the exoskeleton. Following molting, the gills of both trichobranchiate and dendrobranchiate species were clean or had very reduced numbers of nodules, and melanized masses were seen attached to the inner surface of the shed exoskeletons. A similar mechanism for cleaning the gills has been reported in crustaceans infected with parasites and in necrotic gill tissue caused by exposure to toxic heavy metals. We, therefore, suggest that the ability of the gill epithelium to wall off foreign material so that it is lost during the following molt is a general mechanism to prevent occlusion of the gill and maintain its role in ion regulation and respiration.
27920105|Previous research to ascertain the life cycle and longevity of the Antarctic krill Euphausia superba by means of length-frequency distributions is reviewed; this traditional method has led to widely differing answers. In the light of new knowledge that the overwintering strategy of krill involves negative growth, such an approach is unrealistic. The assay of lipofuscin (a fluorescent pigment that accumulates in all cells of aerobically respiring organisms as a function of physiological time) may offer a solution to this problem. The lipofuscin content and morphometric parameters of a sample of gravid females were measured. On the basis of the lipofuscin assay, three year groups were defined. Discriminant functions were calculated showing that the year classes could be distinguished on morphological characters alone.
10.2307/1548205|A simple sampler for concurrently collecting drifting as well as upstream-moving organisms is described. It is constructed of inexpensive, readily available material and can be used in high discharge and low flow lotic environments. The five-sectioned trap is designed for equal quantitative sampling of drifting and upstream-moving organisms. Collecting nets can be quickly attached or removed without disturbing the trap or substrate being sampled.
10.2307/1548761|In vivo and in vitro metabolic studies were conducted on the effects of the insect growth regulator diflubenzuron (DFB) on chitin synthesis in the postmolt blue crab Callinectes sapidus. The effects of the pesticide on the incorporation of either <sup>3</sup>H-glucosamine or <sup>3</sup>H-N-acetylglucosamine into sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS) insoluble cuticular residue were examined. The radiolabeled product formed was identified as chitin by chemical and enzymatic criteria. <sup>3</sup>H-N-acetylglucosamine was found to be incorporated to a greater extent than <sup>3</sup>H-glucosamine during metabolic studies. During in vitro explant culture experiments, the highest concentration of DFB tested (1 ppm) caused 98% inhibition of chitin synthesis; 64% inhibition was observed at concentrations as low as 0.7 parts per billion. The results indicate that diflubenzuron inhibits the incorporation of <sup>3</sup>H-N-acetylglucosamine into cuticular chitin in postmolt blue crabs. The data are consistent with our previous autoradiographic and ultrastructural studies on the effects of DFB in the blue crab; i.e., that the Golgi complex is disrupted by DFB treatment.
1549916| This study quantified the burrow dynamics of the gecarcinid land crab Gercarcoidea natalis (Pockock, 1888), the most common land crab in rain forest on Christmas Island, Indian Ocean. Mean burrow density remained relatively stable over a two-year period, fluctuating between 1.4 and 1.6 burrows/m<sup>2</sup>. Burrows were long-lived, stable structures, with a mean turnover time estimated at least 4.4  1.6 y, and probably greater than 5 y. Burrow entrances were also highly stable in space. Two thirds of burrow entrances were repositioned within an area of 20 cm<sup>2</sup> or less, and 83% of entrances moved within less than 60 cm<sup>2</sup>. Red crabs accumulate litter around their burrow entrances and create nutrient hotspots in the soil around burrow entrances, whose stability and longevity suggested that germinating seedlings may derive some benefit from germinating in the immediate vicinity of crab burrows. The rate of burrow turnover is slow, causing minimal soil disturbance at the study site with little, if any, impact on above-ground plant productivity. Red crabs plugged their burrows intermittently year-round with loose wads of leaves or with soil. Major plugging peaks were recorded in March of both years of the study, midway through the wet season. At this time 49-59% of burrow entrances were sealed with a deep plug of soil, and many burrows remained plugged long enough for the crabs to molt. These data suggest that most red crabs molted annually at the study site. 
1549852|A new decapod fauna has been recovered from Eocene rocks of San Diego County, California. Decapod faunas of Eocene age have been rare from California, although they are well described from the northern Pacific coast. Three new species, including Neocallichirus rhinos, Ctenocheles secretanae, and Minohellenus inexpressus, and two new genera and species, Acanthoportunus buchanani and Vegarthron santiago, are reported from this new fauna. A new genus has been erected to accommodate Portunites triangulum and Portunites granulifer; both are herein referred to Maeandricampus, new genus. Callianassa matsoni Rathbun has been reassigned to Neocallichirus. Portions of the cephalothorax and abdomen of a species of Ctenocheles are described from fossils for the first time. Orbitoplax weaveri, previously known from Eocene rocks of California and Oregon, is reported from the Eocene Mission Valley Formation and the Ardath Shale for the first time. In addition, one specimen of a stomatopod of indeterminate genus is noted. The Eocene decapod fauna from California, now containing eighteen genera, has elements common to the northern Pacific coast of North America as well as taxa known only from California; thus, the area appears to have been suited for decapods adapted to a wide variety of temperature and other environmental conditions. Several genera appear to have evolved within the region, whereas others may have been introduced from the Atlantic or Tethys region via the Central American Seaway. The number of Pacific amphitropical genera continues to increase; two portunid genera discussed here display such a pattern, adding to the four already reported for Cretaceous and Tertiary rocks of the region.
10.2307/1549365|A rock pool population of the brittle star Amphipholis squamata parasitized by a copepod, Parachordeumium amphiurae, has been followed through one year. Data from field collections made within the habitat on the English Atlantic coast are presented. The host population has continuous brooding and pulsed breeding and recruitment with the highest number of newly released juveniles occurring in the summer months. The size of the brittle star has significant effect on embryo production and development of juvenile brittle stars is inhibited in parasitized specimens. The degree of inhibition is correlated with the size of the parasite. Brittle stars were found with parasites throughout the year, but a peak of infestation was recorded during late summer, timed with the appearance of the new brittle-star cohort. Overall prevalence and variance mean ratio were 14.1% and 1.80, respectively. Information presented indicates that development from the youngest parasitic stage to the adult female takes about 3 months at summer temperatures. An artificial infestation was set up, but failed to reveal more about the timing of the development of the parasites.
40927849|Molecular phylogenetic analyses were conducted on species of some common tanaidacean families within the suborders Apseudomorpha and Tanaidomorpha based on partial DNA sequences for three genes: one mitochondrial (COI) and two nuclear (H3 and 28S). One nuclear gene (28S) resolved the two suborders as monophyletic groups while H3 and COI could only resolve Tanaidomorpha as monophyletic. The total evidence analysis (in-group taxa having at least two out of the three sequences) resolved both suborders as monophyletic, but only Tanaidomorpha showed strong support. All analyses support the monophyly of Kalliapseudidae (two out of three subfamilies represented) with the family clearly separated from the other apseudomorph families represented here. Relationships between and within the other apseudomorph families could not be resolved with strong support. Within Tanaidomorpha, most analyses supported a sister group relationship between the Tanaoidea (Tanaidae) and the Paratanaoidea. Results suggested that the monotypic Hargeria should be considered a junior synonym of Leptochelia, corroborating morphological evidence. Lack of resolution is likely due to inadequate taxon sampling, and differences in topology are largely due to weak support for relationships. This is the first attempt at using molecular data to determine phylogenetic relationships of tanaidaceans.
10.2307/1549445|Fifteen mysid species, including three new species, are reported from Iriomote Island, Ryukyu Islands, Japan. A new species, Iiella iriomotensis, is distinguished from related species by the shapes of the rostrum and the telson cleft, the number of spines arming the frontal margin of the labrum, and the endopod of the uropod being shorter than the exopod. Nipponomysis minuta, new species, closely resembles Nipponomysis imparis in respect to the fourth male pleopod, but is distinguished by the shorter telson and the smaller number of spines on the lateral margin of the telson and on the inner margin of the endopod of the uropod. Anisomysis hashizumei, new species, is distinguished from related species by a combination of characters found in the fourth male pleopod and the telson. Haplostylus pusillus, which has been known only from the Indian Ocean, is reported from the Pacific Ocean for the first time. Four species, Siriella inornata, S. anomala, Anchialina zimmeri, and Pseudanchialina pusilla are new records from Japanese waters.
1549787|Despite their prevalence in headwater streams, crayfish are largely ignored in most leaf decomposition studies. We conducted a field survey in 30 pools along a headwater stream to document the biomass of various shredder invertebrate species and subsequently compared their leaf processing and particulate organic matter (POM) production rates in a laboratory experiment. The crayfish Paranephrops zealandicus dominated the shredder functional feeding group, comprising 99% on average of the total biomass of shredder invertebrates. This was followed by the stonefly Austroperla cyrene, which made up only 0.62%. A laboratory experiment, using stoneflies and two size classes of crayfish, showed that processing rates of large crayfish (normalised by body weight) were lower than those of small crayfish and stoneflies. However, large crayfish had the greatest impact on leaf decomposition and POM production. It is their large body size and dominance of invertebrate biomass that determines the significance of crayfish as shredders. Given their widespread distribution in New Zealand and elsewhere, crayfish may play key roles as shredders in many headwater streams, especially where shredder insect diversity/abundance is low.
10.2307/1548404|Because juveniles of the fiddler crabs Uca pugilator and Uca pugnax have been difficult to distinguish morphologically, little comparative work has been done on young stages of these abundant and ecologically important inhabitants of salt marshes. Here I describe a way to differentiate early crab instars of the two species by the number of spoon-tipped setae on the meropodite of the second maxilliped. Several broods of each species were reared from eggs through the first several crab instars. By the time they reached 3-4 mm carapace width U. pugilator developed several spoon-tipped setae, whereas U. pugnax had none, indicating that juveniles of these species can be distinguished based on the early development of adult characteristics in U. pugilator. I also recorded molting frequency of juvenile U. pugilator through the sixth crab instar and found significant variability among broods in duration of several crab instars, a phenomenon that should be taken into account in future rearing studies.
1549720|Limited understanding of the morphological variation and genetics of the genus Lepidurus have caused confusion for workers attempting to determine North American species of this genus. In addition, preliminary culturing data suggests that food quality affects the form of structures previously used as specific characters. Morphological comparisons between Lepidurus packardi Simon, 1886, and the type material of L. couesii Packard, 1877, demonstrate that populations of Lepidurus occurring in the Sierra Nevada, the Cascade Mountains, and the Great Basin regions of northeastern California and south central Oregon, previously reported as L. couesii, "L. couesii-1", or as the "Modoc Plateau Tadpole Shrimp", conform to the L. packardi morphotype. The results of my work and King and Hanner's (1998) genetic data demonstrate the presence of a cryptic species within the L. packardi morphotype, described here as Lepidurus cryptus n. sp. Specific diagnoses and a key to North American Lepidurus are presented.
1548686|We present a comparative morphological study of the brain and medulla terminalis (fourth eyestalk ganglion) of the spiny lobster Panulirus argus and the crayfish Procambarus clarkii as a basis for investigations of the functional organization of their olfactory systems. Both the brain and medulla terminalis of P. argus display folding with respect to those of P. clarkii, which alters the relative locations of analogous soma clusters, tracts, bundles, and neuropiles. The major olfactory neuropiles of the central nervous system are the olfactory lobes and the accessory lobes in the brain, and the hemiellipsoid bodies and regions IV of the glomeruli centrales in the medullae terminales. All of these paired regions of neuropile have a glomerular organization. The glomeruli of the olfactory lobe are radially arranged, and each glomerulus is divided into distinguishable regions. The glomeruli of the accessory lobe are smaller and more numerous than those of the olfactory lobe, are spherically shaped, and are organized into three groups within each accessory lobe (this tripartite arrangement is much more obvious in P. argus than in P. clarkii). The medulla terminalis contains 13 distinct neuropile regions, including the hemiellipsoid body and region IV of the glomeruli centrales, both of which are interconnected with the olfactory lobes and accessory lobes via the olfactory-globular tract and contain numerous microglomeruli.
1549747| Austinograea rodriguezensis sp. nov. is the first bythograeid crab to be described from the Indian Ocean. Specimens were collected from 22 km north of the Rodriguez Triple Junction, at 2,420 to 2,450 m depth, during the KR00-05 Indian Ocean Cruise (JAMSTEC) in August 2000. This is the fourth species of the genus Austinograea described and the tenth in the family Bythograeidae. This crab inhabits black smoker complexes (temperature 360C, pH 3.4) with other vent-associated animals, including Rimicaris shrimps, Bathymodiolus mussels, Alviniconcha snails, unidentified actiniarians, and zoarcid fish. Austinograea rodriguezensis differs remarkably from the other three species of Austinograea in the male gonopod and chela morphology. However, other characters of the species are very similar to Austinograea williamsi. A key to the species of the genus Austinograea is provided. 
10.2307/1548344|Caprella bidentata Utinomi, 1947, is synonymized with Caprella monoceros Mayer, 1890, based upon results of rearing experiments. A clutch of juveniles of C. monoceros exhibited two different types of body spination, one typical of C. monoceros and the other representing C. bidentata. An extensive description of C. monoceros is provided.
10.2307/1547852|The eyestalk neurosecretory system of Crustacea contains several peptide factors affecting various important physiological processes. Gonad inhibiting hormone (GIH) and a molt inhibiting hormone (MIH) have been separated and partially characterized using Sephadex gel chromatography and polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. The eyestalks of the spiny lobster Panulirus argus were the source for these isolations, and activity was bioassayed in the fiddler crab Uca pugilator. Gonad inhibiting hormone has an apparent molecular weight near 5,000 daltons. Molt inhibiting hormone does not induce gonadal inhibition in fiddler crabs, but it does delay the onset of the molt cycle in eyestalkless crabs. Melanin dispersion in intact Uca pugilator was inversely correlated with gonadal growth.
10.2307/1549467| Larvae of Xantho poressa were reared in the laboratory from an ovigerous female collected in the Gulf of Cdiz, Spain. The larval series included 4 zoeal and 1 megalopal stage, typical of the vast majority of xanthid species in the subfamily Xanthinae. Duration of each zoeal stage ranged from 2-4 days, that of the megalopa averaged 10 days, and the first crab stage was reached after 23 days. Zoeae are extremely similar to those of X. incisus, whereas the megalopa displays more noticeable differences. Zoeal characteristics conform to the Group I xanthid larvae as designated by Rice (1980) and Martin (1984); megalopal characteristics also are consistent with this grouping. Brief comparisons are made between our findings and those few reports of larvae of Xantho (notably that of Ingle, 1983, on X. incisus) from this and other regions. 
20487813|Although movement of individuals has important consequences on population dynamics and various ecological interactions, it is often difficult to quantify fully. We investigated the temporal variation in the number of the amphipod Corophium volutator swimming in the water column during periods of immersion over an intertidal mudflat in the Bay of Fundy, Canada, in spring-summer 2006. Swimming is an important mode of dispersal, since the number of swimming amphipods can peak at over 30,000 individuals within a 20-cm-diameter, stationary plankton net over a period of immersion of 4 h. Amphipods swim throughout spring-summer, but abundance in the water column is less in May than in the other months. As well, amphipods swim during the day and night, but the number swimming shows periodicity in relation to diel time of high tide, with peaks when high tides occur around 1:45 am. Finally, the number of amphipods swimming shows periodicity in relation to lunar cycles, with peaks around the time of new moon and full moon. We developed a statistical model describing the swimming activity of C. volutator based on month, diel time of high tide, and day of the lunar calendar. The model accurately predicts the timing of peaks, but does not predict well the amplitude of the highest peaks. Overall, the model gives a very good approximation of the number of swimmers (61% of the variation is explained) and provides a strong basis for future modeling of spatial population dynamics of C. volutator.
10.2307/1548825|Total soluble proteins extracted from the tail muscles of 6 commercially cultured species of crayfishes were separated using isoelectric focusing (IEF). The banding patterns produced could be used to successfully identify 5 of the 6 species. Unique protein bands at pI 5.75 and 6.02 were identified for Pacifasticus leniusculus. A unique group of 3 protein bands were identified between pI 5.46 and 5.6 in Cherax quadricarinatus. Two species of Orconectes, O. virilis and O. rusticus, were identified by a pattern shift in a pair of protein bands between pI 5.1 and 5.3. The only 2 species that could not be distinguished from each other based on their protein banding patterns were Procambarus clarkii and P. zonangulus. However, these 2 members of the genus Procambarus could be differentiated from the other species examined by the presence of a protein band at pI 5.1 not found in the other species. Species-specific protein banding patterns were observed in juveniles, females, and Form I and Form II males, suggesting that the patterns used for species identification do not appear to be dependent on age or sex. Furthermore, these protein banding patterns were not dependent on the molt stage. The analysis of IEF of soluble proteins, coupled with the analysis of traditional morphological characteristics, may be a valuable tool for species identification in crayfish.
1549646|The phylogeny of freshwater crayfish is assessed using a morphological analysis of fossil and extant taxa. Based on external morphological characters, primarily characters of the carapace and appendages, the crayfish comprise a monophyletic group (Astacida). The sister taxon to the crayfish is the Chilenophoberidae, a clade of extinct marine lobsters. Synapomorphies of the freshwater crayfish include a distinctive carapace groove pattern and mobility of the last thoracic segment. Within the Astacida, three smaller clades, considered to be family-level groups, are identified and redefined. All parastacid genera except Gramastacus comprise a monophyletic clade. Species in the Cambaridae are characterized by an apomorphous annulus ventralis in the female, and hooks on the ichiopodites on the third pereiopod in the male. Species in the Astacidae are characterized by randomly arranged tubercules on the medial portion of dactyl. The monophyly of the Astacoidea (Cambaridae plus Astacidae) is also supported. The familial affinity of Cambaroides is questioned, and this genus is tentatively reassigned from the Cambaridae to the Astacidae.
10.2307/1548110| Sixty-five monstrillid copepods, of five species, were taken from coastal and estuarine waters of Maine from 1971 to 1980. Monstrilla helgolandica was most abundant (53 individuals) and showed marked seasonality, occurring only from January to April, at temperatures of - 1.3 to 3.2C. A single specimen of Monstrilla canadensis, which is probably the male of M. helgolandica, was found in February. Monstrilla longicornis (3 specimens) and M. longiremis (5 specimens) occurred only in summer. Monstrillopsis dubia (3 specimens) seemed to have no seasonal preference. Only M. canadensis and M. dubia have been previously reported from the Gulf of Maine. 
10.2307/1549280| Newly hatched phyllosomas of 2 species of Thenus, T. orientalis and Thenus sp., were successfully reared to the juvenile stage under laboratory conditions. Separate cultures of phyllosomas of T. orientalis were fed on 4 food regimes consisting of fresh flesh of Donax brazieri, frozen flesh of D. brazieri, frozen gonad of Perna canaliculus, and nauplii of Artemia. Phyllosomas of Thenus sp. were fed only on fresh flesh of D. brazieri. For rearing both species, water temperature was maintained at 27.0  0.5C. All phyllosomas of the 2 species of Thenus fed on fresh flesh of D. brazieri developed through 4 phyllosomal instars, equivalent in development to the 4 larval stages of T. orientalis previously described from planktonic material. The morphology of these 2 species of Thenus at the phyllosomal and nisto stages were compared. The mean number of paired exopodal setae on pereiopods and the total body length of the phyllosomas differed between the two species which were fed fresh flesh of D. brazieri. Phyllosomas of T. orientalis fed on frozen food (D. brazieri or P. canaliculus) showed poor survival, prolonged duration of instars, and poor molt increments. Furthermore, approximately 50% of these phyllosomas developed an extra instar (fifth instar) before metamorphosing to the nisto stage. One diagnostic character, the ornamentation of the anterolateral margin of the antennule, was consistent throughout all cultures of both species and identified the larvae of each species. In all instars of T. orientalis, there was a short terminal spine on the anterolateral margin of the antennule, whereas in Thenus sp. a short seta was present in this position. However, no morphological differences were found to distinguish between the nistos of the two species. 
10.2307/1547984|Daphnia occidentalis, new species, a member of the subgenus Daphnia, is described from fresh-water pools in natural swamp vegetation in the Karri forest region of southwest Australia. It is established that the closest relative of this species is D. ambigua Scourfield, 1947, from North and South America. The D. ambigua-D. middendorffiana group of America was previously thought to have evolved relatively recently in the New World. The present results and an examination of the world distribution of all three species suggest that a Gondwanan, possibly Pangaean origin of the group is more likely.
27920097|Krill biomass and the size distribution of krill are of great importance for energy flow through krill aggregations. Spatial distribution of energy flow through swarms of Euphausia superba may be entirely different from krill biomass distribution as determined by the hydroacoustic technique.
10.2307/1548509|Odontozona minoica, a new species of stenopodid shrimp from the Aegean Sea, is described. This is the first species of the genus Odontozona recorded from the Mediterranean Sea. The differences between the new species and the eight known species of the genus are discussed. During a cruise along the northwest coast of Crete, by the vessel of the Greek Hydrographical Service Nautilus, an ovigerous female belonging to the genus Odontozona was collected from a silty substrate at a depth of 330 m. After review of the relevant literature, it became obvious that the presence of this genus in the Mediterranean had been previously unrecorded. The specimen has been deposited in the Museum of the Zoological Department in the Aristotelian University of Thessaloniki (MZDAUT).
10.2307/1548939|Botryllophilus macropus Canu, 1891, and B. norvegicus Schellenberg, 1921, are redescribed and illustrated on the basis of female specimens collected near the mouth of the Firth of Forth, Scotland. The anatomical details presented in this paper deal with all of the diagnostic features of the morphotypes (Ooishi and Illg, 1988) to which these species belong. (B. macropus belongs to Type B, and B. norvegicus to Type A.) Descriptions by previous authors have been corrected. In addition, symbiotic copepodids of B. macropus are described for the first time. The present study will be helpful in solving some taxonomic problems that remain in the genus Botryllophilus.
1549953|Calcinus verrilli, a hermit crab endemic to Bermuda, is unusual in that it inhabits both gastropod shells (Cerithium litteratum) and gastropod tubes (Dendropoma irregulare and Dendropoma annulatus; Vermicularia knorrii and Vermicularia spirata). A significant difference was observed between the uropod symmetry of shell dwellers and tube dwellers. Tube dwellers were found to have more symmetrical uropods than shell dwellers. Regardless of shelter, the abdomens of naked individuals coiled to the right, and the left uropod was always longer than the right when their uropods were not perfectly symmetrical, suggesting the C. verrilli may be a descendant of a shell-dwelling ancestor, most likely one that inhabited dextrally coiled shells. Shelter type was manipulated, so that individuals collected in shells were forced to inhabit tubes, while those collected in tubes were forced into shells. Over several molts, uropod symmetry of the forced shelter dwellers did not differ from that of individuals inhabiting the same types of shelters in the field. This may be the first experimental evidence of an alternative shelter affecting symmetry in a hermit crab species.
1549691| Reproduction, growth, population structure, and size at sexual maturity of the shiba shrimp, Metapenaeus joyneri were investigated in the western coast of Korea, Yellow Sea, from April 1994 to November 1995. The spawning season was June-August with peaks in July. Inseminated shrimp appeared from June to August, and the recruitment to the fished population took place in August. This shrimp shows a one-year life cycle with a single spawning season. Size at 50% sexual maturity (CL<sub>50</sub>), determined from both mature females and inseminated females, was 19.6 mm and 20.4 mm CL, respectively. The smallest mature female found was 19 mm CL. Fecundity was directly proportional to the size of the female, with clutch sizes varying from 73,185 ova in the smallest female to 206,131 ova in the largest. Diameters of ova ranged from 220 m to 340 m. Size distribution of the population was similar in both years of the study. Shrimps were not caught within the studied area during winter (December-March), indicating that the shrimp migrated outside the range of the fishery or were not catchable at this time. Growth was estimated by the modified von Bertalanffy growth function incorporating seasonal variation in growth. In both years, females (K = 1.22 year<sup>-1</sup> and L<sub></sub> = 34.7 mm CL) grew faster and reached a larger size at the same age than males (K = 1.02 year<sup>-1</sup> and L<sub></sub> = 29.0 mm CL). The result is supported by differences in growth performance indices () between females and males. 
1549567| Pagurus longicarpus readily removes small prey (Artemia nauplii) from suspension under laboratory conditions. In our experiments, clearance rates of recently hatched nauplii were equal for male and female crabs and for crabs within or removed from their gastropod shells. Most feeding trials were performed with shell-less crabs. Crabs fed more effectively on nauplii in water of ambient salinity (30) than at 15. Feeding was more efficient between 20 and 30C than at lower temperatures and was equally efficient in the light or dark. Rates of nauplii consumption were positively correlated with crab length. At concentrations of 4 nauplii/ml, crabs removed approximately 40% and 60% from suspension in 5 and 10 minutes, respectively. Nauplii were cleared more rapidly at higher concentrations. First zoeae of the brachyurans Dyspanopeus sayi and Carcinus maenas were readily removed from suspension by Pagurus longicarpus, but at lower rates than the smaller Artemia nauplii. The relatively large first zoeae of Palaemonetes vulgaris also were removed from suspension; in this case the crabs used their chelipeds to capture the zoeae. Up to 35% of recently hatched veligers of the gastropod Crepidula plana, the smallest prey species, were removed in 5-minute trials. The stomachs of crabs collected in the field contained what appeared to be a benthic diet of detritus but with some evidence of crustacean fragments that could have been derived from suspension. The mouth parts of P. longicarpus are not specialized for suspension feeding as in some species of hermit crabs. The activities of these mouth parts in conjunction with movements of the chelipeds and anterior walking legs combine to produce eddy currents around the head bringing suspended prey to the vicinity of the outer mouth parts where prey are grasped and ingested. Although the potential for active and efficient suspension feeding has been demonstrated, further observations are required to evaluate its importance in the crabs' natural habitat. 
10.2307/1549147|We studied the mating behavior and clarified the mating sequences of the hermit crab Pagurus filholi under laboratory conditions. The mating sequences differed, depending on the male to female size ratio. Before copulation, larger males relative to potential female mates tended to perform precopulatory guarding behavior, i.e., grasping the rim of the shell of the female with their chelipeds, more frequently than smaller males. On the other hand, smaller males relative to the females appeared to insert their chelipeds and to attempt copulation by pulling the female out of the shell without performing precopulatory mate-guarding behavior. These different behaviors may be conditional strategies that depend on the male/female size ratio.
4094211|The gilgie, Cherax quinquecarinatus, a freshwater crayfish endemic to southwestern Western Australia, occupies a wide range of permanent and temporary aquatic environments. Reproductive and population biology parameters were determined in Bull Creek, southwestern Western Australia. Crayfish were collected monthly from May 2002 to April 2003. The seasonal von Bertalanffy growth curve, fitted for the first 14 months of life for female and male C. quinquecarinatus, had respective curvature parameters (K) and asymptotic orbital carapace lengths
1549954| Nineteen species and subspecies of freshwater crabs from the anomuran family Aeglidae are represented in Chile, 16 of which are endemic to this country. We sequenced 2,600 nucleotides of the 12S, 16S, COI, and COII genes from mitochondrial DNA to estimate phylogenetic relationships among the Chilean aeglids. We sampled 16 putative Chilean species and subspecies and one morphologically unrecognized taxon according to the most recent Aeglidae classification. In addition to the Chilean aeglids, one sample of Aegla riolimayana and two samples of Aegla affinis were collected from Argentina to check previous hypotheses about the origin of the group. Two other anomurans, one galatheid (Munida subrugosa) and one porcellanid (Pachycheles haigae), were sequenced to serve as outgroups in our phylogenetic analysis. Our results show the clear separation of Aegla papudo from the other Aegla species, as has been suggested previously based on morphology. Its basal position in the Aeglidae trees also supports a Pacific origin for the Aeglidae. Our phylogenies provide strong monophyletic support for the currently recognized species, with the exception of Aegla laevis and Aegla cholchol samples, which form nonmonophyletic groups. 
10.2307/1549534|A member of the cyclopoid family Thaumatopsyllidae was found in plankton samples collected at night in a reef area of the southern portion of the Mexican Caribbean coast. This copepod shows a combination of characters peculiar enough to designate it as a new genus and species. The new genus Caribeopsyllus can be distinguished mainly by the presence of 4 urosomal somites, a fused first pediger, a 1-segmented fifth leg, 3 terminal furcal setae, and anal somite over 35% of total body length. The new genus differs from the other known genera in the family also in the proportions of the body and some appendages. Only 3 other monotypic genera of this group are known, each from Sweden and Norway, Nicobar Islands, and Australia. This is the first record of a thaumatopsyliid in the Western Hemisphere.
4094118|Nucleotide sequence data of the mitochondrial cytochrome oxidase I (COI) gene, were compared among 17 specimens of Sacculina carcini parasitising three portunid hosts as a preliminary assessment of haplotype structure in a poorly understood species for which there are few morphological characters on which to base taxonomic analysis. S. carcini parasitising Carcinus maenas (from Sweden, England and Denmark) were compared with S. carcini parasitising Liocarcinus marmoreus (from Ireland) and Liocarcinus holsatus (from Wales). Specimens of three congeneric sacculinid species and one confamilial species were included in the comparison as outgroups. The comparison confirmed that specimens of S. carcini from different hosts and different regions are all the same species. The data also suggested geographically consistent sequence differences among sampled sites, high levels of similarity within sites and very large differences between species, all of which suggests that analysis of the COI gene sequence could be a useful method for resolving population genetics and taxonomy of rhizocephalans.
10.2307/1548613|Investigations were conducted on species composition, population dynamics, and ecological interactions of alpheid shrimps associated with the loggerhead sponge Spheciospongia vesparia in shallow-water assemblages of the eastern Gulf of Mexico. Three species, Synalpheus brooksi, S. pectiniger, and the numerically dominant S. longicarpus were found in coexistence. Biomass and numbers of all three species found within the sponge were directly proportional to increasing sponge volume. Dominance of S. longicarpus, a eurythermal tropical species, is attributed to successful year-round reproduction. S. brooksi and S. pectiniger are fugitive species in this particular association. The latter species are able to colonize the habitat, but seasonal temperature minima by depressing egg production limit their ability to coexist in greater abundance. Coexistence of the three shrimp species appears to coincide with a wide degree of niche overlap. Potential competition for limited available space within the host may be intense and, combined with the differing reproductive success of each species, may be of considerable importance in determining population size and species composition of the associates.
10.2307/1549409|Dopamine and dibutyryl cAMP induced a significant increase of <sup>22</sup>Na<sup>+</sup> influx in salt-transporting posterior gills isolated from the Chinese crab Eriocheir sinensis acclimated to fresh water. When isolated gills were incubated and perfused in Cl<sup>-</sup>-free saline (Cl<sup>-</sup> replaced by gluconate), dopamine or dibutyryl cAMP still produced a significant increase of <sup>22</sup>Na<sup>+</sup> influx. After 1-h perfusion, dopamine increased intracellular cAMP content and Na<sup>+</sup>/K<sup>+</sup>-ATPase activity as compared with control perfusions without dopamine.
20487767|Portions of Chile were surveyed for Anostraca. Including the two species of Artemia previously reported from Chile, we found 5 new localities and range extensions for 5 species of Branchinecta. Previous studies on Chilean Anostraca have focused on Artemia, and although Branchinecta was previously reported in Antarctica close to Chilean Air Force installations, and in a few temporal ponds in Southern Patagonia, the species were never determined. Brief habitat descriptions, as well as conservation status, and identification keys are presented and discussed. Additionally, we describe a new species from the Atacama Desert, Branchinecta papillata n. sp. /// Se realizaron prospecciones en bsqueda de anostracos en aguas continentales chilenas. Adems de los reportes publicados por otros autores de las dos especies del gnero Artemia, se reportaron cinco sitios con cinco especies del gnero Branchinecta, el cual no ha sido reportado para Chile continental. Publicaciones anteriores, estuvieron basadas en la distribucin del gnero Artemia, y hubo un reporte de Branchinecta en las cercanas de una base de la Fuerza Area de Chile en la Isla Rey Jorge en la Antrtica, y en algunas lagunas temporales en el sur de la Patagonia, no obstante, los estudios realizados no especificaron las especies observadas. Se presentaron discutieron breves descripciones de los hbitats, as como medidas de conservacin y una clave de identificacin. Adicionalmente, se describi una nueva especie para el Desierto de Atacama, la cual se denomin como Branchinecta papillata n. sp.
20487791|A new genus and species of raninid crab, Bicornisranina bocki, is described from the Upper Cretaceous Haslam and Pender formations of Vancouver Island, British Columbia, Canada. Bicornisranina bocki (Raninidae: Raninoidinae) shares similar characteristics with other genera within Raninidae, including a bifid anterolateral spine, as seen in Rogueus, and a similar frontal spine conformation as seen in Raninoides. Although B. bocki shares morphological characteristics with other genera within Raninidae, B. bocki possesses a distinct sternum that sets it apart and warrants establishment of a new genus. With the occurrence of Bicornisranina from lower Campanian rocks of Vancouver Island, the range of Raninoidinae is confidently extended into the Cretaceous.
10.2307/1548073|Pubescent Chionoecetes bairdi females were held in isolation and placed with males at selected times during a 70-day period following their molt to maturity. Some primiparous crabs that mated within 27 days of their molt produced viable clutches, while others produced externally attached nonfertilized eggs during the isolation period. The fertile period for primiparous C. bairdi varied with the individual, and ranged from less than 1 to 28 days. Multiparous females either utilized sperm stored in their spermathecae from a previous mating to fertilize new eggs, or mated prior to egg extrusion. Those multiparous crabs that were allowed to mate within four days after cleaning their pleopods produced viable egg clutches, but by day seven some females did not attract males or breed. These observations suggest that the period in which individual multiparous C. bairdi are receptive to breeding ranges from less than one to seven days.
41315720|Compilation of lists of all genera of decapods and all species of fossil decapods has prompted erection of replacement names for junior synonyms. Duncanitrix replaces Duncania Porteli and Collins, 2004; Gwana replaces Wanga Hu and Tao, 1996; Loerenthoplumopsa replaces Loerentheya Beurlen, in Lrenthey and Beurlen (1929); Paradoxilissopsa replaces Lissopsis Fritch and Kafka, 1887; Pseudomicippella replaces Pseudomicippe Pelseneer, 1886; Rathbunites replaces Rathbunella Collins, in Collins et al., 2009; and Syphaxiella replaces Syphax A. Milne-Edwards, 1864.
1549354|Cannibalism occurs in snow crab and has been observed both in the wild and in the laboratory, but crabs larger than 60 mm CW are not killed by large male adult snow crabs either in the wild or in laboratory experiments. We tested the hypothesis that cannibalism failed to occur as smaller snow crabs became large enough to resist the force of larger male snow crabs. Chela force and resistance of the cuticle to loading were compared. Chela, merus, and carapace cuticles differed markedly in mechanical properties. The chela was hard compared to the merus which was the most flexible cuticle. Strength of the cuticle generally increased with size of crab, but decreased markedly at molting and remained low for several months past molting. The mechanical advantage (MA) of the chela was larger in adult than in non-adult snow crabs of similar size. The force of the chela was calculated from MA and previously documented size and contractile force of the closer muscle. Closing force at the first denticle on the dactyl of large male adult snow crabs was large enough to break the cuticle of non-adult and adult snow crab of any size. Only crabs less than 60 mm CW, however, were vulnerable to forces delivered at the tip of the dactyl of large adult, but not of large non-adult, snow crabs. Factors other than strength of the cuticle may explain size-selective cannibalism.
10.2307/1548837|Aspects of the reproductive biology of Lithodes ferox, namely, size dimorphism, rhizocephalan infestation, occurrence of ovigerous females, morphometrics of chelae, and incidence of epibionts, were studied in individuals collected from fishery research cruises off southern Namibia between 1983 and 1989. All these aspects appeared closely related to each other. A small proportion of the population was infested by the rhizocephalan cirripede Briarosaccus callosus. We found no strong evidence of seasonality in reproduction. Two discontinuities in male chela allometry were identified: juvenile-immature, and immature-adult. Relative chela growth in females was closer to isometry. Size at maturity was estimated at 108-mm CL for males, based on chela allometry, and 83-mm CL for females, based on the presence of eggs on the pleopod setae. Fecundity increased with female size. Females carried up to 8,000 eggs each. Epibiosis by the thoracican cirripede Poecilasma kaempferi was more prevalent in females than in males, and in ovigerous rather than in nonovigerous females. The pattern shown by the proportion of crabs with epibionts within each host size class varied between the sexes. There is a good fit between maturity and epibiosis patterns with size in females. The high levels of epibiosis in mature females are probably due to a reduction in molt frequency on maturation.
4094204|The average oxygen consumption of well-fed Waldeckia obesa individuals, whose average wet weight equals 318.3 mg is,
1549931| Birgus latro excretes nitrogenous waste as a mixture of urate and guanine and not predominantly urate as believed previously. The presence of guanine in faeces was confirmed by enzymatic derivatisation of guanine to xanthine with guanase. This is the first report of significant excretion of guanine outside the Chelicerata. The ratios of urate to guanine within the excreta of animals in field situations (natural diets) and in the laboratory (a range of artificial diets) were 3:2. Rates of excretion of both urate and guanine increased when experimental crabs were fed an artificial diet high in nitrogen. Significant amounts of guanine were also measured in tissues of B. latro, but only urate was present in equivalent tissues of the closely related species Coenobita brevimanus. Coenobita brevimanus did not excrete any significant amount of purines with the faeces. 
27920091|In the austral summer of 1983, schools of krill from Bransfield Strait and Palmer Archipelago were analyzed for composition in terms of size frequencies and maturity stages. Juveniles dominated in all schools, and mature animals never exceeded 6.8% of the animals at any sampling site. Gravid females were encountered in only four out of 15 schools and were never more frequent than 1.8% of the animals in any school. Among subadults and juveniles the largest animals were found on the inside of Palmer Archipelago. Smaller non-reproductive animals were on the outside and in Bransfield Strait. A second group of juveniles, in a size range of 1215 mm, was more pronounced north of Crocker Passage than south of the Passage. Their potential origin from a more slowly growing and later spawning Southern Weddell Sea population is discussed. Lack of reproductive animals in the Bransfield/South Shetlands vicinity may reflect yearly variation in this region. A hypothesis is put forward on the basis of this study that Palmer Archipelago is a nursery ground for krill spawned elsewhere. The sites of origin of this krill could be ascertained on the basis of studies of enzyme polymorphism in these populations.
41315748|The estuarine crab Hemigrapsus crenulatus (H. Milne Edwards, 1837) is a native of New Zealand, but it is also known from the coast of Chile some 8900 km eastwards across the Pacific. Mary Rathbun (1898) was the first person to call crabs from the Chilean coast, H. crenulatus, saying that they were conspecific with crabs described by Milne Edwards (1837). However, Bennett (1964) took the advice of H. Balss that the Chilean species should be known as Hemigrapsus granarius (Nicolet, 1849). No type specimens are available for either of these species. We have used mitochondrial 16S rRNA and COI sequences derived from fresh specimens to find out who was correct. There are few if any consistent morphological differences between populations from either side of the South Pacific and very few molecular differences (only 3 fixed nucleotide differences out of 1190 bp total sequenced -0.25%). None of these differences exceed variation within either population, so we must declare Miss Rathbun the winner! The molecular data suggest that there is only one species, Hemigrapsus crenulatus, and that the two populations have been separated only recently in the last few thousand years, perhaps during the last glacial epoch. How this species colonized the coast of South America remains an open question. It does not even occur on off-shore islands near the New Zealand mainland so it probably needed assistance to cross the Pacific.
10.2307/1548727|Vermectias nelladanae, new species, is described from subantarctic Macquarie Island. It differs in minor details from its only congener, V. caudiculata Sivertsen and Holthuis, 1980, from Tristan da Cunha. Vermectias is the only asellote with 3 free pleonites in front of the pleotelson. Other characters considered primitive within the Asellota are: lateral penes arising from the base of the protopod of pereiopods 7; pointed male pleopod 2 stylet with a broad, open lateral sperm groove; female oopore and cuticular organ opening separately but in a common midlateral pleural groove; cuticular organ and spermatheca derived from a small, discrete cuticular pit in pereionite 5, such pits being present in pereionites 5-7 in all life stages of both sexes. Vermectias is removed from the Janiroidea and a new family, Vermectiadidae, is erected. The new family is not placed in any of the existing superfamilies, pending a reevaluation of asellote phylogeny in the light of character polarities proposed here. Angeliera Chappuis and Delamare Deboutteville, 1954, is removed from the Janiroidea (Microparasellidae) because male pleopods 1 and 2 do not conform with the derived state characterizing that superfamily and because the penes arise from a lateral position close to the base of pereiopods 7. Male pleopods 1 and 2 in Angeliera are similar to those in Vermectias. Further analysis of the placement of Angeliera is outside the scope of this study. The genus is left as incertae sedis.
10.2307/1549311|Ichthyoxenus fushanensis, new species, a flesh-burrowing parasite of Varicorhinus barbatulus, collected from a mountain stream in northern Taiwan, is described. It resembles the only congeneric species, I. formosanus, recorded in Taiwan, but can be distinguished from the latter by the narrower forehead, smooth posterior margin of pereionites, narrower pleotelson, shorter antennae 1 and 2, and short carpus of pereiopod 1. The two species also differ in the structure of the mouthparts, especially the number of terminal spines on the mandible and maxilliped. In addition, the two species occur in different habitats and on different hosts. Ichthyoxenus formosanus is found in the body cavity of the fresh-water carp, Carassius auratus, occurring in lakes or ponds. The morphological differences between free-living mancas and parasitic adults of Ichthyoxenus fushanensis are compared.
40665216|The oldest confirmed brachyurans, referable to the Homolodromioidea and Glaessneropsoidea, are Early to Middle Jurassic in age. Geographically, all of the occurrences are in Europe, with one exception, in Tanzania.
10.2307/1548378| The first walking leg behind the major chela of male fiddler crabs, Uca pugilator, has characteristic fields of tubercles on the anterior distal face of the merus and on the carpus. In a population of crabs from Southampton, New York, the average number of meral tubercles was 28.7  1.37. However, the number dropped to 10.1  0.86 in limbs that had regenerated in clean sea water and was even lower in limbs that regenerated in mercuric chloride (6.9  1.15), cadmium chloride (4.7  1.3), and methylmercury (4.4  0.51). These results provide an example of differences between a regenerated appendage and an original appendage, and of morphological changes caused by toxicant exposure. 
10.2307/1548589|Information on the life cycle and seasonal ecology of Hargeria rapax, a tanaidacean common in coastal communities along the Atlantic shores of the southeastern United States and Gulf of Mexico, was obtained by systematically sampling the population in two tide pools located on Dauphin Island, Alabama, for 13 continuous months. Population size grew through spring, reached an abundance of > 10.0 individuals /cm<sup>2</sup> by early summer and crashed by August. It remained below 1.0 individual /cm<sup>2</sup> for the rest of the year. A migration to more optimal mesohaline conditions was proposed based on field and literature data to explain the rapid decrease and low numbers in population size. Females were present throughout the year, but numbers of gravid females peaked in June and January. Manca II stages were found only in the spring, suggesting that reproduction was successful only during this period. Males were few in number and occurred sporadically. Male to female ratios averaged 1:8. Laboratory cultures indicated that this tanaidacean has a protogynous reproductive strategy.
4094114|This research examines the life cycle of the parasitic cymothoid isopod Glossobius hemiramphi and its role as a symbiont with its fish host, ballyhoo (Hemiramphus brasiliensis). Samples of H. brasiliensis were collected from July 1997 to October 1998 in nearshore waters of south Florida. Fish were randomly culled from a commercial lampara net fishery, and independent of the fishery, fish were collected with cast nets or hook and line. The average parasite prevalence was 10.1%, observed in 2,928 fish collected year round. Monthly prevalence ranged from 4.6 to 18.2% and was highest in the summer on small young-of-the-year fish. Prevalence declined with fish size from a high of 38.0% for fish 11-16 cm to a low of 3.3% for fish 28-29 cm. Ovigerous females were observed throughout the year and no within-brood mortality was evident. Marsupiumites developed through five distinct ontogenetic stages, and the final marsupial stage (manca) was likely immediately infestive upon release. Diminutive males (2.8-12.4 mm) were attached to the host's gill arches, and larger females (16.9-35.6 mm) occupied the buccal cavity. Only a single fish older than age-1 was infested. These results indicate that Glossobius hemiramphi is a protandric hermaphrodite with an annual life cycle. There was no evidence of a parasitic effect on the host fish condition (weight-length), but we cannot exclude the possibility that infested fish have a higher mortality rate than uninfested fish, at least temporarily (~1 year).
10.2307/1548801|Carrion (dead oyster) traps were deployed by submersible at depths of 194-212 m on sandy and rocky ridge areas off South Carolina in August 1982 and September 1983. Concurrent benthic sampling by submersible indicated that the sand nondecapod crustacean fauna in both areas consisted primarily of ampeliscid amphipods, the amphipod Unciola irrorata, the isopods Apanthuretta magnifica and Gnathia sp., and tanaids. The trap-drawn necrophagous assemblage of species was similar for all traps in both areas, with the dominant members being the leptostracan Nebalia, undescribed species; the amphipods Tmetonyx cicada, Schraderia mardeni, and Valettiopsis, undescribed species; and the isopod Conilera cylindracea. Similar to necrophages collected by traps in higher latitudes and the deep sea, lysianassid amphipods made up most of the trap fauna (a total of 55.9% of all specimens in this study) and most of the necrophagous species. However, dominance by lysianassids is much lower than that observed in cold-water trapping. Although it may not be true of all nondeep-sea habitats at subboreal or arctic latitudes, when compared with trapping studies in the abyss, this study suggests that taxa other than lysianassids become more important in the consumption of carrion on the upper slope off South Carolina.
1549639|An ovigerous crab of Heteropilumnus ciliatus (Stimpson) was collected in South Korean waters, and the larvae were reared in the laboratory. Three zoeal stages are described and illustrated in detail. Morphological characteristics of the first zoea of H. ciliatus differ from those described by Takeda and Miyake (1968). The first zoea of H. ciliatus appears to be similar to the first zoeas of Heteropanope glabra Stimpson and Pilumnopeus makiana (Rathbun), but they can be distinguished from each other by differences of the carapace spines. A provisional key is provided to aid the identification of the pilumnid zoeas in Korea and adjacent waters.
1549872| Larval development of Macrocoeloma diplacanthum (Stimpson) consists of two zoeal stages, followed by the megalopa. Each larval stage is described in detail. The duration of the zoeal stages was 2-3 (2.4  0.5) and 3-4 (3.5  0.5) days for the first and second zoea, respectively, the megalopa phase appearing 6-8 (7.0  0.5) days after hatching. Unlike for other majids, zoeal stages of M. diplacanthum can be readily distinguished by their distended forehead with strong underlying muscle bands, undercut dorsal carapace spine, and spine on the terminal endopod segment of the first maxilliped. No other known mithracine or majid zoeae exhibit this combination of features. Our zoeal account of M. diplacanthum from Mexico is remarkably consistent with Floridian specimens previously described. However, we have found some differences between descriptions, which could be attributed to natural variation or inadequate description. Previous attempts to evaluate the relationships within Mithacinae have been based on larval characters widely distributed throughout Majidae and therefore are considered inadequate to infer sister-group relationships. The phylogenetic analysis of majids suggested that the position of Mithracinae is still uncertain, as is its monophyletic status. We recommend that additional characters, particularly of the megalopa phase, be sought for a better resolution of majid evolutionary history. 
10.2307/1549004|The five copepodid stages of Doridicola longicauda (Claus, 1860), a poecilostomatoid copepod (family Lichomolgidae) living on the gills of Sepia officinalis in Lake Faro, Messina, Italy, are described. Sexual differentiation first occurs in copepodid V, in which the male and female maxillipeds are differently formed. The adult stages of the two sibling species D. longicauda (Claus, 1860) and D. sepiae (Izawa, 1976) are compared.
10.2307/1548222| Relative growth of the carapace was studied in three species of xanthid crabs of the genus Trapezia to determine if the species can be separated by their patterns of relative growth. Adult crabs were collected in Panam and Hawaii. Carapace width (cw), carapace length (cl), and the width between the orbits, or ocular width (ow), were measured to the nearest 0.1 mm. Allometric regressions of cw and ow were plotted with cl as the reference dimension, using both raw and log-transformed data. Log-transformed regressions were used to test for allometric growth, and ANCOVA was used to compare species. There were significant differences among the three species in the allometric regressions of cw and ow. Growth in cw was isometric, except that negative allometry was observed in males of Trapezia corallina. In all species females were significantly wider at a given cl than males. The difference in carapace shape between males and females is attributed to the enlargement of the abdomen to allow egg production in females. Growth in ow was negatively allometric in all species, except for females of Trapezia formosa, in which growth was isometric. The differences between sexes in ow were significant, but not in the same direction in all species. Negative allometry of ow may result from a requirement that the distances among the eyes, antennae, and/or mouthparts remain constant. When observed, significant allometry of cw and ow results from a non-zero y-intercept, rather than from a curvilinear relationship between variables, in the untransformed domain. That is, the rates of growth of cw and ow are constant relative to the growth rate of cl throughout adult life, but the ratios of these growth rates differ from carapace proportions at the onset of sexual maturity. 
27753944|Two glutamate dehydrogenase (GDH) cDNA sequences encoding 474 (GDH A, a truncated gene) and 552 amino acids (GDH B) were discovered in the Pacific white shrimp, Litopenaeus vannamei. Both GDH A and GDH B were fairly conserved as shown by the amino acid alignment. The two cDNAs differed only at the C-terminal sequences. The quantitative real time polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) assay was developed to estimate the specific expression on different tissues. Both GDH A and B were mainly expressed in shrimp muscle, followed by in the gill and epithelium, while the expression in shrimp hepatopancreas was the lowest when compared with other tissues. Though no significant difference was observed among all the test tissues, the ratio of GDH B to GDH A transcription was kept at a very high level ranging from 32.04 in the eyestalk to 64.52 in the muscle, indicating that GDH B was largely expressed in L.vannamei. The GDH activity in the muscle of L.vannamei was also the highest followed by in the epithelium, eyestalk and gill. The GDH activity in hepatopancreas was significantly lower than that in other tissues. As a control, the tissue expression of Na+-K+ ATPase was also determined. This enzyme was mainly expressed in the gill, followed by in the muscle and epithelium. Our results provide baseline data in physiological expressions of GDH and Na+-K+ ATPase for osmoregulation in L.vannamei. The research protocol offers a practical guideline for the analysis of gene expression in shrimp. The sequences and techniques developed in this study will also contribute to the GDH gene research in other crustacean species.
41315760|A re-description of the post-embryonic development of Derocheilocaris remanei Delamare-Deboutteville and Chappuis, 1951 (Mystacocarida) is presented. It includes nine stages, not ten as originally described. The first stage already has a maxillula (though not fully developed) and is, therefore, not an ortho-nauplius as previously reported. Particular focus is on the development of the postmandibular appendages (maxillula, maxilla, maxilliped) that undergo significant changes during ontogeny, and the development of the so-called 'toothed furrows', all of which are good indicators of changes between the stages. The maxilla and maxilliped are quite different from each other in the adult stage, but they develop in a very similar manner, showing very similar morphologies at certain stages. None of the post-mandibular appendages has a fully formed coxa, but only a proximal endite, which is in contrast to some previous interpretations. The development of D. remanei was originally considered very different from that of its transatlantic 'sister species', D. typicus, but our observations indicate that this is not the case. Rather, the development of D. typicus and D. remanei is very similar. This implies that not only the adult morphology of Mystacocarida is remarkably conservative, but also the larval sequence. With regard to the feeding system, mystacocaridans have a cephalo-thoracic feeding apparatus including the first pair of trunk limbs modified as maxillipeds, which collaborate with the maxillulae and maxillae in the feeding process. All three limbs are very similar to each other (the main difference is that the maxilliped possesses a vestigial exopod). The feeding system is in both general aspects and in particular details very similar to that of Copepoda and the representatives of the Cambrian taxon Skara. This suggests a close relationship between these three taxa, for which we propose the name Copepodoida. The name refers to specific features found exclusively in copepodans and, in our view, mystacocaridans and the three species of Skara.
10.2307/1549051|Orientation of the hermit crab Clibanarius vittatus (Bosc) to black geometric shapes of equal surface area was measured in a circular arena. This study tested the hypotheses that crabs can visually discriminate between different shapes and that attraction is related to the potential habitability of gastropod shells represented by the shapes. Test crabs were untrained and exhibited chemically induced shell-seeking behavior. This behavior indicated that they inhabit suboptimal gastropod shells (small relative to their body size). When presented with single silhouettes, crabs were significantly attracted to a horizontal rectangle, horizontal diamond, square, semicircle, and triangle, but not to a vertical rectangle or a vertical diamond. When exposed to pairs, the most and least attractive shapes were the horizontal rectangle and vertical diamond, respectively. Since responses were a complex function of the dimensional characteristics of the shapes, it was concluded that attraction was based on shape recognition. The hypotheses were further supported because crabs oriented poorly to the shape of the suboptimal shell which they inhabited (triangle), but oriented very well to shapes (horizontal rectangle, horizontal diamond, square, and semicircle) that represented more optimal gastropod shells.
10.2307/1548718|Hatching of diapause eggs of Eurytemora affinis collected from the bottom sediments of Lake Ohnuma, Hokkaido, Japan, during winter was examined under simulated natural environmental conditions in the laboratory. Diapause eggs synchronously hatched in the same manner as the subitaneous eggs in normal lake water under both light and dark conditions. However, anoxic condition and coverage by the bottom sediments completely suppressed the hatching. The eggs exposed to anoxic water survived for at least 1 month, whereas those buried in the sediments remained viable for more than 5 months. These results suggest that the diapause eggs buried in the lake-bottom sediments will continue to be dormant even if the refractory phase is completed unless they are resuspended into the water column.
27753968|Hemolymph osmolality changes following exposure to abrupt salinity change in the range of 540 ppt (T = 26C, full air saturation) and upon exposure to air (T = 23C, r.h. = 30%) were investigated in the flatback mud crab Eurypanopeus depressus (Smith, 1869), a dominant species on oyster reefs in Southwest Florida. During salinity trials, hemolymph osmolality of E. depressus ranged from 751  123 mOsmol kg1 at 5 ppt (214  32 mOsmol kg1) to 1188  81 mOsmol kg1 at 40 ppt (1188  29 mOsmol kg1). In the salinity range of 515 ppt E. depressus exhibited a hyperosmotic pattern of osmoregulation while at 30 and 40 ppt it conformed. In all cases stable hemolymph osmotic concentration was reached in less than 24 h. During desiccation trials, hemolymph osmolality of E. depressus ranged from 971  121 mOsmol kg1 for unexposed crabs to 1132  169 mOsmol kg1 after 90 min of exposure. The information obtained from this study adds to knowledge of crustacean stress physiology and may give a clearer picture of the important factors involved in population distribution and the consequences of multiple stressors that may affect the crabs or their oyster-reef habitat.
10.2307/1549148|Respiratory and ventilatory responses to declining O<sub>2</sub> tension and posthypoxic recovery were investigated in 3 hypogean and in 2 epigean aquatic crustaceans. The aims of this study were to determine how these species reacted to declining O<sub>2</sub> tension, to investigate their changes in ventilation and metabolic rate during progressive hypoxia, and to extend our knowledge on the fate of anaerobic end products during subsequent recovery. Hypogean organisms had normoxic O<sub>2</sub> consumption rates 1.7-3.5 times lower than the epigean species. All 5 crustaceans were able to maintain their O<sub>2</sub> consumption rates (1) at relatively constant levels and (2) independent of Po<sub>2</sub> between normoxia and the critical Po<sub>2</sub>. Hypogean species also possessed lower critical Po<sub>2</sub> than epigean ones, which may indicate that these organisms are better adapted to low O<sub>2</sub> content and are better equipped to stay aerobic under hypoxia. For all species, posthypoxic recovery resulted in a high O<sub>2</sub> debt. The payment of this debt was smaller in hypogean than in epigean species. The main explanations of the lower O<sub>2</sub> debt shown by hypogean organisms are the lower energetic expenditures noticed during hypoxia, partly due to a decrease in locomotory and ventilatory activities.
27753973|The Antarctic circumpolar ascidian Distaplia cylindrica harbors individuals of the amphipod Polycheria antarctica form acanthopoda that live in domiciles excavated by the amphipod. There was no evidence this amphipod consumed its host ascidian tissues. This burrowing association with D. cylindrica may provide an important structural or chemical refuge from prospective fish predators.
10.2307/1548148|Spongicoloides hawaiiensis is described and illustrated from a specimen inhabiting a hexactinellid sponge in the northwest Hawaiian Islands. This is the third species of the genus to be recorded from the Pacific.
1549589| That some barnacles are obligate commensals of sea turtles has long been known; however, little attention has focused on understanding the details of this association. In particular, early life-history traits of turtle barnacles, which may be key to establishing the association, have not been well studied. Here we present the first complete description of larval development in a turtle barnacle. Embryos were collected from Chelonibia testudinaria, a cosmopolitan and conspicuous species, and reared through metamorphosis in the laboratory. We followed sequential molting and described each stage using light microscopy. Development proceeded over nine days at 25C and the characteristic cirriped pattern of six naupliar stages followed by a cyprid larva was observed. Implications for the association of barnacles with sea turtles are discussed relative to spatio-temporal aspects of cyprid attachment and the life history of sea turtles. Barnacle reproduction typically involves cross-fertilization between hermaphrodites but small complemental males occur in some species. In C. testudinaria, small individuals attached to hermaphrodites were confirmed to be exclusively male. They were located in the external depressions between the shell plates of hermaphrodites, within pits perhaps specialized for their settlement. This attachment location, external to and below the orifice of the hermaphrodite shell, is unique for complemental males. It is not known whether the males of C. testudinaria remain small permanently or eventually grow to become hermaphroditic, as do protandric complemental males in C. patula. Their small size may provide advantages in reducing drag and their attachment location may afford protection from removal. 
1549394| South America contains three endemic genera of parastacid freshwater crayfishes (i.e., Parastacus Huxley, Samastacus Riek, and Virilastacus Hobbs), with a current total of ten described species. A previous author has argued that each of these genera has closer affinities with genera from Australia than to each other. We sequenced approximately 500 nucleotides of the 16S gene from mitochondrial DNA to estimate phylogenetic relationships among the South American genera of freshwater crayfishes and determined their phylogenetic positioning relative to the Australian genera. We sampled seven species representing all three genera from South America with 19 individuals. These sequences were combined with other Australasian crayfishes for a total representation of 54 sequences covering 13 genera. Our results indicate that the South American genera from a well-supported monophyletic group closely related to a subset of the Australasian crayfishes (Paranephrops and Parastacoides). Our results also provide strong support for the currently recognized generic designations. /// En Sud Amrica se encuentran tres gneros endmicos de camarones parastcidos, i.e., Parastacus Huxley, Samastacus Riek, y Virilastacus Hobbs, que reunen a diez especies en total. En publicaciones previas se ha argido que cada uno de estos gneros tiene afinidades ms estrechas con gneros australianos que con alguno otro sud-americano. Con el fin de estimar las relaciones filo-genticas entre los gneros sudamericanos y determinar, adems, su relacin con los gneros australasiticos, se secuenciaron aproximadamente 500 nucletidos del gen 16S del DNa mitocondrial de siete de las diez especies de parastcidos sudamericanos. Las muestras de DNA se obtuvieron de 19 especmenes. La informacin obtenida se combin con informacin previa acerca de los gneros australasiticos hasta completar 54 secuencias que involucraron a 13 gneros. Los resultados indican que los tres gneros sudamericanos forman un grupo monofiltico estrechamente relacionado con un subgrupo de gneros australasiticos (Paranephrops y parastacoides). Adems, los resultados respaldan la actual asignacin de gneros sudamericanos. 
10.2307/1547970|Orconectes kinderhookensis Fitzpatrick and Pickett, a recently described crayfish from the Hudson River system in New York, is distinguished from its closest relative, O. propinquus (Girard), chiefly by possession of a shorter mesial process relative to the central projection on the first pleopod of the first form male. Non-overlap of ratios of mesial process length to central projection length between the two populations led Fitzpatrick and Pickett to consider the two populations as reproductively isolated, distinct species. Subsequent collecting in the Hudson River system has revealed specimens showing morphological intergradation between the two species. The kinderhookensis morphological trait is usually found in smaller males. It is suggested that a shorter mesial process in O. kinderhookensis is due to differential growth during development. Therefore, the recognition of O. kinderhookensis as a distinct species, when using mesial process length to central projection length ratios, becomes questionable.
10.2307/1548567|Morphometric analyses were made of males of 3 caprellid species collected from sites exposed to and protected from wave activity. The species-specific differences in robustness of the gnathopods, robustness of the posterior pereiopods, and elongation of the second pereionite were related to food acquisition. Filter-feeding caprellids (Caprella equilibra Say and C. penantis Leach) exhibited an increase in the robustness of the second gnathopods and a general decrease in the size of the posterior pereiopods at the wave-exposed site. The predatory caprellid (Paracaprella tenuis Mayer) had the opposite pattern. Pereionite 2 of C. equilibra was more elongate among specimens from the protected site. All 3 species exhibited a reduction in the length of pereiopod 5, relative to pereionite 5 length, at the wave-exposed site. The findings indicate environmentally related morphological plasticity for the pereionites and pereiopods of caprellids. The reliability of using body proportions and pereiopod reductions for taxonomic purposes is questionable. Similarly, the measurement of a single body segment to indicate caprellid size probably is inaccurate.
10.2307/1548428|Adult males of the fresh-water prawn Macrobrachium rosenbergii in a single-age population can be categorized into three morphotypes. Each morphotype represents a different stage in the development of the adult males from small males (SM) through orange-claw (OC) males to blueclaw (BC) males (Cohen et al., 1981; Ra'anan, 1982). All males are capable of developing through all of the above stages, but individual males largely differ in the rate in which they transform from one morphotype to another. It was observed that SM and BC males are more sexually active than OC males, while the OC males grow more rapidly than SM and BC males (Ra'anan and Sagi, 1985). To examine further this behavioral observation, two internal organs in each of the morphotypes were measured and compared. The development of the reproductive system (testes, sperm ducts, and ampullae), as an indication of sexual activity, was compared with the development of the midgut gland (hepatopancreas), an organ which is suggested to be in correlation with somatic growth. The hepatopancreas is significantly larger and the reproductive system is relatively smaller, in relation to body size, in OC males. The opposite is true of SM and BC males, in which the reproductive system is significantly larger while the hepatopancreas is much smaller in relation to body size. Thus, the relative sizes of the two organs of an individual prawn are closely associated with its position in the male developmental pathway from the SM through OC to the BC morphotype. Further, the changes in specific ratio between the two organs reflect the inverse relationship between reproduction and growth.
20487808|This paper is part of a comparative survey on the evolutionary morphology of the circulatory system in Malacostraca. Tethysbaena agentarii is a representative of Thermosbaenacea, a group which exhibits a relict distribution in cave or groundwater habitats. The study presents the first three dimensional data concerning the circulatory organs and their spatial relationships to other major organ systems. T. argentarii has a short dumbbell-shaped heart which lies in the posterior cephalothorax and the first free thoracic segment. It is equipped with one pair of incurrent ostia. The only vessel to emanate from the heart is the anterior aorta, which runs into the anterior cephalothorax and supplies the central nervous system and both pairs of antennae. Comparative and functional aspects of the circulatory system are discussed. The features of this highly reduced vascular system point to a closer phylogenetic relationship between Thermosbaenacea, and Spelaeogriphacea and Mictocarididae (Mictacea).
1549786|Ultrastructural changes of the compound eyes were compared in Ocypode species living under different daylight and annual rhythms near the equator (O. ryderi, O. ceratophthalma), in the northern (O. cursor) and in the southern hemisphere (O. quadrata). Independent of geographical latitude, the eyes of these Ocypode species undergo daily changes in morphology. Throughout the day the rhabdomeric diameter is small. A massive increase of rhabdom diameter occurs at dusk; a breakdown phase starts during the second half of the night. Before dawn the rhabdom size is near to that during daytime and seems to be prepared for the day-state. Besides the rhabdom, the size of the palisade-ER and the position of pigment granules and mitochondria within the retinula cells change. In all investigated Ocypode species the rhabdom turnover is influenced by different light and dark regimes. During extended darkness, rhabdom diameters resemble those of day-adapted animals. Extended exposures to light cause no or little change in rhabdom diameters of O. ryderi, but in O. ceratophthalma and O. quadrata rhabdom diameter of both distal and regular retinula cells grows up moderately. During the following dark adaptation the rhabdom diameter increases dramatically in the regions of both distal and regular retinula cells of O. ryderi. In O. ceratophthalma and O. quadrata the diameter of regular retinula cells doubles. If the crabs are kept under darkness during the day, the rhabdomeric diameter grows moderately but never reaches the diameter of the night-adapted state. If the crabs are brought into bright light during the night, rhabdom diameters decrease to that of day-adapted animals. Independent of different geographical habitats, in these Ocypode species rhabdom synthesis seems to be stimulated above all by the onset of darkness, whereas rhabdom diminution during the night seems to be controlled endogenously.
1549213|Two new species of the crangonid genus Philocheras, P. gemmaceus and P. fujinoi, are described and illustrated from East Asian water. Both were previously treated insufficiently; one was erroneously referred to Pontophilus candidus Kemp, and the other, Pontophilus sp. of Fujino and Miyake (1970), was left unnamed, because only a single, mutilated specimen was available. The first new species, P. gemmaceus, is more closely related to P. planoculminus Bruce than to P. candidus (Kemp). Philocheras gemmaceus is readily distinguishable from them by the combination of the wider rostrum, the presence of the median gastric spine in females and the bud-like appendix interna of the endopod of the second to fifth pleopods in males. More complete material from the northern South China Sea confirms the validity of the latter new species, P. fujinoi, which is distinguished from other members of the genus by the presence of one gastric spine, three frontal spines on the post-orbital carina, two spines situated behind branchiostegal spine, the minute spine just mesial to the antennal spine, and the movable thumb of the first pereiopod.
1549889|Among several other cases of taxonomic indefinition within the cyclopoid copepod genus Mesocyclops, we selected and examined in detail two neotropical species with overlapping distributional ranges: M. meridianus (Kiefer, 1926) and M. brasilianus Keifer, 1933. The latter has long been considered a synonym of M. meridianus by some authors, while other specialists recognize both forms as valid. The available descriptions were not detailed enough to determine the taxonomic status of the two. Upgraded descriptive standards, including SEM analysis, were used in order to provide morphological data for both species, emphasizing microcharacters. After examination and comparison of both male and female specimens collected in several neotropical areas (Mexico, Peru, Brazil, Venezuela), we confirmed that M. brasilianus and M. meridianus are in fact valid, separate taxa. This statement was based on previously undetected differences in the ornamentation of the antennules, antennal basis, maxillulae, maxillae, and swimming legs 3 and 4, among other structures. A detailed complementary description and depiction of both species is provided herein. Males of both species are described in full for the first time. This kind of analysis is expected to mark new standards and to become a major tool in re-defining the species limits of the neotropical Mesocyclops.
1549777|A new genus and species of symbiotic, semi-parasitic nemertean worm, Ovicides julieae n. gen., n. sp., is described from the xanthid crabs Chlorodiella nigra and C. xishaensis. The new genus possesses accessory stylet pouches and exhibits simultaneous hermaphroditism, features new to the family Carcinonemertidae. The new species has a relatively small anterior proboscis chamber and small basis, yet it possesses the largest stylet to basis ratio (up to 0.650) reported for the family. It also has a flame cell pattern of at least 2[(3+3)], which is different from those reported for two other species. The worm occurred in a lightly granulated sheath on the abdominal sterna, pleopods, and clutches of its host, but few adult worms were found. The species exhibited a high host specificity and was more frequently found on C. nigra than on C. xishaensis (7.5 vs. 0.4%, overall prevalence, respectively). Worms were only found on female crabs, and worm intensity showed a modest but significantly positive correlation with host size. Ovicides julieae represents the second genus in the Carcinonemertidae, the fifth described carcinonemertid species from Australia, and the eleventh described species in the family.
20487793|The genus Murunducaris, previously represented by a single species (M. juneae) collected in a hillside flush marsh near Braslia, Brazil, is revised here. The description of M. juneae is emended. Three additional species are assigned to the genus, and its geographical distribution is considerably expanded. Murunducaris noodti n. sp., from the vicinity of Arequipa (Peru), and M. loyolai n. sp., from the island of the city of Florianpolis (Santa Catarina, Brazil) are new to science. Murunducaris dactyloides (formerly Parastenocaris dactyloides), from the Tapajs River, near the city of Santarm (Par, Brazil) is redescribed and its assignment to this genus is supported by synapomorphies. The diagnosis of the genus Murunducaris is emended. The phylogenetic affinities of species of Murunducaris to other members of the family are briefly discussed.
4094115|Caridean shrimps are unique among decapod crustaceans in showing a great diversity of sexual systems, including gonochorism, protandry, protandry with primary females and simultaneous hermaphroditism. Crangon franciscorum (Stimpson, 1859) (Crangonidae), an ecologically and economically significant species from the Pacific coast of North America, has been assumed to be gonochoristic. Earlier population studies concluded that average lifespan is longer in females than in males, and that the latter die in or emigrate from estuaries after mating. This was believed to explain a recurrently observed "shrinking" of average male size starting during the fall of the first year of life. We investigated an alternative hypothesis according to which this species is a protandric hermaphorodite, and disappearance of large males from the population reflects sex change rather than death or emigration. We present several pieces of evidence in support of the alternative hypothesis: (i) ovarian development in males undergoing sex change, (ii) presence of atrophied vas deferens in secondary females, and (iii) observation of sex change in individuals kept in captivity. Our results are supported by histological study of the gonads, careful description of secondary sexual characters, and monthly sampling of an estuarine population (Grays Harbor, Washington). Tracking an identifiable year-class (1980) and combining field and laboratory data allowed us to assemble a life history schedule, including growth and a calendar of significant reproductive events. We discuss the implications of our results for the interpretation of survey data and studies on population dynamics.
1549387|Reproductive traits of Pagurus lanuginosus are described and compared with three sympatric, congener species. Female P. lanuginosus mature at about 5 mm shield length, spawn clutches in autumn and spring, and are considered to have two or more clutches per year. Among the four sympatric Pagurus species (P. lanuginosus, P. middendorffii, P. filholi, P. nigrofascia), spawning season, hatch-out season, annual spawning times, maturity size, and incubation period differed. Specific differences in annual spawning times and some related traits may be explained by differences between species in maximizing the fitness component. Species with several clutches each year and a short incubation may segregate settlement timing to reduce intra- and interspecific competition for unpredictably supplied small shells among settling and newly settled crabs and, thus, maximize the number of clutches per annum. Alternatively, species with single annual clutch, early spring hatch out, and long incubation may be selected to maximize larval survival and/or settlement success if early spring is the optimal season for larval settlement success.
10.2307/1548786|The discovery of a new stage in the life cycle of the Tantulocarida is reported. A sexual female, collected from a deep-sea harpacticoid copepod host, was removed from the trunk sac of the preceding tantulus larva. This female is a free-living and nonfeeding stage which presumably mates with the free-swimming adult male previously described. The female comprises a cephalothorax, probably incorporating 2 limbless thoracic somites, 2 free pedigerous trunk somites, and 3 limbless trunk somites. It also possesses paired antennules, the only well-defined cephalic appendages present at any stage in tantulocaridan life history. There is a median genital aperture, the copulatory pore, located ventrally on the cephalothorax at about the level of the incorporated first thoracic somite. This is interpreted as further evidence of a sister-group relationship between the Tantulocarida and the Thecostraca. The known life-cycle stages of the Tantulocarida are now interpreted as forming two cycles, one sexual, the other parthenogenetic.
10.2307/1549256|Mother-offspring relationships were studied in the red-claw crayfish Cherax quadricarinatus during 3 phases: "egg-carrying," "hatching," and "release." The maternal behavior of 16 females and the dispersal of their young were monitored with a video camera in small- and large-sized aquaria. Time allocated to locomotion, aeration, and cleaning was computed for each phase. During the release phase there was an increase in mobility and a reduction in time devoted to fanning as compared to the egg-carrying and hatching phases. A significant negative linear regression was found between the number of juveniles on the mother and days since release. Mother-offspring association was considerably prolonged under conditions of limited space, resulting in a delay in the next breeding cycle of the female. The implications of this study for the commercial production of red-claw crayfish are discussed.
1549882|Isolated posterior gills from the Chinese crab Eriocheir sinensis acclimated to freshwater (FW) were used for perfusion. Dopamine and dibutyryl cAMP (db-cAMP) induced a significant increase of <sup>36</sup>Cl<sup>-</sup> influx. When amiloride, a specific sodium selective channels blocker, was added to the incubation saline, it induced a dramatic decrease of <sup>22</sup>Na<sup>+</sup> influx, and such an effect could be reversed by dopamine or db-cAMP. In the same experimental condition, we observed that ouabain added to the serosal side induced a marked decrease of the stimulating effect of db-cAMP on <sup>22</sup>Na<sup>+</sup> uptake across the epithelium to the hemolymph, suggesting that dopamine stimulates Na<sup>+</sup> and Cl<sup>-</sup> influxes via cAMP and Na<sup>+</sup>/K<sup>+</sup>-ATPase pathways.
4126708|Adolescent and mature female red king crab Paralithodes camtschaticus were captured by scuba divers and held in seawater tanks at the Kodiak Fisheries Research Center at ambient temperatures. Over three separate years, we monitored dates of embryo extrusion, timing and length of the hatching period, duration of embryological developmental, total degree-days, and volume and number of larvae released on a daily basis. Primiparous females extruded their embryos on a mean date of 3 February, two months prior to extrusion by multiparous crab. Mean hatching date for primiparous females occurred 16 days prior to that of multiparous females in 2001, and 12 days earlier in 2003. Primiparous females required a mean of 365 days and 2601 degree-days for complete embryonic development, whereas multiparous females required significantly less time, with a mean of 328 d, and 2482 degree-days. Although multiparous females were significantly larger than primiparous females, there was no significant difference between reproductive types in the time required for complete hatching (mean 32 days), total volume (mean 308 mL) or number of larvae released (mean 106, 884). Multiparous female crabs held in filtered or unfiltered (raw) seawater showed no differences in hatch timing, hatching days, or volume released. Virtually all larvae (91-95%) were released in the 4 hour period between 1800 and 2200 hours, and 50% were released in the first half-hour of darkness. Extended hatching exhibited by red king crabs is not synchronous with the occurrence of planktonic food sources, but may be an adaptation to the uncertainty of food availability. Shorter development times for multiparous embryos are necessary to complete the reproductive cycle prior to obligatory molting before extruding the next batch of eggs. This information was incorporated into a conceptual model of the first 3 years of reproduction for red king crab.
20487843|Microsatellite markers were developed for the fiddler crab Uca mjoebergi for use in paternity assignment. Five highly variable loci were found to amplify reliably in U. mjoebergi, although one locus exhibited evidence for the presence of null alleles, and two loci exhibited evidence of linkage. The number of alleles, expected heterozygosity and probability of paternity exclusion (P &gt; 0.999) suggest that these markers when combined provide sufficient power to determine paternity by exclusion in this species. Three primer pairs were found to also amplify PCR products from three additional fiddler crab species (U. dampieri, U. flammula and U. seismella), and will prove useful for phylogeography and behavioural ecology of fiddler crabs.
10.2307/1548784| Neurofactors released from neurosecretory cells associated with the ganglia of the central nervous system are known to participate in the endocrine mediation of osmotic and ionic regulation in decapod Crustacea. The present study examines the effects of differential exposure (3, 6, 12, or 24 h) to high salinity media (HSM, sea water of 14, 21, or 28 salinity) on the ultrastructure of the anteromedial cells located within the protocerebral region of the supraesophageal ganglion of Macrobrachium olfersii (Wiegmann), a euryhaline, fresh-water shrimp. Analysis of thin sections and freeze-fracture replicas reveals that the cells of the anteromedial group are typically neurosecretory in nature, exhibiting a large nucleus, a prominent, single nucleolus, well-developed, rough endoplasmic reticulum, numerous, large Golgi complexes, abundant mitochondria, and free and polyribosomes. In shrimps maintained in river water (0 salinity), this cellular machinery, specific for the production and packaging of polypeptides, does not appear to be activated, as indicated by the virtual absence of neurosecretory granules. After exposure of the shrimps to HSM, particularly to 21 salinity, for up to 6 h, there is a conspicuous increase in the number of dense-cored, neurosecretory granules of 72.4  6.7 nm diameter, both in the cytoplasm and around the Golgi complexes of these cells. Multivesicular and multilamellar bodies also increase in number, indicating membrane recycling. In shrimps exposed to HSM for longer periods (12 h or more), the ultrastructure of the anteromedial cells is essentially similar to that of control shrimps maintained in fresh water. These data demonstrate that exposure to high salinity media activates a neurosecretory process in the anteromedial cells of the protocerebrum of M. olfersii. The release of these neurosecretory products may be involved in osmotic and ionic regulation in this fresh-water shrimp. 
10.2307/1548097|Mothocya bohlkeorum, new species, is described from the gill chambers of the whitestar cardinalfish Apogon lachneri Bohlke from Puerto Rico; and the dusky cardinalfish Phaeoptyx pigmentaria (Poey) and the freckled cardinalfish P. conklini (Silvester) from the Bahamas. It may be distinguished from Mothocya nana (Schioedte and Meinert) by the shape of the frons and telson; and by having a cephalon which is slightly instead of deeply immersed in perionite 1. Larger female M. bohlkeorum occur on the larger hosts. Female isopods may undergo vegetative growth stages between reproductive brood stages. Male and female isopods occur in opposing gill chambers of a host. This duplex male-female association may explain how relatively large cymothoid isopods colonize small host species.
10.2307/1547969| Six naupliar and six copepodid stages of Harpacticus sp., reared in the laboratory, are described. Naupliar stages are completed in 3-4 days at 22-24C. The adult stage is reached 3-4 days later. Sexual differences in size, antennule, and fifth pereiopod are apparent by the fourth copepodid stage. Additional sexual differences occur in the second pereiopod by the fifth copepodid stage and in the third pereiopod of the adult. Occurrence of rudiments of the maxillae, maxillipeds, and pereiopods 3 as superficial structures beneath the exuvia in the last naupliar stage establishes the designation of naupliar exuvial rudiments as the maxillulae and pereiopods 1 and 2. Interpretations of exuvial rudiments of other harpacticoid nauplii vary among authors and may be attributed to emphasis on cuticular features or use of exuviae alone for studying naupliar stages. 
10.2307/1548414|Tegastes falcatus (Norman, 1868) and T. nanus Sars, 1904, are reported for the first time from the east coast of the United States. Both occurred on the red alga Ptilota serrata, and T. nanus also on the kelp Laminaria digitata. Tegastes nanus is redescribed. Known living substrates of the genus Tegastes Norman, 1903, are briefly discussed.
10.2307/1549143| The stages of gonadal development for the female of the spotted pink shrimp Penaeus brasiliensis from the Mexican Caribbean Sea are characterized, based on histological analyses. Five stages (immature, developing, almost mature, mature, and spawned) were determined, according to the structure and arrangement of the germ cells in the gonads. Each of these stages corresponds macroscopically to a characteristic color, except for stages I and V, in which the coloring is similar and can be distinguished only microscopically. A chromatic scale is provided to determine the stages of gonadal development, which ranges between a translucent aspect to an olive green color corresponding to the immature and mature stages. The size of the cells in each stage varied from an average of 0.028 mm for stage I to an average of 0.231 mm for stage IV. Growth of cells is faster in stages II and III and shows a greater overlapping of sizes in stages III and IV. /// Se proporciona una caracterizacin de los estadios de desarrollo gonadal de las hembras de camarn rojo Penaeus brasiliensis en el Caribe Mexicano basadas en anlisis histolgicos. De acuerdo a la estructura y disposicin de las clulas germinales de las gnadas se determinaron cinco estadios (inmaduro, en desarrollo, casi maduros, maduros y desovados). Macroscpicamente cada uno de estos estadios corresponde a colores caractersticos, excepto las etapas I y V cuya coloracin es similar y solo puede distinguirse microscpicamente. Se proporciona una escala cromtica para la determinacin de los estadios de desarollo gonadal que van desde un aspecto translcido hasta color verde olivo correspondientes a las fases de inmaduro y maduro. El tamao de las clulas en cada etapa de madurez de las gnadas vari desde 0.028 mm en promedio para el estadio I, hasta un promedio de 0.231 mm para la fase IV. El crecimiento de las clulas es mas rpido de los estadios II a III y muestra una mayor sobreposicin de tamaos en las etapas III y IV. 
10.2307/1549034|Comparative sperm morphology of several species of hermit crabs is investigated using light and electron microscope techniques. Relationships postulated on the basis of sperm ultrastructure are compared with previously proposed phylogenetic relationships. Within the superfamily Paguroidea, the families Coenobitidae, Diogenidae, and Paguridae are shown to be united by a suite of ultrastructural sperm characters. Each of these families can, however, be distinguished by characteristic features. The Coenobitidae have spermatozoa which possess a large cylindrical to oblong-ovoid acrosomal vesicle, a columnar perforatorial chamber which is not divided into posterior bulb and anterior projection, a subopercular zone divided into two regions, and lateral microvillar projections in the perforatorial chamber. The spermatozoon of the sole investigated pagurid Pagurus bernhardus (L.) has a short, ovoid acrosomal vesicle with a perforatorial chamber which is divided into posterior bulb and anterior projection, supposedly no operculum at maturity, and no microvillar projections in the posterior bulb of the perforatorial chamber. The anatomically diverse family Diogenidae exhibits a range in sperm morphology intermediate between the Paguridae and Coenobitidae, suggesting that it may be a polyphyletic family. Diogenidae share (except Dardanus) the perforatorial shape with the Paguridae and the possession of microvillar projections with the Coenobitidae. Diogenes custos (Fabricius) shares an elongate acrosome shape with the Coenobitidae, but is unique in having a fibrillar acrosome core. Three species of the diogenid genus Clibanarius are distinct in possessing a dense ring around the perforatorial bulb.
41315688|The marine interstitial Microloxoconcha dimorpha n. sp. has two morphotypes in the male, "L type" and "S type"; they occur sympatrically and can be distinguished by the size of their carapaces and the morphology of the male copulatory organs. Conversely, the genetic relationships based on the partial mitochondrial COI gene did not demonstrate an independent clade as belonging to only one type. The L and S types are therefore not reproductively isolated from each other, and they express an intra-sexual dimorphism. We also argue that the morphological features of the male copulatory organ could have changed prior to the establishment of reproductive isolation.
20487704|Historically, three obligate cave-dwelling species of Orconectes comprise an assemblage along the Cumberland Plateau of the southeastern United States, including Orconectes australis (with two subspecies, australis and packardi), O. incomptus, and O. sheltae. Using genetic data from three mitochondrial genes (cytochrome oxidase subunit I (COI), 12S, and 16S), we present evidence for four cryptic lineages excluding O. sheltae. The subspecies of Orconectes australis represent distinct taxonomic units with non-sister phylogenetic relationships and will be each recognized as separate species. Orconectes (Orconectes) barri is a new species of subterranean crayfish with a small distribution around the Kentucky - Tennessee state border in Mississippian limestone. This species was uncovered during a previous thoroughly-sampled phylogeographic survey of the southern Appalachians. Additionally, we assign genetic barcodes (COI sequences) and conservation status to each species for management direction and identification of newly discovered populations.
20487705|In a previous phylogenetic analysis of numerous species of the genus Munida and related genera from the West Pacific based on molecular and morphological data, the monophyly of this group with the exception of M. callista was established. Morphologically, M. callista is closely related to M. brucei, M. javieri, M. hystrix and M. plexaura showing morphological differences in the shape of the rostrum, the supraocular spines, and the ridges on the epistome with respect to the genus Munida. Moreover, the analysis of the mitochondrial genes 16S rRNA and COI showed an independent and monophyletic lineage from the genus Munida. Therefore a new genus, Babamunida, is proposed to accommodate these five species, based on morphological characters and molecular data.
10.2307/1548563|Five species of Tortanus (Atortus) (Copepoda: Calanoida) were collected from shallow waters in Shijiki Bay, Shibushi Bay, and the Ryukyu Islands, South Japan, among which two are newly described. They are: T. (A.) digitalis, new species, T. (A.) erabuensis, T. (A.) longipes, T. (A.) rubidus, and T. (A.) ryukyuensis, new species. The subgenus Atortus is distributed mainly in tropical or subtropical coastal waters in the Indo-West Pacific region, and each species seems to have a restricted distribution. Twelve of the 16 known species of Atortus are assigned to 4 species groups based on morphological characters and distribution patterns. Direct observations by SCUBA diving revealed that some species of Atortus form swarms near the bottom, at least during the daytime.
1549486| In Brazil the genera Acetes H. Milne Edwards, 1830, and Peisos Burkenroad, 1945, are represented by three species and one subspecies: Acetes americanus americanus, Acetes paraguayensis, Acetes marinus, and Peisos petrunkevitchi. Acetes paraguayensis occurs in freshwater in affluents of the Amazon and Paraguay Rivers. Acetes marinus occurs in oceanic and estuarine waters of Suriname and northern Brazil, is reported from Par (Tocantins River), and is recorded for the first time from Amap. Acetes americanus americanus is found throughout Brazilian coastal waters. The range of Peisos petrunkevitchi is extended from Rio de Janeiro (2229S, 4147W), Brazil, to Chubut, 44S, Argentina. 
10.2307/1548280|Ovigerous females of Crangon nigricauda were captured in Humboldt Bay, California, and their larvae were reared in the laboratory. A larval form intermediate in morphological complexity between previously described zoea V and postlarva was discovered. The new form, an "early megalopa," is described. There are no discrete morphological "stages" in the ontogeny of C. nigricauda after instar III when independence of ecdysis and morphogenesis becomes apparent. Variable larval development of C. nigricauda is discussed in terms of relative maturity of individual larvae of the same age. During development, the natatory exopods of the thoracic appendages gradually degenerate as the pleopods differentiate, resulting in a gradual transition in swimming emphasis: from strictly thoracic (zoeae), to thoracic-abdominal (megalopae), to strictly abdominal (juveniles). The spiraling swimming behavior exhibited by zoeae of C. nigricauda is not the result of an antagonistic effect of respiratory ventilation currents on swimming speed. Rather, it is a dynamic behavior exhibited by healthy zoeae that probably helps maintain a relatively fixed vertical position in the water column, thereby possibly aiding in escape from predation.
1549832| An actin-encoding cDNA of the kuruma shrimp (Marsupenaeus japonicus) was cloned from a hemocyte cDNA library. To obtain the full length of actin cDNA, a partial cDNA fragment of 517 bp was isolated by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) from poly (A)<sup>+</sup> RNA derived from hemocytes and used as a probe for plaque hybridization. The full actin cDNA was 1,327 bp in length, encoding 376 amino acid residues. The deduced amino acid sequence had 100% identity to that of -actin from the Pacific white shrimp Litopenaeus vannamei, and extremely high similarity to the sequences of actins in other vertebrates and invertebrates. The cDNA fragments of the actin were amplified by RT-PCR from all organs tested: lymphoid organ, stomach, hepatopancreas, heart, kidney, muscle, eye, ovary, and testis. 
10.2307/1548749|The genus Protorchestia Bousfield (Amphipoda: Talitridae) is recorded in Tasmania for the first time, and a new species, P. lakei, is described. A key to the 3 known species of Protorchestia is provided, and the diversity of Tasmanian Talitridae is described in terms of Bousfield's informal classification.
1549397|Streptocephalus sirindhornae, new species, the first freshwater anostracan from Thailand, is widespread in the northeast of the country. It is morphologically closest to the Indian species S. dichotomus, but a sequence analysis of its SSU rDNA gene reveals that its closest relative is in fact the Indian species-pair S. dichotomus-S. simplex, that it is probably a conserved member of the S. dichotomus-group, and that it shares some relationship with the S. torvicornis-group.
10.2307/1548044|Larvae of the blue crab Callinectes arcuatus were reared in the laboratory through eight zoeal and one megalopal stage. The number of maxilliped setae characterizing each zoeal stage was identical to that for Callinectes sapidus. Survival and rate of development of the zoeae and megalopae was high compared to published results for C. sapidus. Mean duration of development of C. arcuatus from hatching to Crab Stage 1 was 69.3 days and survival was 16.2%. Megalopae surviving to Crab Stage 1 were reared to Crab Stage 7. Linear increments in carapace width were measured at each molt, and the total time of development from Crab Stage 1 to maturity was calculated to be 301 days.
1549726|A new family, Pylojacquesidae, is proposed for Pylojacquesia colemani, new genus and species. Although the new family, with its monotypic genus, exhibits characters of both superfamilies of the Section Paguridea, it is tentatively assigned to the Paguroidea until additional material becomes available that would permit a more detailed study. The new family Pylojacquesidae is diagnosed, and its type genus and species are described and illustrated. The possible phylogenetic relationships of the new genus are discussed. A key to all the families of hermit crabs is presented.
10.2307/1549328| Feeding and growth in wet weight of the red king crab Paralithodes camtschaticus were studied under laboratory conditions for 4 months from September 1993 to January 1994. Crabs were divided into 3 groups: ovigerous females, juvenile females, and mature males. Food consumption (gd<sup>-1</sup>) significantly increased with crab wet weight (W), while feeding rate (FR, gkg<sup>-1</sup> d<sup>-1</sup>), weight-standardized food consumption, decreased significantly with crab weight. The relationship of FRW significantly differed between ovigerous females and juvenile females and males, but not between juvenile females and males, and can be expressed as FR = 70.9 - 0.017 W (P < 0.001) for ovigerous females, FR = 64.1 - 0.017 W (P < 0.001) for juvenile females and males. Crabs ceased feeding during molting, and feeding rates were significantly lower between 12 days before and 8 days after ecdysis than during the nonmolting period. Molted male crabs rapidly increased weight after molt. Their growth rate averaged 412.3 gkg<sup>-1</sup>  89.6 SD (wet weight) and decreased with crab weight. Among unmolted crabs, growth rates significantly differed between ovigerous females (66.6 gkg<sup>-1</sup>  19.4 SD), juvenile females (50.4 gkg<sup>-1</sup>  14.5 SD), and males (5.2 gkg<sup>-1</sup>  4.0 SD). 
10.2307/1549531|A new porcellanid genus, Novorostrum, is proposed for three species, Petrolisthes indicus de Man, 1893 (type species), and two new species, N. decorocrus and N. phuketensis, with detailed descriptions provided for each species. This genus is distinguishable from other porcellanid genera by the combination of the following characteristics: (1) the carapace with uneven gastric and branchial regions, with each region divided into several parts by grooves and sinuses; (2) the distinctly trilobate rostrum, its median lobe with lateral elevations; and (3) the ocular peduncle distinctly broader than the cornea in dorsal view. Novorostrum decorocrus, new species, has been treated as an intraspecific variation of N. indicum (as Petrolisthes indicus) by Nakasone and Miyake (1968). However, their specimens possess several distinct morphological features recognized as specifically valid. They are: (1) the subtrapezoidal carapace in dorsal view; (2) the carpus of the chelipeds with small spinelike teeth on the dorsoflexor margin; (3) the chela, and the merus, carpus, and propodus of the ambulatory legs with blunt teeth on the extensor margin; and (4) the chela provided with a weak, crenulated longitudinal ridge along the extensor margin on the dorsal surface. The second new species, N. phuketensis, is distinguished from N. indicum and N. decorocrus by the following: (1) the median lobe of the rostrum with weak lateral elevations; and (2) the subtriangular dorsal extension onto the cornea of the ocular peduncles.
10.2307/1549101| Both oxygen consumption (O<sub>2</sub> mg/g/h) and ammonia-N excretion (mg/g/h) by juveniles of Penaeus chinensis Osbeck (0.315  0.062 g) were higher at 25C than at 15C at salinities of 15, 20, 25, and 30 ppt. At both temperatures (15 and 25C) measured at 15, 20, 25, and 30 ppt, oxygen consumption was highest at 30 ppt and lowest at 20 ppt. Ammonia-N excretion decreased with increasing salinity from 15-30 ppt at 15 and 25C. The change in the ratio of oxygen consumed to nitrogen excreted by atom according to the increase of salinity indicated a shift in nutrient utilization from protein-dominated to lipid-dominated metabolism that was more marked at 15C than at 25C. 
10.2307/1548395|Recent collections from the central North Pacific provide evidence that the mysterious supergiant amphipod seen in deep-sea photographs from the North Pacific (Hessler et al., 1972) is Alicella gigantea. These specimens confirm that Alicella gigantea is the only known amphipod from the Pacific that has the same appearance and reaches the size of the supergiant amphipod reported by Hessler et al. (1972). The supergiant specimens from the Pacific differ morphologically in two ways from the Atlantic specimens, heretofore based on two individuals described in 1899. These taxonomic differences, which appear to be due to changes associated with maturation, are described and a key to Atlantic and Pacific specimens is provided. Various aspects of the natural history of A. gigantea are discussed from the results of our morphological analyses and from unpublished observations.
10.2307/1548162|A new genus, Onycocaridella, is proposed for a new species of pontoniine shrimp found inhabiting the sponge Mycale sulcata Hentschel at 12 m on Wistari Reef, Heron Island, Queensland, Australia. The new species O. prima is described and illustrated. Two species of the genus Onycocaris, O. stenolepis Holthuis and O. monodoa Fujino and Miyake, are transferred to the new genus. The relationship of Onycocaridella to other genera of sponge-associated pontoniine shrimps (Onycocaris, Periclimenaeus and Typton) is discussed, and a key to the species of Onycocaridella is provided.
10.2307/1549239| The ability of Palaemonetes pugio to consume microalgae in marshes of Spartina alterniflora was examined in field collections and laboratory experiments. Photosynthetic pigment (chlorophyll a and phaeopigments) content in P. pugio was measured after shrimp exoskeletons were removed to ensure that pigments were primarily from gut contents. Gut pigment was detectable in all 88 field-collected specimens examined, and was found at high levels in many individuals (much higher than shrimp starved for 24 h). Pigment content was positively correlated with shrimp size and was highly variable. Adults contained from 0.056-3.03 and subadults from 0.016-2.41 g pigment shrimp<sup>-1</sup>, 14% of which was in the form of chlorophyll a. Highest pigment levels were associated with adult grass shrimp collected at 1500 h; pigment content at 0300 h was significantly lower. The ability of P. pugio to consume microalgae from various sources was examined in the laboratory with <sup>14</sup>C-labeled microalgae and gut-pigment analysis. Palaemonetes pugio consumed two species of cultured, <sup>14</sup>C-labeled phytoplankton, but with low efficiency at even very high concentrations. For Thalassiosira weissflogii, 2.5%, and for Isochrysis galbana, 0.07% of the available cells were consumed in 1-h trials at high concentrations of algae. Unvegetated, mudflat sediment (with a high abundance of benthic algae) was collected and labeled with <sup>14</sup>C bicarbonate. Incorporation of label above background was detected in a low percentage of shrimp, and average grazing rates were very low (near detection limits), suggesting that grass shrimp are not efficient grazers of the microphytobenthos. Spartina alterniflora stems with <sup>14</sup>C-labeled epiphytic algae were also offered to grass shrimp. Grazing was highly efficient (a substantial fraction of the available epiphytic algae was consumed), and pigment content was similar to field-collected shrimp. These results suggest that microalgae may significantly contribute to the diet of grass shrimp, and that a likely source for the photosynthetic pigments in the gut contents of field-collected P. pugio is the epiphytic algae on stems of Spartina alterniflora. 
10.2307/1548304|A new species of calanoid copepod Pontella rostraticauda (family Pontellidae) is described based on specimens collected in surface waters of the Inland Sea of Japan. Due to its neustonic character, this species may have been overlooked by previous investigators. The gut content analysis revealed that this species feeds on a wide variety of foods, including both zooplankters and phytoplankters, and can be classified as an omnivorous copepod. The new species is closely allied to P. surrecta Wilson and P. alata Scott and is distinguished from them by the shape of the female urosome and the fifth legs of both sexes. Several derived characters shared by the three species and their geographical distributions provide the basis for proposing the Pontella alata species group as a unique radiation within the genus. Species of this lineage tend to occur in coastal waters around those oceanic islands comprising the western rim of the tropical Pacific. The group occurs north to southern Japan and south to the Great Barrier Reef.
10.2307/1548587|We examined fossilized compound eyes of the schizochroal design from 2 species of phacopid trilobites, Phacops rana crassituberculata and Phacops rana milleri. Lens diameters and optical axis orientations were determined for all ommatidial units in both eyes of 2 individuals of each species. The results were analyzed according to the theory of optimal compound eye design developed by Snyder (1977) and Snyder et al. (1977), for comparison with the compound eyes of modern arthropods, particularly marine species inhabiting similar environments. We determined that schizochroal eyes of these species, as well as other schizochroal eyes described in the literature, apparently do not conform to this theory, which properly applies to compound eyes having a single rhabdomal light-collecting unit for each lens. Instead, schizochroal compound eyes probably acted as an assemblage of simple eyes with extended retinas and overlapping visual fields. Such a design offers unique possibilities for visual analysis of color, form, and depth, and is fundamentally different from that of any compound eye now in existence.
20487792|The tolerance of spiny lobster J. edwardsii phyllosoma to the effects of increasing levels of ammonia was assessed at Stages I to IV of larval development. The median lethal concentration (96-h LC) for total ammonia (and corresponding NH-N) were 31.6 (0.97) mg l, 45.7 (1.40) mg l, 52.1 (1.59) mg l, and 35.5 (1.01) mg l at Stage I, II, III and IV, respectively. When Stage II larvae were cultured through to Stage III at total ammonia concentrations of 0.5 (control), 1.4, 3.8, 6.3 and 9.5 mg l, the intermoult period increased significantly at and above 6.3 mg l (from 11.2 days in controls to 13.2 days at 9.5 mg l). Thus, the no-observable-effect-concentration (NOEC) of total ammonia (and corresponding NH-N) at Stage II of 3.8 mg l (0.12 mg l) was used as the divisor in the acute:chronic ratio (i.e., 96-h LC  NOEC) to estimate the concentrations at Stages I, III, and IV, which were 2.7 (0.08) mg l, 4.4 (0.14) mg l, and 3.0 (0.09) mg l, respectively. These results provide the basis for the design and management of systems for the culture of larval J. edwardsii.
10.2307/1548850|Phronima, Lycaea, and Vibilia are 3 different genera of hyperiid amphipods that differ greatly in external morphology, ecology, and possibly phyletic history. These 3 genera have 4 distinct morphological types of sensilla arranged in bilaterally symmetrical, serially homologous sets on successive body segments. Vibilia has all 4 morphological types and the greatest density of sensilla. Phronima has 2 morphological types but the fewest number of sensilla. Lycaea has only 1 hair type that is distributed on every segment. One sensilla type ("fluted hair" on Vibilia) has not been previously reported. The probable functions of these sensory hairs is discussed in relation to other crustacean sensilla.
1549822| Hermit crabs were collected over 13 years from different habitats in the coastal lagoons of Trminos, Alvarado, Tamiahua, and Madre in the southwestern Gulf of Mexico. The distribution, habitat, relative abundance, shield-length data, and zoogeographical affinities of each of the ten species are presented. A zoogeographical analysis assigned the species to four distribution patterns: Eurytopic (Clibanarius vittatus, Petrochirus diogenes, Paguristes tortugae, Pagurus criniticornis); Endemic to the Gulf of Mexico (Paguristes hernancortezi); Warm-Temperate Caribbean (P. hummi, Pagurus maclaughlinae); and Warm-Temperate (P. annulipes, P. longicarpus, P. pollicaris). Five species extend their previously recorded distribution southward, and eight species are now recorded further south within the Gulf of Mexico. 
10.2307/1549369|Chromosome numbers were obtained from eggs of Penaeus vannamei and Penaeus californiensis. They had 2n = 88 chromosomes. This was confirmed by the haploid chromosome number of n = 44 in testes. No evident karyological difference was observed between these species, in which 4 metacentric, 10 submetacentric, 56 subtelocentric, and 18 acrocentric chromosomes were observed. To obtain mitotic metaphase chromosomes from marine shrimp eggs, 2 methods are described. The effect of colchicine incubation for chromosome condensation was investigated.
1549586|The interaction of freshwater, seawater, and limestone creates the unique environment of the anchialine cave. Anchialine cave systems are characterized by the presence of several strong density interfaces that isolate the cave system into components: regions of freshwater at the surface, a hydrogen sulfide layer, and a warm oceanic intrusion that is devoid of oxygen. These unusual physical parameters provide a challenging environment for the organisms that reside there. Within the hypoxic and anoxic regions of the cave system, a unique community of macrofauna has adapted to cope with constant low oxygen conditions and a depauperate food supply. We examined respiration rates and proximate compositions of individuals representing seven orders of troglobitic crustaceans collected from two Bahamian anchialine caves. In addition, we examined the physical conditions of both caves to determine ambient oxygen concentrations. Mass-specific respiration rates of the troglobites were more than an order of magnitude lower than those of comparably sized pelagic crustaceans. When compared to organisms residing in oxygen minimum zones, respiration rates of the troglobites were similar, or in some cases, lower. Enzymes of the troglobites were anaerobically poised with lactate dehydrogenase activities exceeding those of citrate synthase in all species. Malate dehydrogenase activities were greater than lactate dehydrogenase activities, indicating further evolutionary adaptations to an anaerobic environment.
41315740|The genus Parvulobathynella Schminke, 1973a, presently contains six species: three each from South America and Africa. Two new species of this genus, viz. Parvulobathynella distincta n. sp. and Parvulobathynella projectura n. sp., collected in the interstitial banks of the Rivers Krishna and Godavari in the southeastern India, are described and illustrated and their taxonomie position in the genus Parvulobathynella is discussed. To accommodate the Indian species, the generic diagnosis of Parvulobathynella is amended based, among other things, on the mandibular features such as the size and arrangement of molar teeth. The salient morphologic characters and their various states in the species of Parvulobathynella are reviewed. A note on the ecology and biogeography of the species is added. The monophyletic status of the family Leptobathynellidae is also briefly discussed.
41315715|Description of a new genus and species of crayfish from the Eocene McAbee beds in southern British Columbia, Canada, marks the first occurrence of Parastacoidea Huxley, 1879, in the Northern Hemisphere. The superfamily is widely distributed in modern aquatic environments in the Southern Hemisphere, except in Africa and Antarctica, as well as in Australia, New Zealand, and South America in the fossil record. The occurrence of a single species in the Eocene of North America suggests a Cretaceous or Paleogene dispersal from the Southern Hemisphere through eastern Asia. Remarkable preservation of the specimens reveals traces of muscles, the endophragmal skeleton, and the intestinal tract.
1549807| Macrophthalmus boteltobagoe (Sakai, 1939) is shown to be specifically distinct from M. holthuisi Serne, 1973. The two species differ in many morphological characters and, as well, are shown to prefer different habitats--M. boteltobagoe lives in holes in limestone and scrapes algae for food, whereas M. holthuisi lives on soft mud around mangroves and is a sediment feeder. These different feeding strategies are reflected in the structure and setation of the claws, and in the conformation of the gastric mills. 
10.2307/1548744|The porcellanid genera Petrolisthes and Polyonyx are shown to have differing spermatozoal morphology reflecting an apparently natural division of the family previously suggested on adult and larval somatic morphology. Species investigated in the genus Petrolisthes have spermatozoa with a globular nucleus and autapomorphic opercular ridge and tubular ring structure within the acrosomal vesicle. Spermatozoa of Polyonyx transversus (Haswell) have a long "taillike" nucleus penetrated throughout by a central microtubular core. This latter spermatozoal morphology is shared with other members investigated in the "Porcellana-group," (Aliaporcellana and Pisidia). All the Porcellanidae investigated share a suite of spermatozoal characters that unite them (superior acrosomal vesicle; broad, centrally perforate operculum; 4 or more external microtubular arms; perforatorial chamber wall folded into corrugations or septa; dense perforatorial cone; posterior perforatorial ring and divided inner acrosome zone). A unique spermatophore morphology, consisting of a tubular extension of the anterior end of the ampulla, is described for representatives in the genus Petrolisthes.
10.2307/1549194|A new calanoid copepod, Fosshagenia ferrarii, new genus, new species, was found in plankton samples collected in an anchialine cave of Caicos Islands, Bahamas. A combination of features found in this species separates it as the type of a new superfamily. The new taxon can be distinguished by a combination of several relevant taxonomic characteristics, such as the fusion of antennular segments 8 and 9, the right antennule modified in the male, less than 3 endopodal segments on the first legs, the presence of a uniramous female fifth leg, a male fifth leg forming a complex grasping organ, reduced mouthparts, and the presence of only 1 seta on the middle endopodal segment of legs 3 and 4. The new taxon appears to be more closely related to fresh- and brackish-water forms (Centropagoidea) than to any other hitherto known anchialine copepod group. The type species can be distinguished by the presence of lateral processes on the genital double-somite of the female and on the first urosomal somite of the male. It is the smallest of the known anchialine calanoid species. This small species, a predator in the water column, diverges from other anchialine copepods which are bottom-dwellers.
1549665|Herein, we detail several important life-history parameters of the banded coral shrimp, Stenopus hispidus, a popular marine ornamental shrimp. Among the life history parameters described are 1) size at settlement, 2) molt interval, 3) post-settlement mortality and movement, 4) growth, and 5) relative fecundity. Overall, we document the effects of body size on several life-history parameters. Molt interval increased and growth increments declined as shrimp body size increased. Furthermore, mortality was size-specific in S. hispidus; large individuals had higher survival rates than smaller individuals. We also show that variation in size at settlement of S. hispidus in the upper Florida Keys, U.S.A., was much smaller than that found in previous studies from other parts of the world. Based on field measures of size at settlement, molting probability, and growth increment per molt, we developed a crustacean growth model, which included discontinuous growth and natural variability in the parameters. With it, we describe expected patterns of growth and post-settlement age for S. hispidus in the upper Florida Keys. Finally, we document positive relationships among female body size, egg mass volume, and egg number.
10.2307/1548593|The complete larval sequence, megalopa, and early juvenile stages of Pagurus kennerlyi (Stimpson), a member of the capillatus group, are described from laboratory-reared specimens. Development consisted of four zoeal and one megalopal stage. No prezoeal stage was observed. Of the broods obtained from three females, approximately one-third of zoeal stages III and IV from one female exhibited developmental abnormalities, particularly in the second maxilliped. These abnormalities were presumed to be caused by genetic misfortune. Comparisons are made among species of pagurid and diogenid crabs for which juvenile descriptions exist.
10.2307/1547900|Zooplankton samples from the Sacramento-San Joaquin Estuary collected by the California Department of Fish and Game and the United States Geological Survey were examined for cyclopoid copepods of the family Oithonidae. Of the three species found, Limnoithona sinensis, Oithona davisae, new species, and O. similis, the first two are described here. Limnoithona sinensis, like its congener L. tetraspina, has been previously reported from delta localities in the Yangtze River, China. In general morphology O. davisae is similar to many estuarine/lagoonal oithonids of temperate and tropical American coastal waters. Two characters, an elongate ventrally pointed rostrum and/or a long distal spine on the inner lobe of the first maxilla, suggest affinities to the Indo-West Pacific estuarine species O. brevicornis, O. aruensis, and O. wellershausi. In the northern hemisphere O. similis is a common subarctic oceanic species. Specimens have also been reported from estuarine areas. Zooplankton samples taken in coastal estuarine localities from Humboldt Bay south to Baja California were examined to determine the distribution of these three species. O. similis was the only species found.
10.2307/1548797|The calanoid copepod Eurytemora is reported from several new inland localities, principally in the southern Great Plains of the United States. A review of zoogeographical information suggests that the recent spread of this copepod has been facilitated by human activities. The variety of mechanisms implicated in the invasion and persistence of Eurytemora in inland waters highlights its considerable ecological flexibility. Large reservoirs with relatively saline water present an ecological profile suitable for colonization. Many such reservoirs exist in the southern Great Plains.
1549825| The complete embryonic development of the mangrove crabs Goniopsis pulchra and Aratus pisonii is described based on morphological features observable in live eggs. Periods of development are defined in steps of 48 hours each and in relation to the time of embryonic development. Eight periods were described and illustrated for Aratus pisonii and nine for Goniopsis pulchra. Embryo development from recently spawned eggs to hatching lasted 14 days for Aratus pisonii and 15 for Goniopsis pulchra at 26-28C. The embryonic development of the two species was very similar; growth was synchronous, appendages were formed during the same periods, complexity of abdominal and ocular processes were chronologically comparable. Goniopsis pulchra eggs were slightly larger, while in Aratus pisonii the digestive gland was easier to observe in later periods and the telson grew larger. Cromatophores were more evident in Aratus pisonii embryos, especially those of the telson. 
4540314|The effects of preventing female helmet crabs, Telmessus cheiragonus from mating during one breeding season on egg production and egg viability were assessed by investigating the egg clutches of the females isolated from males. A total of 38 females and 18 males were collected in April before the mating peak in 1996 and 1997 in the sublittoral zones of Usujiri, southern Hokkaido, Japan. Eighteen females were held together with 18 males (mating group) and 20 females were isolated from males (non-mating group) during about 7 months of captivity. Subsequently, 11 females of the mating group molted, copulated and produced an egg clutch, and 10 females of the non-mating group molted and spawned without mating. Egg clutch weight and egg diameter did not differ significantly between these two groups. There was also no significant difference in the percentage of viable eggs in an egg clutch between the groups. These results show that preventing female T. cheiragonous from mating during one breeding season has no effect on either clutch size or % viable eggs in a clutch. Sperm storage over one mating season in this species may be advantageous because it allows multiparous females, especially larger ones which could molt and copulate less frequently, to ensure their eggs will be fertilized.
20487730|Knowing important aspects of life history, such as size at sexual maturity, growth rate, and size at age, is critical for understanding species' population dynamics. For harvested organisms, these life-history characteristics are important in assessing the efficacy of fishery regulations. We used a 15-year database on stone crabs (genus Menippe) inhabiting west-central Florida waters to estimate these life-history aspects. Transition points in crusher-claw propodus length (PL):CW allometry and discriminant function analysis indicated that 50% morphological maturity (CW) occurred at approximately 70 mm CW for males and 60 mm CW for females. Patterns in the proportions of physiologically mature (gravid) and functionally mature (ovigerous) females in 10-mm-CW size-classes followed the female morphological maturity pattern. The CW was significantly smaller than the mean size at behavioral maturity (participation in mating) in males (86 mm CW), but was not in females (62 mm CW). In both sexes, PL:CW allometry also shifted at 30-35 mm CW, allowing us to define three life stages: small juvenile, large juvenile, and adult. Male PL:CW allometry increased dramatically in adulthood, whereas adult-female PL:CW allometry remained the same as that of large juvenile females. Molt frequency decreased with increasing size in both sexes; molt increment increased with increasing size in males but increased only up to CW in females. Adult males and females molt annually in cycles dictated by female reproduction. Males enter the commercial fishery during age three and females during age four. Females have contributed to the reproductive population prior to entering the fishery, but most males probably have not.
1549221|A total of 24 morphological abnormalities associated with the Runt-Deformity Syndrome (RDS) is reported for the first time in 17- to 18-mo old F<sub>3</sub> generation Penaeus monodon (>40 mm CL) belonging to three breeding families. Although diagnosed as positive for the infectious hypodermal and hematopoietic necrosis virus (IHHNV), the shrimp appeared normal at 9 to 10 mo when they were procured from a commercial facility in Antique, central Philippines, in September 1996. The abnormalities affected either specific shrimp organs and appendages (e.g., rostrum, antennae, uropods) or the whole body (e.g., shell color and hardness). A two-way analysis of variance was used to evaluate differences in the morphometric characters rostral length (RL), carapace length (CL), abdominal length (AL), body length (BL), total length (TL), carapace width (CW), 1st abdominal segment width (AS<sub>1</sub>W), and body weight (BW) and the morphometric ratios RL:CL, CL:AL, and CW: AS<sub>1</sub>W by sex and stock (3 families and wild controls). Female P. monodon had significantly larger CL, AL, BL, TL, CW, and BW than males, regardless of stock. Wild females had longer BL and TL than cultured ones, whereas wild male shrimp had shorter CL, CW, and BW than cultured male P. monodon. Cultured shrimp had significantly higher CL:AL and CW: AS<sub>1</sub>W ratios and lower RL:CL ratio compared to wild P. monodon. The shorter and narrower abdomen relative to the carapace gave the shrimp a "runted" or dwarf appearance characteristic of RDS earlier described in Litopenaeus vannamei with IHHNV. Confirmed by parallel studies, IHHNV infection of the cultured P. monodon may account for their cuticular deformities, slower growth, and smaller sizes. The appearance of deformities in older (and bigger) P. monodon suggests that RDS expression is dependent on age and size. Examination for external abnormalities and evaluation of the three morphometric ratios may complement existing screening protocols for diseases and growth rates in shrimp breeding programs. Cultured giant tiger prawn also had lower sperm count, greater proportion of dead and abnormal sperm, and lower incidence of mating (absence of sperm in thelyca) compared to wild P. monodon.
10.2307/1548188| Synalpheus scaphoceris Coutire, 1910, can be distinguished from the closely related S. townsendi Coutire, 1909, by the strongly produced ventral rostral process, the blunt dorsodistal process of major pereiopod 1 and the absence of appendices internae on the pleopods of the male. Male-female pairs of S. scaphoceris were associated only with individuals of Madracis decactis (Lyman, 1857), a scleractinian coral, in samples from the Florida Middle Ground. Ovigerous females were present in fall and summer but not in winter samples. Juveniles were present in fall and winter but not in summer samples. The first zoeal stage of S. scaphoceris is figured. 
4540244|Populations of the North American cryptic species complex of Acanthocylops vernalis (Fischer 1853) (Copepoda) possess unusually variable karyotypes and levels of reproductive isolation, but are difficult to discern morphologically. We established nine isofemale lines derived from four local and geographically isolated pond populations from Wisconsin and three isofemale lines from a lake in Ohio to explore the variability and relationships of chromosome numbers, genome sizes, and similarity of ribosomal DNA sequences. Five karyotypes (2n = 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10) were observed, although genome sizes were remarkably consistent. A 593 bp region of the 18S ribosomal gene was identical in four Wisconsin and three Ohio lines, but differed among five Wisconsin lines. This variability in 18S rDNA sequences among lines, which is uncharacteristic for well defined cyclopoid species, was used to construct a network of relationships among the isofemale lines. Mapping chromosome number onto this network revealed a cluster of lineages with variable chromosome numbers and a cluster with consistent chromosome number, although the overall pattern was more complex than this. Although 4-5 bivalents were observed in oocytes of the progeny from one isofemale line from Ohio, progeny of the latter had smaller genomes than any of the Wisconsin lines. All Wisconsin and Ohio lines lacked chromatin diminution, a trait previously attributed to some populations of A. vernalis by Standiford (1989, Genetika 79: 207-214) and Akifiev (1974, Priroda (USSR) 9: 49-54). Occurrence of chromosomal aberrations among disjunct populations may account for the unusual genetic variability of this species complex. Such differentiation also may be accelerated in fragmented habitats where genetic isolation seems to be recent and recurrent.
1549598|The premoult stages of Carcinus maenas (L.) megalopae were described from laboratory-reared larvae. Characterization of the premoult stage sequence was based upon a time sequence of morphological modifications of the distal segment of the second maxilliped, the uropod, and the telson. An intermoult plus seven premoult stages were identified, following a sequence of morphological modifications similar to the one described in previous studies of brachyuran decapods. The later premoult stages D<sub>3</sub> and D<sub>4</sub> mentioned by Drach were not observed, possibly owing to both the low calcification of the megalopae cuticle and the short duration of these moult stages. The knowledge of the time series of moult events will assist in the evaluation of the development state and competence of megalopae throughout the several phases of dispersal and recruitment, based on the observation of their morphological characters.
10.2307/1549423|An entoniscid isopod, Tiarinion texopallium, new species, is described from majid crabs in the genus Tiarinia. Until now, the genus Tiarinion consisted of a single species, found from Japan and Australia. The new species is the second member of the family Entoniscidae to be described from Australia, and the first to be described from the Great Barrier Reef. The female of the new species can be distinguished from Tiarinion fulvus by the number and arrangement of the ovarian processes; the male, by the body segmentation, spination of the pereiopods, and the distinct lack of abdominal spines. The epicaridium of the new species can be distinguished from that of T. fulvus by the well-developed antennule, the spination of the antennae and pereiopods, and the facies of the unusual sixth pereiopod. The cryptoniscium larva has an unusual antennule that is highly modified as an apparent clasping or cutting appendage. The cryptoniscium also possesses unusual epipodal (?) spines on the antennae and pereiopods. The new species of Tiarinion was found in 3.2% (7/216) of the population of Tiarinia spp. on the Lizard Island reef complex, but none (0/15) of the crabs on the Heron Island reef complex. Double infestations were not observed, nor were double infestations with other crustacean parasites.
10.2307/1548004|Length to weight and other morphometric relationships were examined and the effects of preservatives on Meganyctiphanes norvegica and Thysanoessa inermis (Euphausiacea) from the Bay of Fundy were described. Weight increased exponentially with length, showing no significant difference between sexes. The relationships between two different total length measurements and carapace length are given so that studies from other areas using any of these three measurements can be compared. The change in slope of the line for the carapace to total length relationship for 0 and 1 year class animals revealed a change in body allometry, i.e., abdominal growth was reduced in the second year. A series of 14 weight change relationships from fresh to formalin through alcohol to dry weight demonstrated significant weight loss and change in total length depending on preservative or combination of preservatives used. Carapace length was found to be a better measurement than total length because no shrinkage occurred when exposed to preservatives nor was it susceptible to damage. A biochemical analysis of a sample of M. norvegica taken in August yielded a 79% water content, 56.0% protein, 13.1% lipid, and 15.8% ash, the last three values as a percentage of dry weight.
10.2307/1548927|The androgenic glands, which are epithelial endocrine glands of Crustacea, are known to control differentiation and functioning of the male sexual characteristics. In the crayfish Procambarus clarkii (Decapoda, Reptantia), however, the function of this gland is not clear. In the present study, the relationships among development of the testis, secondary sexual characteristics (i.e., the copulatory appendages), and the androgenic gland in male crayfish were observed. Morphological differentiation of the first and second pairs of abdominal appendages (i.e., the copulatory appendages) of male crayfish were divided into 5 stages, from stage A to stage E. At stage A, the androgenic glands had already appeared. The male characteristics of external morphology appeared on the abdominal appendages at stage A also. At stage B, the glands were small and had the appearance of an extended string. From stage B to stage C, the number of androgenic gland cells increased, and the gland cells were large. At stages B and C, the first and second abdominal appendages were completely differentiated. Testes of crayfish with stage A appendages are immature. Increase in the number of spermatogonia at stage B, spermatogenesis at stage C, and release of spermatozoa from the testis at stage D, were observed. These results suggest androgenic gland control of differentiation, development of the testes, and secondary sexual characteristics.
10.2307/1547938|Numerous snail shells from Pago Bay, Guam, have yielded specimens of a new species of acrothoracican barnacle of the family Cryptophialidae. These barnacles are the first representatives of the order Acrothoracica known from Guam. The distinctive crownlike armament on the aperture of Cryptophialus coronophorus, new species, sets it apart from other species in the genus. Scanning electron microscopy reveals details of acrothoracican ultrastructure not previously reported.
4094230|Asymmetry in mutual predation can be important in species replacement between native and invasive species. Mutual predation between the endangered Japanese native crayfish species Cambaroides japonicus and the North American invasive crayfish Pacifastacus leniusculus was studied to assess the potential impact of P. leniusculus on C. japonicus. We made laboratory experiments to examine mutual predation (i) between individuals in pairs of the same and different species and (ii) among a group comprising single and mixed species. We also made field surveys to clarify the frequency of cannibalism of the two species. In laboratory experiments, the frequency of cannibalism was low by both two species, but predation by P. leniusculus on C. japonicus was severe and most P. leniusculus survived both in different species pairs and in mixed species groups. In field surveys, remains of the two crayfish species, which may have been caused by predation by the same species, i.e., cannibalism, were scanty. The results suggest that asymmetry in mutual predation can be an important cause of species replacement of the native C. japonicus by the invasive P. leniusculus in the field.
10.2307/1548209| During a study of the meiofauna of the southeastern United States continental shelf in 1977, a new species of Metacyclopina (Copepoda: Cyclopoida) was found in the top 15 cm sediment in many locations off South Carolina and Georgia. This new species, Metacyclopina improvisa, is described and compared with three other known species. A species key to males and females is included. /// Auf 9 Dauerprparaten befinden sich 7 Weibchen und 4 Mnnchen einer Metacyclopina, die mit keiner der bisher bekannten Arten identisch ist. Die Tiere wurden vom Ecological Services, Texas Instruments Incorporated, am Kontinentalschelf des Atlantik der sdstlichen Vereinigten Staaten gesammelt. Die Weibchen besitzen die fr das Genus typische schlanke Gestalt. Die beiden Antennenpaare und alle Mundgliedmassen stimmen in ihrem Bau, der Gliederzahl und der Bewehrung mit denen der bereits beschriebenen Arten berein. Das Analoperculum ist deutlich gezhnt. Das Endglied des Endopoditen 4 trgt beim Weibchen nur drei Borsten. Die Breite und Bewehrung des Endgliedes P5 unterscheidet die neue Art von den bisher bekannten. Das Mnnchen zeigt ebenfalls die typischen Merkmale der Gattung. Sein Analoperculum besitzt weniger und grbere Zhne. Das Endglied des Endopoditen 4 trgt, wie blich, vier Borsten. Die Anordnung der Borsten und Dornen am viergliedrigen P5 weicht von der der bekannten Arten ab. Die neue Art wird unter der Bezeichnung Metacyclopina improvisa sp. n. beschrieben und abgebildet. Ein kurzgefasster Schlssel soll die Bestimmung der Weibchen und Mnnchen der vier bis jetzt bekannten Arten ermglichen. 
10.2307/1549109| A single ovigerous female of Neopericlimenes thornei, new genus, new species, a small pontoniine shrimp, was recovered at a depth of 40 m from handnet sweepings of black coral colonies, Stichopathes sp. (Antipatharia). Collections were made on the fringing reef of Pine Cay, Turks and Caicos Islands, British West Indies (2153N, 7206W). Neopericlimenes is distinguished from all other palaemonid genera by the following combination of characters: (1) rostrum well developed, laterally compressed, deep, armed with dorsal teeth; (2) absence of posterolateral eaves; (3) presence of only branchiostegal spine on carapace; (4) second maxilla with endite reduced, distinctly shorter than endopod; (5) absence of an exopodal lash on first maxilliped; (6) presence of vestigial but distinctly recognizable exopod on second maxilliped; (7) absence of functional exopod on third maxilliped (exopod represented by minute indistinct nub); (8) second pereiopods equal, with small delicate chelae (similar in size to those of pereiopods 1); and (9) extreme length of sixth abdominal somite (about four times longer than fifth). 
10.2307/1549551|A new genus of the poecilostomatoid family Erebonasteridae is described from Vilkitzky Strait in the Arctic, the channel connecting the Kara Sea and the Laptev Sea. Within the Erebonasteridae, Nansennaster, new genus, belongs to the Centobnaster-group. The new genus is characterized by the presence of only 2 setae on the mandibular palp, the fusion of the second and third antennal segments, the presence of a single copulatory pore, and the relatively short furca lacking seta I. A previously overlooked sexual dimorphism in Centobnaster is described, the males of this genus having a modified outer spine on the third endopodal segment of leg 3. Amphicrossus tuerkayi, new species, is described from a deep-sea hydrothermal vent site in the northern Fiji basin. The new species has retained some remarkable plesiomorphic characters, such as an incompletely fused genital double-somite in the female, and 2 setae representing the endopod of the maxilla. An identification key to all known genera and species of the Erebonasteridae is provided.
1549173|The genus Macrobrachium, or river shrimps, is represented in the United States by 6 species: M. acanthurus, M. carcinus, M. faustinum, M. heterochirus, M. ohione, and M. olfersii. River shrimps are the largest fresh-water crustaceans in North America, and specimens of the largest species, M. carcinus, can be the size of lobsters. Most of these species are distributed among the southern states of the Gulf Coastal Plain, Mexico, and the Caribbean Islands. Macrobrachium ohione is known also from the Red River drainage in Arkansas and Oklahoma, and the Mississippi River--Ohio River drainage in Illinois, Indiana, and Ohio. Because of their complex amphidromous life cycle, populations of Macrobrachium are vulnerable to anthropogenic disturbances such as construction of impoundments, water pollution, commercial fishing, and introductions of exotic species. Preliminary data from Mississippi and Texas support the notion that populations of river shrimps are restricted by impoundments, and populations, in general, are in decline. A review of the species and a revised key are presented.
10.2307/1549111| Sudanonautes granulatus (Balss, 1929), a fresh-water crab from West Africa, is redescribed from type material and from a large series of other specimens. The species is recognized by a combination of characters of the carapace, chelipeds, and gonopods. It is compared to other species of Sudanonautes Bott, 1955, and to the other genera of fresh-water crabs occurring in West Africa. Sudanonautes granulata shows much intraspecific variation, and it is likely that this has contributed to past difficulties in recognizing this species. The distribution indicates that this species is restricted to the tropical rain forest zone of West Africa, from Cte d'Ivoire to Cameroon, including Bioko Island (Fernando Po). 
4094142|Stimuli involved in sexual attraction to and recognition of receptive females by males were investigated in the shrimp Palaemonetes pugio. Newly molted, prespawning (postmolt parturial) females are receptive and attractive to males. Males that make physical contact with a postmolt parturial female, usually with the long antennal flagella, react immediately and dramatically with copulatory behavior. Experiments using females sealed in glass containers suggest that visual stimuli are not important in mate recognition. To test the role of cuticular texture in sex attraction, males were exposed to females and males of different molting and reproductive states; copulatory responses were recorded. Males copulated with postmolt parturial females in a majority of replicates. Newly molted but nonparturial females, as well as newly molted males, evoked little copulatory response from males. Thus, the soft texture of a newly molted cuticle does not appear important in sex attraction. The duration of attractiveness of postmolt parturial females was measured by exposing them to males at known intervals after molting. There was a steady decline in attractiveness, with copulation in 80% of females within 2 h of the parturial molt, decreasing to 30% in 6-8 h after the molt. The behavioral evidence suggests that males are responding to an insoluble substance (contact sex pheromone) in or on the exoskeleton of the postmolt parturial female. Attempts were made to remove the substance mechanically by rubbing the exoskeleton of postmolt parturial females with small latex sponges, but males showed no response in bioassays. Cuticular hydrocarbons, glycoproteins, or other compounds secreted on the surface through pore canals or tegumental gland openings might serve as sex attractants. A contact sex pheromone in P. pugio and other carideans might also be a substance involved with sclerotization, calcification, or other such chemical changes occurring in the cuticle of the early postmolt parturial female.
4094187|The International Conference and Workshop on Lobster Biology and Management (ICWL) has been convened about every third year for the past 30 years. The first was a small workshop with 37 participants from the USA and Australia. More recently, meetings have attracted about 200 participants. Although the focus of the meetings is broadly "biology," the emphasis of each reflects both current hot topics and the major interests of the region where the meeting is being held. Recruitment issues dominated the first few, while mariculture and population assessments have been emphasized in the recent meetings. The impact of the meetings goes beyond communication of recent results. More than 300 peer-reviewed papers have been published in proceedings of the 7 meetings. A book resulting from the first meeting and proceedings from the second each have been cited more than 1000 times. Recommendations from workshops at the meetings frequently are followed, and collaborations appear to have sprung up. The ICWL clearly is a successful, and enduring, institution.
1549337| Although crayfishes can locomote effectively on land, their walking performance may be affected by ambient temperatures and by their body size and hydration state. We used a racetrack timing system and videotaping to monitor the speeds, stride lengths, and stride frequencies of Orconectes rusticus in relation to body mass at temperatures of 15, 20, 25, 30, and 35C. We similarly evaluated the locomotor performances of crayfish subjected to desiccating conditions at 25C. Speed increased significantly with body mass with a scaling exponent of 0.18. This resulted primarily from a significant size-related increase in stride length. Walking speeds were greatest at the intermediate temperatures (25 and 30C). This relationship was almost entirely due to thermally dependent adjustments in stride frequency. The crayfish were relatively intolerant of water loss, and locomotion ceased at a mean loss of only 9% of their initial body mass. Walking speed decreased significantly with increasing water loss, due almost entirely to a progressive reduction in stride frequency. The risk of desiccation is a serious constraint to sustained terrestrial locomotion. This is especially true for small individuals, although the risk, relative to that of larger animals, is lessened somewhat by the shallow scaling of the speed versus mass relationship. Crayfish might also lessen exposure risk by restricting overland movements to favorable climatic conditions (i.e., moderate to warm temperatures and high humidities). 
10.2307/1548166|A description is given of the female and male of Kelleria corioensis, new species, taken in plankton samples from Corio Bay, Victoria, Australia. Further taxonomic remarks and figures are also provided for K. australiensis Bayly.
10.2307/1548887|Aggressive interactions and shelter possession were used to examine interspecific competition between Form I males of the sympatric crayfish species Procambarus clarkii and Procambarus zonangulus. Paired encounters were staged between heterospecifics, using a type of shelter shown to be equally preferred by both species. On Day 1, each heterospecific intruder encountered a resident P. clarkii or P. zonangulus, which had been occupying the shelter for the previous 24 h. Each pair remained in the resident's tank for 48 h after the initial encounter was settled, in order to determine subsequent shelter possession. Results indicated a significant prior residence advantage on Day 1 for resident P. clarkii, but not for resident P. zonangulus. Furthermore, on Days 2 and 3, resident and intruder P. clarkii were in possession of the shelters in a significantly higher proportion of cases than opponent P. zonangulus, reflecting an eventual species dominance advantage by P. clarkii. The influence of this competitive advantage on the differential prevalence of these species in the natural environment remains to be explored.
41315742|A phylogenetic analysis based upon 30 extinct and extant taxa of podotrematous brachyuran decapods using 74 characters shows that Podotremata sensu Guinot, 1977 is not monophyletic and results in a new classification for these crabs. Four new taxa are recognized at the section-level (Homoloida, Torynommoida, Etyoida, and Dakoticancroida) as well as two new families (Basinotopidae and Xandarocarcinidae). Dromiacea as historically defined is redefined herein to exclude Homoloidea. New generic names Noetlingocarcinus and Xandarocarcinus, and Seorsus millerae new combination also resulted from the work.
41315763|Leucothoid amphipods were investigated using nuclear 18S ribosomal DNA sequences. Analysis of sequences from eight species in two genera supported the current morphological species designations and the separation of the family into two clades. Additionally, an anamorph-leucomorph connection has been confirmed with molecular sequence data that demonstrated both morphologies conclusively belonged to the same species, Anamixis vanga Thomas, 1997. Analyses suggest that morphology is reflecting the genetic evolutionary history of the family. Levels of sequence divergence are compared for 18S rDNA and COI mitochondrial DNA in Leucothoidae.
41315735|The pandalid Heterocarpus vicarius is a deepwater shrimp, commercially exploited along the Pacific coast of Costa Rica and neighboring countries. The constant decrease of commercial landings in recent years has provoked an increasing concern about the sustainability of this deepwater resource. To facilitate an adequate management of H. vicarius, we examined 240 ovigerous females collected between 2004 and 2007. Females ranged in size between 29.4 and 45.4 mm carapace length and carried on average 15,008 newly-extruded eggs. To our best knowledge, the maximum of 33,549 eggs for H. vicarius is the highest number so far reported for any pandalid species. During embryogenesis, the average number of eggs decreased by 46.9%, while the average egg volume increased by 53.3%. Average egg volumes were statistically different between early (Stage I: 0.045 mm) and late (Stage III: 0.069 mm) development. The egg mass volume comprised on average 17.8% of the dry weight of ovigerous females (Stage I). Although fecundity increased significantly with female size, the relation between reproductive output (Stage I) and female size was not significant. We compare our results with those from other pandalids, especially with the closely-related H. reedi from Chilean waters.
4126719|A new species is described from the coast of Chile, Anchistylis watlingi. The new species can be discriminated from all other species of Anchistylis by the presence of a scalloped ridge from the dorsum to the anteroventral corner. The new species is most similar to A. notus Lomakina 1968 from Argentina, and A. waitei Hale 1945 from Australia. The new species has been collected from multiple locations, from the south of Chile to the north, corresponding roughly to the Peru-Chile marine biogeographic province, in depths from 0-30 m. A key to the species of Anchistylis is included.
1549912| Larval stages and the megalopa of Pachycheles serratus are fully described and illustrated on the basis of laboratory-reared materials collected from Margarita Island, Venezuela. Complete development of P. serratus includes two zoeal stages and the megalopal (decapodid) stage, cultured at a water temperature of 25C and salinity of 37. The first zoea lasts 5-6 days and the second lasts 8-10 days. A diagnostic character of the present species is the existence of a short mesial spine on the maxillular endopodite, unique among known zoeae of the genus Pachycheles. In addition, they can be distinguished from the first zoeae of P. laevidactylus and P. monilifer (western Atlantic congeners for which larval morphology is well-described) by size and ornamentation of the rostral spine, disposition of lateral spines on the abdominal somites, and setation of the maxilliped 3 in the second zoea. A comparative summary of zoeal morphology is provided for members of the genus Pachycheles. 
10.2307/1549447|Three species of Faughnia are recorded from material collected off the coast of Taiwan, F. haani, F. serenei, and F. formosae, new species. Faughnia formosae is the only species of the genus with 5 dorsal carinae on the telson lateral to the median carina. This species is abundant enough to be of some commercial importance in Taiwan. Three species of Faughnia are now known to occur in Taiwanese waters. A key to the 4 species of Faughnia is presented.
10.2307/1548491| All 6 naupliar stages of Paraleptastacus brevicaudatus Wilson, 1932, from a sandy intertidal beach of Helgoland Dne (North Sea), raised in the laboratory, are described in detail. As in other interstitial harpacticoid nauplii, the body form is elongate. Remarkable metamorphic changes throughout the naupliar phase provided a sufficient number of stage-specific characters for a key which allows the identification of the nauplius stages. 
1549490|The sexual system of the caridean genus Lysmata has been described until recently as protandric hermaphroditism, in which individuals change sex from male to female with increasing size. However, recent studies by Bauer and Holt (1998) and Fiedler (1998) have shown that female-phase individuals of at least two species are outcrossing simultaneous hermaphrodites, a sexual system described here as protandric simultaneous hermaphroditism (PSH). There is considerable variation in the ontogeny of protandric carideans, revealing an underlying flexibility in sex determination and development which has made PSH possible in at least some Lysmata spp. Possible costs and benefits of retention of male reproductive function in female-phase hermaphrodites are proposed. The PSH appears to be unique (to date) within the Decapoda and other Malacostraca to the caridean genus Lysmata and perhaps the related genus Exhippolysmata. It is puzzling that PSH has evolved in a group with such considerable variation in socio-ecological attributes: some Lysmata species are warm temperate, highly aggregated, with unspecialized (facultative) fish-cleaning hebavior while others are tropical species, occur at low density in hermaphrodite pairs associated with sea anemones, and are specialized fish cleaners. Description of sexual systems, costs/benefits of PSH, and socioecological attributes of Lysmata, considered in the context of a phylogeny of the group, will be necessary to understand how PSH evolved in Lysmata and why it has not evolved in other groups of protandric carideans.
10.2307/1548057| Locomotor activity of the aquatic/land crab Potamon potamios Olivier was studied at different temperatures and with reference to water balance conditions. Large crabs were diurnal more often than medium-sized ones. Both groups differed also in their activity pattern at different temperatures. Large crabs showed signs of a temperature adaptation as indicated by a drop in activity at high temperatures. Water loss up to 30C was minimal and could not be a factor affecting the behavior of the crabs. At higher temperatures water loss increased and could affect the activity pattern. 
10.2307/1547976|Metacirolana rotunda is recorded for the first time from Tanzania, East Africa. Metacirolana mbudya, new species, is figured and described. M. mbudya is distinguished by the presence of distinct processes on the dorsal surfaces of the posterior pereonites.
10.2307/1548467|The larvae of a second newly described species of the provenzanoi group of pagurid hermit crabs from the eastern Pacific have been reared in the laboratory from hatching through late juvenile stages. The 4 zoeal stages and 1 megalopal stage are described and illustrated. The larval characters of this species are compared with Pagurus vetaultae Harvey and McLaughlin, the first of the Pacific species of the group to be reared. Both species appear more closely related to some of the 5 Atlantic species than to one another.
10.2307/1547875|All 103 stone crabs reared from eggs of one left-handed and two right-handed female crabs were initially right-handed (side bearing crusher claw), but 88% of laboratory-reared juveniles whose crushers were removed reversed handedness on the first regenerative molt. Eight of 12 (67%) feral adult or pre-adult crabs reversed handedness on third or fourth molt following crusher loss, but only 5% (1 of 19) and 6% (1 of 16) reversed on the first and second molts, respectively. Reversal of handedness following claw loss by young juveniles is the most likely cause of the change from 100% initial right-handedness to 80% among older juveniles and sublegal (carapace width < 80 mm) adults in natural populations. The ratio is not altered in fished populations, probably because natural death occurs before most legal crabs can complete the number of molts (3 or more) required for adult claw reversal. No adult crab regained a normal stridulatory pattern on a regenerated claw, even after five postregenerative molts. Therefore, most, if not all, claws regenerated following initial claw harvest by the fishery should be recognizable as such in subsequent landings. Growth averaged 20% carapace width increase per molt for 94 laboratory molts of adult crabs; this was comparable to field growth increments in other studies.
10.2307/1548252| The life history of Anaspides tasmaniae inhabiting small subalpine pools in Tasmania is reported. Both sexes normally live 4.5-5 years, and experience three breeding periods. Females increase in length at a faster rate than males. The ability of A. tasmaniae to survive and remain active out of water for several days in conditions of high humidity may have important survival value if pools become dry during summer. Temperature tolerance tests using both constant and cycling temperatures gave 96 h LT50 values between 21.4C and 22.7C. Although surface water temperatures may exceed these limits for several days, cooler water at the bottom of pools and under overhanging banks will enable many animals to survive heat wave conditions. 
10.2307/1547928|Growth of the thorax in Artemia occurred primarily in the longitudinal direction with little increase in width. The epidermal cells were arranged in longitudinally directed rows throughout most of the ventral thorax. In segment-forming (anterior) regions, the cells changed from longitudinally to transversely directed rows. Epidermal cell density increased throughout the first instar. The greatest increase occurred in the anterior region. After a drop in cell density at ecdysis the density increased again during the second instar. Cells in the anterior region underwent a more rapid increase in density than did cells in the middle or posterior regions. Mitotic figures were observed in all stages of the molt cycle. Most of the mitotic figures were oriented in a longitudinal direction. Mitotic figures oriented in transverse or oblique directions were always located in the anterior region and increased in number during the second instar. The initial events of segmentation in the anterior epidermis included the decrease in epidermal cell density in the intersegmental borders and ventrolateral evagination of the epidermal cells in the first segment. These findings indicate that segment morphologenesis in the thorax involves a spatiotemporal pattern of cell replication in the ventral epidermis.
27920100|This paper reviews main questions concerning the developmental ascent of calyptopes larvae of the Antarctic krill Euphausia superba in the Scotia Sea. In order to discriminate between depth distribution governed by developmental ascent and/or vertical migration, sixteen samples taken on board the RV Holmberg were analyzed, leading to the conclusion that there exists a 24-h based difference in abundance of Calyptopes I and II in the upper 200 m; results suggest but do not confirm that it is due to depth-time interaction.
10.2307/1548461|The first antenna of Hutchinsoniella macracantha is a 6-segmented, uniramous appendage carrying 1 aesthetasc and 22 setae (or sensilla). The second antenna is biramous and has approximately 80 setae. The sensory cells of the first antenna are arranged in 3 clusters in the first and second segments; one cluster serving the aesthetasc (approximately 130 cells), one the 11 setae of the sixth segment (approximately 100), and one the remaining setae (approximately 80). The sensory cells of the second antenna are distributed in a medial band along the length of the antenna. The sensory cells of the aesthetasc have 1 cilium each which splits into many branches. The sensory cells of the setae have 1 unbranched cilium each, and the number of sensory cells varies for each seta. The aesthetasc is a presumed olfactory organ, and all setae display features suggesting chemoreception. The aesthetasc combines malacostracan and nonmalacostracan features, whereas the setae conform to a general crustacean pattern.
10.2307/1549128|Studies of sperm competition are necessary for understanding mating systems in species where two or more males copulate with a single female. We studied fertilization ratios of successive male mates in the sand-bubbler crab Scopimera globosa (de Haan) (family Ocypodidae). Males copulate on the surface or pair underground. The male pairing underground is the last to inseminate the female before she extrudes eggs, as is the case in most ocypodid crabs. In serial mating experiments using irradiated and normal males, the last male to mate fertilized over 90% of the eggs. Females forced to mate in the burrows of irradiated males extruded infertile eggs, indicating that sperm transfer occurred in the burrow.
1549788|The activity of visual systems is known to affect development of the neural tissue associated with vision in both vertebrates and invertebrates. Three species of crayfish were compared for variations in the gross structures of the eye and of the underlying neural tissue of the optic system that were associated with environmental adaptation. The troglobitic crayfish Orconectes australis packardi and two epigean crayfish, Cambarus tenebrosus and Procambarus clarkii, were used. Cambarus tenebrosus raised in the cave are functionally blind although ommatidia develop, indicating that the primary sensory structures still develop without normal input. Troglobitic crayfish have lost the genomic ability to form a functional visual system. Electrophysiological records from neurons within the optic stalk of O. australis packardi showed no response to light. The neuronal ganglia within the eye stalk of C. tenebrosus are disorganized which could be the reason for the lack of a behavioral response related to sight. Second order neurons associated with olfaction arise in the central brain and send processes to lobula within the eye stalk via the protocerebral tract. Cross sections of this tract revealed that the troglobitic crayfish have more olfactory projection neurons and fewer large axon profiles than the other two crayfish, suggesting that O. australis packardi has more neural processing devoted to olfaction as an adaptation to cave life.
10.2307/1548361|Several lines of evidence suggest that reproductive development in Antarctic krill is not a simple stepwise process. We present a new method for staging sexual development of female krill, and a key which can be used for live animals and Formalin-fixed samples. The key takes into account female general appearance, thelycum development, ovarian morphology, and developmental steps of changes in the ovarian cells. This staging method is based on the results of a histological study of ovarian development, but the use of the key itself involves only simple observations and rapid execution of a squash from a piece of the ovary. The reproductive cycle of krill is divided into 10 stages: 8 stages for ovarian development leading to egg production, and 2 stages for sexual regression and reorganization after spawning periods. We believe that such a method could be useful for predicting spawning events and their timing for Antarctic krill, and for a better estimation of fecundity and related energy requirements. Similar keys devised for other euphausiids and free-spawning pelagic crustaceans will allow comparisons among different reproductive strategies.
10.2307/1549374| Scyllarus ramosae, new species, from the Brazilian continental slope closely resembles Scyllarus faxoni from the Caribbean Sea, with which it is compared. Three other species of the genus occur in Brazilian waters, namely, S. americanus, S. chacei, and S. depressus. The old records of S. arctus from Brazil belong actually to S. depressus. A key for the species of Scyllarus from the western Atlantic south of Venezuela is presented. /// Uma nova espcie do gnero Scyllarus coligida no talude continental brasileiro  descrita e ilustrada, nomeadamente Scyllarus ramosae, nova espcie. A nova espcie se assemelha  S. faxoni, do mar do Caribe, a qual S. ramosae  comparada. Trs outras espcies de Scyllarus ocorrem na plataforma continental brasileira, a saber: S. americanus, S. chacei, and S. depressus. Os registros de S. arctus para o Brazil devem ser atribudos a S. depressus. Uma chave para as espcies de Scyllarus ocorrendo ao sul da Venezuela  apresentada. 
4540281| Freshwater decapods like the palaemonid river shrimp have received little attention in the Baja California Peninsula, Mxico. From the first formal report in 1878 to now, only three Macrobrachium species have been reported (M. americanum, M. digueti, and M. tenellum) from the peninsula in only three basins. We made a taxonomic study of freshwater shrimp, which included an extensive field survey at 81 sites distributed on both the Pacific and the Gulf of California slopes and a revision of material from the area that had been deposited in scientific collections. We report six species of Macrobrachium by adding M. hobbsi, M. michoacanus, and M. olfersii. We also discuss some aspects of the diversity and conservation of these species in the peninsula and provide an identification key for the Macrobrachium shrimp of northwestern Mxico. 
10.2307/1548844| A study of the distribution of Procambarus clarkii in northern Mxico led to the conclusion that this crayfish is native to Central Ro Bravo and its tributary, Ro Salado, in Chihuahua, Coahuila, Nuevo Len, and Tamaulipas. The Sierra Madre Oriental and the Meseta del Norte, with elevations of 1,000 or more m above sea level, provide barriers that have inhibited more western natural dispersion. We point out that P. clarkii is exotic in central-west Tamaulipas, central Nuevo Len, western Chihuahua, Sonora, and Baja California, where its presence has resulted from repeated man-made introductions. The habitat preferred by this crayfish in northern Mxico is lotic (73%), with a mud bottom (62.5%), and aquatic vegetation was present in 50% of the known localities. 
40665262|Two new species of freshwater anomurans, Aegla pomerana and Aegla muelleri (Decapoda: Anomura: Aeglidae), are described from the Itajai River basin, the major basin of the Atlantic range, located in the northeastern part of the state of Santa Catarina, Brazil. The new taxa can be distinguished from their congeners based on both morphological and molecular evidence (the nuclear gene 28S, and the mitochondrial genes 12S, 16S, COI, and Based on molecular data, A. pomerana has a phylogenetic relationship with A. leptodactyla, but morphologically these two species differ in several characters. Aegla muelleri is a member of the same clade as A. leptochela, but several morphological characters distinguish the two species. New records of occurrence of A. jarai and A. odebrechtii, which occur in the same hydrographie basin, are provided.
10.2307/1549550|Collections from Brazil, Puerto Rico, and the U.S.A. yielded new records of 3 species of Bryocyclops. Both sexes of Bryocyclops muscicola are described from a probably introduced population found in a plant nursery in Florida, U.S.A., and compared to material of B. muscicola from Java. This is the first record of the genus in North America. The known distribution of Bryocyclops campaneri in Brazil is considerably expanded, and new information provided on its morphology. Bryocyclops caroli, previously known only from Brazil, is recorded for the first time from Puerto Rico.
1549499|A new species of calocaridid thalassinidean shrimp of the genus Calaxiopsis is described based on a single male specimen from Boso Peninsula, central Japan. It is related to C. serrata, but is readily distinguished from the latter in the unarmed submedian carinae on the gastric region, ventrally unarmed abdominal pleura, much shorter antennal acicle and rudimentary podobranchs of the third maxilliped to third pereiopods, which lack normally developed gill filaments. The discovery of the new species shows that the development of the podobranchs on the third maxilliped to third pereiopods is variable within the genus. A check list of all known species of Axiidae and Calocarididae from the northwestern Pacific is included.
10.2307/1549273|Mechanical advantage and relative chela size of Jonah (Cancer borealis) and rock (Cancer irroratus) crabs were compared from locations along the east coast of North America, from Nova Scotia to Florida, to determine whether attributes of the chelae varied by sex, size class, or latitude. There was no relationship between mechanical advantage and sex. However, males of both crab species had larger chelae than females of comparable body size. There were no differences in mechanical advantage among size classes in the Jonah crab, nor was there a relationship between mechanical advantage and latitude, although mechanical advantage varied among the populations sampled. Relative chela size increased with the size of the crab and differed by site among populations sampled. The mechanical advantage of rock crab claws differed among size classes, varied according to site, and increased with latitude. The relative chela size of rock crabs also increased with size class and differed among sites. Differences may be attributed to pressures related to prey choice and availability, substrate preference, and habitat choice and availability, as well as competition and predation.
10.2307/1549553| A new genus of cavernicolous fresh-water palaemonid shrimp, Troglomexicanus, and two new species, T. tamaulipasensis and T. huastecae, are described from El Abra limestone caves in the states of San Luis Potos and Tamaulipas, northeastern Mexico. Troglomexicanus includes T. perezfarfantae, formerly in the genus Troglocubanus, distributed also in El Abra limestone caves. The following characters shared by the 3 species support the creation of the new genus: rostrum without dorsal or ventral teeth, maxilla with single-lobed endite, bilobed epipodite of first maxilliped, second maxilliped without podobranch, and absence of antennal, hepatic, or branchiostegal spines of carapace. The maxilla with single-lobed endite and a bilobed epipodite of first maxilliped are two characters not shared with any other genus in the subfamily Palaemoninae. 
10.2307/1549183|Tissues and dissociated cells from various organs of the shrimp Penaeus vannamei, as well as embryos of P. indicus, were cultured in different media. Cell outgrowths were observed with ovaries, epidermal regeneration buds, and embryos. Optimal results, i.e., a survival for several months, were obtained in M199-based medium for ovaries and embryos, and in Grace's medium for regeneration buds. In every case, a 10% fetal bovine serum supplement was needed.
4094205|The feeding mechanisms of two species in the tanaidacean family Kalliapseudidae, Kalliapseudes macsweenyi Drumm and Psammokalliapseudes granulosus Brum, are elucidated by comparing gut contents, mouthpart movements, and feeding behavior. Kalliapseudes macsweenyi filter-feeds and possesses plumose setae on the chelipeds, maxillipeds, and maxillae. When building its burrows, P. granulosus scrapes detritus off sand grains by using the comb setae on the maxillae. It suspension-feeds when settled in its burrows by trapping detritus on the antennular setae. Both species feed primarily on detritus. Diatoms were the second most abundant food item in the foregut of K. macsweenyi. Respiration and cleaning behavior are also compared.
10.2307/1549021| Analysis of the zooplanktonic community during a diurnal cycle of sampling at the entrance of Magdalena Bay, during the period of highest reproductive activity of the Pacific sardine Sardinops sagax, showed the presence of 80 zooplanktonic taxa of which only the copepods Corycaeus truckicus and C. japonicus were observed attacking sardine larvae; predation upon eggs was not observed. Most attacks were observed during the early evening and were associated with a high larval abundance, and occurred mostly on larvae less than 7.5 mm standard length (SL). These findings support the hypothesis that marine carnivorous copepods account for mortality of small fish larvae to a high degree. /// El anlisis de la comunidad zooplanctnica durante un ciclo de muestreo diurno efectuado en la boca principal de Baha Magdalena, en el perodo de mayor actividad reproductora de la sardina del Pacfico Sardinops sagax, mostr la presencia de 80 taxa, de los cuales solo los coppodos Corycaeus truckicus y C. japonicus se observaron atacando larvas de sardina; no se observ depredacin sobre huevos de esta especie. La mayora de los ataques fueron durante la tarde y estuvieron asociados con un alta abundancia larval y ocurrieron principalmente sobre larvas de menos de 7.5 mm de longitud patrn (LP). Estas observaciones apoyan la hiptesis de que los copepodos marinos carnivoros podran producir una alta mortalidad en larvas de peces. 
10.2307/1547923|Porcellionides pruinosus (Brandt) is widely distributed throughout the world but shows extensive, albeit subtle, geographical variation in morphology. This morphological variation has resulted in a complex and confused taxonomic history for the genus, with many new species having been described only to be subsequently synonymized with P. pruinosus. What has previously been considered to be P. pruinosus in North America is shown here to be two separate species. Although these species differ only subtly in morphology, they are electrophoretically, reproductively, and distributionally distinct. For one of these species, P. pruinosus (Brandt), electrophoretic, morphological, and reproductive comparisons of North American individuals with European samples suggest a European origin. The other species is not referable to any other described species of Porcellionides and is described as a new species. The results of this study suggest that Porcellionides pruinosus (as formerly defined) may consist of a number of distinct and localized species rather than one cosmopolitan species. Therefore, it would appear that the taxonomic status of Porcellionides pruinosus is in need of re-evaluation on a world-wide basis.
1549841|Two species of mud crab, Scylla olivacea and Scylla paramamosain, occur sympatrically in Ban Don Bay, Surat Thani Province, Thailand, with no evidence of interspecific hybridization. These crabs are part of a traditional and largely unregulated fishery within Ban Don Bay. As part of a study of their reproductive biology and the possible mechanisms explaining their lack of hybridization, size at first maturity was compared between females of the two species. Female S. olivacea and S. paramamosain were collected from Ban Don Bay, and their size at first maturity was estimated using three methods relating abdomen width to body size data: the minimum size at maturity, breakpoint analysis, and probit analysis. All three methods employed revealed that female S. paramamosain attain a larger mean size at maturity than female S. olivacea by as much as 18 to 30 mm internal carapace width (ICW). Although the mean size at maturity is different between species, there is an overlap in the size at maturity between the smallest mature S. paramamosain (ICW = 101 mm) and the largest immature S. olivacea (ICW = 118 mm). Scylla paramamosain has a generally larger body size than S. olivacea; therefore, it is possible that there is a relationship between body size and the size of functional maturity that prevents hybridization between these two species. However, the overlap in the size at maturity observed between the two species means that there is a margin where size could not be the only isolating mechanism, and therefore, other prezygotic isolating mechanisms must also be responsible for maintaining the sympatric species observed. Based on these findings, it is suggested that the local fishery should operate with a minimum legal size of 100 mm and 130 mm ICW for S. olivacea and S. paramamosain, respectively.
10.2307/1548823|Tethorchestia palaeorchestes, new species, is described from Oligocene amber deposits of the Dominican Republic, Island of Hispaniola. This new taxon is represented by 2 subadult specimens, and is the second known fossil member of the gammaridean amphipod family Talitridae and superfamily Talitroidea. The species is a member of the cuspidactylate group of landhoppers, but is little modified over the presumed ancestral supralittoral members of the genus that are widespread and diverse today throughout seashore marine habitats of the Caribbean region.
4094234|Cheliped parts of the fossil mud shrimp Callianopsis (Callianassa) clallamensis (Thalassinidea) were first recovered in the mid-nineteenth century from Oligocene marine rocks at Clallam Bay on the northern coast of the Olympic Peninsula, Washington State and described in 1924 as Callianassa clalllamensis. A second species, C. twinensis, was identified in 1926 from cheliped pieces found in rocks of similar age in the Twin Rivers area 20 kilometers southeast of Clallam Bay. Both fossil localities are in the Pysht formation of the Twin River Group. In 1997 these two species were reassigned to Callianopsis, and C. clallamensis is now recognized as the male and C. twinensis as the female of that species. An extensive collection of this fossil thalassinidean at the Burke Museum, University of Washington, particularly in calcite-cemented concretions, and commonly as disassociated parts, contains almost all anatomical hard-parts of the species. Study of this collection has made it possible to render a nearly complete morphological reconstruction of both the male and female of the species and to compare these specimens to the holotype, as well as photographs and original diagrams of varied specimens. This composite confirms sexual dimorphism and close morphological similarity to the extant species Callianopsis goniophthalma that lives at slope depths from the Gulf of Alaska to Baja California, Mexico. Sedimentary and paleontological features indicate that the fossil mud shrimp-bearing strata were deposited in upper slope to bathyal water depths.
4540297|We performed the first cladistic analysis of Metanephrops, the most diverse extant genus of clawed lobster, using a morphology-based data matrix of all 20 species of Metanephrops and 35 cladistically informative characters, all external hard parts. Unweighted cladistic analysis corroborates previous studies that indicated that homoplasy is rampant in the evolution of clawed lobsters. Only 5 of the 68 synapomorphies identified by the analysis are unambiguous, unreversed synapomorphies. Recent species of Metanephrops have traditionally been divided (non-cladistically) into four morphology-based groups. Cladistic analyses support the traditional, arafurensis, Atlantic/binghami, and japonicus groupings; these groups are monophyletic. The thomsoni group is not supported by the cladogram. The (two) oldest known fossil Metanephrops species occur in Late Cretaceous, shallow marine rocks of the eastern/Atlantic side of the Antarctic Peninsula. The stratigraphic and geographic occurrences of these fossil species are the basis for the previously hypothesized, Late Cretaceous, southern high latitude origin of Metanephrops. Cladistic results corroborate that Metanephrops originated in the southern high latitudes. The cladistically most plesiomorphic single species, the recent M. challengeri, and the next most plesiomorphic species, the Late Cretaceous M. rossensis, are both known from the high southern latitudes. Likewise, the most plesiomorphic species group, the binghami group, is best known from the high southern latitudes.
1549569|In Petrolisthes violaceus, the last pereiopods are reduced, chelated, and highly movable. Several aggregations of specialised grooming setae are located mainly on the carpus, propodus, and dactylus of 5th pereiopods. Under laboratory conditions, ovigerous females were frequently observed to groom brooded embryos with this appendage. Grooming of the brood mass was most often observed during the day when brooding females remained relatively immobile, while embryo grooming was almost absent during the night when brooding females were otherwise highly active. When small shell pieces, dead embryos belonging to the same species, or small epoxy resin balls were inserted into the brood mass, the 5th pereiopods did not search for, manipulate, nor actively discard them. However, foreign objects were "incidentally removed" from the brood mass due to the preening of brooded embryos by the 5th pereiopods. Females that had the 5th pereiopods experimentally removed suffered higher embryo mortality during incubation than females with intact 5th pereiopods. Thus, brood grooming by 5th pereiopods significantly enhances survival of embryos during incubation. Compared to females with intact 5th pereiopods the hatching process of experimental females was significantly longer. Active brood care behaviour as described here for P. violaceus may also occur in other Anomuran species, because most of them bear a 5th pereiopod modified as a chelated grooming structure.
10.2307/1548236| Nauplii of Balanus glandula obtained from gravid adults were cultured in the laboratory. Morphological descriptions and drawings of the six naupliar stages and the cyprid are presented. The nauplii generally followed the typical developmental pattern of Balanus. Total length (mean  two standard deviations) of the nauplii increased from 271  16 m at stage I to 745  116 m at stage VI. All naupliar stages had a trilobed labrum. Setation of the antennule followed the typical balanid pattern through development; beyond stage I both rami of the antenna and mandible had one or two fewer setae than is typical. The patterns of setation were increasingly variable through development. Within stages, the mandibular exopodite was the ramus with the most consistent setation pattern, while the mandibular endopodite had the least consistent setation pattern. For larvae cultured individually in wells of tissue culture plates, the highest daily rate of metamorphosis to the cyprid occurred 11 days postliberation, with 41% cumulative yield. For mass cultures the metamorphosis rate peaked 13-14 days postliberation, with 56% cumulative yield. Cyprids produced in the mass cultures after 11-12 days of growth averaged 690  60 m in length; new cyprids appearing after 15-20 days of growth averaged 590  40 m in length. 
10.2307/1548698|Two new species of luminescent myodocopid ostracodes, Vargula kuna and V. mizonomma, from the San Blas Islands, Panama, are described. Vargula kuna and V. mizonomma differ more in bioluminescent signaling patterns than in morphological characters. We hypothesize that V. kuna and V. mizonomma are sibling species which share several diagnostic characters with a group of species which includes V. contragula Cohen and Morin, 1986, and 6 undescribed species from the San Blas Islands, and possibly V. tsujii Kornicker and Baker, 1977, from California. Males of both new species secrete pulses of luminescence in species-specific trains above shallow coral reefs at night. The pattern produced by V. mizonomma is zigzag and upwards, while that of V. kuna is vertical as either long upward or shorter downward trains. We hypothesize that the upward and downward displays of V. kuna are produced by two morphologically indistinguishable species or populations. Upward displays of V. kuna occur over steep coral slopes, downward displays of V. kuna occur along both shallow forereef slopes and steep coral slopes. Displays of V. mizonomma occur over sand near the edges of sand patches among coral reefs.
1549214|The redclaw crayfish Cherax quadricarinatus is a freshwater species native to northern Australia, but it has been widely translocated overseas for aquaculture. Its gill complement consists of 21 trichobranchiate gills and a rudimentary epipod bearing tubular gill filaments. Gill size decreases from the outer layer of the podobranchs to the inner layers of the arthrobranchs and pleurobranchs. Most gill filaments have a thick epithelium and rounded apex, while a few are thinner and have pointed or hooked tips. The gross structure of the fused epipods and podobranchs from the anterior to posterior limbs suggests a serial pattern of morphological development. The redclaw crayfish has passive gill-cleaning mechanisms using the multidenticulate setae on epipods, setobranchs, scaphognathites, and the inner surface of branchiostegites. Limb motion causes the epipodal and setobranch setae to be jostled, scraping gill surfaces, and agitating the podobranchs whose outer filaments are picked and brushed by the branchiostegal setae. Multidenticulate scaphognathite setae have a minor role in gill cleaning due to a reduced number and limited reach to the gills. The compound epipodal setae contact the adjacent limb coxae and epipodal bases. Small lamellar protrusions from the arthrodial joint of the pereiopods bear setae of various types, which may serve as a filter screen for the respiratory water entering the branchial chamber. The same filtering function is ascribed to the dense pappose setae fringing the limb bases. The redclaw crayfish displays "limb rocking" by frequently moving its limbs when at rest, thereby jostling the setiferous processes and the gills inside the branchial chamber. This behavior is perceived to result in passive gill cleaning. The adaptive value and phylogenetic implications of the gill-cleaning mechanisms are discussed.
10.2307/1549193| A total of 1,046 individuals of the crab Platyxanthus patagonicus were collected in the fishery area near Puerto Rawson, Chubut, Argentina. Fecundity and relative growth were determined using carapace length (CL) as the reference dimension. Ovigerous females (42.7-72.0-mm CL) were sampled in winter, spring, and early summer. Mean (SE) fecundity (97,900  37,800 eggs) was positively related (r<sup>2</sup> = 0.71) to CL. For all the relationships in which relative growth was explored, the FORTRAN program Mature II computer technique (Somerton, 1983) was used to estimate the size at sexual maturity. For both sexes, MATURE II did not detect (P > 0.05) any abrupt change in the rate of relative growth of carapace width (CW) versus CL. The rate of growth of CW was negatively (b < 1) allometric for females and positively (b > 1) allometric for males. Instead, the rate of growth of the major propodus length (PL) was isometric for females and positively allometric for males. For males, possible size at sexual maturity occurs at 44-mm CL, since the Mature method detected an abrupt change in the rate of relative growth of PL at this size. Relative growth of the sixth abdominal segment width (AW) was positively allometric for females and isometric for males. For females, a change in the rate of relative growth of AW and sixth abdominal segment length (AL) was observed at 50-mm CL. This result, in conjunction with the fact that the minimum size found for an ovigerous female was 42.7-mm CL, suggests that in females, sexual maturity occurs at 40-50-mm CL. In males, relative growth of AL versus CL was positively allometric up to a size of 44-mm CL; above this size relative growth was isometric. 
10.2307/1549410|In crayfish, neural degeneration and regeneration in the ventral nerve cord occur in one of two ways, depending on the injured fiber. Most fibers degenerate in 1 or 2 weeks, while giant fibers degenerate slowly. Although degenerative changes are similar in both cases, they do not seem to correlate with motor behavioral alterations. The aim of this work was to characterize the time course of behavioral and anatomical changes following ventral nerve cord (VNC) transection in crayfish. The behavioral analysis was focused on the righting reflex whose changes were correlated with morphological studies performed on longitudinal sections and analyzed with transmission (TEM) and scanning electron microscope (SEM). Latency for the righting reflex increased after VNC transection and then slowly decreased toward control values. Anatomically, degenerative changes began to appear 10 days after VNC transection. Disruption in membrane arrangement, subcellular organelles, and a strong increase in glia appeared in small fibers. To a lesser degree, similar changes could be detected in medial and lateral giant fibers. Glial growth reconnected the transected VNC where regeneration signs were detected in small fibers. Both stumps were reconnected at least by glial tissue 90 days after transection, while giant axons were still degenerating; at this time, the righting reflex returned to control values.
4094147|A presumed hybrid mud crab of the genus Scylla was examined. The presumed hybrid could not be easily separated morphologically from the three Japanese Scylla species, S. serrata, S. paramamosain, and S. olivacea. An analysis of the first internal transcribed spacer (ITS-1) of the nuclear DNA revealed that the hybrid carried genomic DNA from both S. serrata and S. olivacea. Analysis of the maternally inherited 16S rDNA of the mitochondrial DNA demonstrated that the presumed hybrid carried S. olivacea mtDNA. Based on these results, we conclude that the examined animal is indeed the hybrid offspring of a female S. olivacea and a male S. serrata. The degree of genetic isolation among these species, and the possible causes of hybridization are discussed.
10.2307/1548335|The vas deferens of Penaeus setiferus was divided into 4 anatomical regions (1A, 1B, 2A, 2B, 3, and 4), and the functional morphology of the first 3 regions was evaluated using microscopical techniques. Segments 1A and 1B are small collecting tubules comprised of a low columnar epithelium surrounded by a thin muscle coat and connective tissue that is rich in collagen. These tubules transport sperm from the testes to segment 2A, and their epithelium appears to secrete part of the sperm-supporting matrix. Segment 2A is much thicker and is comprised proximally of a blind pouch where sperm are concentrated and a longer region containing 2 lumina. One lumen (1) is occupied by the sperm mass and the surrounding epithelium appears to secrete the primary spermatophore layer. The other lumen (2) is smaller in diameter in segment 2A and contains 2 acellular materials. Segment 2B is similar to 2A except that the epithelial layers separating the 2 lumina become an incomplete partition and a new coat, the secondary spermatophore layer, is formed outside the primary spermatophore layer. The relative size of the 2 lumina becomes reversed in segment 2B, and the leading end of the developing spermatophore appears to be sealed by secretory product in the distal region of 2B. Segment 3 is extremely thin but is surrounded by numerous muscle cells which undergo smooth rhythmic contractions in vitro. These contractions move material stored in segment 2B toward the ampoule (segment 4). The epithelium of segment 3 releases electron-dense material into the lumen by exocytosis and also undergoes extensive apical blebbing. These data suggest that the penaeid vas deferens functions in production of the sperm-supporting matrix, consolidation and orientation of sperm, secretion of some of the acellular components of the spermatophore, and storage of the developing spermatophore.
10.2307/1548550|Philocheras trispinosus, a Mediterranean crangonid shrimp, was reared in the laboratory through 5 larval and 2 juvenile stages. A detailed morphological description of each stage is given. Variation occurs in the spines on the larval carapace and abdomen, probably a result of either environmental or genetic factors.
10.2307/1548570|Specimens of a porcellanid crab, Petrolisthes myakkensis, new species, occur with abundant asteroids, Heliaster microbrachius Xantus, in the late Pliocene Pinecrest Beds of the Tamiami Formation near El Jobean, Charlotte County, Florida. The crab-asteroid association is preserved in calcareous quartz sandstone with minor amounts of shell hash. The fauna is dominated by the asteroids and crabs, but barnacles are also present. Preservation as whole, articulated, fragile, hollow specimens preserved with articulated sea stars attests to the lack of transport of the crabs. Occurrence of these crabs in close association with the sea stars, the commensal habits of other porcellanid crabs, and the commensal relationships of crabs with echinoderms lead to the conclusion that Petrolisthes myakkensis and Heliaster microbrachius were commensals.
1549580|This study provides descriptive information on the natural history and life history of an invasive population of Charybdis hellerii, which is native to the Indo-West Pacific region, and which invaded the western Atlantic Ocean in the late 1980s. In this study, sampling at 27 sites along the Indian River Lagoon, Florida, during 1995-1999 showed that this crab is established in structured habitats (riprap of jetties, coralline ledges, mangrove roots, and dense algae) near inlets of the central and southern portions of the lagoon. It was not found at sites away from inlets, nor from apparently suitable structured habitats at an inlet to the north of Cape Canaveral. Although crab abundances were low, the broad size structure of the population indicates sustained recruitment into the population. Data on life history features and formal larval descriptions were derived from a cohort of larvae reared in the laboratory, including egg incubation and hatching, complete larval development, early crab instars, juvenile growth to sexual maturity, and brood production. Larval descriptions include detailed drawings of all apendages, as well as the carapaces, abdomens, and telsons for all 6 zoeal stages, and a photograph of the megalopa. Charybdis hellerii possesses numerous life history traits and natural history characteristics that are adaptive for invasion of new geographic regions, including: (1) a relatively long larval life (44 days), which facilitates dispersal; (2) rapid growth and maturation within about one year, contributing to a short generation time, which promotes rapid population growth; (3) the ability to store sperm and to produce multiple broods of high fecundity in rapid succession, which favors rapid expansion of founder populations; (4) generalized carnivorous diet, which allows opportunistic exploitation of a variety of food resources; (5) ability to use a diversity of structured habitats, which provides opportunity to exploit a range of habitats, but also suggests that its secretive or cryptic behavior may serve to protect it from visual predators.
10.2307/1548999| The effect of combinations of each of two photoperiods (14L:10D and 10L:14D) and each of two temperatures (20C and 27C) on ovarian development in mature red swamp crayfish (Procambarus clarkii) was evaluated as measured by gonadosomatic index (GSI). Mean GSI for all treatments increased over time from an initial value of 0.063% to a final range of 0.481-1.225% after 70 days. The effect of temperature and photoperiod varied at different sampling periods with temperature being significant at day 14 and photoperiod being significant at day 70. Interaction of the two variables was significant at day 56. Regression analysis indicated that the mean rate of increase of the GSI over time under the cold temperature (20C), short photoperiod (10L:14D) regime was significantly lower than those for all other treatments. Ovaries of females held under long photoperiod (14L:10D) had the greatest mean rate of increase of GSI, but not significantly greater than that of the warm temperature (27C), short photoperiod treatment. Mean rates of increase of whole body weight of crayfish in the warm temperature treatments were significantly greater than those for the cold water treatments but were not accompanied by significant increases in mean ovarian weights. Field data and laboratory results collectively suggest that temperature controls the onset of ovarian development which is accelerated by increasing day length. 
10.2307/1549307|A new species of rhizocephalan, Sacculina oblonga, is described and illustrated on the basis of material collected from Amakusa Island, Kyushu, Japan. It parasitizes the littoral crab Cyclograpsus intermedius. It could not be determined whether earlier records of sacculinid species from Japanese C. intermedius belong to the same species.
1549723|Amphipods in the genus Chelorchestia are inhabitants of marshes and semiterrestrial environments of principally tropical regions of the world. Only three species are currently assigned to the genus but many undescribed species apparently exist. Along the coasts of Florida and Louisiana populations of Chelorchestia have been known for some time, all presumably representing undescribed species. A population recently discovered living in oligohaline/freshwater swale habitat on Sanibel Island, Florida, has been compared with the two other described species and differs in several consistent ways, principally in the combination of fewer articles of the flagellum of antenna 2, short pereopods 3-5, absence of pellucid lobes on the female gnathopod 1, and the structure of the propod and dactyl of the male gnathopod 2. Notes on the other two species, C. costaricana (Stebbing, 1906) and C. vaggala (Bowman, 1977) are provided. Observations on other possibly conspecific populations of the new species occurring along the Gulf coasts of Florida, Alabama, Louisiana, Mississippi, and Texas and another undescribed species occurring in southeastern Florida are presented and discussed.
1549393|Mitochondrial DNA sequence variation in the 16S rRNA gene was used to estimate the phylogenetic relationships of Austropotamobius pallipes. The program ModelTest was used to test alternative models of evolution for our data using likelihood ratio tests. Both the minimum evolution tree with the HKY85 model and the maximum likelihood analysis supports the separation of two major clades (A and B) and three clades within clade A. The two major groups A and B showed genetic differentiation of 4.6% and could be in accordance with the classification on the specific status of A. italicus and A. pallipes. Within clade A, three clades were found corresponding to crayfish sampled in Spain-Italy-France, Austria, and Slovenia. In accordance with morphological data extracted from recent papers, a new classification based on the presence of three subspecies (italicus, carinthiacus, and carsicus) within A. italicus is proposed.
10.2307/1548203| The complete larval development of Micropanope barbadensis (Rathbun, 1921), a small, western Atlantic, coral-inhabiting xanthid crab, is described and illustrated based on larvae reared in the laboratory. The species passed through 3 or 4 zoeal and one megalopal stage over a 24-32 day period at 20C. At 15 and 25C the larvae did not survive beyond the first or second stage, respectively. The duration of abbreviated and normal development periods is discussed. Zoeae of Micropanope barbadensis exhibit an antennal exopod:protopod ratio intermediate in length and are therefore not assignable to any of the four categories delineated by Aikawa. A fifth category, Group E, is proposed. Criteria used to distinguish larvae of the genus Micropanope from other xanthid genera, as well as the taxonomic position of M. barbadensis, are considered. This is the first species in the genus Micropanope sensu lato for which the complete larval development in the laboratory has been obtained. 
1549647|Phylogenetic reconstructions derived from analyses of DNA sequence variation in a segment of the mitochondrial ribosomal RNA (16S) gene revealed an extensive radiation of species within the genus Branchinella from Australia. Genetic differentiation was evident among all of the species analyzed, including two recently discovered species. There was limited agreement, however, concerning taxon affinities deduced from the 16S data and a previous morphological study. Members of the genus appear to have diversified rapidly, but analyses of other genes and broader taxon sampling are crucial to confirm this hypothesis. Disparities between levels of morphological and molecular change were noted between certain taxa. Whether the radiation of Australian Branchinella happened in situ or was the product of independent colonization events will require the analysis of branchinellids that occur outside Australia.
27920103|Some general trends over the life history of Euphausia superba in the rates of metabolic activities (O2 uptake, ammonia excretion, phosphate excretion) and in the elemental composition (C, N, P) are presented. The O2 uptake rate of the eggs is low (about 0.1 1 O2 mg dry wt1 h1), rising to a maximum in the calyptopis stage (12 1 O2 mg dry wt1 h1), then decreasing gradually as development proceeds towards mature adults. Phosphate excretion rates tend to decrease from the calyptopes to the mature adults, while ammonia excretion rates are rather constant throughout these developmental stages. Although no excretion measurements were made on the eggs and nauplii, the rates are thought to be low since these stages do not feed. The high C content of the eggs (55% of dry weight) has dropped markedly by the calyptopis (33%) but then rises gradually with development towards the mature adult (48%). The N content is rather stable throughout the development from eggs to mature adults (911%). The eggs contain a low content of P (0.5%), but P reaches its maximum value at the calyptopis stage (1.4%). The P content declines in the development from calyptopes to mature adults (0.7%). The total food requirement of E. superba during its life in the Southern Ocean is estimated by combining the metabolic data with the growth scheme proposed by Mauchline (1980) ("M-scheme"). With the M-scheme, E. superba having annual growth periods of 180, 150, and 120 days require 2,259 mg C, 2, 102 mg C, and 2,848 mg C, respectively. This M-scheme assumes continued feeding during the Antarctic winter, with little growth and no moulting. An alternative scheme is proposed with regular moulting occurring over winter (despite the complete cessation of feeding) leading to a gradual shrinkage of body size ("MS-scheme"). In this scheme, the food requirements of E. superba with annual growth periods of 180, 150, and 120 days are reduced to 1,554 mg C, 1,532 mg C, and 1,703 mg C, respectively. The overall gross growth efficiency is 912% in the M-scheme and 1517% in the MS-scheme.
10.2307/1548040|The swimming behaviours of two sibling species of Tisbe (Copepoda: Harpacticoida) were analyzed. Interference competition for copepod- (encounter-) free space, a behaviourally defined resource, led to vertical habitat displacement of one of the competitors. This swimming adaptation may facilitate the coexistence of two or more (sibling) species of Tisbe observed in contemporary situations. On an evolutionary time scale, such competitive displacement could lead to sexual isolation. Such interactions provide a paradigm for the origin of planktonic copepods from (a) benthic ancestor(s). The resource utilization curves of these species inferred from the frequency distributions of their swimming behaviours were highly leptokurtic. Differing degrees of leptokurtosis in resource utilization curves were shown to account for patterns of speciation in the genus Tisbe.
10.2307/1548991| Water and salt balance in the terrestrial crab Gecarcoidea natalis were examined in the laboratory and in free-ranging animals on Christmas Island, Indian Ocean. Under laboratory conditions the drinking rate was low (1.6  1.0 ml100 g<sup>-1</sup> d<sup>-1</sup>) but filtration rate (which equaled urine flow) was much higher (10.5  4.71 ml100 g<sup>-1</sup> d<sup>-1</sup>). The isosmotic urine was released to the branchial chambers and a small portion (0.54  0.48 ml100 g<sup>-1</sup> d<sup>-1</sup>) was eventually released as dilute excretory fluid ([Na] 3.85  1.25 mmol l<sup>-1</sup>) after reabsorption of ions by the gills. The remainder was ingested and reabsorbed. The system offers flexibility to cope with varying conditions, since the filtration rate is high and both volume and concentration of released fluid can be adjusted. Water efflux, estimated by tritium exchange in field animals, was high even in dry conditions (7.1  1.45 ml100 g<sup>-1</sup> d<sup>-1</sup>, T<sub>1/2</sub> = 5.25  0.95 d<sup>-1</sup>) and doubled during wet weather (13.8  2.93 ml100 g<sup>-1</sup> d<sup>-1</sup>, T<sub>1/2</sub> = 2.7  0.56 d<sup>-1</sup>). The tritium method was considered to overestimate efflux of unlabeled water under the experimental conditions, but even so measured turnover was much greater than in laboratory conditions. Sodium turnover in the field was also high ranging from 231.3  24.4 mol100 g<sup>-1</sup> d<sup>-1</sup>, T<sub>1/2</sub> = 31.7  4.69 d<sup>-1</sup> in dry weather conditions to 439.3  86.3 mol100 g<sup>-1</sup> d<sup>-1</sup>, T<sub>1/2</sub> = 18.5  4.89 d<sup>-1</sup> in rainy weather. Sodium in the diet (predominantly fallen leaves) accounted for sodium intake, while output was partitioned between feces and excreted fluid. The discrepancy between tritiated water and sodium turnovers in laboratory and field data indicated that field animals had a considerable reserve of osmoregulatory capacity. Crabs participating in the annual breeding migration to the sea underwent a substantial fall in the osmolality of the hemolymph during their journey. On arrival at the coast the crabs remained in contact with sea water for several hours during which time the ion concentrations of their hemolymph returned to the normal range. It is suggested that this "dipping" behavior functions primarily in osmoregulation. 
4540266|Many cave species exhibit k-selected life history characteristics, i.e., long life span, slow growth, and low reproductive effort, which can reduce their ability to survive rapid changes in environmental conditions and their potential for recovery from events that reduce their densities. In this study, we examined aspects of the life history, growth rate, and reproductive timing of the U.S. federally listed Illinois cave amphipod, Gammarus acherondytes, to assess its potential for recovery. Sampling between October 2003 to March 2005 with non-lethal techniques in Reverse Stream Cave, Illinois, U.S.A. showed that pre-juveniles and juveniles generally constituted > 50% of the population and thus strongly influenced fluctuations in population density. Except in September 2004, ovigerous females were collected every month, indicating that reproduction occurred year-round. Distinct peaks of pre-juveniles were observed from February to May and August to October. The seasonal recruitment of young appeared to be correlated with incubation time and flood events. Because it was difficult to track individual cohorts, the exact time to maturity or the life span could not be determined empirically. However, the minimum time to maturity was estimated at 14 to 16 months using a modeled growth curve. Our results suggest that G. acherondytes should recovery rapidly from perturbations if left undisturbed. A management strategy to aid recovery could be to reduce cave visitation during the major phases of recruitment. Additionally, our results indicate that establishing a laboratory population for use in future studies or to propagate individuals for reintroduction should require only one-and-a-half to two years. Our study shows how basic life history information obtained via non-lethal sampling can provide managers with vital information to develop conservation strategies for endangered species.
1549803| The present work provides a first description of the zoeal stages of the Caridean prawns Campylonotus vagans, C. semistriatus and C. capensis Bate, 1888. Zoeal stages one and two were obtained from plankton catches during several expeditions in the Magellan region and the southwestern Atlantic Ocean, and first zoeae of C. vagans were confirmed with larvae hatched in a laboratory culture. Based on the results obtained, we conclude the morphological differences of the presence/absence of carapace spines, the shape of the somites, the telson and its number of posterolateral spines to serve as diagnostic features for the determination of campylonotid larvae. Morphological comparisons with larvae of the Pandalidae, Palaemonidae, and Oplophoridae suggest the Campylonotidae to be phylogenetically related to the Oplophoridae. Additionally, a key for identifying the zoeal stages of the Campylonotidae from the southernmost region of America is given in order to facilitate future ecological and life history studies. /// El presente trabajo provee una primera descripcin para los estados larvales de los camarones Caridea Campylonotus vagans, C. semistriatus y C. capensis Bate 1888. Los estados larvales de las zoeas uno y dos fueron obtenidos con una red de plancton durante varias expediciones en la Regin Magallnica y en el Ocano Atlntico sudoccidental y el estado uno de C. vagans fue tambin confirmado con larvas eclosionadas de huevos en el laboratorio. Basndonos en los resultados obtenidos, concluimos que las diferencias morfolgicas de presencia/ ausencia de espinas en el cefalotrax, el aspecto de los somites, del telson y su nmero de espinas postlaterales sirven como caracteres diagnstico para la determinacin de las larvas de Campylonotidae. Las comparaciones morfolgicas de las larvas de Campylonotus con las de las familias Pandalidae, Palaemonidae, y Oplophoridae reflejan mayor afinidad filogentica con las de esta ltima familia. Se presenta una clave para identificar los estados larvales de los Campylonotidae en aguas de Amrica del Sur y para facilitar estudios ecolgicos y de ciclos de vida. 
10.2307/1548125|Fall and spring immigration of Penaeus duorarum to 26 m and 40 m depths was observed during trawl surveys from January 1973 through December 1974 along Florida's northeast continental shelf. Histological examination of ovaries indicated year-round spawning with a primary spawning period during late spring and summer. Larval transport via the Florida Current and Gulf Stream from south Florida to Cape Canaveral and from Cape Canaveral to Cape Hatteras is suggested. Disjunct distribution of adult pink shrimp stocks along the southeastern Atlantic coast of the United States is most likely the result of disjunct occurrence of acceptable sediments (>50% coarse carbonate sands) at suitable depths.
40927853|The hippolytid shrimp genus Lebbeus White, 1847 was previously unknown from Taiwan. However, recent deep-sea surveys off the island have collected numerous specimens comprising four species, three of which are new to science: L. tosaensis Hanamura and Abe, 2003, L. brevirostris n. sp., L. formosus n. sp., and L. unguiculatus n. sp. Lebbeus brevirostris belongs to the group bearing epipods only on the first two pereiopods and is unique in having a short spiniform rostrum. Lebbeus formosus and L. unguiculatus bear epipods on the first three pereiopods. The latter is characteristic in having the dactyli of the posterior pereiopods terminating in a single elongate unguis. Lebbeus formosus is distinct in having a combination of rostral, antennular, telson, and pereiopodal characters.
10.2307/1548574|Several large adults of Homolodromia robertsi Garth, 1973, previously known from 2 females collected off the coast of Peru, were collected from deep waters off the coast of Chile. The male of the species is described. In general, characters of the male are similar to those of the female; little sexual dimorphism exists. The first gonopod is 3-segmented, robust, and similar to that of other genera in the Dromiacea and to an earlier description of the pleopods of Homolodromia paradoxa. Data on the biology of the species (occurrence of ovigerous females, geographic range, and morphometry) are included. The range of the species is extended more than 2,600 km south.
10.2307/1548555| A new species of alpheid shrimp in the genus Athanopsis was found at Inhaca Island, southern Moambique. Athanopsis rubricinctuta is the fifth species in the genus and the first found in the southwestern Indian Ocean. It was obtained in shallow water on a tidal flat from the burrows of echiuroids of the family Thalassematidae. This association confirms an earlier finding of Athanopsis associated with echiuroids. 
10.2307/1548258|We present the only documented in situ observations of spiny lobster mating behavior. Four consecutive interactions, including copulation between a large male and smaller female Panulirus argus, were filmed in shallow Bahamian waters during May 1980. Mating activities were initiated by the male as he traversed the periphery of characteristic spiny lobster residences (e.g., coral reef crevices) openly in daytime, apparently searching for potential mates. The male approached and drew the female from shelter without force, by grasping her with his elongate second walking legs; he then pivoted on his rear walking legs and pitched backwards onto his dorsum, eventually positioning himself upside down below the embraced female. Copulation, and presumably spermatophore ejaculation, occurred when the male unfurled, then vigorously and rhythmically contracted his abdomen; copulation lasted less than one minute. Mating ended when the female tail-flipped under shelter, and the male righted himself, again approaching her. Antennular contact occurred frequently before and during copulation. The female participated actively by approaching the male over open sand. Prolonged pair formation was not evident. The film and our collective observations in large enclosures and in nature indicate that mating occurs diurnally between cooperative partners, which may copulate repeatedly.
10.2307/1548164| Three new species of the anomuran crab genus Petrolisthes (family Porcellanidae) are described: P. perdecorus (type locality Howland Island, in central Pacific at 048N, 17638W), P. elegans (type locality Enewetak Atoll, Marshall Islands), and P. celebesensis (type locality Sulawesi, Indonesia). The genus now contains 32 described species in the Indo-West Pacific. 
10.2307/1548904|Pieces of dorsal carapace from the crayfish Procambarus clarkii, the ghost crab Ocypode quadrata, and the blue crab Callinectes sapidus were fixed in Rossman's fluid or alcoholic Formalin, decalcified, paraffin-embedded, and probed with up to 21 fluorescein-conjugated lectins in order to determine the composition and distribution of their carbohydrate moieties. Unfixed, frozen sections were also employed. Tissue was examined from the crayfish and the ghost crab at intermolt (C<sub>4</sub>), and from the blue crab at premolt (all D stages), ecdysis, postmolt (all A and B stages, and stage C<sub>1</sub>) and intermolt. Different lectins showed different binding patterns at intermolt, but patterns of binding for individual lectins were consistent among the different species. A number of lectins showed different binding patterns at different stages of the molt cycle. Lectin binding was influenced by the method of fixation, with Rossman's-fixed tissue binding more lectins and more intensely. The overall pattern of lectin binding indicated that different carbohydrate moieties exist in the different layers of the integument, and that the availability of these lectin-binding sites may change over the molt cycle.
10.2307/1548559|This review attempts to bring together literature spanning one hundred years relating to the pigment shield of crustacean ommatidia. A consistent terminology of the pigment cells is suggested based on their positions in and around the ommatidia. Six different types are recognized: retinular, cone, distal, proximal, interommatidial, and basal pigments. The evolution of a pigment shield is described as three levels of complexity. An analysis of the available descriptions of crustacean pigment shields reveals many varying routes of evolution passing these levels. It is concluded that the crustacean pigment shield is a highly variable structure sensitive to functional demands and less bound to kinship.
27753978|A large clade of cypridinid ostracodes, found only in the Caribbean, uses species specific courtship displays of secreted luminescence, produced by males, to attract photically silent females to mate. We recently described two new genera, Photeros and Enewton, which are part of this clade (Cohen and Morin, 2010). Within the various subclades of these signaling ostracodes in the Caribbean, only Photeros has been shown to have species-specific differences in both their luminescent displays and the morphology of the large male copulatory (eighth) limb (Cohen and Morin, 2010). The apparent ancestral display pattern, which occurs among at least some species in all the signaling clades of Caribbean ostracodes, is produced as a series of pulses of light secreted into the water column mostly in a vertical pattern, either upward or downward, above species-specific habitats. The pulses are of fairly long duration and become shorter and closer together. A derived pattern of very rapid pulses, which also shows within train interpulse distance shortening, is found only in the genus Photeros. It is likely that the high diversity found in this clade and other signaling clades has been driven by their life history patterns in conjunction with sexual selection acting via the courtship displays and their reproductive structures.
1549386|The objective of this study is to investigate the patterns of shell utilization in Petrochirus diogenes in the Ubatuba region, SP, Brazil. Hermit crabs were obtained from 1993 to 1996 with the aid of a shrimp fishery boat equipped with two double-rigged trawling nets. Shells were identified and weighed, and their maximum aperture width was measured. Hermit crabs were weighed, and their shield length was recorded. A total of 634 P. diogenes specimens, occupying shells of 12 gastropod species, was obtained. The shells of Tonna galea, Zidona dufresnei and Strombus pugilis were the most frequently occupied, the first marked by its larger aperture width and lower average weight. Small hermit crabs inhabited a wide variety of gastropod shells due to their higher availability. However, the utilization of T. galea shells became predominant as the crabs attained larger sizes. Differences in weight and aperture width are known to encourage certain shell utilization patterns and may affect growth and reproduction of hermit crabs.
4540299| Virilastacus retamali, a new species of burrowing parastacid, is described from the peatland in Rucapihuel located along the Coastal Cordillera from the province of Osomo, southern Chile. This is the third species of the genus Virilastacus described to date. It differs from V. araucanius and V. rucapihuelensis in the following morphological characters: 1) large eyes; 2) short rostral carina; 3) long antennal scale with prominent spine at the distal end of its external margin; 4) basal podomere of the antennula with a prominent ventral spine; 5) posterior plate of the epistome bears a cluster of prominent anterolateral tubercles; 6) ventral surface of the ischiopodite of the third maxilliped with a band of prominent tubercles and abundant pilosity; 7) U-shaped cervical groove; and 8) subtriangular telson. Finally, the habitat also differs from that of congeneric species, with V. retamali inhabiting a geogenous peatland whereas the other two species inhabit semi-marshland. We also present a complete phylogeny of the Chilean freshwater crayfish showing the distinct position of this new species. Finally, we assess all the Chilean species for conservation status using the IUCN Red List Criteria. /// Se describe Virilastacus retamali, nueva especie de paratcido excavador colectada en una turbera existente en la localidad de Rucapihuel, en la Cordillera de la Costa de la provincia de Osomo en el sur de Chile. Esta es la tercera especie del gnero Virilastacus que se ha descrito hasta ahora. Se diferencia de Virilastacus araucanius y de Virilastacus rucapihuelensis en los siguientes caracteres morfolgicos: 1) ojos grandes; 2) carina rostral corta; 3) escama antenal elongada y con una espina prominente en el extremo distal de su borde externo; 4) podmero basal de la antnula con una prominente espina ventral; 5. placa posterior del epistoma con un conjunto de prominentes tubrculos anterolaterales; 6) superficie ventral del isquipodito del tercer maxilpedo con una banda de prominentes tubrculos y abundante pilosidad; 7) surco cervical en forma de "U"; y 8) telson subtriangular. Finalmente, tambin se diferencia de sus congneres en el tipo de hbitat, ya que V. retamali habita en una turbera gegena mientras que las otras dos especies habitan terrenos semipantanosos. Nosotros tambin presentamos una completa filogenia de los camarones de ro de Chile, que muestra la ubicacin distinta de esta nueva especie. Finalmente, nosotros evaluamos el estado de conservacin de todas las especies chilenas usando los criterios de la Lista Roja de la UICN. 
10.2307/1548457|The genus Coutierella Sollaud, 1914, synonymized with Palaemonetes by Kemp, 1925, is reestablished, following the examination of fresh material from the Mai Po Marshes, Hong Kong. This material is described and illustrated, and the systematic position of Coutierella is discussed.
10.2307/1548358|The medial and distal vasa deferentia and terminal ampullae of Penaeus setiferus and P. vannamei were studied by light and electron microscopy to assess their roles in spermatophore formation. The ascending medial vas deferens of each species consisted of 2 parallel epitheliumlined ducts, referred to as the spermatophoric and accessory ducts, with the accessory duct fitting into a groove along the spermatophoric duct. In the spermatophoric duct, the sperm mass was surrounded by a thick primary spermatophore layer secreted by the epithelial lining. Two secretions forming accessory layers 1 and 2 were deposited by the epithelial cells of the accessory duct. The lumina of the two ducts partially merged at the flexure between the ascending and descending portions of the medial vas deferens. Upon confluence, accessory layer 1 flowed into the spermatophoric duct and formed an additional layer around the primary spermatophore layer. Additional spermatophore components were deposited in the terminal ampulla, which consisted of 5 interconnecting chambers or lumina in P. setiferus and 4 in P. vannamei, respectively. The spermatophoric and accessory ducts terminated in chambers I and II, respectively. New secretions from chamber I were a thick dorsal plate and a thin adhesive layer. In chamber II, structural alteration of accessory layer 2 into "corky" reticulate and collapsed or "fibrous" reticulate portions occurred. Chamber III was a branching duct and contained glutinous material. Chamber IV seemed to be an extension of chamber II, but formed a distinct large lumen located in the proximal to medial regions of the terminal ampulla. This chamber contained a large amount of "fibrous" reticulate substance similar to that observed in chamber II. Chamber V of P. setiferus contained the wing portion of the spermatophore. The terminal ampulla of P. vannamei possessed neither this chamber nor wing material. Upon ejaculation, each spermatophore joined mesially along the adhesive layer and formed a compound spermatophore. Accessory layer 1 and the "corky" reticulate layer were hard and functioned as a sheath for the sperm mass. These layers also supported the structure of the compound spermatophore. The dorsal plate, glutinous material, "fibrous" reticulate layer, and wing served to attach the compound spermatophore to the open thelycum.
10.2307/1549120| Survival, feeding rates, and growth of individual juvenile Dungeness crabs (Cancer magister) were measured over 150 days at 0, 5, 10, 15, and 20C in a laboratory study. Survival was highest at 0C (79%) and lowest at 20C (30%), but the number of surviving crabs declined at all temperatures over time. A high number (75%) of crabs survived at 10 and 15C, temperatures associated with the greatest increases in size. Feeding rates increased with temperature up to 15C. Crabs at 0C did not eat and crabs at 5C had a low but fairly constant feeding rate. Feeding rates at 10, 15, and 20C increased significantly early on and then decreased to beginning rates; increases in feeding rates occurred after a large percentage of the crabs molted. Growth, measured by the increase in carapace width and wet weight over time, increased with temperature up to 15C and then declined. Maximum growth occurred at 15C. However, no significant differences in carapace width or wet weights existed among crabs at 10, 15, and 20C by the end of the study. Crabs at 0C did not molt or increase in weight; crabs at 5C had very long intermolt periods and increased in weight by only 55%. Temperature effects on the size of molt increments were minimal; at 5, 10, and 15C there were no significant differences in the size of molt increments. At 20C the molt increment decreased with crab size. The intermolt period was the growth component most affected by temperature. The warmer the water temperature, up to 15C, the shorter the intermolt period. Our results are consistent with the belief that Dungeness crabs have longer intermolt periods progressively northward along the west coast of North America. 
10.2307/1548445|Laboratory observations of mating behavior of the Tanner crab Chionoecetes bairdi are described and compared with similar phenomena in other brachyuran crabs. Twenty-seven distinct actions were performed by C. bairdi during 133 matings. Seven actions--carapace caressing, bouncing, body lifting, palpating, sternum-to-sternum positioning, intromission, and pull-up--were unique to reproduction. Grasping, antennule flicking, sternum-to-sternum positioning, vigorous moving of mouthparts, and intromission were common to every complete copulation. Most primiparous females mated shortly after their maturity molt while in a new, soft-shelled condition. However, other primiparous females mated in a semihard-shelled condition as late as 21 days after the maturity molt and still produced viable zygotes. Multiparous females were able to fertilize eggs with sperm stored in their spermathecae during the preceding breeding season. Breeding recurred when males were present at the time multiparous females were receptive (during and shortly after the hatching of their eggs). Courtship, which is subtly developed, entails precopulatory attendance of the female by the male and performance of actions (body lifting, beating, and kicking) which quiet the female if she attempts to escape. Ungentle male-female interactions were infrequent when the female's exoskeletal condition was new and soft, more frequent when the female had a new semirigid exoskeleton, and prevalent when the female had an old, hard exoskeleton. In consequence, both the ability of the females to thwart breeding attempts by small and/or weak males and the occurrence of grasping marks on female exoskeletons directly increased with exoskeletal hardness. In some instances more than one male copulated with individual females.
10.2307/1548137| Atya innocous (Atyidae) occurs in permanent and temporary fresh-water streams in Panam. Its microhabitat distribution depends in part on the presence of congeners. The propodus and dactylus of each cheliped of A. innocous bear about 300 setae modified for specific functions in food collection. These setae may be divided into three basic types: chemoreceptors, scrapers, and filtering setae. The latter two types also function as mechanoreceptors. The cheliped setae are probably extended by an increase in hemocoelic pressure, producing an efficient filtering fan. Mechanosensory and chemosensory bipolar neurons innervate the cheliped setae, presumably providing the shrimp with the ability to detect current velocity, particulate load, and quality of the food source. The external morphology and ulrastructure of these sensilla are described. No dually innervated receptors (mechanochemoreceptors) were found. In addition to food collection and sensory functions, the pereiopods are used to groom body parts and brooded embryos. Super-8 cine films show the important role mouthparts play in grooming. The third maxillipeds groom the antennae and antennules, while the ultimate segment of the second maxillipeds frees lodged debris from the chelipeds. The dactylar pectinate comb of the fifth pereopod grooms the dorsal surface of the abdomen and pleopods. Scanning electron microscopy showed pores in the cuticle leading to unicellular and multicellular glands within the epidermis. Three gland types were observed and their respective functions are described. Adaptations for a lotic habitat seem to be important to species of Atya, which have a wide array of morphological modifications for life in running water. 
10.2307/1549274|A large collection of fossil callianassid mud shrimp collected from the Olympic Peninsula, Washington, contains extremely well-preserved material that permits their reassignment from Callianassa clallamensis Withers and Callianassa twinensis Rathbun to the ctenochelid genus Callianopsis de Saint Laurent. In addition, examination of the Recent species Callianopsis goniophthalma Rathbun indicates that this species exhibits sexual dimorphism in the morphology of the major cheliped. The same pattern of dimorphism is also observable in the fossil material. Therefore, the fossil species Callianopsis clallamensis (Withers, 1924), and Callianopsis twinensis (Rathbun, 1926), are synonymized. Specimens originally referrable to Callianopsis clallamensis represent males, and those originally referrable to Callianopsis twinensis represent females. This may be the first observation of sexual dimorphism in the morphology of the major chelipeds within the family Ctenochelidae Manning and Felder, 1991.
10.2307/1548102|Pagurus redondoensis, new species, is the only known member of the provenzanoi group of the genus Pagurus in California. This small hermit crab occurs along the mainland of southern California and Santa Catalina Island. It is particularly common in shallow subtidal areas of King Harbor, Redondo Beach.
1549735|The behavior of juveniles of the Japanese endemic crayfish Cambaroides japonicus (Decapoda: Cambaridae) was observed in the field and in the laboratory. In addition, the occurrence and placement of spermatophores on adult females is described from specimens inhabiting small brooks at Otaru and Hamamasu, Hokkaido, Japan, sampled from 1998 to 1999. The second stage juveniles left their mother permanently after some exploration behavior. In adult females, spermatophores were attached to the surface of the seminal receptacle (annulus ventralis), which is situated at the posterior margin of the seventh thoracic sternite. In C. japonicus the invagination of the annulus ventralis is not deep enough to hide the male spermatophores. Previous studies of the Astacidae reported that juveniles left their mother at the second stage, that spermatophores were attached to the surfaces of sternal plates of the last three pereopods, and that an annulus ventralis did not exist. In contrast, Cambaridae juveniles normally detach from the mother at the third stage, but they may detach and stay longer with the parent until the fourth stage. There is variability in this trait. The spermatophores are completely hidden in the annulus ventralis of adult females. Therefore, although C. japonicus belongs to the family Cambaridae, the juvenile stage that detaches from the mother is the same as that reported in Astacidae. The position of the spermatophore attached to the adult female exhibits an intermediate state between that of the Astacidae and that of the Cambaridae.
27753936|Allometric growth analysis on chelae dimensions vs. carapace length (CL) was employed to estimate average size at the onset of morphometric maturity (= puberty molt) and sexual dimorphism regarding the pair of chelae in Aegla franca. Males attain morphometric maturity (12.15 mm of CL) at a larger size than females (10.93 mm of CL). After the puberty molt, an additional change in the allometry level regarding chelae dimensions was detected in adult males (average CL = 19.00 mm). As a result, two sequential morphotype groups of adult males, herein designated as morphotype I and morphotype II, were recognized according to the state of development of the pair of claws. We postulate that the second change in this allometry level is related to functional maturity in this sex, based on the following observations: 1) temporal variation in the proportion between the two morphotype groups reveals that morphotype II individuals make up most of adult males in the population at the beginning of the seasonal reproductive period of the species, and 2) morphotype II males show a more robust pair of claws as compared to the predecessor morphotype, which might represent an advantageous trait in reproductive competition. Males and females of Aegla franca are heterochelous with handedness preponderance of the left chela. Claw size is a distinct dimorphic trait in this species, being significantly larger in male specimens.
10.2307/1549532|Samples of the spiny lobster Panulirus argus from populations in the western Atlantic and Caribbean were compared with spiny lobsters from Brazil for DNA sequence variation for 2 mitochondrial genes. Phylogenetic analyses of 16S sequence data reveal 2 distinct clades of P. argus, a clade consisting of Caribbean populations and a second clade of samples from Brazil. Mean sequence divergence estimates between Brazilian and western Atlantic/Caribbean populations were 8.32% for the mitochondrial large subunit ribosomal RNA (16S) and 19.82% for the cytochrome oxidase I subunit (COI). Levels of sequence divergence among sister species of Panulirus in the japonicus-group were similar to that observed between Brazilian and Caribbean/western Atlantic P. argus. In addition to large mitochondrial DNA sequence differences between western Atlantic/Caribbean and Brazilian P. argus, characteristic color patterns also distinguish Brazilian P. argus. Based on the results presented here, Brazilian P. argus is distinct from populations in the Caribbean and western Atlantic and may represent a complex of 2 species or subspecies. The degree of differentiation between the Caribbean and Brazilian clades indicates that formal recognition is warranted.
10.2307/1548857|The position, relative dimensions, and anatomical relationships of the heart (ventricle), cor frontale, and main arteries of Portunus pelagicus are described in detail, based on radiographs, detailed dissection, and histology. Brief descriptions are also provided of the pericardium, branchial sinuses, and general body hemolymph sinuses. Total fluid content and hemolymph volume were calculated as 66.5% (SD = 5.3%, N = 10) and 30.4% (SD = 3%, N = 8) of the crab's body displacement volume.
27753963|Growth and reproduction of the intertidal dotillid crab Ilyoplax deschampsi were studied in the Ariake Sea, Japan, and life history traits were compared with those of three other species of Ilyoplax occurring in temperate regions. New recruits of I. deschampsi occurred mainly in July and August, and their carapace widths (CW) were about 2 mm. They grew to 4 mm CW by December, and to 7 mm CW by the following July. Some crabs reached reproductive maturity in the second year of life, but others remained immature until the third year. Most crabs did not survive the third year. The main breeding season was from May to July, which ceased earlier than in other temperate species of Ilyoplax. Hepatic and ovarian weights were highest in early May and early June, respectively, and rapidly decreased after August. The earlier breeding of I. deschampsi is thought to be an adaptation for avoiding hot, dry habitat conditions during summer.
10.2307/1549232|The brooding period of Pollicipes pollicipes on the southwestern coast of Portugal in 1991 began in March and extended to October, and was more intense from April-September. Brooding activity in small animals (12.5-15 mm, rostrocarinal distance, RC) was significantly less than in large animals (RC > 15 mm). Brooding activity patterns of this species were considered to be similar at different tidal levels and subtidally. Crowded animals brooded less than uncrowded animals, but results could have been confounded by the fact that only one site was considered. Individuals apparently produce asynchronous broods. Estimates of the annual number of broods varied between 1 (crowded animals), 1 or 2 (small, uncrowded animals), and 4 (large, uncrowded animals). Small animals (mean RC = 15.4 mm; 16,229 eggs) produced about half the number of eggs of large animals (mean RC = 19.6 mm; 34,172 eggs). Fecundity was considered to be a function of size (RC) (after logarithmic transformation; r<sup>2</sup> = 0.62). A variable number of eggs was produced by animals of the same size; animals with an RC from 23-25 mm ranging from 30,000-130,000 eggs per brood. Fecundity patterns were considered similar in relation to tidal level, crowding, and time in the reproductive season.
20487822|During the late fall and early winter of 2007, we collected intertidal barnacles and observed reproductive activity. Among these, we found an otherwise normal barnacle that had two penises. At least one of these penises is inferred to have retained normal function and to have fertilized the egg brood of the barnacle's neighbor.
10.2307/1549000|The present paper reports the deep-sea pandalid shrimps of the genus Pandalopsis Bate collected from the Pacific coast of eastern Hokkaido, Japan, in 1987-1990. Five species including 1 new record from the western Pacific Ocean and 2 new species were identified and described: P. coccinata Urita, 1941; P. japonica Balss, 1914; P. longipes, new species; P. cf. longirostris Rathbun, 1902a; and P. rubra, new species. Problems on the systematics of the genus are noted. A key to the species of the genus, recognized to be valid at present, is provided.
10.2307/1548124|Five species of Gennadas and one species of the closely related genus Bentheogennema are found in the eastern Gulf of Mexico. Gennadas undergoes diel migration with most of the population concentrating at 650-850 m in the day and at 150-400 m during the night. Bentheogennema intermedia remains below 900 m. Gennadas valens is the most abundant species and constitutes 63% of the Gennadas catch. Maximum density for the genus was 6/1,000 m<sup>3</sup> and the number under a square meter of sea surface was estimated at 2 individuals. Populations have been underestimated, however, as juveniles escape through the trawl meshes. The diets of Gennadas and Bentheogennema are diverse and consist of a wide variety of primarily small, 1-5 mm plankton (mostly copepods) and greenish brown detritus containing fragments of epipelagic microplankton. Little difference exists in the diets of the six species considered, or between adults and juveniles of the most abundant species, G. valens. The appendages of these penaeids appear to be structurally adapted for capturing both the prey and detritus found in their digestive tracts. Evidence exists for time-space resource partitioning if the entire diel period and population size structure are considered. However, there is marked co-occurrence of triplets and pairs of species at night, the period of most active feeding.
41315733|Performance related traits and habitat of the mantis shrimp Rissoides desmaresti are described for specimens collected from the Solent region on the south coast of England, close to the species northern border. Most animals were collected over sub tidal 'mud' and 'sandy mud' sediments, although new recruits and adults were also found on intertidal mudflats. Winter size-frequency distributions showed evidence of regular recruitment and growth to maturity. The reproductive condition of females was staged according to the colour of cement glands, which developed synchronously with ovaries. Females with ripe ovaries were observed between October and April and animals kept in aquaria deposited and brooded eggs in March and April. Results showed that regular recruitment and large breeding populations can occur close to range borders.
4094156|Two new species of commensal leucothoid amphipods, Leucothoe ashleyae and Leucothoe kensleyi, are described with detailed host and ecological data. Although leucothoid amphipods are common endocommensals in sponges, tunicates, and bivalve mollusks, few authors have detailed specific host associations. Information on specific leucothoid host associations will further refine taxonomic and ecological studies within Leucothoidae. The convoluted taxonomic history of leucothoids necessitates the development and application of more precise taxonomic methodologies to enable comparative analyses among taxa. Persistent taxonomic constraints within Leucothoidae [sensu lato] include numerous cryptic species groups, most notably the problematic Leucothoe spinicarpa "complex."
10.2307/1548716| Males of Lernaeocera branchialis (L.) establish precopula with conspecific mates of all parasitic developmental stages, but seem to prefer mature females or females close to maturation. However, male L. branchialis discriminate against females already inseminated once. They also prefer copepodites as mates to chalimus IV females already occupied by other males. In L. branchialis, sex-specific signals seem to develop during the copepodite and chalimus I stage, and the sexual signals seem to increase in strength or quality as the female larvae develop. In males, however, sexual signals probably remain unchanged after the chalimus I stage. This may account for the typical gregarious behavior of adult males. In contrast to males of L. branchialis, males of Lepeophtheirus pectoralis (Mller) establish precopula with postchalimus larvae only. Males of both species are, however, probably selected to minimize the time invested in each female. Thus, males of L. pectoralis preferentially choose recently matured females. Males of L. pectoralis seem to be reluctant to recopulate with a female if other categories of mates are present on the host, and the males also discriminate against older virgin females with an expanded genital complex. This suggests that the size (or shape) of the genital complex in L. pectoralis is important for recognizing the female state, whereas the size (or shape) of the cephalothorax seems to be of less importance, since males do not discriminate between preadult I and preadult II females. 
1549847|The crayfish family Cambaridae is a diverse and important component of North American aquatic diversity. Although the family has enjoyed a relatively high level of taxonomic stability, few phylogenetic hypotheses of relationships within the family using empirical data analyses exist. We present here a phylogenetic analysis of the subgenus Crockerinus, genus Orconectes, using nucleotide sequence data from the mitochondrial gene region Cytochrome Oxidase I (COI). Using both parsimony and likelihood analyses, our results do not support the monophyly of the subgenus Crockerinus and show only partial support for the use of pleopod morphology for classification. For the species examined in this study, COI exhibited a relatively high rate of substitution, especially at the third codon position. This demonstrates the potential use of COI for inferring interspecific relationships among cambarid crayfishes.
10.2307/1547880|A new technique for examining the internal anatomy of small crustaceans is described. Specimens are embedded in a suitable medium such as wax, then carved to reveal the desired structures. Examples of results are shown.
1549570|Tetraclita squamosa and Tetraclita japonica have recently been separated into two species using allozyme and DNA analysis. The morphologies of the two species, however, have not been described fully, resulting in confusion over diagnostic characters and identification. Tetraclita squamosa has greenish parietes and the tergo-scutal flaps are black with two pairs of white spots. Tetraclita japonica has purplish-grey parietes and the tergo-scutal flaps are not patterned. These characters are good for in-situ species identification. The third cirrus of T. japonica possess an additional bidentate-type seta, which is absent from T. squamosa. Results of discriminant function analysis indicate the shape of the parietes and the scutum geometry of T. squamosa and T. japonica show intraspecific variation between sites, indicating they are not diagnostic characters for separating the two species. The basi-scutal angle of the tergum, however, is significantly different between the two species and is useful in distinguishing the species. By means of these specific criteria, the two species can be identified with confidence on the shore and in the laboratory.
10.2307/1548333|Specimens of the mud crab Rhithropanopeus harrisii underwent ecdysis within 16 days following autotomy of six walking limbs from each, compared to a mean of 40 days for untreated controls. The second ecdysis following autotomy also occurred sooner than that of controls of equivalent size. Crabs parasitized by the rhizocephalan parasitic castrator Loxothylacus panopei did not undergo ecdysis during the duration of this investigation (140 days) whether autotomized or not. Parasitized crabs from which walking legs had been autotomized in the laboratory did not form limb regenerates. However, two parasitized crabs that had been collected from the field bore large regenerates that may have developed before the rhizocephalan-induced anecdysis. It appears that sacculinids prevent ecdysis of their hosts even after proecdysis has been initiated. In a pattern typical of sacculinid-host associations, prevalence of the castrator decreased with increasing host size.
10.2307/1549518|Three populations of Artemia from La Pampa Province, Argentina, were cytogenetically analyzed: Salinas Grandes de Hidalgo, Laguna Callaqueo, and Laguna Colorada Chica. Both mitotic and male meiotic chromosomes were studied. All 3 populations share the same diploid (2n = 44) and/or haploid chromosome number (n = 22), and hence were determined as Artemia persimilis Piccinelli and Prosdocimi. Although bivalents decrease gradually in size, differences among the larger and the smaller ones were apparent. So far, no cytogenetic differences have been detected among the 3 populations. Chromosomes with metacentric, submetacentric, and telocentric morphology were detected in mitotic prometaphase cells, suggesting that chromosomes of Artemia may be monocentric.
10.2307/1548462|The primary excretory organ of adult Hutchinsoniella macracantha is the maxillary gland, which is located laterally in the posterior portion of the cephalon. It consists of an end sac and a tubule which is divided into proximal and distal sections. The end sac is composed of podocytes filled with endocytotic vesicles which grade in size upward to a large residual body. A large valve controls the opening connecting the end sac to the proximal tubule. The proximal tubule is distinguished by a dense lining of long microvilli. The distal tubule is lined with a thin cuticle. The excretory pore is a valvelike slit on the base of the posteromedial surface of the protopod of the second maxilla. In the nauplius, an antennal gland with similar morphology is located within the most proximal segment of the second antenna. In the adult, this gland appears to be nonfunctional.
27753964|Three large brachyuran species are common in the intertidal and shallow subtidal of New England rocky shores: two native crabs Cancer borealis (Jonah crab) and Cancer irroratus (rock crab), and the introduced crab Carcinus maenas (European green crab). For these three co-occurring species in the Isles of Shoals (Gulf of Maine, USA), we compared distribution and abundance to survivorship and prey availability along a depth gradient and examined stomach contents and prey preference. The three species show differences in vertical distribution: Carcinus is more abundant in the intertidal, while both species of Cancer are more abundant in the subtidal. Survivorship of both species of Cancer increases with increasing depth, while survivorship of Carcinus decreases with increasing depth, perhaps corresponding to differential vulnerability to predation by gulls in the intertidal and by decapods and fish in the subtidal. There were notable differences in laboratory prey preference experiments: C. irroratus consumed both small mobile and non-mobile prey (amphipods, small snails, and small mussels), while Carcinus consumed primarily small mobile prey (amphipods and isopods). In contrast, C. borealis consumed larger, heavier bodied prey (larger snails and mussels) but did not eat amphipods or isopods. However, differences in prey preference among crab species were greater than the differences in realized diets. Based on stomach content analysis, the blue mussel Mytilus edulis was the majority component of stomach contents for all three species. Some differences were evident in the remaining diet components: Carcinus was the most omnivorous (&gt; 30% green algae), C. borealis consumed more snails and arthropods, and C. irroratus consumed the most mussels. Overall, species distribution does not track the distribution of the preferred prey of each species; rather, the distribution corresponds with patterns of survivorship, indicating predominant top-down control of crab distribution.
10.2307/1548993| Penaeus semisulcatus were reared through the first and second protozoeal substages in factorial combinations of 2 temperatures (22 and 30C), and 3 salinities (28.0, 31.5, and 35.0). Samples of larvae were preserved at intervals during each substage. Seventeen morphological measurements were made on each of 734 protozoea I and 561 protozoea II, and the data were analyzed to determine the effects of age and salinity on the morphology of the larvae. Of the 17 characters measured, different sets of 6 characters were found to be significantly affected during each of the 2 protozoeal substages. In most of the affected characters, intramolt growth explained the major part of the variation; this was especially so for abdomen length. Two characters usually became smaller during each substage: telson width and the length of the first segment of the first antenna. Salinity affected several characters in protozoea I, including carapace length and a section of the first antenna. This study has determined the characters that respond most conservatively to salinity, temperature, and age. These characters are, therefore, the most useful for taxonomic discrimination. The effects of intramolt growth on morphology should be considered when larvae are being characterized for taxonomic purposes. 
10.2307/1548487|Of 558 Palaemonetes spp. exposed to infective cryptoniscus larvae of Probopyrus pandalicola, 364 became infected (most within 24 h after exposure). Larvae of Probopyrus pandalicola are host specific (permanent infections leading to parasite maturation resulted when Palaemonetes pugio was exposed but only temporary infections or host death resulted when Palaemonetes vulgaris was used). Parasite success was also dependent on host age: young hosts of both species became infected more readily than older ones. Parasites typically are endoparasitic for up to 2 weeks after infection, later becoming ectoparasitic in the branchial chamber. However, the endoparasitic stage is unnecessary for parasite larvae infecting hosts already harboring a female bopyridium within the branchial chamber. Often, loss of parasites from hosts or movements of parasites after infection (i.e., during the transition from endoparasitism to ectoparasitism or during movement from one branchial chamber to the other) occurred at host ecdysis. The mortality rate of experimentally infected hosts is high during the parasite's endoparasitic stage which lasts from 1-2 weeks. However, the mortality rate 5 weeks after infection is near that of uninfected shrimp. Although my results suggest that parasites were distributed at random among shrimp in exposure vessels, further studies of parasite distribution using larger experimental host populations are warranted.
10.2307/1547966|The elaborate life history of the rhizocephalan parasite Lernaeodiscus includes a number of counterdefensive measures specifically adapted to circumvent defense systems of the host crab Petrolisthes. Lernaeodiscus is dioecious. The externa produces large male and small female cyprids. The female cyprids invade the host by means of a kentrogon stage. The sole site of invasion is the gills. The female parasite later erupts on the ventral side of the abdomen as a virgin externa. This has to be hyperparasitized by a male cyprid in order to reach sexual maturity. The life cycle is completed in about 5 months. Autogrooming is the crab's primary defense against infestation and ordinarily only crabs slightly deficient in this regard become infested. Once inside, the parasite gains control of the host crab and induces it to accept the parasite as "self"--in effect, as its own reproductive system. This nullifies all remaining defenses the crab might have against the parasite. In addition, infested male crabs become behaviorally and morphologically female, so that they provide maternal care for the external reproductive body of the parasite, as do infested female crabs, rather than attempting to remove the parasite from their body. While the parasite has diverted all of the reproductive resources and capabilities of the crab to its own use, the crab otherwise carries out its life as a normal member of the intertidal community.
10.2307/1549317|Indicators of metabolic capacity and the potential for protein synthesis in male snow crabs, Chionoecetes opilio, were measured to estimate how these factors are affected by morphometric maturity and body size. The metabolic capacity of muscle, as depicted by cytochrome C oxidase (CCO), citrate synthase (CS), and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) activity, was greater in adults than in adolescents, while that of the digestive gland was not affected by maturity. These differences may reflect the different locomotory habits of adults and adolescents. Indicators of the potential for protein synthesis, the RNA:DNA and protein:RNA ratios, did not differ between adult and adolescent crabs, presumably because the animals were in late intermolt stage and flesh growth was already completed. The total mass of muscle, as estimated by the flesh content of the merus, and the total capacity of muscle CCO scaled isometrically with body mass, while that of CS scaled with an exponent <1. The mass of the digestive gland, as well as the total capacity of both mitochondrial enzymes in this organ, increased more slowly than body size. These results support the hypothesis that the negative allometry generally observed for aerobic metabolism may be caused by the decreasing size of the metabolically most active tissues with an increase of body mass. In contrast with the positive allometry of the anaerobic capacity of fast-swimming fish with body mass, we noted an isometric relationship between these two variables in the rather slow-moving C. opilio. This supports the hypothesis that an enhanced anaerobic capacity is necessary for the largest individuals of a fast-moving species in order to maintain their burst swimming speed despite the increased friction generated by increased speed and body size.
10.2307/1548010|A new species of Prodajus Bonnier (female, male, and juvenile) is described as a parasite in the marsupium of the mysid Mysidopsis bigelowi Tattersall from Hereford Inlet, Cape May County, New Jersey. It is compared briefly with the other four species in the genus. The species was taken from materials collected during many trips in the inlet and adjacent ocean made from March 1974 to June 1978. Two other species of mysids were collected, but only M. bigelowi contained the parasitic isopod. Aspects of the relationship of the host and parasite are recorded.
10.2307/1548735| The gills of the ostracode Leuroleberis surugaensis Hiruta, 1982, a nektobenthic cylindroleberidid myodocopid from the Pacific Coast of central Japan are described. They consist of 7 pairs of integumental laminae attached to the thoracic wall. Each individual lamina has numerous lacunae (diameter up to 60 m), smaller subcuticular spaces, an (efferent) epibranchial and a (afferent) hypobranchial canal, pillarlike cells, and cells bearing a large nucleus (5-10 m in diameter), comparable to the nephrocytes of decapods. The lacunae form an extensive anastomosing network of arcuate sinuses containing hemolymph and amoeboid free-cells (hemocytes). The epibranchial canals open dorsally into the pericardial cavity suggesting that hemolymph contained in gills flows back to the heart through a dorsal route. The 7 pairs of gill laminae of Leuroleberis are interpreted as the major respiratory surfaces of the animal and may also be involved in the degradation of metabolic waste products. Ventilation over the respiratory surfaces is provided by the rhythmic movement of epipodial plates (fifth limb). The book gills of Leuroleberis and other cylindroleberidids are interpreted as possible epipodial remnants of lost limbs posterior to the seventh limb. 
27753986|A new genus and two new species of protosquillid mantis shrimp are described from the western Pacific. The new genus, Rayellus, is the sixth to be recognized in Protosquillidae and is unique in having the telson margins fully lined with soft, spine-like papillae.
10.2307/1548954|Larval, megalopal, and early juvenile development in the tube-dwelling hermit crab Discorsopagurus schmitti (Stevens) is described and illustrated. To address the hypothesis that microhabitats ("housing") directly affect morphology in hermit crabs, juvenile stages of this species were subjected to 2 different microhabitats, i.e., coiled gastropod shells and straight worm tubes, as well as to deprivation of shelter entirely. The results indicate that while microhabitats influence uropod orientation, the uropod symmetry and pleopod asymmetry in this species are independent phenomena.
1549901|Taxonomy of mitten crabs has been problematic and confusing. Eriocheir was considered to comprise four species (E. japonica, E. sinensis, E. recta, and E. leptognathus). However, recent taxonomic revision has recognized five species and three genera, Eriocheir being restricted to E. sinensis, E. japonica, and E. hepuensis, and the establishment of two genera for Neoeriocheir leptognathus and Platyeriocheir formosa. The present study analyzed the phylogeny of the species of Eriocheir, sensu lato, based on DNA sequence analysis of mitochondrial 16S rRNA, cytochrome c oxidase 1, and the first internal transcribed spacer of nuclear rRNA. The results show that the three Eriocheir, sensu stricto, species are genetically similar, indicating that they have recently radiated. Eriocheir formosa is the sister taxon of these three species, with E. leptognathus the most distantly related taxon within the group. These results support the affinities of the mitten crabs, but the genetic divergence among the crabs provides no support for separating Eriocheir, s. l., to three different genera. We suggest to retain the apparently monophyletic mitten crabs in a single genus until more evidence is available.
1549877|We recorded the incidence of predation on snakes by the amphibious freshwater land crab Eudaniela garmani (manicou crab) in the rainforests of the Caribbean island of Tobago during 168 days of field observation (spanning a 4-year period) conducted between the hours of 08.00 AM and 12.00 noon and 21.00 PM and 23.30 PM. Six instances of manicou crabs eating snakes were observed and photographed. Field notes are given for each predation event, and photographs are presented for three of these: clouded slug-eating snake, Sibon nebulata nebulata, three-lined snake, Atractus trilineatus, and vine snake, Oxybelis aeneus. We conclude that the potential predation pressure placed on local snake populations by manicou crabs merits investigation.
10.2307/1549526| As a result of the introduction of the crayfish Procambarus clarkii, the functioning and structure of the fresh-water marsh in the Doana National Park have been dramatically altered. Because those changes have been attributed mostly to trophic interactions between the crayfish and existing food webs, the aim of this study was to explore the diet of this species in natural ecosystems in this park. A total of 502 stomachs was analyzed from 3 sites on 2 dates (March and May). The stomach contents were classified into 13 food categories. The most frequent food item in the population was non-green plants (80% occurrence in the pooled data), followed by rhizomes of Scirpus sp. (50%), green plants (36.8%), and organic sediment (30.1%). Animal food items were represented mainly by insects (24.9%), which included a wide variety of aquatic larvae, cladocerans (16%), and Gambusia holbrooki (14%). Both immature and adult size-classes of this crayfish ingested mainly plants and organic detritus, but a higher proportion of food of animal origin has been found in young (<30-mm carapace length) compared to adult crayfish. The mean number of food categories per stomach varied between 2 and 3, and no significant differences were found between seasons, sexes, and size classes (ANOVA, P > 0.05), except for March when we found lower means in the Manecorro and La Rocina stations than during May. The trophic index calculated was D = 25.3. Thus, the diet of P. clarkii indicates that this crayfish is a polytrophic species. /// El funcionamiento y la estructura de la marisma temporal del Parque Nacional de Doana (PND) se han alterado radicalmente como resultado de la introduccin del cangrejo rojo de las marismas Procambarus clarkii. Debido a que los cambios estn relacionados con la estructura trfica de los ecosistemas y los hbitos alimenticios del cangrejo, este estudio tuvo como objetivo conocer la dieta de esta especie en algunos ecosistemas naturales dentro del PND. Se analizaron un total de 502 contenidos estomacales en tres lugares de la marisma en dos pocas del ao (Marzo y Mayo). El contenido estomacal se clasific en 13 categoras alimenticias. La categora alimenticia ms frecuente fue la vegetacin no verde (80% de los datos agrupados), seguida de los rizomas de Scirpus sp. (50%), plantas verdes (36.8%) y sedimento orgnico (30.1%). La dieta animal estuvo representada por una gran variedad de larvas de insectos e insectos (24.9%), cladceros (16%) y el pez Gambusia holbrooki (14%). Tanto los animales inmaduros como los maduros ingirieron principalmente plantas y detritus. En los estmagos de los juveniles (<30 mm long. del cefalotrax) se encontr mayor cantidad de alimento animal que en los adultos. El nmero promedio de categoras alimenticias que se encontraron por estmago vari entre 2 y 3, no habindose encontrado diferencias significativas entre las pocas del ao, los sexos y las clases de edades (ANOVA, P > 0.05), excepto en Marzo, cuando los valores de las estaciones de Manecorro y la Rocina fueron menores que los de Mayo. Se calcul el indice trfico propuesto por Herrera (1976) D = 25.3. Los hbitos alimenticios de P. clarkii no se ajustan a los conceptos clsicos de los niveles trficos, ya que su dieta corresponde a la de una especie politrfica. 
1549503|A new galatheid genus, Raymunida, is established for two known species, Munida elegantissima de Man, 1902, and M. bellior Miyake and Baba, 1967, and one new species, R. cagnetei from the Marquesas Islands (French Polynesia, Pacific Ocean). This new genus is easily distinguished from the genus Munida Leach, 1820, and other galatheid genera by the following combination of characters: (1) the presence of epipods on first, second, and third pereiopods; (2) one spine on the frontal margin between supraocular and anterolateral spines; (3) one distal spine on the flexor margin of the carpus of the third maxilliped; (4) the merus of the second pereiopod clearly more slender than those of third and fourth pereiopods; and (5) the presence of several long marginal spines on the endopod of the uropods. Raymunida cagnetei, new species and type species of the genus, is clearly distinguishable from the other species of the genus by the colour pattern, the presence of long setae on the carapace and abdomen, the length of the propodus of the walking legs, and the number of striae on the abdominal somites.
20487769|Kerguelenica is a genus that was originally described on the basis of female specimens collected off the coast of the Kerguelen Islands by M. Ledoyer in 1977. At the time, Kerguelenica was recognized as a problematic genus in that the family placement was unclear due to the lack of male specimens, and Ledoyer (1977) placed the genus in Pseudocumatidae with some unease. We describe a new species of Kerguelenica from specimens collected from the continental slope of Australia and Tasmania, from depths of 1000-1800 m. The adult male and ovigerous female are fully described and figured. The new species can be distinguished from the only other species in the genus, K. platycephala, by several characters. The new species has an ocular lobe, lacks a pair of dorsal protuberances on the carapace, in maxilliped 3 the ischium is present and the merus is very broad but the carpus is less broad than the merus, the basis of pereiopod 3 is slightly shorter than twice the length of the other articles together, and the telson is more than half the uropod peduncle length. In comparison, K. platycephala has no ocular lobe, bears a pair of dorsal protuberances on the carapace, maxilliped 3 is without an ischium and both the merus and carpus are broad, the basis of pereiopod 3 is 1.5 the other articles together, and the telson is half the length of the uropod peduncles. In other respects, the two species are quite similar in appearance. However, the description of the new species and especially the adult male do not resolve the issue of the family affinity of the genus.
1549388|The effects of sex ratio on the spawning frequency of females and on male mating behavior were examined in the spiny king crab, Paralithodes brevipes. Two types of guarding behavior were categorized based on when the male began guarding the female, that is, pre- and post-molting types, when the male starts guarding the female either before or after her molt, respectively. Males reared under a female-biased sex ratio more often showed the post-molting type than did males reared under an even ratio. Guarding duration for the pre-molting type, from the start of guarding to female molting, was significantly longer when the sex ratio was even than when females were more numerous (female: male ratio = 5:1). While there was no significant difference in the molting frequency of females between the two sex ratios, frequencies of egg extrusion were significantly lower for the female-biased ratio than for the even sex ratio. These results suggest that the sex ratio affects the mating behavior of P. brevipes and might be an important factor to manage wild populations and to produce seed crabs effectively in nursery tanks.
1549864|Remains of Anostraca, such as exuvia and cysts, are preserved in the sediments of temporary pools. Sampling the bottom gravels of the pools in the draining system of the Oued Djerat in the Sahara desert (Tassili N'Ajjer, Algeria; Kairaouan, Tunisia), revealed anostracan fauna diversity which surpassed that in live plankton sampling. The deposits in the Oued Djerat contained exuvia and cysts of Chirocephalus, Branchipus, and Streptocephalus, with S. torvicornis and S. rubricaudatus living together. Cyst variability of Streptocephalus torvicornis was higher than expected; even a type similar to S. ovamboensis was found. Taxonomy was corroborated by the morphology of exuvial remains of the limbs (endite 1) recovered from the same deposits.
1549389| Cyprid larvae of the lepadomorph Octolasmis colonize the gill chambers of the edible mangrove crab Scylla seratta (Forskl, 1755). In a natural population of 856 mangrove crabs from southern Thailand, 260 individuals were infested by 3,670 Octolasmis cor and 1,758 O. angulata, including 1,014 subadults, 168 cyprids, and 38 peduncles of the two species. This population of gill chamber symbionts was examined to investigate the relationship between barnacle size and barnacle spatial distributions. The habitat of the branchial chamber was partitioned for study into gills one through eight, the inside (hypobranchial) and outside (hyperbranchial) gill surfaces, and the proximal, medial, and distal regions of each gill. The collective data from 260 crabs were pooled for an analysis that showed a nonrandom relationship between the size of octolasmids and their location within the gill chamber. On the inside gill surfaces O. angulata attained its largest average size on gills 3, 7, and 8, whereas on the outside surface the barnacles were largest on gills 4 and 5. Octolasmis cor attained its greatest average size on the inside surface of gill number 6. Comparisons of barnacles from the three gill regions also revealed some significant differences in average barnacle size. Positive correlations among barnacle size, barnacle number, and barnacle density were present. Moreover, there was a significant correlation between the total numbers of barnacles and the average size of O. cor on the inside surfaces of gill numbers 1 to 8, whereas it was not significant for O. angulata. There was also a significant correlation between barnacle densities and barnacle size in O. cor but not O angulata. Positive correlations were also observed among higher numbers of barnacles, larger barnacles, and higher numbers of advanced reproductive stages. Areas with higher densities also were areas of higher average fecundity. 
10.2307/1548688|Field surveys were conducted to understand the benthic ecology of the settled puerulus and juvenile stages, up to 23-mm carapace length, of the Japanese spiny lobster Panulirus japonicus. Both the settled puerulus and juvenile stages were found individually in small holes near algae on the side or underside of rocks or boulders in nearshore shallow waters. The study suggested that settled pueruli and juveniles have a diurnal homing ability; they hid in their holes during daytime and emerged at night, then returned to the same holes early next morning. The first juvenile stage generally continued to occupy the same holes that it used during the puerulus stage, for some period after molting. As juveniles became larger, they moved to larger holes. The peak settlement in October 1983 was observed in the seventh day after the new moon.
10.2307/1549093|A method for cardiac angiography of crustaceans is described which allows the pattern and volume of hemolymph flow to be observed in living animals. In Portunus pelagicus, 91% of hemolymph flow was via the sternal aorta into the ventral thoracic artery and into its radiating lateral subbranches which supply the walking legs. The ventricular wall (epicardium plus myocardium) appeared structurally complex and capable of taking up and retaining radioopaque dye, but the actual lumen of the ventricle appeared to be relatively small. A technique for quantifying stroke volume is outlined, which gave estimates that fall within reported values for similar crabs. Notes are included on the possible extension of the technique by the use of videodensitometry.
41315717|Reanalysis of aligned sequence data from the mitochondrial cytochrome oxidase I gene region across Crustacea has generated a number of new insights into how we can interpret genetic variation in these species. Some insights, such as the relationship between genetic diversity and the latitudinal biodiversity gradient, have been predicted in earlier studies. Other patterns - such as the bias toward more 'rare' allelic variants than expected under null models - across the 255 data sets analyzed here suggest that a more nuanced understanding of molecular evolution is necessary for interpreting the phylogeography and population biology of species in this group.
40665219|An analysis of museum specimens reveals that reports of the chelonophilic barnacle Cylindrolepas darwiniana are misidentifications of the similar turtle barnacle Platylepas decorata. As a result, contemporary collections from loggerhead and hawksbill sea turtles represent the first report of this turtle barnacle since its description nearly a century ago. Novel morphological characters that clearly distinguish C. darwiniana from other turtle barnacles have been ascertained from the recent specimens and are reported.
10.2307/1549083|With this report, four species of the anostracan genus Branchinella are known from North America. Two occur in the state of Texas and one each in the states of Georgia and Florida. The two east coast species probably need to be brought under protection of endangered species laws, since they have been reported only from their type localities. For the first time outside the genus Dendrocephalus, we found antennalike processes between the first and second antennae on the heads of males in a new Branchinella from Texas and the two east coast species with which it seems closely related. Linder (1941) reported what he called fingerlike processes proceeding frontally from the bases of the eyes of males of an Australian species of Branchinella and wondered if they were comparable with the antennalike processes found in species of the New World genus Dendrocephalus. Our finding of antennalike processes in three New World species of Branchinella suggests that homology is a strong possibility.
4126706| In some crustaceans, compounds that weakly stimulate peripheral chemoreceptor cells elicit disproportionately large behavioral responses. Here, we investigated whether this is the case in the crayfish Procambarus clarkii. Resting animals were exposed to either a blank or ammonium, glucose, glutamate, glycine, maltose, or trehalose at predicted final concentrations of 200 M to 2 mM. Glycine significantly increased the time spent walking. Maltose increased the time spent walking and the number of clasps of the small claws (dactyl clasps). Trehalose triggered leg probing/waving and dactyl clasping. Ammonium and glutamate failed to elicit responses. These results are consistent with the varied efficacies of those compound in stimulating leg chemoreceptor cells as determined previously with physiological methods. Glucose, however, elicited all three behaviors that we quantified - a result inconsistent with the earlier finding that glucose fails to elicit action potentials in the leg's nerve. To determine whether glucose-sensitive chemoreceptor cells are present in the legs, 150 l of glucose or trehalose, at concentrations of 10 M or 100 M, was applied focally to crayfish legs and dactyl-clasp frequency was determined. At a concentration of 100 M, glucose elicited a significantly higher dactyl-clasp frequency than at 10 M. Trehalose elicited high dactyl-clasp frequencies at both concentrations. Crayfish legs are, therefore, sensitive to glucose but they are more sensitive to trehalose. Overall, behavioral responses to single compounds largely paralleled the relative abilities of those compounds to stimulate leg chemoreceptor cells. 
1549815|We used DNA sequences from 18S rDNA (808 bp) and COI mtDNA (599 bp) to infer evolutionary history of northern groups of the deep-sea mysid genus Pseudomma. The V4-V7 regions of 18S show an average of 1.31% sequence divergence between species. A secondary structure model is constructed and used in phylogenetic analyses to allow for different evolutionary rates in paired and unpaired nucleotide partitions. COI is observed as highly variable with uncorrected p-distance averaging 33%. Phylogenies for these sequences were estimated by maximum-likelihood, Bayesian, and maximum-parsimony analyses. More or less similar tree topologies were obtained for each gene with these methods. Pseudomma longisquamosum was placed in a basal clade, using Parapseudomma and Amblyops as outgroups, but the exact relationship of other basal taxa is less clear when results from the two genes are compared. An ancient presence of Pseudomma in the Tethys Sea is suggested by phylogenetic structure, molecular clock considerations, and present distributions. A well-supported Atlantic clade may have diverged from Indo-Pacific groups in the Miocene because of the closure of the Gibraltar Strait. More recent speciation events are proposed in the Norwegian Sea, and an Arctic intrusion from the North Pacific across the Bering Strait is suggested for the circumpolar species Pseudomma truncatum.
10.2307/1548410| The larval development of Callianassa tyrrhena was studied under laboratory conditions. Sixteen salinity-temperature combinations were used (14, 18, 22, 25C and 40, 60, 80, 100% sea water of S = 37). Since only 2 zoeal stages and a megalopa were observed, the postembryonic development can be characterized as advanced. Morphological changes between stages are prominent, while size does not seem to increase. Salinity mainly affects successful molting to zoea II and metamorphosis, while temperature dominates the developmental rate. Low salinities and temperatures prohibit or do not favor larval development, but when these factors approximate natural conditions (S  80% sea water and T  18C) metamorphosis is completed in a percentage equal to or greater than 70%. With increasing temperature, the zoeal duration is shortened drastically, but also the participation of the 2 zoeal stages in the total zoeal duration is equalized. The shortening of the larval duration up to 3.2 days (in 25C and 100% sea water) is considered as advantageous for a species which, as adult, lives in a restricted habitat in the upper coastal zone. 
10.2307/1549033|Several different developmental patterns are responsible for inequalities in numbers of segments on the exopod and endopod of the same swimming leg of adult copepods. These patterns result from changes in two basic kinds of segment additions: (1) changes early in leg development of calanoids result in a leg whose endopod has fewer segments than its exopod, and in a leg whose exopod has fewer segments than its endopod in harpacticoids; (2) changes late in leg development in harpacticoids result in a leg whose endopod has fewer segments than its exopod.
10.2307/1548339|Reversed spines are present on the third and fourth walking legs of adult males of Procambarus clarkii. The spines appear to be indispensable for normal mating. The presence of these spines is dependent upon the presence of the androgenic gland hormone. Ultrastructural observations on the androgenic glands as well as physiological experiments support this conclusion.
20487716|Dark littoral submarine caves can act as enclaves of the deep aphotic zone in shallow coastal areas, and their survey has revealed the existence of a very particular fauna of specialized and poorly known organisms among which crustaceans are particularly well represented. In these particular habitats, the use of conventional sampling techniques, such as hand nets, is often not recommended since they disturb bottom sediments causing hazardous situations to scientific divers. The use of baited traps, while technically possible, is not always practical is such remote habitats. The present work describes a simple and inexpensive manual device that can be operated by divers in submarine caves and other cryptic habitats to recurrently catch small motile organisms such as mysid crustaceans, caridean shrimps, or even gobiid fishes. This small suction bottle derived and improved from the original "Sket bottle" design considerably reduces the risks of disturbing the cave's bottom sediment and can be easily operated using a single hand. The described sampling device can also be easily used outside caves, in a variety of particular habitats, e.g., rubble filled bottoms, branching coral reefs, cracks, and small holes on rocky surfaces, in which small motile organisms usually escape from traditional sampling gears, e.g., fishnets and traps, or simply go unnoticed by researchers during sampling.
27753987|Individuals of the non-native titan acorn barnacle, Megabalanus coccopoma, have been documented at several locations in the southeastern United States in the past eight years, but little work has been done on the basic biology of M. coccopoma in U.S. waters, nor has anyone documented active settlement in local areas. We collected recently-settled M. coccopoma spat at sites within the main channel and some of the adjacent feeder creeks of the Intracoastal Waterway of northeastern Florida to compare spat abundance over time, between channel and creek environments, and among sites. Spat were present almost exclusively between April and July with most settlement occurring relatively close to either St. Augustine Inlet or Matanzas Inlet. No spat were observed at any of the feeder creek collection sites; the lower salinity there may be intolerable to M. coccopoma larvae.
10.2307/1549438|The natural diet of Hepatus pudibundus in Fortaleza Bay, Ubatuba (SP), Brazil, was determined, based on two methods: Frequency Occurrence and Percentage Points. Foregut contents of 219 specimens collected from November 1988 to October 1989 in 7 different areas of Fortaleza Bay were analyzed. Hepatus pudibundus had varied recognizable food categories, in decreasing order: crustaceans, fish, sediment (a facultative scavenger), and molluscs. Other food categories were in low percentage: bryozoans, algae, annelids, foraminiferans, cnidarians, and echinoderms ranked fifth through tenth on the basis of the methods utilized. A significant difference was found in the amount of food in the diet during seasonal analysis (autumn > summer > winter > spring) and among the 7 sampling areas of Fortaleza Bay. We suggest that the crab H. pudibundus is an opportunistic omnivorous crustacean, and is not exclusively molluscivorous.
1549891|Two new stegocephalid (Amphipoda) species of the subfamily Andaniexinae are described: Glorandaniotes vemae n. sp. and Glorandaniotes norae n. sp. Their morphological affinities to their congeners and their phylogenetic position within the subfamily are discussed. Glorandaniotes vemae n. sp. can be distinguished from all its congeners by the elongate article four on the peduncle on the second antenna, whereas the large and powerful lacinia mobilis, combined with the somewhat elongate telson, are unique features for G. norae n. sp. Glorandaniotes vemae n. sp. is the third species within the genus that is recorded from the Indian Ocean, whereas G. norae is the first Glorandaniotes recorded off the western coast of South America.
10.2307/1548692|Brood weight, fecundity, and egg size as a function of female body size were compared in the deep-sea red crab Geryon quinquedens and the deep-sea golden crab Geryon fenneri. Females of G. fenneri attained a larger body size than G. quinquedens, and body size in both species was the main determinant of reproductive output (brood mass) and fecundity per brood. Both species differed from most other brachyurans in having larger reproductive outputs, larger eggs, and lower fecundities relative to their large body sizes. After statistical adjustment for differences in body size between the two species, G. quinquedens had space in the body cavity for yolk accumulation and a brood mass which were 50% larger than G. fenneri. Geryon quinquedens, however, produced eggs 2.18 times the volume of G. fenneri, resulting in equivalent number of eggs per brood in similar-sized crabs. Large, yolky eggs in G. quinquedens are likely to contribute to the nutritional flexibility of its larvae, but apparently have coevolved with significant changes in female morphology and reproductive output.
1549819|Embryos and larvae of the european lobster H. gammarus, reared under laboratory conditions, were investigated in order to determine the nature and metabolism of carotenoproteins during embryogenesis. Extracts of embryonic as well as larval stages were analysed, using DEAE-Cellulose filtration, electrophoresis, and thin layer chromatography. Ovoverdin is the main carotenoprotein of the yolk; two fractions, having different molecular weight (No1: 700 kDa and No2: 600 kDa) were observed. Larval extracts were found to contain three coloured carotenoproteins: blue (Lm1a), red (Lm1b), and yellow (Lm1c). Yolk carotenoids were identified as free astaxanthin and unesterified phoenicoxanthin, whereas esterified astaxanthin was found to occur in the forming tissues. Astaxanthin diester is the main carotenoid of the embryo; in larval tissues, this carotenoid is associated to the red carotenoprotein. The increase in esterified astaxanthin suggests enzymatic mechanisms leading to acylation reactions occurring at an early stage of embryonic development.
10.2307/1548005|Nomenclature used to designate groups of sphaeromatid genera is discussed. New, properly formed, names are proposed to replace the previously incorrectly formed subgroups of Hansen and others that have been proposed over the years since Hansen. A diagnosis and list of the genera with authors is given for each subfamily. A key to the subfamilies is provided.
4094174|The digestive system of first stage Argulus japonicus larvae is described following reconstruction from serial sections. The morphology of the digestive tract is similar to adult branchiurans. It consists of an esophagus, esophageal funnel, anterior midgut (crop), midgut diverticula, posterior midgut (intestine) and a hindgut. However, the epithelial cells lining the midgut of newly hatched larvae contain large amounts of yolk. The midgut diverticula are less ramified than in the adult and arise from the anterior midgut as two main arms which branch anteriorly and posteriorly into the carapace. The posterior midgut is lined with large swollen cuboidal epithelium with large vacuoles and a ciliated border, whereas the adult posterior midgut is lined by large papilliform cells. Argulus japonicus larvae survive a day after hatching without nutrition from a host. First stage larvae feed mainly on host epithelial cells and mucus. There was no blood observed in the lumen of the digestive system.
10.2307/1547914|The development of the distinctive epicuticle of the marine littoral isopod Idotea baltica is described. Synthesis of the outer epicuticle is conventional. However, formation of the outer layer of the inner epicuticle is unusual among arthropods in that this layer appears to be formed from materials released simultaneously from both epidermal microvilli and Golgi-derived secretory vesicles. During central zone formation electron-dense fibres join the tips of apical plasma membrane microvilli to the developing inner epicuticle. Vesicles, which are found in the epicuticle, are observed only when the latter is completely formed. Aspects of the formation of certain structures within the epicuticle are correlated with specific molt cycle events, and their significance is discussed.
4094121| The freshwater amphipod genus Hyalella in Brazil has the second highest diversity in South America; it is only surpassed by the diversity found in the Andean Lake Titicaca. Ten species of Hyalella are known for Brazil: H. gracilicornis (Faxon, 1876); H. longistila (Faxon, 1876); H. warmingi Stebbing, 1899; H. meinerti Stebbing, 1899; H. curvispina Shoemaker, 1942; H. brasiliensis Bousfield, 1996; H. caeca Pereira, 1989; H. montenegrinae Bond-Buckup and Araujo, 1998; H. pseudoazteca Gonzlez and Watling, 2003; and H. dielaii Pereira, 2004. Two new species are described here, H. castroi and H. pleoacuta, both occurring in freshwater bodies of southern Brazil over 1.200 m high in the region of Aparados da Serra. A key for the species of Hyalella from Brazil is presented. 
1549862|This study compared trade-offs between brood size and brood interval, as well as feeding activity and ovarian development during brood incubation, among fiddler crabs of three subgenera: Uca (Celuca) perplexa, U. (Thalassuca) vocans, and U. (Deltuca) dussumieri. Female U. perplexa remained in their burrows throughout incubation, and egg mortality was low despite relatively large brood sizes. These females did not feed during incubation, and their ovaries remained small until the eggs hatched. Female U. vocans fed actively on the surface during incubation, and egg mortality was high, despite relatively small brood sizes. Female U. dussumieri also fed actively during incubation, but their broods were very small and egg mortality was low. In the latter two species, the ovaries grew rapidly during incubation, and many females produced consecutive broods. Incubation in burrows may be adaptive for females that are exposed to severe heat stress and desiccation in the upper tidal flats, and a simple model demonstrates that large broods may be advantageous for females incubating broods in burrows because of shorter interruptions during feeding.
1549395|Phylogenetic relationships within Metapenaeopsis remain largely unknown. The modern revision of the genus suggests that the shape of the petasma, followed by the presence of a stridulating organ, are the most important distinguishing taxonomic features. In the present study, phylogenetic relationships were studied among seven Metapenaeopsis species from the Indo-West Pacific based on partial sequences of mitochondrial 16S rRNA and cytochrome c oxidase I (COI) genes. Mean sequence divergence was 6.4% for 16S and 15.8% for COI. A strikingly large nucleotide distance (10.0% for 16S and 16.9% for COI) was recorded between M. commensalis, the only Indo-West Pacific species with a one-valved petasma, and the other species with a two-valved petasma. Phylogenetic analyses using neighbor-joining, maximum parsimony, and maximum likelihood generated mostly identical tree topologies in which M. commensalis is distantly related to the other species. Two clades were resolved for the remaining species, one with and the other without a stridulating organ, supporting the main groupings of the recent taxonomic revision. Results of the present study also indicate that the deep-water forms represent a relatively recent radiation in Metapenaeopsis.
10.2307/1548865|Prenauplii of brine shrimp hatched from cysts adhered to a stationary substratum emerged upward (from the top of the cyst) instead of randomly. The direction of light and point of cyst adhesion during postgastrular embryogenesis had no effect on this direction of emergence, which was 76% upward, 23% sideways, and 1% downward (P = 0.168), suggesting a gravity effect. In cysts incubated and hatched without a constant orientation to gravity prenauplii emerged in random directions. The embryos of stationary cysts, including decapsulated cysts, were motionless during postgastrular development until final emergence (late E1 stage). Therefore, gravity directs orientation of the embryo during development in stationary cysts and dictates a head-up orientation of the prenauplius prior to emergence.
27753960|In many taxa, social structures are mediated by agonistic interactions and the formation of dominance hierarchies. In crayfish, dominance hierarchies may have evolved as a result of sexual selection, allowing dominant males greater access to females. We examine strategies of investment in agonistic behaviors for males and females of the crayfish Orconectes quinebaugensis in both the reproductive and non-reproductive seasons. We hypothesized that reproductive males would invest more in agonistic behaviors than reproductive females and non-reproductive crayfish. We tested this hypothesis in the laboratory with 4 treatment groups: males and females in the autumn reproductive season and males and females in the summer non-reproductive season, with each group subdivided by size to control for size effects. As predicted, reproductive males spent significantly more time in agonistic behaviors and had significantly more fights reaching maximum intensity than reproductive females, while there was no significant difference in the time spent in agonistic interactions by non-reproductive males or females. We did find that small females in the summer had significantly fewer fights reaching maximum intensity than either males or large females in the summer. However, there was no significant difference in time spent in agonistic interactions or proportion of fights reaching maximum intensity between reproductive males and non-reproductive males, as was predicted by our hypothesis. We did observe a significant effect of size for both males and females in the non-reproductive season, with larger animals spending more time in agonistic behaviors, and with large females having a more fights at maximum intensity than small females; this difference was not recapitulated in the reproductive season. These data indicate that investment in agonism differs by sex and by reproductive status, and the differential investment by sex in reproductive animals may indicate that dominance interactions are under sexual selection in males. However, high investment in agonism by both males and females in the non-reproductive season is not consistent with our hypothesis. Alternatively, the differential investment in agonism by reproductive males and females could be explained by either seasonal changes in the individual costs and benefits of agonism, or by depressed investment by reproductive females.
10.2307/1549325|The caprellid amphipod Paracaprella tenuis Mayer is in a mutualistic relationship with the hydrozoan Bougainvillia rugosa Clark. Adult male P. tenuis aggressively displace Tenellia pallida (Alder and Hancock), a nudibranch predator of the hydroid. The aggressive displacement of the nudibranch occurs when the nudibranch crawls within a caprellid body-length of the amphipod. Hydrozoan polyps within the response area of the caprellid are protected from predation, and the rapid retreat by the nudibranch precludes polyp predation immediately following the interaction. The caprellid receives a suitable substratum and food in the form of attached diatoms and entrapped detritus.
41315681|The first meiotic prophase was analyzed in both genders of Pacific white shrimp Litopenaeus vannamei. Progression through meiosis, from the formation of the synaptonemal complex to diplotene is described during molting stages. Most of the meiotic cells in both genders were observed at pachytene, recognized by complete synapsis of bivalents. In both genders, the zygotene, pachytene, and diplotene stages occurred at inter-molt, pre-molt, and post-molt stages in all individuals, which suggests that there is no relationship between molting and the first meiotic prophase. Sperm counts from the vas deferens and spermatophores support a continuous production of male gametes. The nature of the synaptonemal complex in gonad cells shows that each pair of homologous chromosomes synapses end to end, revealing a high chromatin density and a complex tangled arrangement in the nucleus. Both genders have 44 bivalents, of which around 40 have an o-ring configuration, and the rest have a v-shape, meaning that most bivalents present chiasmata at both ends, each representing two crossing-over events per bivalent per meiosis.
1549812|A new barnacle species, Chthamalus neglectus Yan and Chan, 2004, was described from Hong Kong. It belongs to the "challengeri" group of Chthamalidae. The larvae of Chthamalus neglectus differ from C. challengeri, C. antennatus, C. montagui, and C. dalli (challengeri group) in the teeth of the labrum, shape of cephalic shield, setation formula, and cephalic shield sculpturing under both light and scanning electron microscopes. This further confirms it is a new Chthamalus species.
1549772|Most nannastacid cumaceans collected from tropical waters belong to just a few genera, among them the nearly ubiquitous genus Cumella. A new nannastacid genus is described from the West Indian island of Guadeloupe. Members of the genus possess a very long and robust pleonite 6 and short and stubby uropods and share the loss of the ischium on pereiopod 2 and maxilliped 2. This new genus is clearly allied to three species within the genus Cumella, all of which have elongate pleonite 6 and short, but not robust, uropods. These three species are known from the Caribbean Sea, Red Sea, and Gulf of Thailand.
41315730|Wave action and density dependent effects can strongly affect the ability of sessile barnacles to feed and assimilate energy. Phenotypic plasticity in cirrus form has been demonstrated in several species of acorn barnacles in response to those factors. Field experiments were used to test whether cirrus morphology of the North Atlantic acorn barnacle, Semibalanus balanoides, varied in sites over a gradient of wave-exposure or in aggregations manipulated for population density and neighborhood size. Variation in morphology of the feeding cirri differed between sites, but was not directly related to estimates of wave exposure. This may have been a result of altered feeding behavior in different types of flow. Cirrus morphology did not vary with either aggregation size or density. This study identifies variation in cirrus form for S. balanoides, suggests its dependence on the hydrodynamic environment and lack of dependence on density.
1549641|The effect of latent inhibition on learning about cues related to increased predation risk was studied in a native crayfish, Orconectes virilis, and in an invasive species, Orconectes rusticus. Individuals of both species either were exposed or not exposed to the conditioned stimulus (potential "predator" odor = goldfish odor) prior to simultaneous exposure to conditioned (potential predator odor) and unconditioned (crushed conspecific = alarm odor) stimuli. Crayfish were then tested one day and one week later for inhibition of feeding responses following introduction of goldfish odor. Both species were clearly inhibited in their formation of an association between the goldfish odor and a predator risk stimulus after a training period during which they were exposed only to the goldfish odor. Thus, the effect of latent inhibition was demonstrated in both species. The implications for the learning of cues associated with predation risk are discussed.
10.2307/1548765| Oxygen consumption rate (O<sub>2</sub> mg/g/h), cumulative oxygen consumption (O<sub>2</sub> mg), ammonia excretion (N g/g/h), and cumulative ammonia production (N g) were examined for eyestalk-ablated and intact juvenile Penaeus japonicus Bate (0.69  0.14 g) at 20, 30, and 40 ppt salinity. Following eyestalk ablation, the shrimp increased its cumulative oxygen consumption only at 20 ppt, and increased its ammonia excretion and cumulative ammonia production at all salinity levels tested. Relationships among oxygen consumption, ammonia excretion, cumulative oxygen consumption, cumulative ammonia production, salinity, and exposure time are given. It is concluded that unilateral eyestalk ablation significantly affects nitrogen metabolism in P. japonicus. 
1549850|Mole crabs of the genus Emerita (Family Hippidae) inhabit many of the temperate and tropical sandy beaches of the world. The nine described species of this genus are rarely sympatric, and most are endemic to broad biogeographic regions. The phylogenetic relationships among the species have not yet been investigated. Based on presumed morphological synapomorphies, it has been suggested that the species inhabiting the New World constitute a monophyletic group, as do the species inhabiting the Old World. The relationships within the New World species were previously studied using sequence data from Cytochrome Oxidase I and 16S rRNA mitochondrial genes; the results strongly suggested that one of the species, Emerita analoga, was very divergent from the other taxa examined. This observation prompted uncertainty about monophyly of the New World species. The goal of the present study was to elucidate the relationships among the species within the genus Emerita. Partial sequences for the mitochondrial COI and 16S rRNA genes for all nine species of the genus (and several outgroups) were examined. Phylogenetic analyses suggest that E. analoga is closer to the Old World taxa than to the other New World species; thus the New World Emerita species do not constitute a monophyletic group.
4094179| Female blue king crab, Paralithodes platypus, were captured from the Pribilof Islands, Alaska, in July and October 2003 and shipped to the Kodiak Fisheries Research Center. Crabs were held in chilled seawater at 2, 3.5, or 4C until hatching, and final counts were 4, 6, and 10 crabs in each treatment, respectively. Mean size of all crabs was 123.9 mm CL and did not differ significantly between treatments. Individual crabs required an average of 29 days for complete hatching, regardless of holding temperature. Earliest hatching began on or before 20 February 2004. Crabs captured in July and held at 4C hatched significantly earlier, with a mean hatch date of 13 March 2004, than crabs captured in October and held at 2C or 3.5C, both of which groups hatched on a mean date of 18 April 2004. Crabs released an average of 416 ml of larvae, and 110,033 first stage zoeae. Excluding two crabs for which complete volumes were not obtained, there were no differences in volume or number of larvae released by crabs held at different temperatures. The pattern, duration and timing of larval release exhibited by blue king crab is similar to that observed for other lithodid crabs including red king crab (P. camtschaticus), golden king crab (Lithodes aequispinus), and southern king crab (L. santolla). Extended hatching periods for king crabs may be an adaptation to environmental variability and the uncertainty of adequate food sources for larvae, and represent a reproductive strategy of diversified bet-hedging. 
10.2307/1548891|The morphology, histology, ultrastructure, and development of the reproductive system in Lepeophtheirus salmonis, a major pathogen of farmed salmon, are described using LM, TEM, and SEM. In both sexes the reproductive structures are visible at the preadult stage, but they do not mature until the adult stage. The female reproductive system consists of a pair of ovaries, oviducts, cement glands, and a single receptaculum seminis. Various stages of oogenesis are discernible within the ovaries and oviducts of preadult II and adult females. Oogonia divide to primary oocytes which pass into the oviduct and undergo vitellogenesis. The reproductive system of male L. salmonis consists of a pair of testes, vasa deferentia, spermatophore sacs, and cement glands. Various stages of spermatogenesis are discernible within the testes of preadult and adult males. Degenerating spermatocytes in the testes form "A" globules which pass down the vasa deferentia and fuse to form the inner secretion of the spermatophore, which later forms the spermatophore tube and fills the copulatory duct of the female. Several features of the reproductive system suggest that adult female L. salmonis are monogamous, while adult males are polygamous.
1549169|Population-genetic and morphometric investigations were undertaken in 28 populations of the palaemonid prawn Macrobrachium nipponense with different-sized eggs which occur in different habitats from estuaries to inland waters of the Japanese islands, in order to elucidate the process of their differentiation. In estuarine populations with small eggs, allele frequencies in the Pgm locus changed with a cline along the Pacific coast. This appears to have resulted from infrequent unidirectional gene flow by sea current-mediated larval dispersal. Estuarine populations along the coast of the Sea of Japan, on the other hand, were genetically homogeneous, suggesting more frequent gene flow in them. Populations with medium and large eggs, which are observed in brackish- or fresh-water limnetic systems of sea-relict lake origin on both sides of the Japanese islands, are considered to have differentiated from estuarine populations after the Holocene marine transgression. Some lacustrine populations were significantly different in their genetic content and morphometric traits, implying their independent derivation.
10.2307/1547893|Mysidopsis bigelowi, a common epibenthic mysid crustacean, was collected in a New Jersey estuary to determine its seasonal abundance, distribution, and life history pattern. Mysids were sampled with an epibenthic sled, and densities of M. bigelowi were among the highest reported for any shallow-water mysid. This mysid occurred in all subtidal areas of the high salinity embayment throughout the year, but was most abundant in sandy habitats near the inlet and in the ocean. Variations in abundance between stations and between cruises, which were often greater than two orders of magnitude, were attributed to patchy distribution and a high degree of motility. A significant correlation was observed between the abundance of M. bigelowi and that of the dominant sympatric mysid Neomysis americana. An inshore migration of adult M. bigelowi in spring coincided with the onset of reproduction of the overwintering generation. Females from 4.4-8.5 mm total length incubated from 5-43 young; the mean was 17.4. The number of eggs or larvae was linearly related to female length. Individuals produced multiple broods and reproduction was continuous from April through November. Abundance, distribution, and life history adaptations of M. bigelowi in Hereford Inlet are compared to those of populations from New England to Texas.
10.2307/1548042|During a biological investigation of Cay Sal Bank in 1978-82 conducted on the R/V Bellows, an important collection of decapods was obtained in depths ranging from 1 to 498 m. The material included the heretofore figured but characterized caridean Stylodactylus rectirostris, and the poorly known brachyurans Dissodactylus juvenilis and Micropanope pusilla. First western Atlantic records are reported for the carideans Ligur ensiferus and Plesionika williamsi, and minor range extensions for six other species. Zoogeographic affinities of the more than 113 species collected are greatest with the fauna of the Gulf of Mexico. Distributional data indicate that the Florida Current is not a significant obstacle for decapod crustaceans but more probably serves as vehicle for the transport of larval stages across the Straits of Florida. Fifty percent of the penaeoids and carideans from the slope of the bank occur also in the eastern Atlantic.
10.2307/1547950|We surveyed crayfish distribution and abundance among 67 lakes in the Vilas County area of northern Wisconsin, and then used multiple regression to analyze the relationship between our results and various physical, chemical, and biological variables. The region is dominated by Orconectes rusticus, O. propinquus, and O. virilis, but Cambarus diogenes, Procambarus acutus, and O. immunis are also present; only O. virilis was previously documented from the area. No single variable or combination of variables fully explained variations in crayfish distributions. However, substrate, calcium level, geographic isolation as related to colonization opportunity, and lake size appear to be of general importance. Continuing introductions and competitive exclusion are also probably significant, resulting in a dynamic situation involving an interaction of multiple controlling factors.
27753957|The anatomy of the male reproductive organs of the brachyuran crab Eriphia verrucosa is presented, with a detailed analysis of the histology and histochemistry of the regional structure of the testis and vas deferens. The H-shaped testis is subdivided into three distinct parts: anterior, intermediate and posterior. The vas deferens is continuous with the posterior part of the testis, ends at the gonopore, and is subdivided into three distinct regions: proximal, medial and distal. The anterior part of the testis exhibits convoluted lobules including seminiferous tubules. Whereas the intermediate part of the testis has a simple columnar epithelium, the posterior part of the testis has a simple squamous epithelium. In the proximal and medial regions of the vas deferens, there is a simple cubic epithelium, while in the distal region of the vas deferens there is a high columnar epithelium. Spermatophores are first formed in the convoluted proximal region of the vas deferens and are encapsulated by mainly protein secretions in the distal region. These results suggest that the testis and vas deferens of Eriphia show similarity to the testis and vas deferens of other brachyuran crabs except for some slight differences. During formation of the spermatophores in the vas deferens the spermatozoa are prepared for successful fertilization.
20487783|The smooth bay shrimp, Lissocrangon stylirostris, was sampled using a beach seine and a hyperbenthic sledge in the summer of 2006 at a dissipative sandy beach in southern Oregon. We investigated possible variations in the population structure due to environmental variables, preferred prey, sexual system employed, impacts due to parasitism by the bopyrid isopod Argeia pugettensis, and possible predators. The population was 63% female, and females were generally larger than males. The density of L. stylirostris varied significantly with the time of day. A cohort of small shrimp was observed from July to September while large adult shrimps were rare during the same months. The net effect was that shrimp densities were stable over the summer. The shrimps fed mostly at night on the mysid Archaeomysis grebnitzkii. The differences in female to male ratio, the larger size of females relative to males, and the relatively little overlap in size frequency distribution between males and females could be because this species exhibits a type of protandry. Both male and female shrimps supported an equal, high prevalence of, level of infestation by A. pugettensis (62%). The parasitized shrimps were larger in size than normal shrimps but had lower weight per length ratio. Very few brooding shrimps were parasitized (0.2%), and a higher percentage of parasitized shrimps had empty stomachs and significantly lower stomach contents. We hypothesize that the parasite is affecting the shrimp by producing variation in its normal size and weight, sterilizing females, and reducing its ability to capture food. Finally, individuals of English sole and Pacific staghom sculpin individuals preyed on the shrimps.
10.2307/1548523|Larvae of the Atlantic mud crab Panopeus herbstii were reared for 13 days posthatching using two different laboratory methods and using large, field-deployed enclosures (mesocosms). The laboratory diet consisted solely of nauplii of Artemia sp., while the enclosure diet was a natural zooplankton assemblage. Survival was generally higher in the laboratory, but the rate of larval development was faster in the mesocosms. Differences in developmental rates were attributed to dissimilarities in the respective nutritional environments.
10.2307/1548542|Control of egg-hatching time was investigated in the crabs Neopanope sayi, Uca pugilator, and Sesarma cinereum, which occupy a gradient in adult habitats from sublittoral to supralittoral zones, respectively. Hatching time was monitored in the laboratory for eggs attached to females and for eggs removed several hours prior to eclosion. Embryos of all species hatched into larvae swimming independently of the female; however, those of U. pugilator and S. cinereum hatched several hours later and with lower viability than attached eggs. Mean hatching times of attached and detached eggs were correlated for N. sayi, but not for U. pugilator or S. cinereum. These results strongly imply that the embryos are the principal controllers of hatching time in N. sayi but not in U. pugilator or S. cinereum. For all species, removed eggs hatched over a longer time interval than attached eggs, indicating that the female is responsible for the synchrony of release. Increases in the readiness of attached eggs to hatch prior to actual time of larval release were relatively moderate in N. sayi, but more rapid and dramatic for U. pugilator and S. cinereum. These changes are likely the result of enzymatic degradation of the egg membranes. We postulate that, for N. sayi, enzyme release is controlled by rhythms in the embryos, but, for U. pugilator and S. cinereum, females signal the embryos to release enzymes, resulting in rapid degradation of the membranes. Selection for control of larval release time by the female may be especially important in terrestrial and semiterrestrial crabs.
10.2307/1548173|Possible phylogenetic trends in male sperm transfer and female sperm storage structures are described. Degree of complexity of genitalia is defined as the relative modification or differentiation from a hypothesized primitive condition. It is proposed that the degree of complexity of male gonopods and female sperm storage organs exhibited by a taxon is a measure of phylogenetic distance from the ancestral state. In a male decapod ancestor, the endopod of pleopod 1 is considered to have been an unmodified natatory ramus with pleopod 2 similar but with an appendix masculina. The female of such a hypothesized ancestor received sperm via an external spermatophoric mass; sperm storage in a thelycum or internal spermatheca had not developed. Primitive dendrobranchiate shrimps are characterized by open thelyca, morphologically elaborate external spermatophores, and open petasmata or semiclosed petasmata without terminal funnels or spouts. In the most advanced groups, females have closed thelyca and true spermathecae in which spermatophoric masses are deposited; males have semiclosed petasmata with terminal spouts. Several variations in genitalia between these primitive and advanced extremes are found in penaeoid species. In the Pleocyemata, a trend of increasing insemination complexity can be constructed from the Stenopodidea-Caridea to Astacidea and culminating in the Brachyura. Sperm transfer and storage in both the Palinura and Anomura stand apart from this major pleocyemate trend. The proposed phylogenetic trends in insemination morphology are compared to various schemes of decapod evolution. Best agreement is found with Burkenroad's (1963) hypothesis on decapod phylogeny; the Natantia of Boas (1880) is not supported by a review and analysis of decapod sperm transfer and storage morphology.
10.2307/1548382| Numerous specimens of Nyctiphanes simplex, a subtropical neritic euphausiid previously collected only as far north as northern California, were found in plankton collections and stomach contents of pelagic predators collected off Oregon and Washington during spring through fall of 1983 and again in apparently reduced abundances in 1984. These unusual occurrences may have resulted from increased poleward surface and subsurface flows of currents associated with El Nio conditions. Changes in the diet of pelagic predators during 1983 appear to have been associated with these occurrences. 
10.2307/1548775|Morphology and ontogeny of the phyllosomata and pueruli of 17 of the 19 species of Panulirus were reviewed in order to create phyllosoma and puerulus species-groups for comparison with the adult species-groups of George and Main (1967). An evolutionary sequence of several species-groups in each of the early developmental phases of Panulirus is presented. These groups correspond well with the adult groups, with the exceptions of P. interruptus (Randall) and P. guttatus (Latreille). Comparative morphological data indicate 2 basic phyllosoma and puerulus forms. The more recent tropical species have a more specialized form of phyllosoma and puerulus than those of the early subtropical species. The phyllosoma and the puerulus of P. interruptus are of an intermediate form. The larvae of P. guttatus are of the early phyllosoma form and are unique in showing development of the specialized, spatulate, antenna through their last 3 stages. This character appears only in the final stage of the more recent tropical species. This is consistent with other comparative ontogenetic data which indicate a trend toward consistently "accelerated" larval development within the genus. This implies a shortening of the planktonic phase in the more recent species, since their larval development may be completed in a shorter time relative to that of the earliest species. The phyllosoma and puerulus groupings strengthen the view that there is an evolutionary sequence of "earlier" and "later" species of Panulirus. In their younger developmental phases, evolution has proceeded along different morphological, and probably behavioral, lines.
1548879|Sexually immature females of Procambarus clarkii were implanted with androgenic glands. Surviving females containing living androgenic gland implants developed first abdominal appendages that were masculine. Many forms of masculinization of these appendages occurred. The first masculine changes were thickening and calcification of the base of each of the pair of first abdominal appendages. On most of the masculinized females, their first pair of abdominal appendages were very similar to that of a male. As a control, immature females were implanted with vasa deferentia only. None of the controls exhibited masculinization of their first pair of abdominal appendages. In masculinized females which became mature, vitellogenesis was inhibited. Development of many oocytes in the ovaries was inhibited.
1549564| A 40-day feeding experiment was conducted to investigate the effect of previous food restriction on the compensatory growth response in Chinese shrimp, Fenneropenaeus chinensis. Four groups of shrimp with initial body weight of 2.189  0.093 g (mean  SE) were used, in which the control group (Group C) received ad libitum rations throughout the experiment, and the other three groups (expressed as Group R4, R8, and R12) were first fed at 4%, 8% and 12% of body weight per day (% B.W. day<sup>-1</sup>), respectively, for 10 days and were then fed ad libitum for a recovery period of 30 days. After 10 days of restricted feeding, the shrimp showed increased body contents of moisture and ash and decreased contents of lipid, protein, and energy compared with the controls. The effect of previous food restriction on body biochemical composition gradually reversed during the period of ad libitum feeding. At last, there were no significant differences in body composition among all groups, with the exception of a higher lipid content appeared in Group R12. Specific growth rates in terms of wet weight, dry matter, protein, and energy (SGR<sub>w</sub>,SGR<sub>d</sub>,SGR<sub>p</sub>, and SGR<sub>e</sub>) decreased with decline in ration, while feed conversion efficiencies (FCE<sub>w</sub>,FCE<sub>d</sub>, and FCE<sub>p</sub>) were highest at feeding level of 12% B.W.day<sup>-1</sup> during the course of food restriction. Following transfer from restricted to ad libitum feeding regime, all the restricted groups exhibited significantly higher food intake (FI<sub>w</sub>) and SGR<sub>w</sub> than the control group. However, this compensation response only occurred within the first 10 days of ad libitum refeeding. During the period of ad libitum refeeding, all the restricted groups showed just slightly higher feed conversion efficiencies than that of the control group. At the end of the experiment, Group R12 was able to fully catch up with the control in body weight, while the other two restricted groups still weighed less than the control. It appears that both completely and partially compensatory growth occur in Chinese shrimp, and this growth compensation is mainly dependent on increasing food intake (hyperphagia) and possibly is contributed somewhat by improvement in feed conversion efficiency. 
10.2307/1549296|A total of 16,692 specimens of Paralomis granulosa was collected in the Beagle Channel, Tierra del Fuego, Argentina, between July 1996 and July 1997. This lithodid was parasitized by a bopyrid isopod identified as Pseudione tuberculata. Infested crabs exhibited a conspicuous bulge on their carapaces, which accommodated the parasite housed in the branchial chamber. The prevalence of infestation by P. tuberculata decreased with crab size, from 45.6% at 10-19.9-mm to 0% at 90-99.9-mm carapace length. Bopyrids were found on 251 occasions in the left branchial chamber and only once in the right branchial chamber. Except for two immature female parasites found in the branchial chamber of a small crab, all parasites were mature females, each usually carrying a dwarf male attached to its abdomen. The length of the female isopods and that of their hosts were positively correlated. These two observations suggest that the parasites infest P. granulosa early in the life of the host, and remain on, and grow up with the host throughout its life. The finding of crabs without bopyrids, but with distended branchial chambers, shows that some crabs survive the infestation. While breeding is inhibited in parasitized hosts, the prevalence of the parasite is already low (about 1.2%) at the size of host maturity. Therefore, we suggest that the reproductive potential of the crab population is not seriously affected by the sterilizing effect of the parasite. Finally, the cooccurrence of this bopyrid and a second parasite, the rhizocephalan Briarosaccus callosus, was recorded, but the prevalence of double infestations was low.
41315682|Wild-caught larvae, attributed to the lobster shrimp Axius serratus, consisting of two zoeal stages and a decapodid (megalopa), are described in detail. Parentage of larvae was ascertained based on geographic distribution of axiideans and gebiideans (= former thalassinideans) within the study area and close morphological resemblance to other congeneric larval stages. Larvae of A. serratus represent the first described 'thalassinidean' larvae from Canadian Atlantic waters and the first for Axiidae within the northwest Atlantic. Among axiidean larvae, those of A. serratus most closely resemble larvae of A. stirhynchus from the eastern Atlantic. Distinct features include the spination of the pleon that set A. serratus zoeae apart from those of most other 'thalassinideans' but that, in combination with a telson very similar to Homarus americanus, contributes to the general resemblance of A. serratus larvae to those of the American lobster. The primary distinction between these taxa is the presence of a chela on the third pereiopod in the latter that is not present in the former. In view of these appendages being prone to loss or damage, other characters that separate these taxa are listed and discussed. Given the uncertain status of some taxa within Axiidae and limited detailed information of larvae with certain parentage, difficulties in delineating the family based on larvae persist, as they do for cladistic analyses using adult morphology and molecular approaches.
1549917|The digestive tract contents of 85 Columbus crabs, Planes minutus, are presented. Crabs were collected from oceanic-stage loggerhead turtles, Caretta caretta, and inanimate flotsam near the Azores. The numbers of eggs carried by ovigerous crabs (n = 28) are also presented. Numbers of eggs between turtle crabs and flotsam crabs were similar. Dietary analysis yielded 11 food types from P. minutus. Crabs from turtles contained a higher diversity of food items than crabs from inanimate flotsam. The diet of P. minutus was composed primarily of neustonic invertebrates and algae--similar to prey items found from oceanic-stage loggerhead turtles in past studies. The types of food consumed by P. minutus suggest that crabs may obtain food by consuming other epibionts, by hunting neuston from their substrate, or by capturing food particles expelled by host turtles.
20487762|Brachyuran specimens collected from the Albian (Early Cretaceous) age Shell Creek Shale in Montana and Wyoming provide the basis for description of two new species, Zygastrocarcinus waagei and Componocancer roberti. The former represents only the fourth species of a genus that is endemic to the Cretaceous of mid-continental North America. The latter species is assigned to a new superfamily, Componocancroidea; new family, Componocancridae; and new genus, Componocancer, within Heterotremata. Componocancer exhibits a combination of primitive and derived features that is unique among Brachyura.
40665224|The karyotype of Atyaephyra desmarestii, the European freshwater shrimp, from Louros River (NW Greece) was studied through the examination of metaphase chromosome spreads from the first zoeal stage larval tissues. A total of 42 mitotic metaphases were examined and the diploid chromosome number was determined to 2n = 32. The karyotype consisted of 22 metacentric and 10 submetacentric chromosomes. Atyaephyra desmarestii karyotype is reported here for the first time providing a basis for further cytogenetic comparative study of the species populations.
10.2307/1549459|The capability of terrestrial hermit crabs to detect volatile chemicals in the air does not only concern food-related substances, but may also be used to identify water-related cues. Coenobita rugosus and C. cavipes from Kenya (which in the field exhibit, respectively, high and low levels of terrestrial adaptation) were tested in an olfactometer, with air flows carrying food- and water-related odors. Coenobita rugosus could only barely perceive the odor of coconut, but reacted well to water-related odors. These hermit crabs could detect the difference between fresh water and sea water and orient themselves appropriately, probably according to their hemolymph concentration, while C. cavipes could not. In nature, such an ability might have an important function in terrestrial species for the detection of water sources irregularly distributed inland. Preliminary tests showed that the capability of reacting to water-related odors is also present in C. brevimanus, the most terrestrial of the species of Coenobita, but is probably missing in C. perlatus, among the less terrestrial species.
10.2307/1547948| The development of Uca subcylindrica, a fiddler crab endemic to southern Texas and northeastern Mexico, is described on the basis of laboratory-reared larvae. Females produce relatively few (x = 580), large (x = 1.06 mm) eggs. The eggs hatch as late zoeae in an advanced developmental condition. This stage is followed within half a day by a similar zoeal stage. Within as little as 2.5 d, most zoeae metamorphose to advanced megalopae. Molt to first crab is completed for most by 8 d. The larval development of U. subcylindrica is abbreviated, both ecdysially and durationally, an adaptation which enables this species to take advantage of periodic rainfall in a semiarid environment. 
1549664| Reproduction and population dynamics of Acetes chinensis were studied on the western coastal areas of Korea, Yellow Sea, between May 2000 and October 2001. Female maturity was determined from the ratios of females with maturing ovaries by size. The size at which 50% of females are mature is estimated as 8.96 mm carapace length. The mature females first appeared in April, reached a peak in July, and then did not appear after September. The main breeding season (percentage of females with mature ovaries greater than 50%) was from July to September. Similar pattern could be found in monthly changes of gonad index (GI), showing relatively higher GI during the annual breeding season. Mean gonad index examined weekly during the breeding season (June-September) peaked both in the middle of June and early September. Parameters of growth were estimated using the modified von Bertalanffy growth function (VBGF) model incorporating seasonal variation in growth. Females grew faster and reached a larger size at age than males (L<sub></sub> = 13.51 mm CL and K = 0.69 yr<sup>-1</sup> for females, and L<sub></sub> = 10.48 mm CL and K = 0.84 yr<sup>-1</sup> for males). The mortality rate (Z) ( 95% confidence limit) calculated by length-converted catch curves was estimated as 3.93 ( 2.00) yr<sup>-1</sup>. The structure of the recruitment patterns obtained by the ELEFAN program indicated two normally distributed groups. The estimated longevity was 0.75-1.0 yr for the summer generation and 0.58-0.83 yr for the winter generation. 
20487840|A new crangonid genus, Placopsicrangon, is established for an unusual new species, P. formosa, which is described on the basis of material from off Taiwan in the northwestern Pacific, at the abyssal depths of 4412-4824 m. This new genus has a large and reflective plate-like eye that is unknown in decapod crustaceans before but similar to the eyes of the deep-sea grideye fish of the genus Ipnops Gnther, 1878. The new genus is also unique within Crangonidae by having a laterally compressed rostrum with dentate dorsal margin, and the presence of a transverse row of sharp teeth adjacent to the posteroventral margin of the sixth pleonal sternite. Placopsicrangon appears closest to Sabinea in the general pattern of the carination on the carapace and pleon, and the substantially reduced non-chelate second pereiopod. This new taxon is the sixth representative of Crangonidae inhabiting the abyssal zone.
1549577|The first zoea of Lauridromia indica (Gray, 1831) is described and compared with other dromiid larvae. Forty-six characters of dromiid first zoea and megalopa larvae (seven genera and 11 species) are summarized, and their concordance with the taxonomy of recently revised genera, based on adult morphology, is tested. For the most part, larval characters support the new generic arrangement of McLay (1993). However, the larvae of Dromia wilsoni are very different from those of congeners, suggesting that it should be placed in a new genus. Almost half of the species whose larvae are known show various degrees of abbreviated development. All known dromiids with direct development occur in Australian waters. This mode of development is not confined to a monophyletic group of dromiids and seems to have evolved independently several times. The distinctiveness of the shell-carrying genera Conchoecetes and Hypoconcha is reinforced by larval characters and their similarity suggests descent from a common ancestor. On the basis of larval and adult characters, these two genera should eventually be placed in a separate new family.
1549876|Geothelphusa dehaani (White, 1847) is an amphibious crab inhabiting rivers and streams in Japan. Its gill complement consists of nine phyllobranchiate gills, which are cleaned by the passive action of setiferous epipods on all maxillipeds. Epipodal setae are of two types; anchor setae distally have two rows of stout outgrowths with opposing recurved ends (anchor-like), and brush setae have dense needle-like setules distally surrounding the setal shaft. Both setae project from the epipod margins mostly onto gill surfaces, with a few setae inserting between the lamellae. The functional morphology of epipodal grooming in brachyurans is inferred to be a better design solution than in other decapod taxa. Subjecting crabs to dehydration resulted in severe fouling and breakage of epipodal setae, thus indicating the importance of branchial water to gill grooming. Form-function analysis suggested that the use of setiferous epipods as a common gill-cleaning mechanism in the Brachyura was secondarily derived as a result of evolution to a crab-like body form, which caused the tight enclosure of the gills in and the exclusion of the limb bases from the branchial chambers. The epipodal setae, especially anchor setae, of G. dehaani were morphologically compared with those of several brachyuran taxa, including other Japanese potamoid species.
10.2307/1548100|A review of the eurysquillid stomatopod genus Coronidopsis, until now containing five nominal species, reveals that only three species can be recognized, two from the south-western Pacific Ocean, one from the eastern Indian Ocean.
10.2307/1549552| Phototaxis and geotaxis of light-adapted zoeae of the golden king crab Lithodes aequispinus Benedict were investigated in the laboratory. Stages I, II, and III zoeae were positively phototactic to white-light intensities of 1.5  10<sup>15</sup> q s<sup>-1</sup> cm<sup>-2</sup> and 3.1  10<sup>13</sup> q s<sup>-1</sup> cm<sup>-2</sup>. No significant response was observed in zoeae of any stage to 7.3  10<sup>11</sup> q s<sup>-1</sup> cm<sup>-2</sup>. Negative geotaxis was observed in all three stages, although this response was significantly diminished in stages II and III. These behaviors are similar to those seen in stage I larvae of the red king crab Paralithodes camtschaticus, as well as in later zoeal stages of several brachyuran crabs. 
20487795|The Hsp70 gene plays an important role in the animal immune response. In order to analyze the linkage between the genetic polymorphisms of Hsp70 and the virus-resistance trait of the shrimp, we detected SNPs in the coding region of Hsp70 by direct sequencing in 104 specimens of Litopenaeus vannamei from three shrimp populations (one TSV-resistance line and two TSV-susceptibility lines). Five SNPs were found including 661C/A, 712T/C, 782C/T, 892C/T, and 1090C/T in the fragment of Hsp70 (GenBank accession no. AY645906). There were significant difference of the allelic frequency of SNP 892C/T polymorphism between the TSV-resistance population and the two TSV-susceptibility populations (P &lt; 0.001). A TSV-challenged test was performed to divide the shrimps into TSV-resistance group and TSV-susceptibility group. The 892C/T SNP genotypes of each shrimp sample were detected by pyro-sequencing. The allelic frequency of SNP 892C/T were significant difference between TSV-resistance group and TSV-susceptibility group (P &lt; 0.001). The results show that the genetic polymorphisms of Hsp70 are likely associated with virus-resistance trait in populations of L. vannamei.
1549924|A new species of bioluminescent ostracode, Vargula morini from Carrie Bow Cay, Belize, is described on the basis of morphology and mating displays. Every night, males of V. morini produce an elaborate species-specific bioluminescent courtship display in order to attract females. These displays occur over coral or coral rubble, beginning near the sea surface and continuing as a series of rapid flashes produced in a downward direction. A nicothoid copepod was found living within the posterodorsal area of the valves of some V. morini. Scanning electron micrographs of these minute ostracode parasites are presented here for the first time.
1549496|A new species of the rare laomediid genus Naushonia, N. manningi, is described from a cave in Acklins Island, Bahamas. Naushonia manningi represents the seventh species of the genus and the first one to come from a cave. A key to the species of Naushonia is presented.
10.2307/1547901|A new fresh-water crab, Disparithelphusa pecki, of the tribe Pseudothelphusini, distinguished by the presence of approximately 380 distinctive setae born on the apex of the male gonopod, is described from the State of Oaxaca, Mexico.
10.2307/1549462|Geometric morphometrics were used to analyze shape differences between the major and minor chelipeds of the fiddler crab Uca pugnax. Although the major and minor chelipeds had similar allometric developmental trajectories, the form of the major cheliped was not an allometric extrapolation of the minor cheliped. The changes in shape associated with the formation of the major cheliped have functional relevance; they allow the major cheliped to produce relatively more power than the minor cheliped. This result suggests that selection for combat effectiveness has played an important role in the evolution of the major cheliped.
1548674|We studied frequencies of several attributes of the reproductive cycle of Pleuromamma xiphias, an oceanic, calanoid copepod taken in replicate monthly samples over a 13-month period at a station off Hawaii. Large numbers of late copepodids in these samples allowed us to confidently describe monthly changes in these frequencies despite variability among replicate samples taken within 36 h. The percentage of males among different copepodids of P. xiphias decreased from copepodid stage IV to CV and from CV to CVI. The percentage of left females, a sex-limited dimorphism in the condition of asymmetry of an animal, increased from CIV to CV but decreased from CV to CVI. The magnitude of the changes in the percentage of left females was not as great as changes in the percentage of males. Monthly averages for these attributes suggested differential recruitment to CVI males and left females in May when the percentage of CVI females without a dark mass in the genital opening also was high, but when abundances of CVI, CV, and CIV animals were low; the percentage of CVI males with a spermatophore in the spermatophore sac reached a maximum earlier, in February. We compared our data about the percentage of males to similar information for other calanoid copepods, and conclude that documenting the ranges of this attribute among consecutive copepodid stages is more useful in describing the seasonal distribution of sex than calculating an average value for adults.
10.2307/1548975|Penaeus spp. were sampled in 3 tidal marsh creeks in poly-, meso-, and oligohaline salinity regimes from February 1986 to June 1988. Occurrence of postlarvae of Penaeus in plankton collections from the marsh creeks was seasonal, with peaks occurring in February and March for the brown shrimp P. aztecus, July for the white shrimp P. setiferus, and August for the pink shrimp P. duorarum. White and pink shrimp postlarvae were most abundant at the polyhaline site, while density of brown shrimp postlarvae was greatest in the mesohaline creek. Postlarvae of all three species were more numerous at night, with white and brown shrimps occurring in greater densities at the surface. Juvenile brown and white shrimps were most abundant at the meso- and oligohaline creeks, while few juvenile pink shrimps were collected at any site, despite being numerically dominant (42% of the total) as postlarvae. Utilization of the marsh surface and drainage rivulets in each creek was determined by sampling with a suction pump and cylindrical drop sampler, flume nets, and a stationary bottom net. Penaeus setiferus was the most abundant species collected from the marsh surface, with greatest densities at the mesohaline creek. Although the marsh surface and drainage rivulets appear to be important nursery habitats for penaeid shrimps in South Carolina, densities were much lower than those reported in marshes along the Gulf of Mexico. The densities of penaeid shrimps in nursery habitats of South Carolina are likely influenced by higher tidal amplitude and less reticulation of marshes, compared to those in the Gulf of Mexico.
10.2307/1548981|A complex of western Atlantic species has been confused in previous literature under the name Callianassa jamaicense Schmitt, 1935, a taxon assigned recently to the genus Lepidophthalmus Holmes, 1904. Members of this genus from the northern Gulf of Mexico have been treated as varieties or subspecies of the typical form or have been elevated to species rank without reanalysis of characters to justify that placement. Specimens from Brazil were formerly treated as typical representatives of C. "jamaicensis" (spelling as by Rodrigues, 1971) but with notation of some variations in morphology. Reexamination of both the northern Gulf of Mexico populations and those from Brazil establishes that populations in each of these localities are, while closely related to one another, distinguishable as separate species from Lepidophthalmus jamaicense (Schmitt, 1935). Unique and consistent morphological characters of the eyestalks, maxillipeds, chelipeds, gonopods, uropods, carapace, and abdominal armature justify previous elevation of the varietal taxon for northern Gulf of Mexico populations to specific rank as L. louisianensis (Schmitt, 1935), and justify the recognition of a new species, L. siriboia, from the coast of Brazil.
10.2307/1549246|The new genus Rheocyclops is proposed to accommodate the cyclopoid copepods Diacyclops virginianus Reid, from Virginia, and the new species R. carolinianus from South Carolina, R. talladega and R. hatchiensis from Alabama, and R. indiana from Indiana, U.S.A. Most species were collected from the hyporheic zones of stream beds, except R. indiana which was found in a drip pool in a cave. The new genus is distinguished by a combination of characters: anal operculum produced; antennule 11-segmented; antenna lacking exopodite seta; rami of legs 1-4 all 3-segmented, or some rami 2-segmented; leg 5 with proximal segment fused to somite and reduced to small protrusion bearing seta inserted near distal (free) segment, and free segment cylindrical with 2 terminal setae.
20487785|Invasive alien species (IAS) potentially may alter all levels of the ecological organization of aquatic water bodies. Therefore, in the context of the EU Water Framework Directive, they represent a significant pressure that should be considered in the assessment of the ecological status of a water body and in the formation of restorative programs. A study was carried out to examine different sampling techniques and to assess the current population structure and the differences in spatial distribution of the alien crayfish Orconectes limosus at four sites in Lake Varese (Northern Italy). Three methods were used to assess the crayfish population: mark-recapture, catch per unit effort during night-time snorkelling and quadrat sampling. For the mark-recapture exercise the ventral somites of crayfish were marked using visible implant elastomer tags. A laboratory experiment was used to verify the effectiveness of elastomer tags for the species prior to their use in the field. Crayfish were more abundant at sites characterized by stone substrate than at sites dominated by macrophytes. Hydromorphological alteration of the shoreline (quantified using the newly developed lake habitat survey methodology) at one site appeared to promote the establishment of alien crayfish. Crayfish caught by snorkeling in open water led to an underestimation of the smallest size-classes compared with underwater quadrats. Underwater quadrats on stone substrates provide a quantitative estimation of abundance and size-structure allowing the comparisons of crayfish populations from different lakes. This method could be applied to assess the extent of pressure resulting from alien crayfish under the Water Framework Directive. Crayfish biomass was found to be 82.9% of other macroinvertebrates indicating their importance in the structure and functioning of the lake ecosystem. The presence of a second alien species of crayfish, Procambarus clarkii, was recorded for the first time in the lake.
1549972|Burrow structure of the thalassinidean mud shrimp Upogebia major (de Haan) was investigated on a tidal flat in Tokyo Bay, central Japan, using in situ resin casting. Burrow structure consisted of two sections, an upper U-shaped part and a lower I-shaped part, with chambers and short branches on each. Depth of the burrow reached 208 cm, and extrapolations from the data on two incomplete burrows indicate that the maximum depth may exceed 250 cm. The depth of the burrow increased exponentially with carapace length of the inhabiting shrimp. This increase was accounted for principally by vertical extension of the lower I-shaped section. Each burrow was occupied by only a single shrimp. Even small new recruits occupied their own independent burrows. In this respect the mud shrimp proved different from some other thalassinidean shrimps, in which juveniles attach their burrows to those of adults. Feeding and excavating habits of the mud shrimp were considered as explanations for this behavior. Numerous tubes of suspension feeding phoronid worms attached to the burrows. Burrows of the mud shrimp play an important role in oxygenating deeper sediments and structuring the local tidal flat benthic community.
10.2307/1549105| The larval development of Sesarma guttatum A. Milne Edwards completed in the laboratory consisted of 5 zoeal stages and 1 megalopa. Zoeal development lasted an average of 23 days at 24C. The morphology of the larval stages is decribed in detail, and comparisons are made with larvae of other species of Sesarma. Larval characters of species of the subfamilies Varuninae and Sesarminae are discussed briefly. 
40927852|The present study investigated the species composition of freshwater shrimp fauna in Kikai-jima Island within the Ryukyu Islands in southern Japan. Six stream-pool sites, with Karimata-no-izumi in the north, followed by Shiomichi, Nagamine, Ooasato, Takigawa, and Urabaru, were sampled from June 2005 to June 2008. We identified eleven species belonging to two families: four Palaemonidae, and seven Atyidae. The most dominant species were Candina typus as well as C. sakishimensis, which is a redlist (RDB) species sporadically distributed in the Ryukyu Islands. Together with C. typus and C. sakishimensis, M. lar and M. japonicum also dominated most of the study sites in Kikai-jima, and Morista's similarity index showed high similarities between five of the stations, except for Takigawa in the south. The highest densities of shrimp were recorded in Karimata-no-izumi followed by Ooasato, Nagamine, Urabaru at the southernmost, Shiomichi, and Takigawa. Comparing species composition in Kikai-jima and other islands of the Ryukyu group, cluster analyses showed greatest faunal similarity to Kume-jima in the lower central Ryukyus, with the Redlist C. sakishimensis recorded in both islands. This close similarity in shrimp composition between the two distant islands may be attributed to their geological origin and sizes of the islands, both measuring about 60 km in area.
10.2307/1548045|Ergasilus pitalicus, new species (Copepoda: Poecilostomatoida: Ergasilidae), is described from the gills of a cichlid fish from the Pacific coast of Colombia, South America. The new species has a 2-segmented first endopod and a cephalothorax which occupies 60-79% (mean 64%) of the body length. The cephalothorax of species with similar first endopods, from both North and South America, is usually only about half of the body length. The antennal morphology of the new species resembles that of E. cerastes Roberts, 1969, but the two can be separated by the following characters: (1) size (814-904 mm for the new species and 1,000-1,400 for E. cerastes), (2) length of the cephalothorax (55% of the body for E. cerastes), (3) size of the sixth thoracic segment, which is larger in the new species, (4) different relationship of spines to setae on the terminal segments of the first and fourth endopods, and (5) thoracic sternites of the new species with numerous spinules which the other species lacks.
1549905| Nauplii of the anostracan Chirocephalus ruffoi were grown until sexual differentiation under standard laboratory conditions (18  1C temperature; 12L/12D photoperiod; 1600 lux intensity; 200 individuals L<sup>-1</sup> density) and fed algae (Selenastrum capricornutum), baker's yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae), or a lipid-enriched yeast (Lansy PZ). In parallel experiments, we evaluated survival, development, and increase in body length and weight (wet and dry). Differences among the treatments were analyzed by ANCOVA and Newman-Keuls multiple range tests. The length-weight growth data, log-transformed, were fitted using an orthogonal least squares method. The results show that food type has marked effects on the growth rate and survival of the animals. As previously shown in terms of nutritional effectiveness, enriched yeast produces the best culture results. 
1549739|Growth and reproduction were studied in the coral gall crab Hapalocarcinus marsupialis from fringing reefs in the Egyptian Red Sea. The host coral was Stylophora pistillata. The galls were divided into five stages, and the later stages contained larger crabs and a higher proportion of ovigerous females. Female crabs ranged from 1.17 to 5.33 mm in carapace width. They matured at about 2.5-mm carapace width (probably in the fourth instar); maturity was indicated by an increase in abdomen size, ripening ovaries, mating, and egg laying. The largest females were probably in the seventh instar. After maturity females survived for some 10 months and were ovigerous for 80% of that time, producing eight or more broods. These were all fertilised from the original mating. Reproductive investment was high, both per brood and per year.
10.2307/1549421| A unique pedunculate barnacle, Arcoscalpellum spinum, new species, was discovered on the East Pacific Rise (18S) during the 1993 "Naudur" cruise of the French submersible Nautile. We propose Vertebroscalpellum, new subgenus, to include this and a related species, A. brevecarinatum (Hoek), from the south Atlantic. Although basically 8 plates comprise each whorl of the peduncular armament in scalpellomorphs, the number in derived forms is subject to variation. The number of vertical tiers of peduncular plates generally relates to the number of capitular plates and/or the sutures between them. One trend is toward the multiplication of plates, the other a reduction. The latter is manifest in Vertebroscalpellum by the separation of 5-plated whorls into an imbricating 2/3 plated pattern that is unique among scalpellomorphs. 
1549745|We describe two new species in the new calanoid genus Camerundiaptomus. The new genus is currently known only from the rainforests of Cameroon, where its abundance is extremely low. The only other calanoid found was a known species of Tropodiaptomus. It was rare as well. Fish predation is cited as one among possible reasons for the rarity of calanoids in the Cameroon forest zone specifically, and for the generically impoverished calanoid fauna of tropical lowland Africa in general.
10.2307/1548586|In Callianassa louisianensis, ovarian development becomes evident in December and continues through the spring. Ovigerous females occur primarily from early June through August, less frequently into September. Recruitment occurs throughout the summer and early fall, and juveniles reach large enough size to be detected in our samples by early spring. First-year females enter the breeding population the following summer; the smallest ovigerous among these have attained a carapace length (CL) of almost 11 mm. Analysis of relative growth suggests that females enter a maturation growth phase at about 11 mm CL, while males enter a maturation phase at near 15.5 mm CL. In males, this transition is marked by a strong increase in the relative growth of the major chela, together with a change in shape of the chela. In females, there is a decrease in the relative growth of the major chela after maturation. Carapace lengths in females do not attain the size of those in the largest males. In the maturation phase, female growth appears directed toward lengthening of the abdomen and development of ovaries, while in males it is directed toward development of the major chela, a secondary sexual structure that may be utilized in aggressive encounters.
41315734|Amphipods play important roles in the cycling of nutrients and energy in many aquatic systems where they display a wide range of feeding modes ranging from detritivore to predator. Although the biology of many amphipod species has been examined, little is known of hypogean amphipods inhabiting cave streams. Gammarus troglophilus is a stygophilic amphipod that co-occurs with the federally endangered stygobiont G. acherondytes in cave streams of the Salem Plateau Karst Region of southwestern Illinois. With the goal to establish a self-sustaining laboratory population of cave amphipods to obtain amphipods for lethality experiments, we tested hypotheses relating the survival and growth rates of G. troglophilus collected from cave streams to different laboratory conditions of food and water velocity. We used a series of microcosm experiments to test the hypotheses that survival and growth are not affected by type of water (cave water vs. amended water), water velocity (static vs. dynamic/recirculating), or the type of available food (sediment vs. sediment, leaf discs, and TetraMin  ). We also tested if different food treatments affected the survival and/or growth of juvenile amphipods and newly released neonates in static chambers. Our results indicate that cave water was important for survival because no amphipods survived past 30 days in experiments with water amended to resemble cave water. The addition of food (leaf discs and TetraMin  ) and water velocity affected survival but not growth rates in microcosm experiments. Food treatment (leaf discs vs. TetraMin  ) did not significantly affect survival or growth rates of juvenile amphipods. However, leaf discs increased the survival and growth of neonate amphipods. Overall, survival was low in all experiments and further research is needed to examine the effects of handling stress on survival during experiments because amphipods left in stock tanks survived and grew well.
4126707|We examined the fouling organisms on the exoskeleton of 762 adult male snow crabs (Chionoecetes opilio) from 10 sampling stations situated in the southern Gulf of St. Lawrence (SGSL) and the Scotian Shelf (SS) off the eastern coast of Canada. A total of twenty-one sessile invertebrate families were observed on the exoskeleton of crabs. Epibiotic families occurring on 10% or less of crabs were considered minor foulers, while families occurring in 50% or more were considered major foulers. Nine minor and 3 major families were observed in the SGSL. The most important taxa were the bryozoans Alcyonidium spp. (87.5%) and Hippothoa spp. (77.5%), as well as the polychaetes Spirorbis spp. (68.8%). Eight minor and 3 major families were observed in the SS. The principal taxa belonged to the cirripeds Balanus spp. (89.1%), the bryozoans Alcyonidium spp. (78.2%) and the polychaetes Spirorbis spp. (77.2%). The relative abundance of each of the taxa observed on crabs suggests that differences in the structure of the community exist between the two studied regions and within a given region. These differences were confirmed by multivariate analyses (e.g., MDS plot, ANOSIM and SIMPER analyses). Variations between the fouling communities are mainly driven by the presence/absence of bryozoans and barnacles. Our results also tend to show that the Cape Breton region may act as a transition zone between the SGSL and the SS. Results are discussed in a general ecological context. Potential stock management implications are also underlined.
1549874| Three species of the varunid crab genus Cyrtograpsus (Brachyura: Grapsoidea) occur in apparent sympatry along temperate coastlines of the southwestern Atlantic. Two of them, C. angulatus Dana, 1851, and C. altimanus Rathbun, 1914, are common in intertidal habitats and are easily separable by their morphology. In contrast, there is very limited knowledge on the ecology and distribution of the third species, C. affinis (Dana, 1851). In the present study, several specimens of C. affinis were collected in the Ro de la Plata Estuary between Argentina and Uruguay. The study of these specimens showed that C. affinis tends to be smaller than the other two species of the genus and seems to be restricted to subtidal habitats. However, morphometric comparisons suggest the existence of a continuous gradient rather than discrete differences between specimens of C. affinis and C. altimanus. Morphometric differences were as common among subtidal samples as between subtidal and intertidal samples. Likewise, comparison of mitochondrial DNA sequences (16S rRNA) did not reveal diagnostic differences between the two putative species, suggesting a very close relationship between C. altimanus and C. affinis. Possibly the two forms represent a single species with a high ecological and phenotypic plasticity. 
10.2307/1549063|The troglobitic cirolanid isopod Dodecalana yagerae, new genus, new species, is described from marine caves on Grand Bahama Island, Bahamas. Distinctive characteristics include long projections on pereiopods 1-3, setae on pleopod endopods 1-5, absence of seventh pair of legs, and absence of retinacula on maxillipedal endites. Comparisons are made to other troglobitic cirolanids, especially to Bahalana. Patterns of evolution are suggested.
1549640|The presence of populations of the Afro-Asian cyclopoid copepod crustacean Mesocyclops thermocyclopoides Harada, 1931, in southeastern Mexico and in Central America is recorded. This species was recently redescribed in detail from Old World specimens. Because of the rarity of cosmopolitan forms in Mesocyclops, neotropical records of this species were suspected to be undescribed taxa of a widespread species complex. However, it was possible, through an upgraded morphological analysis and taxonomic comparison, to confirm the occurrence of M. thermocyclopoides in the neotropics. The American specimens are described in full. In the Americas, this species seems to be distributed in Mexico and Central America only. This is the third or fourth Asian or African species of the genus that has apparently been introduced into the New World by human agency. The others are M. pehpeiensis, M. ogunnus, and M. aspericornis.
1549607|In South Carolina, two species of fiddler crab, Uca pugilator and U. pugnax, often feed in droves on the sand flats of smooth cordgrass salt marshes. Another fiddler crab, U. minax, does not drove, but large males of this species occasionally move onto sand flats and prey on members of the other smaller species. Successful predatory attacks entail a pounce, entrapment of prey in ambulatory appendages, reorientation of the predator to the supine position, maneuvering of the prey between the dactyl and propodus of the major cheliped, killing the prey by piercing or crushing its carapace with the major cheliped, and consumption. Females are successfully attacked with higher frequency than males. The frequency of predatory attacks declines exponentially as the composition of droves becomes biased towards larger males. This may indicate that predators face injury when attacking large males because only males possess potentially defensive claws and claw length increases with the square of body width. Uca pugilator individuals form pods in response to the approach of a predator. Pods are tight clumps of fleeing individuals that may function as mini-selfish herds. Pod composition is biased towards individuals most susceptible to U. minax predation, females and males of small body size, suggesting that pod formation is a selectively advantageous behavior.
10.2307/1548878|This study examined the nephropore area of sexually mature lobsters for the presence of structures capable of producing chemical signals in conjunction with urine release. Urine signals are used for chemical communication in the lobster Homarus americanus. Male urine plays a role in the determination of dominance and female choice of dominant males, while female urine reduces the incidence of male aggressive behavior and induces male mating behavior. Masses of rosette glands were found, lateral and medial to the ureter of all animals examined. Staining properties and gland morphology suggest that nephropore rosettes are active in males and females, in all molt stages and at all times of the year. Rosette glands stained positively for protein and mucopolysaccharides. Gland complexes did not show histochemical evidence of phenoloxidase, a product of some crustacean rosette glands. Nephropore rosette glands were packaged into clusters, which in turn were organized into lateral and medial gland complexes lying alongside each ureter. Complexes were joined by a common duct terminating at the bladder, while rosettes in some anterior clusters were served by individual ducts passing through the nephropore sphincter and terminating outside the animal adjacent to the site of urine release. These two duct systems could allow gland complexes to release their products into the environment with or without concomitant urine release, and as such these glands are good candidates for sources of chemical signals.
10.2307/1548732| Oxygen uptake (O<sub>2</sub> mg/g/h), ammonia-N excretion, urea-N excretion, organic-N excretion, and total nitrogen excretion (N g/g/h) of juvenile Scylla serrata (Forskl) (0.49  0.11 g wet weight) increased at progressively higher levels of temperature in the range of 16-32C at 4 salinity levels (15, 20, 25, and 30 ppt). Oxygen uptake, organic-N excretion, and total nitrogen excretion were lowest at 25 ppt. Ammonia-N excretion decreased, whereas urea-N excretion increased at higher levels of salinity. It is concluded that juvenile S. serrata changes its nitrogen metabolism under different salinity and temperature environments, and that there is a shift of nitrogen excretion from ammoniotelism to ureotelism at higher salinity levels. 
10.2307/1548185| The first zoeal larva of the shrimp Gnathophyllum americanum Gurin is described and illustrated. The morphology of the larva is typical of pontoniine larvae of the family Palaemonidae. The morphology of most adult gnathophyllid shrimps shows no consistent differences from some of the more highly specialized commensal pontoniine shrimps, although exhibiting extreme forms of trends apparent in that subfamily. The adult and larval morphology indicate that the gnathophyllid shrimps are modified members of the Palaemonidae and should be included in that family. There also appears to be no adequate reason to separate most of them from the subfamily Pontoniinae as presently defined. However, the genera Hymenocera and Phyllognathia possess a unique form of third maxilliped, which suggests a separate origin from Gnathophyllum, Gnathophylloides, Pycnocaris, and Levicaris. In contrast, the larvae of the genus Anchistioides Paulson are considered so aberrant amongst the Palaemonidae that they cannot be considered as members of the Palaemoninae or Pontoniinae. They should be given the status of belonging to a separate subfamily on the basis of their larval characters, in conjunction with some of their adult characters, as was originally proposed by Gurney (1938). A key to the revised subfamilies of the Palaemonidae incorporating these proposed changes is provided. 
10.2307/1549530|The configurations of spines found on the posterior face of the first basipodal segment of the fourth pair of swimming legs in female calanoids of the family Aetideidae may be interpreted, by implementing Dollo's Law, as structures compensating for the loss of the specialized fifth legs. The same law allows the explanation of the phylogenetic sequence of states observed in this particular character from an evolutionary perspective, namely, by relating the origin of each specific condition found to the (limited) possibilities comprised in the previous configuration. The value of Dollo's Law for either explaining observed character state sequences or, alternatively, for corroborating phylogenetic hypotheses, is discussed.
10.2307/1548126|The first 5 zoeal stages of the brachyuran, coral-inhabiting, gall-forming crab Troglocarcinus corallicola Verrill, 1908, are described and illustrated. Based on the sequential appearance of morphological characters, this species passes through at least 5, and perhaps 6 or 7 larval stages before metamorphosing to megalopa. The zoeae can be easily recognized in the plankton by a combination of lateral aliform expansions on the fourth, and a distinct dorsal caplike process on the second abdominal somite. The number of abdominal somites (5) remains constant throughout the first 5 (and probably subsequent) zoeal stages. Evidence from larval morphology supports the contention based on adult characters, that the Hapalocarcinidae are closely related to the Pinnotheridae, as well as having close affinities to the Hymenosomatidae and Leucosiidae.
10.2307/1548633| Tube-dwelling has been recognized as a life-style for two closely related meiobenthic harpacticoid species. Ecologists and systematic biologists may wish to know if other meiobenthic copepods build tubes, but behavioral observation of living specimens is not always possible. We report here on the results of scanning electron microscopy comparing cuticular pore patterns of known tube-builders with nontube-builders (pores are necessary to release sediment-building substances). Stenhelia (Delavalia) palustris and Pseudostenhelia wellsi are tube-dwellers. They share paired, bilateral pore locations on the first urosomal segment, anal segment, and on each caudal ramus, with the largest pore (2-4 m in diameter) on the anal segment. S. (D.) palustris is larger than P. wellsi and exhibits additional pores on swimming legs and urosome, and consistently larger pores in shared positions. S. (D.) bifidia does not build tubes, and has a markedly reduced pore complement, only a small, paired pore (< 1 m) on the anal segment. Two other species with unknown tube-building capabilities were examined. S. (D.) reflexa is similar to the nontube-builder, with only a single small pore (< 1 m) on each caudal ramus, suggesting that it is unable to build tubes. S. (Stenhelia) asetosa has pores on urosomal segments 1, 2, 3, the anal segment, caudal rami, and swimming legs. Its pore pattern and sizes of pores are similar to the known tube-builders, and we speculate that S. (S.) asetosa is also a tube-dweller. Pores on urosomal segment 1, the anal segment, and the caudal rami, with the anal segment pore at least 2 m in diameter, may prove to be good indicators of tube-building capability within Stenhelia and Pseudostenhelia. 
40665259|Branchinecta brushi is a new species of fairy shrimp described from a pool within the volcanic crater of Cerro Paniri, northern Chile. Its occurrence represents a new altitude record for anostracans (5930 m), and it shares the title for highest altitude occurrence across all of Crustacea with a cladoceran from the same pool, Boeckella palustris. Branchinecta brushi is similar to another Chilean anostracan, B. valchetana. However, B. brushi differs from B. valchetana in the detailed morphology of the male second antennae and gonopods. Male specimens of B. brushi possesses a bulbous, distally spinose medial apophysis on the proximal article of its second antenna as well as short, stout, inwardly curved gonopods. Both sexes are distinguished by very short cercopods. Bringing phylogenetic order to the monogeneric family Branchinectidae will require increased levels of morphological documentation and a better understanding of intraspecific variation. Most crustaceans are not well suited to life at high altitudes; those that thrive at high elevations offer insights not only to their biological tolerances, but also to their various modes of dispersal.
10.2307/1548505|The synthesis of chitin, the major structural polysaccharide of the arthropod cuticle, has been examined in postlarval stages of the commercial shrimp Penaeus vannamei. Analysis of the cuticle revealed 73% (by weight) amino acids and 27% N-acetylglucosamine. Major amino acids in the cuticle are Asx (aspartic acid and asparagine), Glx (glutamic acid and glutamine), Thr, Ala, His, and Leu. Metabolic labeling studies were carried out with a variety of radiolabeled amino acids. The kinetics of amino acid incorporation into the cuticle reveal a burst of incorporation at 30 min of incubation followed by a decrease in 60 min, and finally a linear increase of incorporation up to 120 min. Incorporation of <sup>3</sup>H glucosamine into the cuticle is linear over the 3 h period. Incubation of postlarval Penaeus with puromycin decreases synthesis of soluble proteins 90% as measured by incorporation of several labeled amino acids. Incorporation of radiolabeled amino acids into the insoluble cuticle residue is blocked 90% by puromycin. Incorporation of <sup>3</sup>H D-glucosamine into the cuticle is also blocked 90% by puromycin. These data support the hypothesis that crustacean chitin is secreted as a glycoprotein complex and that concurrent protein synthesis is required for chitin deposition to continue.
4094127|The complete mitochondrial DNA sequence is now recorded for the commercially important shrimp northern, or pink, shrimp, Pandalus borealis. The 15,905 bp genome is circular and consists of the genes known for other metazoans and with the same gene order as for Penaeus and Drosophila among others.
1549915|The soldier crab Mictyris brevidactylus Stimpson inhabits sandy flats of Southeast Asia. The crabs that we studied fed on deposited matter in the surface sand in two ways. On well-drained sand in the upper part of their habitat, they usually made a single tunnel roofed with sand to conceal themselves while they fed. After feeding, they returned to an ascending shaft from which they had earlier emerged. Then, they descended via the plugged ascending shaft and transformed the shape of the shaft into an ovoid air chamber at a sufficient depth. During the daytime low tide, on the waterlogged, fluid sand near the shoreline, large individuals, mostly males, fed in droves on the surface while moving along the shoreline as it moved with the tide. After feeding for about 2 h, they made a small air chamber slightly above the shoreline by using corkscrew-style digging, and descended into the semi-fluid sand. During the night-time low tide, the crabs fed separately for about 4 h on both the fluid sand near the shoreline and the well-drained firm sand in the upper habitat, and retreated into the sand, although they took longer to retreat into the well-drained sand than into the semi-fluid sand. That is, the crabs feeding on the surface at the daytime low tide returned to the subsurface-feeding area and made a small air chamber during the night-time low tide. Later, at low tide, the small air chamber was elongated to allow subsurface feeding. We consider that the movement to the upper habitat at night-time and the feeding near the shoreline in the daytime help the crabs evade predators that rely on sight, such as birds.
10.2307/1548216| An alternative method for staging molt cycles is proposed for adult females of the mysid Siriella armata. Cultured females have a 12-day molt and breeding cycle. At the end of each cycle, liberation of the young, ecdysis of the female, copulation, and egg laying occur successively in less than 8 h. A synchronization between marsupial development, secondary ovarian vitellogenesis, and the integumental cycle is observed. Marsupial development is described and its chronology is related to molt cycle staging. Molt stages are defined following Drach's method complemented by an ultrastructural study of the evolution of the integument. The corresponding 12-day cycle of oocyte development in the ovary is described. Embryonic development corresponds to the female postmolt period. The nauplioid phase matches the intermolt period and the postnauplioid phase is simultaneous with the premolt period. Siriella armata is suggested as a suitable experimental organism for studies of the control of molt and reproductive cycle in mysids. /// Une mthode diffrente de la mthode classique est propose pour dfinir les stades du cycle de mue chez les femelles adultes du mysidac Siriella armata. Dans les conditions du laboratoire, la dure du cycle des femelles peut tre fixe  12 jours. A la fin de chaque cycle, la libration des jeunes, l'exuviation de la femelle, la copulation et la ponte ont lieu successivement en moins de 8 h. Une synchronisation du dveloppement marsupial avec la vitellogense secondaire et le cycle tgumentaire est observe. Le dveloppement marsupial est dcrit et sa chronologie est tablie en parallle avec les stades du cycle tgumentaire. Les stades de mue sont dfinis selon la mthode de Drach complte par une tude ultrastructurale de l'volution du tgument. Le dveloppement des ovocytes dans l'ovaire pendant le cycle de 12 jours est dcrit. Le dveloppement embryonnaire correspond  la priode de postmue de la femelle; la phase naupliode  l'intermue et la phase postnaupliode  la prmue. Siriella armata est propose comme support appropri pour des tudes du contrle du cycle de mue et de reproduction. 
10.2307/1548360|During an 80-day laboratory experiment we analyzed the retention of coded microwire tags implanted into 56 juvenile blue crabs, Callinectes sapidus, and compared their growth and mortality rates with those of an equal number of untagged crabs. The initial size of the crabs ranged from 29-67-mm carapace width as measured to the base of the lateral spines; 83% of the crabs molted at least twice and more than one-third molted 3 times. Though some confounding cannibalism occurred, we concluded that 96-98% of the tagged crabs retained the tag through the first molt, with no known losses through subsequent molts. No differences were evident in mortality between tagged and untagged crabs. Growth, expressed as increase in carapace width, and the intermolt period, were not different between the 2 groups. Microwire tags provide an effective long-term marking system for juvenile and adult blue crabs because (1) retention rate is high, (2) tags have no effect on growth or survival, and (3) large numbers of crabs can be batch-marked efficiently under field conditions.
1549673|Commercial and recreational catches of the blue swimmer crab Portunus pelagicus in Cockburn Sound, a large marine embayment on the west coast of Australia, have risen markedly over the last 20-30 years. However, because commercial fishers changed from using tangle nets to traps to catch crabs during this period, the annual catch per unit effort data for the commercial fishery throughout this period are not directly comparable and cannot thus be used to elucidate whether the increased catches reflected an increase in crab density. Trawling was thus undertaken to estimate the densities of P. pelagicus in Cockburn Sound in the late 1990s to facilitate comparisons with those we estimated from trawl catch rates for this species in that embayment during the early 1970s. The comparisons demonstrate that, despite increases in commercial and recreational crab catches, the densities of P. pelagicus in Cockburn Sound have risen markedly between the above two periods. This change is probably related to a decline in the abundance of the large piscivorous predators of P. pelagicus as a result of heavy fishing pressure and possibly also to an increase in the abundance of the prey of this portunid. Size composition data demonstrate that appreciable numbers of crabs survived in Cockburn Sound until the end of their second year of life and even beyond during the early 1970s, whereas the vast majority of 1+ crabs were removed by heavy fishing pressure by the month (June) that they had reached 18 months in age in the late 1990s. The fact that, in the late 1990s, few legal-sized crabs still remained for fishing between July and December and the 0+ age class increased in number and size throughout the year accounts for the broad estimates of biomass becoming far greater in these months in the 1990s than in the corresponding months in the early 1970s. Growth during the first eleven months of life, i.e., in the period leading up to the age at which crabs reach the minimum legal size for retention, was significantly faster in the early 1970s than in the late 1990s when crab densities were much greater. The slower growth rate and the reduced longevity through heavy fishing pressure in the latter period would help account for females becoming mature at a smaller size and for ovigerous females being represented by one rather than two substantial size cohorts, respectively. The essentially single size cohort in the late 1990s and first cohort in the early 1970s correspond mainly to crabs in their first maturity instar, whereas the second cohort in the early 1970s predominantly represented crabs in their second maturity instar.
10.2307/1548317|Nectiopodan remipedes have two distinct pairs of gonopores. The previously recognized pore on the fourteenth limb is that of the male system. Another gonopore, located on the seventh trunk limb, is associated with the female system. It occurs on the posterior side of the seventh protopod. In the adults of Lasionectes entrichoma the female gonopore complex consists of a semicircular chitinous ridge and a discoidal soft pad that is partly encircled by the ridge. The actual gonopore is in a trough located between the pad and the ridge. The internal location of the gonads and gonoducts in nectiopodans is now known at least in broad outline.
10.2307/1549144|Histological examination showed that the deep-sea amphipod Eurythenes gryllus possesses a unique tissue area around the afferent blood vessel of the gill, which exhibits well-developed infoldings of the basolateral cell membrane with many mitochondria. The location (i.e., around the afferent blood vessel) and the above ultrastructural characteristics indicate that this unique tissue is homologous with a type of osmoregulatory tissue which was described for the patchlike area of gills in two estuarine amphipods Grandidierella japonica and Melita setiflagella. We review the presence/absence of this specialized tissue for 12 species (including the above 3 species) belonging to 8 genera collected from deep-sea, coastal, brackish, supralittoral, and fresh-water areas. All but Sternomoera japonica, the distribution of which is limited to fresh-water seepage flows in forests, possessed the tissue. The discovery of the specialized tissue in E. gryllus confirms the widespread occurrence of the tissue in amphipod species.
4094165|The responses of individuals of the crayfish Orconectes virilis to the same set of chemical cues were tested under flow (lotic) and non-flow (lentic) conditions. The cues presented to the crayfish were food cues, alarm (= crushed conspecifics) cues, and the combination of food + alarm cues. Crayfish behavior (time in burrows) and posture (lowered posture) were significantly affected by the odor treatment, the flow environment, and an interaction of treatment and environment. While the general patterns of responses to odors (more time spent feeding when food cues were introduced, and more time spent in lowered posture and in burrow when alarm cues were introduced) were qualitatively similar in the two environments, responses were stronger (especially to food odors) in the environment with flow. However, the different strength of these responses seemed not to be related to the directional information provided by the flow but rather was probably the effect of a difference in crayfish behavior between lentic and lotic environments in the control (no added chemical cues). In flow, crayfish spent less time executing feeding movements and more time in the lowered posture and in the burrow than in no-flow conditions.
10.2307/1548276|Northeast Pacific estuaries may be severely altered by a broad diversity of accidentally introduced exotic invertebrates (Carlton, 1979a, b, 1987), but few detailed analyses of individual species have been made. The gammaridean amphipods Ampelisca abdita, Melita nitida, Corophium alienense, new species, and Parapleustes derzhavini have previously appeared to be introduced (Carlton, 1979b). However, the specific identities of the last two species and the origins of the last three species have remained unknown. Analyses based on criteria for introduced species, that include evidence from systematics, geography, and ecology, indicate the four species are introduced in 26 of 27 possible instances. They are thus exotic as predicted, and partially corroborate Carlton's thesis that extensive and persistent faunal invasions have occurred in northeast Pacific estuaries.
10.2307/1548310|Eighteen of 23 Neolithodes grimaldi trawled from 1,545 m in the Rockall Trough carried specimens of the pedunculate barnacle Poecilasma kaempferi. This is the most northerly record for this cirriped. Up to 1,088 barnacles per crab were recorded. They were most abundant on or at the bases of spines, particularly on the limbs. Three size-cohorts were recognizable on the larger crabs, but only one on the smaller crabs. There was some evidence of seasonal breeding in the barnacles. Detached limbs indicated that barnacles can survive on exuviae perhaps long after ecdysis of the crabs. Crab spines may afford protection from predators; otherwise the relationship is an opportunistic one, the barnacles exploiting the crab exoskeleton in an environment where solid surfaces for settlement are at a premium.
1549736|A blue strain of the yabby Cherax destructor albidus was compared to two normal-coloured strains of C. d. destructor and C. d. albidus for brood size and juvenile weight. Reproductive performance of the blue strain was found to be significantly poorer than the two normal-coloured strains. Similarly, the weight of newly independent juveniles was also found to be significantly lower for the blue strain. No differences were detected between the two normal-coloured strains in either reproductive performance or size of newly independent juveniles. The phenotypic differences between the blue strain and normal-coloured strains are most likely genetic. However, further studies are needed to investigate whether these differences are due to pleiotropy or inbreeding effects.
10.2307/1548677|The bathymetric distribution pattern of the rose shrimp Parapenaeus longirostris (Lucas, 1846) was analyzed in order to understand the life cycle and migratory behavior, and to construct the growth curve. Five research cruises were carried out in the central Mediterranean Sea (Latium, Italy). Parapenaeus longirostris was captured between 100-m and 508-m isobaths and the highest abundances were observed mainly between 150-m and 350-m isobaths. Recruitment of new generations to the epibenthos essentially occurred between 100-m and 180-m isobaths during the summer. A multivariate ordination method (factorial analysis of correspondence) was used to describe the relationship between the length of the shrimp and the depth. The benthic fraction of the population appeared to be linked to a migratory movement from the middle shelf towards the continental slope. By estimating the parameters of the Von Bertalanffy equation, it was found that the growth of males appeared slower than that of females. The life span of each generation time was about two years.
10.2307/1549320|The morphology and epithelial cytology of the digestive gland of the slipper lobster Thenus orientalis is described. The primary ducts possess extensive musculature which indicate that they may move fluid into and out of the glands. Immunohistochemical localization of trypsin demonstrated that it is synthesized and secreted solely by the F-cells in the digestive gland. Trypsin is absent from tissue in the oral region, proventriculus, and hindgut, but is present in digestive fluid throughout the alimentary tract, indicating that it has a role in extracellular digestion. Substantial accumulations of lipid in the cytoplasm of R-cells indicate a role in the absorption and storage of digestion products. Residual bodies in the apical cytoplasm are consistent with metal-storing granular inclusions and supranuclear vacuoles in the R-cells of other decapods. Based on the presence of an apical complex of pinocytotic vesicles and subapical vacuoles, an absorptive role for B-cells is evident. The presence of trypsin in the central vacuole is consistent with a digestive role, although our results cannot distinguish whether the enzyme is endogenous (lysosomal versus digestive) or was absorbed from the tubule lumen for excretion.
10.2307/1548196| Four species of galatheids, Munidopsis crassa, M. curvirostra, M. nitida, and M. subsquamosa were recovered from mesh-enclosed wood panels placed near experimental "wood islands" in the deep sea and retrieved with the aid of the deep submersible research vessel Alvin. Samples of the first and third of these species were large enough to allow regression analysis of carapace width and short carapace length. Five individuals of M. crassa which grew beyond 10-mm carapace width and thus were trapped within the bags are speculated to have increased this width by 1.86 mm  2.17 (SD) per month during a 9.6  3.71 (SD)-month period. However, real growth of both this species and the smaller M. nitida remains untested. Notes on geographic distribution of the species and stomach contents are given. 
10.2307/1548390| The complete larval development of Echinoecus pentagonus (A. Milne Edwards), a brachyuran crab symbiotic with echinoderms, is described and illustrated. Development consists of three (or occasionally four) zoeal stages, each lasting from 4-8 days, and a megalopal stage lasting from 11-27 days (x = 13.8 days). Morphological and developmental characters exhibited by the larvae of E. pentagonus indicate that the species is not a member of the family Parthenopidae, as previously thought, but instead shows strong morphological relationships to xanthid crabs, subfamily Pilumninae. Only further studies on larvae of species in the subfamily Eumedoninae will determine whether E. pentagonus and other eumedonine genera presently assigned to the Parthenopidae will eventually be reassigned either as a separate family (Eumedonidae), or as a subfamily (Eumedoninae) of the Xanthidae sensu lato or the Pilumnidae sensu Guinot. 
1549692|The pink shrimp (Farfantepenaeus duorarum) is an ecologically and economically important penaeid species in the southeastern United States. The biological and economic importance of this species prompted us to conduct a molecular genetic assessment of pink shrimp genetic diversity and population genetic structure. We sequenced a 558-base portion of the mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) control region from pink shrimp collected at five locations ranging from North Carolina to south Texas. Haplotype and nucleotide diversity values in pink shrimp are among the highest yet reported for decapods. In our samples, all haplotypes were unique, and the average nucleotide diversity was approximately 2%. Nucleotide divergence between haplotypes ranged 0.2-3.9%. A mismatch analysis produced a unimodal distribution of pairwise differences between haplotypes that is consistent with a historic rapid population expansion. A population expansion, high mutation rate in the control region, and large population size all probably contributed to the development of high genetic diversity. This level of genetic diversity suggests that the mtDNA control region might be useful as a genetic marker in peneaid shrimp used for aquaculture. We detected no population differentiation, suggesting that long-term dispersal and gene flow are high enough to maintain a genetically homogeneous population structure over the geographic distances used in this analysis. The continuous distribution and high numbers of pink shrimp around south Florida likely have contributed to the genetic homogeneity observed in pink shrimp inhabiting the Atlantic Ocean and Gulf of Mexico. These data provide a baseline from which the genetic diversity and population structure of pink shrimp, which are highly exploited and vulnerable to the varied impacts of regional shrimp aquaculture, can be appraised in the future.
40665257|Accessory sex gland (ASG) in Eriocheir sinensis is the important component of the male reproductive system; its function is still unknown. Here we report that ASG protein can digest the spermatophore wall effectively. By optimizing the incubation temperatures, durations, and secreted protein concentrations using the L (5) orthogonal method, we find the protein concentration was the important factor affecting spermatophore wall digestion. In order to find out the digestion effect and spermatozoa quality, we observed the acrosin activity and survival rate of free spermatozoa obtained by different methods. We found that the survival rate of ASG protein digestion is the highest (98.06%), and its acrosin activity of free spermatozoa was significantly higher (4.290  0.095 IU/10) than those obtained by traditional trypsinase digestion (2.446  0.251 IU/10) or mechanical homogenate (1.423  0.109 IU/10) methods, but it was still significantly lower than those obtained from the spermatheca of mated females (21.729  0.138 IU/10). Thus, there must be some cooperation between the ASG and other related fertilization organs to improve the acrosin activity of free spermatozoa in vivo. Hence, we colleted the spermatozoa isolated from spermatophore s using the trypsinase method and incubated with homogenates from seminal vesicle, accessory sex gland, and spermatheca alone or in combination. We observed that acrosin activity was greatest in samples incubated with an equal mixture of spermatheca and accessory sex gland protein homogenates. We conclude that the accessory sex gland can effectively digest the spermatophore wall to release free spermatozoa and interact with proteins from spermatheca to increase acrosomal enzyme activity of free spermatozoa.
40927834|Crustaceans groom their olfactory organ, the antennules, by wiping them through a pair of mouthpart appendages. Antennular grooming behavior (AGB) can be stimulated in four different species of lobsters by at least one chemical (L-Glutamate (Glu)) found in food. However the one crab species tested thus far was unresponsive. In an effort to determine whether chemically-mediated AGB in the Reptantia is present only in the Macrura (lobster taxa) and lacking in the Meiura (crab taxa), we tested for AGB to chemical stimuli in seven reptantian species in the taxa Palinura (Palinurus elephas, Scyllarides aequinoctialis, S. nodifer), Astacidea (Enoplometopus debelius, Procambarus clarkii), Brachyura (Hemigrapsus sanguineus), and Anomura (Clibanarius tricolor), and one non-reptantian decapod in the taxon Caridea (Palaemonetes pugio). Because asymmetric setae on the lateral flagella of the antennules are the sole source of chemosensory input driving AGB, we also examined antennules for asymmetric setae using SEM. Significant AGB responses to chemical stimuli relative to control seawater was observed in all the macrurans tested with the exception of P. clarkii. E. debelius responded to glycine (Gly) and alanine (Ala), Scyllarides spp. to Gly, Ala, and aspartate, and P. elephas to Gly, Ala and methionine. In the meiurans, a weak but significant response to one chemical stimulus was observed in H. sanguineus, while no responses to chemical stimuli were observed in C. tricolor. Asymmetric setae were observed in all but one of the reptantian species (P. clarkii) but were aligned laterally along the tuft region of the macrurans and medially in the meiurans. The nonreptantian P. pugio did not show any AGB responses to chemical stimuli and lacked asymmetric setae. We propose that laterally-positioned asymmetric setae and chemicallymediated AGB are characters derived in the Macrura.
10.2307/1547967|Morphometry, reproductive biology, and diet of Acanthocarpus alexandri (Brachyura, Calappidae), captured on the eastern continental shelf of North America, are described. Carapace width was significantly longer than carapace length for the size range (CW: 6-44 mm) examined. Of the nine morphometric relationships observed, five dimensions exhibited allometric growth: width of propodus for male chelipeds, length of ischio-merus for female chelipeds, length of inferior meral spine for chelipeds of both sexes, width of the abdomen, and length of vulvae for females. Sexual dimorphism was demonstrated for body depth, abdominal width, and length of inferior spine of the chelipeds. Pubertal molts for females in the 18-24 mm range of carapace width were inferred from changes in allometry of vulval length and abdominal width. These alternations were correlated with gonad development and pleopod setation. Examination of testes and vasa deferentia indicated that males mature within a comparable size range. Acanthocarpus alexandri is an opportunistic carnivore and scavenger, feeding on a variety of benthic infauna.
4094191|The biology and fishery of the lobster, Palinurus elephas from the SW coast of Portugal was studied during two distinct periods 10 years apart in 1993-1994 (March 93 to March 94) and during 2003 (May to July). The landings at the port of Sagres, representing half of the catch of the country for this species, were sampled twice a week. The ovigerous season extends from September to March, with an individual incubation period of five months. Considering the ovigerous condition as an indicator of maturity in females, 50% of the females were mature at carapace length of 110 mm. Females below this size represent 95% of the population and account for 41% of the egg production. Females above 50% maturity, representing only 5% of the population, provide 59% of the eggs, showing the importance of larger individuals in the reproduction of this species. Most biological parameters estimated are within the range of values reported for this species in other areas with the exception that in our study the total length was smaller in relation to carapace length, so that females of a given carapace length carried fewer eggs. Parameters were estimated for the following relationships: total length and carapace length, weight and carapace length, weight and total length, maturity at size (carapace length) and fecundity at size (carapace length). It is suggested that a set of measures including catch control, effort control, gear control and protected areas are combined to allow the recovery of this resource.
10.2307/1549324| The Asiatic crab Hemigrapsus sanguineus, originally found as a single specimen in a rocky intertidal location in New Jersey in 1988, now has a geographical range in the western Atlantic from Massachusetts to North Carolina. In New Jersey, the crab reproduces from late April through September, and laboratory observations revealed that some crabs produce at least 2 broods in a season. Ovigerous females ranged from 12.1-35.8 mm in carapace width (CW), but relatively few females were sufficiently developed to reproduce at the lower end of this range. The abdominal width/CW ratio must be 0.60 for female crabs to be considered mature. Analysis of 300 females 12.0 mm CW revealed that crabs 17.0 mm are likely to be mature. The mean time required for embryo development to hatching of zoeae in the laboratory at 19-20C was 22.3  1.8 days (range 20-25 days; N = 8). Viable second broods produced in the laboratory did not require a second copulation. The number of embryos in broods of H. sanguineus was positively correlated with CW (N = 50), with some crabs ovipositing >40,000 eggs. 
10.2307/1547884|Laboratory induced interspecific copulations between the crayfish Orconectes rusticus and O. propinquus resulted in fewer broods and fewer Stage III juveniles per brood than did intraspecific copulations. Naturally occurring interspecific copulations should therefore affect the reproductive success of both species where they coexist, and may have contributed to the recent range expansion of O. rusticus.
41315705|I observed and obtained video footage of swimming behavior in Metoporhaphis calcarata. The behavior is described and illustrated by tracings of video stills over a one-second interval. The fifth pereiopods do not end in paddles, as do those of crabs in Portunidae, but rather are fringed with pinnate setae. On the sea floor, these crabs can form a "stockade" consisting of the acute rostrum and a circle of thorns on the distal surfaces of the pereiopods.
4540320| To elucidate the osmoregulatory mechanisms underpinning the invasion of fresh water by the palaemonid Crustacea, we investigate the contribution of free amino acids (FAA) to intracellular isosmotic regulation in selected ontogenetic stages of two diadromous, neotropical shrimps, Macrobrachium amazonicum and M. olfersi, exposed to fresh water or to saline media. We also evaluate anisosmotic/ionic extracellular regulatory capability in adult M. amazonicum alone; all data for adult M. olfersi are from McNamara et al. (2004). Adult shrimps show similar osmotic and ionic regulatory capabilities, including elevated hemolymph osmolality in fresh water, moderate isosmotic points, hyper-regulatory capability up to 20, and good tolerance of saline media. However, the two species rely on brackish water to different degrees to complete their life cycles: while M. olfersi zoeae 1 and 2 survive well in fresh water, those of M. amazonicum die within two hours. Total FAA titers increase significantly over the ontogenetic sequence in both species, independently of salinity exposure, concentrations increasing sharply in M. amazonicum zoeae 1 alone, but steadily from embryos to adult M. olfersi. While total FAA titers increase significantly on transfer of zoeae 1 (+ 43%) and adult (muscle + 72%, gill + 62%) M. amazonicum to elevated salinity (25), their effective contribution to hemolymph and intracellular osmolality is unaltered ( 16% in zoea 1, 6-8% in zoea 2 and adult tissues). Total FAA titers in M. olfersi increase in embryos (+ 95%), zoeae 1 (+ 23%) and post larvae (+ 28%), and in adult tissues (muscle + 69%, gill + 110%, nerve + 187%) after salinity exposure. However, effective contribution to intracellular osmolality increases only in embryos (5 to 6%) and adult nervous tissue (6 to 13%). In both species, total FAA increase is due to the most abundant nonessential FAA, glycine, alanine and proline, and arginine. Our analysis shows that diadromous species like M. amazonicum and M. olfersi exhibit lower total FAA titers compared to marine species. Such findings allow a better understanding of the physiological mechanisms underlying the invasion of fresh water by these recent colonizers. 
10.2307/1548961|Two pagurid species of the genus Pagurixus Melin, 1939, P. nomurai, new species, and P. maorus (Nobili, 1906), are described and illustrated in detail on the basis of material from Kume-jima Island, the Ryukyus, Japan. Among the 12 known species of the genus, the new species appears closest to P. maorus, and the material at hand permits an adequate evaluation of the differences between the two taxa. The present record of Pagurixus maorus greatly extends its known biogeographical range north and west.
10.2307/1549070|Hermit crabs, Pagurus spp., collected year-round by the Marine Resources Center, Marine Biological Laboratory, exhibited a spring time increase in mortality. Two diseases are responsible for this mortality. Infection by larval tetraphyllidean cestodes has been previously described. Twenty-eight per cent of laboratory-maintained animals also exhibited a severe mycotic infection caused by Fusarium solani. Characteristic lesions produced by this fungus were infection of the gill filaments, direct invasion of the branchial joint dermis and overlying arthrodial membrane, and subsequent invasion of the dermis of the cephalothorax and overlying arthrodial membrane. The fungus elicited a severe mixed inflammatory cell response with encapsulation and melanosis of the fungal elements. Disease outbreaks were effectively controlled by elimination of infective sources and disinfection of environmental surfaces with chlorine bleach. This disease is similar to black gill disease of shrimps and lobsters.
1548822|The first fresh-water microcerberid isopod (Isopoda: Asellota) from the United States is reported from wells in South Carolina (Microcerberus carolinensis, new species). The closest relatives occur in southeastern Europe and belong to a distinct fresh-water clade with triramous pleopod 4 (genus Microcerberus sensu stricto), a group which must be older than the Atlantic Ocean. Reconstructed evolution of morphology indicates that the fresh-water microcerberids are the more primitive ones. For the more derived coastal mesopsammal species, the new genus Coxicerberus is proposed.
10.2307/1549231| Aspects of the reproductive biology of the crangonid shrimp Philocheras trispinosus were studied. Size of female maturity was determined from the proportions of ovigerous females and of females with maturing ovaries. The size at which 50% of females are mature is estimated (95% confidence intervals) as 3.69  0.56-mm carapace length. Brood weight and fecundity were related isometrically with female body size. Based on dry weight, the reproductive output (mass of incubating eggs/mass of female) averaged 0.24. The main spawning season (percentage ovigerous > 50%), from March-August, was reflected by monthly values of the gonad index >9. The ovarian dry weight of females with eggs near to hatching was nearly fivefold higher than for those with newly laid eggs, and the ovarian dry weight was significantly different between each egg stage. This indicates that ovarian maturation occurs during incubation, suggesting that females were potentially consecutive breeders, capable of multiple spawning within a single reproductive season. 
10.2307/1548974| The ecology of ostracods in the Rhne River was studied in the main channel of 3 sections. Twenty-four species were collected during 2 sampling periods (summer and winter). At a regional scale, diversity and density of ostracods in benthic and interstitial habitats varied markedly among the 3 sites. In the 2 sectors upstream of Lyon, ostracods represented only small proportions of the invertebrate assemblages, whereas they were a dominant group in the downstream site. These differences are linked to the eutrophication of the river and to the water exchanges between benthic and interstitial habitats. Their microdistributions were not linked to physicochemical characteristics of the sediment or the interstitial water, but seemed to be determined by geomorphological and hydrological characteristics of the sampling stations. 
10.2307/1549323|Segmental homologies of the maxillipeds of Longipedia americana, Coullana canadensis, Macrosetella gracilis, Hemicyclops adherens, and Troglocyclops janstocki are inferred by comparing segmental and setal numbers at CI, and changes in setal numbers during the copepodid phase of development, with published accounts of the calanoids Ridgewayia klausruetzleri and Pleuromamma xiphias. The unsegmented endopod of L. americana is a complex of 4 presumptive segments and the unsegmented endopod of C. canadensis is a complex of 3 presumptive segments. The endopod of T. janstocki appears to be 3-segmented, but the middle segment is a complex of 3 presumptive segments. Macrosetella gracilis has an unsegmented endopod of 2 presumptive segments; the distal segment is attenuate, forming a clawlike structure. Hemicyclops adherens has a 2-segmented endopod; the prominent, clawlike terminal structure on the maxilliped of the adult male is an attenuation of the distal endopodal segment. A homologous but more complex attenuation of that segment is present on the maxilliped of all of its copepodid stages including the adult female.
20487759|The feeding ecology of two species of sesarmid mangrove crabs, Perisesarma eumolpe (de Man, 1895) and P. indiarum (Tweedie, 1940), in Mandai Kechil, Singapore was studied through field observations and laboratory experiments. The latter comprised a series of three separate experiments to investigate mangrove leaf species preferences, leaf age preferences, and feeding rates on leaves. Results indicate: 1) both P. eumolpe and P. indiarum are mainly sediment grazers, but also feed on mangrove leaves and roots and occasionally animal matter; 2) both crab species prefer Avicennia alba Blume leaves to other, locally common, mangrove species, i.e., A. officinalis L, A. rumphiana Hallier f, Rhizophora apiculata Blume, Bruguiera gymnorhiza (L.) Sav.); 3) there is no significant preference for leaves of differing ages in the two species; and 4) no difference in daily fresh leaf consumption exists between the two crab species, with P. eumolpe consuming 22  1.97 and P. indiarum consuming 14  1.06 mg dry weight/wet mass g crab/day.
20487812|We studied the morphology of the male reproductive system and spermatophore formation in Astacus leptodactylus. The testis has two anterior lobules and only one posterior lobule, which lie dorsal to the gut on the large hepatopancreas. Collecting tubule cells comprise a simple cuboidal epithelium with synthetic activity. Vasa deferentia are laterally connected with the testis and have three parts: proximal vas deferens (PVD), middle vas deferens (MVD) and distal vas deferens (DVD). While the PVD is off-white in color similar to the testis and has no convolutions, the MVD is intensely white in color and convoluted. On the other hand, the DVD is the widest of all and an intensely white structure. The spermatophore, which is non-pedunculate and tubular, extrudes an uninterrupted column and consists of a sperm mass covered with primary and secondary layers. The primary layer is stained with bromephenol blue, while secondary layer gives positive reaction with Alcian blue and aldehyde fuchsin. The histochemical results indicate that the functions of layers are different.
10.2307/1549434| The outer crescent row of statolith sensilla of Callinectes sapidus was examined morphologically using scanning and transmission electron microscopy. The number and diameters of axons within the nerve bundle supplying the sensilla were determined. Intracellular injections of Lucifer Yellow were used to examine the central projections of single sensory neurons from the statolith sensilla. In addition, responses of the sensory neurons to displacements of the sensilla were analyzed using electrophysiological techniques. The outer crescent row consists of 7-9 cuticular sensory sensilla. Each has long filamentous extensions projecting from a main shaft. These sensilla (x = 73 m in length) are innervated by bipolar sensory neurons with large diameter axons (x = 29 m) passing in the antennular nerve. The afferent fibers from the outer sensilla row appear to be identical and project into median antennular neuropils bilaterally. Extracellular recordings during displacement of single sensilla support the hypothesis that these sensilla are acceleration-sensitive mechanoreceptors. Stimulation of the nerve bundle innervating the outer row statolith sensilla produces short latency, large amplitude depolarizing potentials in antennular withdrawal interneurons, suggesting that deflection of outer row sensilla is capable of initiating antennular withdrawal. 
27753962|An analysis of size and reproduction of Heterocarpus ensifer (Caridea: Pandalidae) off the Macaronesian archipelagos (Canary, Madeira, and the Azores islands, northeastern Atlantic) is done. The size range of samples was similar among the archipelagos studied, around 939 mm carapace length (CL). The carapace length/wet weight relationship showed a negative allometry in males and varied in females. One-way analysis of regression slopes (b) among archipelagos pointed out significant differences in all groups with the exception of males. Growth parameters indicated that males are smaller in size, but grow faster than females. Growth performance (') estimates varied between 2.69 and 2.81, pointing out a very similar growth pattern among regions. Ovigerous females were present in all months sampled with a mass spawning period in spring and summer, which are the seasons when the water is warmer. Size at maturity was estimated in 22.4 mm CL for the Canary Islands and 25.7 mm CL for Madeira. In general, the life history of this deep-water species is similar in the three archipelagos.
10.2307/1548138|Adult kelp crabs (Pugettia producta) migrate during fall into a kelp bed, where they feed, court, and mate in groups. By early December, the crabs have left the bed. Although at least small crabs are present in the bed throughout the year, fewest crabs of all sizes are found in summer.
10.2307/1549460|In California, most anostracan crustaceans inhabit ephemeral wetlands, such as vernal pools, mountain meadows, and desert playas with biphasic wet/dry cycles. The shrimps hatch and mature during the aquatic phase and deposit dormant cysts which remain in the soil through the dry phase. In some habitats, due to the variable nature of local rainfall patterns, pools at times fill only partially and dry quickly before the shrimp are able to mature and reproduce. Species in such unpredictable environments produce cysts that do not all hatch when first hydrated. A portion remain dormant and hatch in later pool fillings. We investigated the hatching pattern of two newly described species of anostracans found in unpredictable vernal pools in southern California, U.S.A., Branchinecta sandiegonensis Fugate and Streptocephalus woottoni Eng et al. Hatching rates for these species were among the lowest yet reported for anostracans. Initial hatch from the soil cyst bank was 6% for B. sandiegonensis and 0.18% for S. woottoni and cumulative totals were 28% and 2.8%, respectively, over 3 hydrations. Furthermore, hatching variability was demonstrated for the cysts of single pairs. This life-history pattern conforms to the 3 major predictions of models of diversified risk-spreading or bet-hedging strategies as developed for annual plants.
10.2307/1548006|Prethura hutchingsae, new genus, new species, is described from a shallow-water habitat at Lizard Island, Great Barrier Reef, Australia. The species is placed in the Pleurocopidae, and the relationships between several asellote families are discussed.
1549910| Sexual maturity, temporal reproductive pattern, and recruitment of juveniles were examined for the shrimp Rimapenaeus constrictus at three different bays in the Ubatuba region (Mar Virado, Ubatuba, and Ubatumirim), State of So Paulo (23S 45W). Monthly samples were taken from January 1998 to December 1999. The presence or absence of mating plugs (associated with mating and insemination) and ovarian maturity were used to examine breeding in adult females. The whole sample comprised 3863 females and 1468 males. Estimates of size (carapace length) at the onset of sexual maturity were 7.0 mm and 7.8 mm for males and females, respectively. Higher percentage of females bearing ripe gonads was observed during spring and summer over the course of the study, contrasting to the low proportion in fall 1998 and winter 1999. Juvenile shrimps were sampled year-round. These results suggest a continuous reproductive pattern for R. constrictus. Mating, spawning, and juvenile recruitment took place mostly in shallow waters up to 20-m depths in the study region. Warm to mild temperatures may favour the spawning pattern observed in this species. The classical paradigm of continuous reproduction at lower latitudes, with increased seasonality of breeding period at higher latitudes, seems to apply to this species. 
1549497|Recent discovery of a specimen of Oxyrhynchaxius Parisi, 1917, from Taiwan led to a survey of the material of this rare and monotypic axiid genus deposited at various museums. Other than the type, five specimens of this genus from Japan, Taiwan, Hong Kong, and Australia were found and can be separated into two forms. Those from Japan to Hong Kong are large in size, have slender eyes and bear a dorsal carina on the posterior carapace but lack a median carina on the abdomen. The Australian specimens are small, have stout eyestalks and bear a median carina on the abdomen but lack a middorsal carina on the posterior carapace. The specimens from Japan to Hong Kong probably all belong to O. japonicus Parisi, 1917. The Australian material, though probably juvenile, represents a distinct species and is described as new.
20487710|Lysmata hochi n. sp., a new peppermint shrimp, is described from Bocas del Toro, Caribbean coast of Panama. All individuals were collected on near-shore fossil coral terraces with deep channels and caves, sparsely covered with seagrass. Besides the type locality, L. hochi n. sp. also occurs in Cahuita, Costa Rica, in a similar type of habitat. The new species can be distinguished from other species of Lysmata by the presence of an unguis-shaped accessory branch on the lateral antennular flagellum; the rostrum with three dorsal teeth, followed by two mid-dorsal teeth on the carapace posterior to the orbital margin; the number of carpal segments of the second pereiopod ranging from 21 to 24; the presence of two to four ventrolateral spines on the merus of the third pereiopod; the dactylus of the third to fifth pereiopod bearing two spines in addition to a bifurcated inguis; and the conspicuous color pattern, especially the irregular bright red bands on the pleon. Based on morphology and (where known) color patterns, L. hochi n. sp. appears to be most closely related to the Indo-West Pacific L. kuekenthali (De Man) and the eastern Atlantic L. uncicornis Holthuis and Maurin. Anatomical observations, field population studies and laboratory experiments indicate that L. hochi n. sp. is a protandric simultaneous hermaphrodite, with a primary male phase followed by a simultaneous hermaphrodite phase.
10.2307/1548884| The effects of the protein glycosylation inhibitor tunicamycin (TM) on skeletal growth, the rate of formation and morphology of the mineral growth increments, and the fine structure of the scutal plates of the barnacle Balanus amphitrite amphitrite Darwin were examined. If glycoproteins are important in control of crystal form and mineral microstructure, then by using TM to reduce the amount of glycoprotein synthesized by the mineralizing cells, one might expect to observe changes in fine structure by electron microscopy. Accordingly, 15-day-old barnacles, that had been grown on plastic coverslips, were exposed to various concentrations of TM for 10 days and the effects then analyzed by scanning electron microscopy. TM at 0.1 g/ml inhibited shell growth. At 0.01 g/ml TM, shell growth was retarded in one experiment but not in another. The normal rate of formation of a mineral growth increment, as calculated in two experiments, was 3.6 and 2.8 days, respectively, at 24  1C. This rate was reduced significantly by 0.01 g/ml and 0.1 g/ml TM; 1.0 g/ml TM completely blocked increment formation. The bases of setae on the scuta increased in size, and the number of setae also increased in barnacles treated with 0.1 g/ml TM for 10 days. However, other portions of the scuta revealed no characteristic differences in crystal microstructure. 
1549800| The nannastacid cumacean, Normjonesia danieli, n. g., n. sp., is described from a depth of 88 m on the Southwest Florida shelf in the southeastern Gulf of Mexico. The new genus appears to have its closest affinities with Campylaspis Sars and Cubanocuma Bcescu and Muradian, also known from the shallow waters of the Caribbean Sea. A combination of characters, including: (1) the apparent lack of terminal aesthetes on antenna 1; (2) the absence of exopods on the female; (3) the presence of 5 pairs of exopods on the male; and (4) the presence of long terminal setae on the third maxilliped, distinguishes Normjonesia from the other known genera of the family Nannastacidae. 
1549696| During a three-month rearing period we compared the (1) survival rate, (2) growth at moult, (3) number of moults, and (4) overall growth of the young of the year (YOY) of two crayfish species, the indigenous Austropotamobius pallipes and the nonindigenous Procambarus clarkii. One hundred twenty YOY of each species were reared in different test conditions, i.e., three temperatures (16, 20, and 24C) combined with two different dietary regimes (either animal or detritus food items). The two species showed a number of similarities in their survival rate and growth format. First, in both species, animal proteins appeared fundamental for the YOY growth, because an exclusively vegetal diet significantly slowed growth rate. Thus, the YOY seemed to behave as obligate carnivores, and detritus appeared ineffective in sustaining growth. Then, an exclusively animal diet showed some deficiencies: exoskeleton appeared pale in its colour when the diet was composed of animal items only, possibly because carotenoids were lacking. Third, an increase in the temperature caused a decrease in both survival and growth rate, because it determined a reduction of the moult increment in both species. Differences between the two species were that the nonindigenous crayfish showed a significantly higher tolerance of elevated temperatures, and growth was significantly faster in P. clarkii than A. pallipes, being approximately double when the crayfish were reared with an animal diet. Together with other behavioural and ecological properties, these features make P. clarkii more competitive than A. pallipes in disturbed habitats and areas which are subject to man-induced modifications. 
10.2307/1548331|The respiratory and cardiovascular variables in Chaceon fenneri and C. quinquedens were examined in animals during normoxia, animals exposed to hypoxia, and animals allowed to recover in normoxia. Chaceon fenneri was characterized by a relatively low metabolic rate (low oxygen uptake), and low ventilatory frequency. This species displayed a pattern of oxy-independent O<sub>2</sub> uptake when exposed to hypoxia: MO<sub>2</sub> was maintained primarily through hyper-ventilation. At an environmental PO<sub>2</sub> of about 25 torr, respiratory and cardiovascular functions shut down, and the animal appeared to make the transition to exclusively anaerobic energy production. Lactate accumulated in the hemolymph during hypoxia and during recovery. Recovery was also characterized by elevated O<sub>2</sub> uptake, and prolonged hyperventilation, indicating the repayment of an oxygen debt. Oxygen uptake in resting C. quinquedens was roughly double that in C. fenneri, and ventilatory frequency was 3-fold higher. MO<sub>2</sub> declined in hypoxia, and hyperventilation was absent, a more typical oxy-dependent pattern of respiration. The ambient PO<sub>2</sub> at which ventilatory and cardiovascular shutdown occurred was about 17 torr, but oxygen uptake continued at very low levels even in severe hypoxia. Lactate buildup in the hemolymph was not observed. During recovery, normal levels of O<sub>2</sub> uptake were quickly restored, and hyperventilation was absent. Chaceon quinquedens appeared not to utilize anaerobic metabolism during hypoxia or to incur an oxygen debt. The differences in respiratory and cardiovascular responses to hypoxia in these two species appear to be due to a combination of differences in metabolic rate and body morphology.
10.2307/1548362|The mating behavior of Bicornucythere bisanensis was observed in the laboratory for the first time with the aid of a video tape recorder. In the early stage of courtship the male rotated the female to a ventral to ventral position. The strong dimorphic asymmetry of the fifth limbs (right tumid) seemed to facilitate this process. Quick vibration was sometimes produced by the male to open the female's carapace. Similar behaviors frequently occurred also between 2 males ("false mating"). Normal and "false" matings varied in duration from less than 1-30 min.
10.2307/1548812| The main route of nitrogen excretion in Holthuisana transversa with access to water was across the gills. Ammonia excreted into the water in this way accounted for 72.2-85.9% of total nitrogen excreted. The feces, any excretory fluid released by the crab, and volatilization of ammonia gas were minor routes of excretion. Total nitrogen excretion ranged from 7.75  3.24 SD mol kg<sup>-1</sup> h<sup>-1</sup> for starved animals to 36.38  33.36 SD mol kg<sup>-1</sup> h<sup>-1</sup> for animals on a high nitrogen diet. Under simulated drought conditions (starved with no access to water) Holthuisana transversa excreted negligible amounts of nitrogen (0.23  0.41 mol kg<sup>-1</sup> h<sup>-1</sup>). Reduced protein catabolism may have been facilitated by the use of fat for energy and a reduction in the metabolic rate. Any waste nitrogen that was produced was probably stored. Urate was stored in the body of Holthuisana transversa and the total body urate content was high (up to 40.41 mmol kg<sup>-1</sup>). Given the low solubility of urate, the bulk of these reserves must have been in solid form. 
10.2307/1547854|Five postembryonic stages of the parasitic copepod Cardiodectes medusaeus (Wilson) were recovered from the mantle cavities of seven species of pelagic gastropods collected off southern California. Adult parasites and several transforming specimens were recovered from seven genera of lanternfishes (Myctophidae) from the same locality. Recovery of both larvae and adults permitted a detailed study of the life history of C. medusaeus. After hatching, free-swimming copepodids enter the mantle cavity of a gastropod intermediate host and anchor to the mantle tissue by means of a frontal filament. Development through three chalimus stages and copulation between adult males and preadult females occur in the intermediate host. After copulation, adult males die and only postmated females leave the gastropod and enter a fish host. Differential growth of the parasite's body results in the development of an attachment organ which grows into the host's bulbus arteriosus and a trunk which penetrates the host's body wall at the isthmus. The developmental stages from gastropod hosts collected off California are compared to the larvae of Cardiodectes sp. found in Janthina globosa Swainson from the West Indies. All known host and locality records for C. medusaeus are included.
10.2307/1548897| Stygiomysis cokei, the seventh species of Stygiomysidae described worldwide and fifth from the Caribbean, was discovered in coastal underwater caves near Tulum, Quintana Roo, Mexico. Comparisons are made with other stygiomysid species. Distinguishing characteristics include telson length 1.7-2.0  width, spinules absent on uropodal protopods, and pointed membranous pleopodal lamellae. Observations are made on habitats and behavior. 
10.2307/1547965|Speleonectes lucayensis, new genus and species of cavernicolous crustacean from the Bahamas, is described. It possesses characteristics indicating that it represents a new class of Crustacea.
10.2307/1548426|Fourteen species of brachyuran crabs from Tampa Bay, Florida, were examined for the occurrence and abundance of commensal trichomycetous fungi. Such fungi were found in the hindguts of six of these species, and all fungi observed belonged to the order Eccrinales. Percentage of occurrence of fungi in the infested species ranged from 10% (in Uca pugilator) to 70% (in Uca rapax). The fungi were quantified by estimating the total length of hyphae present in an individual crab. Mean amounts of fungi in the infested species ranged from 0.06 mm of hyphae per crab (U. pugilator) to 36.09 mm of hyphae per crab (Aratus pisonii). Separate collections were made in order to examine occurrence and abundance of fungi in three populations of A. pisonii and four populations of U. pugilator. Percentage of occurrence of fungi in populations of A. pisonii was from 80-95% and mean abundance of fungi was from 76.18-178.0 mm of hyphae per crab. Percentage of occurrence in populations of U. pugilator was from 5-25% and mean abundance of fungi was from 0.12-4.66 mm of hyphae per crab. The patterns of occurrence and abundance of fungi seemed best explained by the feeding habits of a species of crab, those with fungi being herbivorous and/or detritivorous. The present study has been the first to examine this type of fungal infestation from a quantitative perspective.
1549572|A revision of clam shrimps of the family Limnadiidae from Venezuela resulted in eight species, of which seven belong to the genus Eulimnadia and one to Metalimnadia. Eulimnadia texana, previously reported from North America and Brazil, now has a less discontinuous distribution as does E. cylindrova, previously reported from North America and the Galapagos Islands. Collections of specimens of E. geayi and Metalimnadia serratura were made. The species E. colombiensis and E. magdalenensis, once believed to be endemic to Colombia, now have a larger distribution that includes the Venezuelan lowlands. Finally, one new limnadiid species, Eulimnadia follisimilis, is described.
1549350|Developing embryos proved to be a suitable source of cells for advanced cytological investigations on Amphipods. Conventional karyotyping, Ag- and fluorochrome-staining, C-banding, endonuclease digestion, fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH) and nuclear DNA flow cytometric assay were tested in the Ischyroceridae Jassa marmorata. The karyotype consists of 6 chromosome pairs of which 5 are metacentric and 1 subtelocentric. The rDNA/FISH revealed that major ribosomal cistrons are located on the telomeric regions in the short arm of pair 6. A marked size variation of hybridization signals was observed. Silver and fluorochrome staining enhanced no chromosome regions. Constitutive heterochromatin was scarce and limited to tiny, pericentromeric blocks as revealed by C-banding and three different restriction enzymes. The diploid genome size (1.90 pg) and the Adenine-Thymine base-pair nuclear DNA relative amount (28.85%) of J. marmorata are by far the lowest encountered in Amphipoda and Crustacea, respectively.
10.2307/1549546|The population structure and reproductive biology of Orchestia gammarellus was studied for 1 year at 2 localities in Kalmar Sound, southern Baltic. Wrack-bed composition was either dominated by Fucus vesiculosus (bladderwrack) or Zostera marina (eelgrass). Growth of the summer generation was significantly higher in beds of Zostera, but overwintering animals were significantly larger in beds of Fucus. The breeding cycle started in May and ovigerous females were found to the beginning of September. The first juveniles were found in the beginning of July. The life cycle was annual and multivoltine, with most of the females giving rise to at least 2 broods in their second summer. The sex ratio was female-biased, especially in summer. There was a direct relationship between brood size and female length if the maximum brood size in each 0.1-mm length class was used. Breeding females ranged between 9.0 and 15.0 mm in total length.
10.2307/1548704|The second known agostocaridid shrimp, Agostocaris bozanici, is described from a cenote on Cozumel Island. The new species is characterized by having a dorsally unarmed rostrum, and 5 pairs of lateral, and 5 pairs of posterior spines on the telson. A new genus and species of hippolytid, Yagerocaris cozumel, is described from a different cenote and an anchialine cave on Cozumel. The genus is characterized primarily by the possession of a very strong pterygostomian spine on the carapace, subequal second pereiopods in which the carpi have 5 articles, a single arthrobranch of maxilliped 3, and a rectangular posterior lobe on the telson. Both shrimps are true anchialines, having been taken from marine-salinity water in cenotes well away from the coast, and both have reduced eyes. The hippolytid shrimps Somersiella sterreri Hart and Manning (previously known only from Bermuda) and Janicea antiguensis (Chace) (previously recorded from Antigua, Bermuda, and the Bahamas) are recorded from a cave on Cozumel Island. While these latter 2 species show some differences from the original descriptions, it is felt to be premature to place them in new taxa.
10.2307/1547872|Sea grass meadows sampled monthly for one year by push net had a hermit crab fauna composed of four pagurid and four diogenid species. Three species dominated the paguroid samples: Pagurus criniticornis (34.2%), Clibanarius antillensis (30.3%), and Cl. tricolor (18.5%). Abundances in night samples were consistently higher than in day collections. Field observations indicate that hermit crabs on sea grass meadows congregate into clusters during the day and disperse over the meadow at night, thus accounting for increased abundances in night collections. Hermit crab species showed two seasonal peaks of abundance at this tropical location, the first in the spring or summer and the second in the winter.
10.2307/1548282|In a continuing study of the usefulness of larval characters in determining phylogenetic relationships among species of the hermit crab genus Pagurus, the developmental sequence of Pagurus hirsutiusculus hirsutiusculus (Dana) has been reexamined using laboratory-reared larvae. Results of the current study have shown that several significant characters were either overlooked or misinterpreted in earlier studies.
10.2307/1548319| Larvae of Pagurus maclaughlinae Garca-Gmez have been reared in the laboratory from hatching through metamorphosis. The four zoeal stages and one megalopal stage are described and illustrated. The larval characters of this species are compared with those described for several other species of Pagurus. 
10.2307/1549196|Two chromatic morphs of Pagurus lanuginosus de Haan, 1849, of Imafuku and Ikeda (1995) are here recognized as 2 distinct species: the "black spot" morph is referred to true P. lanuginosus, and the "white spot" morph is described herein as a new species, P. maculosus. The range of P. maculosus appears restricted to the Pacific coast of the Japanese main islands from Boso Peninsula to Amakusa, Kyushu. Pagurus lanuginosus is considered to be more widely distributed in the Japanese main islands, Korea, and the Russian coast of the Sea of Japan. Within the range of the new species, P. lanuginosus sometimes occurs sympatrically. A neotype is designated for P. lanuginosus to establish its taxonomic status, since its type material is no longer extant. In addition to the coloration, these two species differ morphologically from each other in the number of calcareous teeth of the right cheliped dactyl and the presence or absence of an enlarged tubercle on the merus of the right cheliped.
4540311| Population structure and reproductive maturity of females were investigated in the shrimp Artemesia longinaris Bate, 1888 from coastal waters of northern Sao Paulo State (Brazil, 23S) and Mar del Plata (Argentina, 38S) from June 2001 to May 2002. Monthly collections were taken by commercial shrimp fishing boats equipped with bottom trawl nets. Population parameters from size frequency distributions and size (carapace length = CL) of female reproductive maturity were analyzed and compared from the two sampling areas. Latitudinal trends in reproductive parameters of A. longinaris were shown in overall body size and size of reproductive maturity, both of which were smaller in females from the tropical location than those from the cold-temperate sampling area. Largest females (> 30 mm CL) were collected in Argentina, while Brazilian specimens reached maximum size at 27 mm CL. The smallest size of female sexual maturity was estimated at 13.6 mm CL in Brazilian samples compared to 22.1 mm CL calculated for those from Argentina. Populations from both regions exhibited a bimodal size distribution in the spring, with the peak at small body size probably corresponding to recent recruits and the peak at larger body size to reproductive females or shrimps migrating in from deeper waters or other latitudinal regions. In late spring and summer, an intrusion of the cold South Atlantic Coastal Water mass was observed which lowered water temperature and stimulated plankton production, the primary food source for the larvae of a typically cold-temperate species such as A. longinaris. The trend of increasing body size and delay of sexual maturity with increasing latitude appears to be correlated with the decreasing water temperature and increasing plankton productivity at higher latitudes. 
10.2307/1548994| Feeding behavior of various life stages of the carnivorous copepods Tortanus spp. (mixture of T. forcipatus and T. glacilis) was investigated. Tortanus can capture prey copepods having up to approximately 100% of its own prosome length, but it only partially consumes larger prey copepods. Larger developmental stages of Tortanus tend to select larger prey. The functional response of various developmental stages of Tortanus was determined at 25, 20, and 15C, using Oithona davisae CV and CVI, numerically dominant small copepods in Fukuyama Harbor, as prey. Ingestion rate increased with increasing prey density up to maximum rate. Maximum ingestion rate was highest at 25C and decreased with decreasing temperature. Maximum specific ingestion rate at a given temperature was highest for CI-CIII and decreased for the later stages. Based on abundances of various developmental stages of Tortanus and small planktonic crustaceans (O. davisae, Parvocalanus crassirostris, and others) and the variation in water temperature in Fukuyama Harbor, the calculated predatory impact of Tortanus is small. Less than 2.7% of the prey populations are consumed per day by Tortanus. 
10.2307/1548329|In the fresh-water isopod crustacean Asellus aquaticus podocytes have been discovered laterally within the pericardium, in the blood sinus leading from the pleopods to the pericardium, and, in anterior thoracic segments, above the insertion of the appendages. Similar cells are also present in the pleon of Porcellio scaber. The ultrastructure of these cells resembles that of endsac cells of the crustacean end sac and of arthropod nephrocytes. No lumen or duct is present. These podocytes also resemble those present in decapod gills and may have the task of breaking down hemolymphatic substances.
1549353|The phylogeny of select Thoracican barnacles was estimated from 18S rDNA sequences. Six new sequences were included, Semibalanus cariosus, Tamiosoma aquila, Balanus glandula, Balanus nubilus, Megabalanus californicus, and Pollicipes polymerus. These were combined with previously published sequences from Genbank. Our maximum likelihood analysis of the data is congruent with previous morphological analyses but differs from the earlier analyses based on 18S sequences, especially in the position of Ibla. We also obtained greater resolution with a gene often considered too slowly evolving to be useful at higher taxonomic levels. Sessile barnacles appear to be monophyletic, but pedunculate barnacles may not be, with the Scapelloidea being the sister taxa to the sessile ones. The Balanidae also appears to be monophyletic, while the enigmatic Heterolepidae is strongly associated with the pedunculate barnacles Lepas and Octolasmus.
10.2307/1548207|The new bathypelagic caridean shrimp species Acanthephyra chacei is distinguished from other Acanthephyra by its membranous integument; its dorsally carinate carapace, lacking a cervical groove; and abdominal somites III through VI dorsally carinate, each ending in a spine. It was found mainly in transitional waters of the northeastern Pacific at depths greater than 1,500 m.
10.2307/1548502|In an anatomical investigation of the central nervous system of the terrestrial isopod Armadillidium vulgare (Latreille), some specimens were dissected; others were sectioned and stained for light microscopical study. The brain, consisting of protocerebral, deutocerebral, and tritocerebral divisions, is situated ventrally in the extreme anterior region of the cephalothorax. The protocerebrum is bilobed and divided dorsally by a deep, median cleft. Each lobe (=optic lobe) tapers to form a large optic nerve. A pseudofrontal organ is suspended ventrally from the distal extremity of each optic lobe. A pair of accessory lobes extends ventrally beneath the main lobes of the protocerebrum. The deutocerebrum is much reduced in size, reflecting an apparent adaptive trend among terrestrial isopods (and amphipods) toward reduction of the antennules and associated loss of olfactory function. The well-developed lobes of the tritocerebrum extend laterally and continue as the circumesophageal connectives, completing encirclement of the esophagus to form a paired connective that unites with the subesophageal mass. The subesophageal mass is a fusion of the mandibular, maxillulary, maxillary, and maxillipedal ganglia. The ventral nerve cord, for most of its length, consists of seven pereionic ganglia joined by paired longitudinal connectives and smaller, single, median intermediate connectives. Six pairs of pleonic ganglia are fused into a single pleonic mass. Characteristic groupings of nerve cell bodies occur on the surfaces of the brain and ventral nerve cord. Distinctive, small, and densely packed glomerular cells occupy the surfaces of the optic lobes. Neuropiles and fiber tracts form conducting pathways, although those of the ventral cord are not so distinct morphologically as are some in the brain. Strong tagmatization is suggested by fusion to form a single pleonic mass.
10.2307/1547979|The eggs of many crustaceans are minute and resistant to desiccation. These properties favour their accidental dispersal and parthenogenesis ensures survival in the newly occupied niches. Agencies by which such dispersal is achieved have been long ensconced in the literature. The role of man as an agent of crustacean dispersal via the spread of useful plants, however, has been relatively neglected hitherto but the example provided by ostracode ospiti esteri of the Italian ricefields ecosystem indicates that this neglect is unwarranted. Italian historical and archaeobotanical records concerning the introductions of numerous other useful plants make it obvious that the dispersal potential of this agency cannot be restricted to rice only. When modern Ostracoda assemblages from Europe are compared against fossil ones, their dissimilarity suggests a high proportion of introduced species in the modern biota. The implications of this are discussed.
10.2307/1549457| Although Americamysis bahia is specified by the Environmental Protection Agency as a bioassay test species, some of its fundamental biology is not known. This species is available commercially, and is common in coastal waters of the northern Gulf of Mexico. Its oxygen consumption was measured with a Gilson Differential Respirometer at 18C, 20C, 22C, and 24C and 18, 22, and 26% salinity. Lowest oxygen consumption occurred at the salinity-temperature (S-T) combination used to culture the aquarium population, 20C and 22% S. Oxygen consumption rates increased at other S-T combinations. Data suggest that salinity has a negligible influence on oxygen consumption at the S-T combinations tested. 
10.2307/1547934|The complete larval development of Cryptodromia pileifera Alcock, 1899, under laboratory conditions, is described. It consists of only one zoeal and one megalopal stage. This is the first dromiid crab reported to have only one zoeal stage. The zoea is unique in that it lacks the hairlike process on the telson that is characteristic of all other known dromiid larvae. The presence or absence of free-swimming larval stages in the life cycles and their effect on the distribution of the Dromiidae are also briefly discussed.
10.2307/1548245|During sperm maturation of Branchipus visnyai a process of growth and fusion of mitochondria occurs, resulting in the formation of giant polymorphic mitochondria in mature sperm. This phenemenon has not been described in other anostracan sperm studied thus far.
10.2307/1548139|In an attempt to determine the possible role of the pigment granule membrane in the mechanics of granule dislocation, the brown pigment-containing chromatosomes enveloping the ventral nerve chords of several palaemonid shrimps were examined by transmission electron microscopy in thin sections and freeze fracture replicas. In sections of component chromatophores, two distinct pigment granule types are discernible. The larger type, comprising membrane-bounded granules of about 460 nm diameter, contains a homogeneous, finely granular material and exhibits spherical to polymorphic profiles which show varying degrees of membrane scalloping; the other granule type, with granules some 60 nm diameter, lacks a limiting membrane. In freeze fracture replicas, a single granule type, of about 430 nm diameter, exhibiting a sequence of from smooth to rough undulating membranes, is evident. A granule maturational process is proposed to be associated with this progressive scalloping of the limiting membrane. In the pigment granule membrane, intramembranous particles (8 nm diameter) are scarce (approximately 90-200 particles/ m<sup>2</sup> and apparently randomly distributed; no organized arrays are evident. Chromatophore plasmalemmas likewise contain few particles (approximately 200-400/ m<sup>2</sup>. These findings are discussed in relation to current models of pigment granule translocation. The pigment granule membrane is suggested to be an unimportant component of any movement mechanism, being assigned a diminutive role, if any, in linking the granule with its translocative force.
10.2307/1549191| The larval development of Acetes americanus was studied from plankton samples collected monthly between October 1980 and April 1981 at Paranagu and Laranjeiras Bays, State of Paran, Brazil. All stages including nauplius I-VI, protozoea I-III, and zoea (mysis) I and II, together with the first 2 postlarval stages, are described and illustrated. The larval development follows a pattern similar to that of other sergestids, and it closely resembles the development of penaeid shrimps. The comparisons with other species showed that the numbers of naupliar and zoeal stages are not in agreement among species. The descriptions of the different species were inconsistent and they could not be interpreted with confidence for the phylogenetic separation of the erythraeus- and japonicus-groups. 
10.2307/1548261| Warn correctly surmised from the original description that Ctenosculum hawaiiense Heath is really an ascothoracid crustacean, not a parasitic gastropod. The species is redescribed from a new specimen. Heath's remarkably complete description is reinterpreted in conformance with the new specimen and with published accounts of other ascothoracids. Within the Ascothoracida, Ctenosculum seems to be related to the anthozoan-infesting genera Gorgonolaureus and Laura, and is hypothesized to have begun parasitizing echinoderms independently of the Synagogidae and Dendrogastridae. C. hawaiiense is retained in the family Ctenosculidae pending further systematic studies of the Ascothoracida. 
10.2307/1547919|Underwater still photographs and videotapes show homolid crabs carrying pieces of sponges, antipatharians, and gorgonians between the dactyls and propodi of the fifth pereiopods. These materials are held over the posterior half of the carapace. The crabs can raise or lower the materials with their legs. The carrying behavior may be a defense against predators. The termini of the fifth pereiopods are chelate or subchelate, enabling the crabs to carry objects.
4094144| The purpose of this study was to determine whether female American lobsters (Homarus americanus) inhabiting different offshore areas reached sexual maturity at different sizes. We determined the sexual maturity of 734 lobsters captured in three different offshore locations (North: Georges Bank and offshore Gulf of Maine; Middle: southern New England shelf and slope and; South: offshore Rhode Island to New Jersey) using a combination of methods including abdominal width : carapace length ratios, cement gland examination, and ovarian staging. Lobsters that experienced the most degree-days > 8C (dd) reached sexual maturity at smaller sizes. The size at which 50 percent of the lobsters were mature was 79 mm CL for the South (annual dd = 808), 82 mm CL for the Middle (999 dd), and 92 mm CL for the North (234 dd). This regional difference in size at maturity was also manifested in the average size, and range of sizes, of berried females captured in each location. These data will likely be of use when developing appropriate regulations for managing the offshore fishery. 
27753977|Two new genera (Photeros and Enewton) and three new species of bioluminescent signaling ostracodes (Myodocopida: Cypridinidae) from Jamaica are described. They belong to a large cypridinid clade with male mating displays that we have found only in the Caribbean Sea. The species-specific displays and habitats in which each occurs are an integral part of each species definition. We postulate that the signaling clade has undergone rapid evolution driven by sexual selection particularly in Photeros Cohen and Morin, the only ostracode with both species-specific mating displays and clear species-specific morphological characters in the large male copulatory (eighth) limbs for each species (see also Morin and Cohen, 2010). Photeros comprises at least 19 species that are superficially somewhat similar in morphology (including 3 new species, all with authorship attributed to Morin and Cohen, 5 reassigned herein and 11 underscribed). The new Jamaican species are P. jamescasei, P. johnbucki, and P. mcelroyi. Species reassigned herein to Photeros are Vargula parasitica (with additional description based upon types and new Jamaican material), V. morini and V. annecohenae (from Belize), and V. graminicola and V. shulmanae (from Panama, with new information on lips and copulatory limbs). Photeros parasitica is a carrion feeder, not a parasite. We reassign Vargula harveyi to a new genus Enewton Cohen and Morin, with a more complete species description, including that of the previously unknown males and their bioluminescent mating displays. Morphological and display characters of genera and species are compared in tables. Homologies of morphological characters (some new), particularly in the upper lip, first antenna, seventh limb, and male eighth (copulatory) limb are described and discussed. Because signaling species are highly endemic, shallow signaling species are threatened by an increase in artificial lighting at night where their mating displays now occur. Videos of the displays from the three new species of Photeros are provided in the electronic accessory materials (Appendix 5).
10.2307/1547921|Four new species of ostracodes from North Queensland, Eurypylus pulcher, Chelicopia lorica, Chelicopia squameospinosa, and Nealella queenslandensis, representing both subfamilies of the Sarsiellidae are described and illustrated. The term "burr" is introduced to describe a narrow ridge located on the mandibular claws of female and juvenile male specimens. The Bellonci organ of the genus Eurypylus is illustrated. Minute pores are recorded on the lateral base of the c- and f-bristles of the sarsiellid first antennae.
20487770|A new species of cephalocarid, Sandersiella kikuchii, is described from central Japan, 300 m depth. It differs from congeners primarily based on the following points: 5-9 hooks on each ventrolateral side of cephalon; exopod proximal segment of thoracopod 6 with long finger-like lateral process (with narrow base) on the dorsal margin; exopodal distal segment of thoracopod 6 pointed distally, not divided into 2 lobes; exopodal proximal segment and pseudopipod of thoracopod 8 furnished with 2 and 2-3 setae respectively. Sandersiella acuminata Shiino, 1965 is redescribed and illustrated based on the holotype.
1549608| Fiddler crabs Uca uruguayensis were collected monthly in Punta Rasa, at the southern end of the Samborombn Bay, Ro de la Plata, Argentina, from February, 1995, to March, 1996. Throughout the study, 1,115 of 12,033 crabs (9.3%) were infested by different developmental stages of the branchial bopyrid Leidya distorta, which is herein reported for the first time as infesting U. uruguayensis. The distribution of this parasite, previously known from New Jersey to Rio de Janeiro, is now extended even farther south, to the mouth of the Ro de la Plata. Prevalence of L. distorta increased as a function of crab size. The newly settled cryptoniscus larvae were found in the space between contiguous gill lamellae after invading a previously uninfested branchial chamber. The cryptoniscus larva transformed into an early juvenile and, after molting one or more times, migrated to the roof of the branchial chamber, where it grew and finally reached the ovigerous condition. Female parasites usually carried cryptonisci or males, eventually both, on their bodies. Males were found in different positions on the females as the latter developed. Crabs housing a mature female parasite frequently bore an unpigmented area on the lateral wall of the branchial chamber. An additional faded area was sometimes observed on the bottom of the eye orbit. Adult female parasites usually produced a subtle lateral swelling on the carapace of the host, this deformation being more marked in smaller crabs than in larger ones. The major chela of the male crabs parasitized by adult females was, on average, 6.5% shorter than that of unparasitized ones. Alterations of the gills of the host were noticed: the adult female parasite had a strong dorsal carina that fitted between the fourth and fifth gills of the crab, displacing them laterally and making contact with the floor of the branchial chamber. The inner surface of the crab branchiostegite bore a large horizontal vessel from which the parasite presumably obtained hemolymph. Besides the bopyrid isopod forming the subject of this report, we found 61 crabs harboring a nematode larva, identified as Skrjabinoclava sp., among the internal organs of the crab. 
1548978|The zoeal, megalopal, and first three juvenile stages of Pagurus stevensae Hart, 1971, are described and illustrated from larvae reared under laboratory conditions. Zoeae of P. stevensae are easily distinguished from the larvae of other local hermit crab species by several distinctive morphological characters. The most readily observed are the fourth telsonal process, which is elongate and fused to the telson in all stages, and the antennal scaphocerite, which is armed, not only with a prominent distal spine, but with 3 spinose processes adjacent to its base. Additionally, the antennal endopod terminates in a strong bifid spine, at least in the first 2 stages. Certain aspects of development in this species suggest that hypotheses regarding character polarities within the Paguridea be reassessed.
41315741|The juvenile stages of the isopod family Gnathiidae have a large impact on marine ecosystems through their parasitic interactions with marine fishes, as well as being a substantial food source for the cleaner fish guild. However, the taxonomy of Gnathiidae is based on nonfeeding adult males. Adults are difficult to obtain owing to their cryptic lifestyle in the sea floor, while the juveniles can be collected in abundance either from their hosts or using emergence traps. Given the known diversity of the hosts, and assuming host partitioning among species, the diversity of gnathiids could be much greater than currently recognised. We argue that the systematics of this group should recognise this ecological role, and develop the taxonomy of the juvenile stages. We provide a detailed external anatomy of one species, Gnathia aureamaculosa, that has been used extensively in recent ecological studies. Images from scanning electron microscopy of two juvenile instars are compared with two other species, and the literature surveyed to illustrate a range of taxonomically useful traits. The expansion cuticle of the pereion shows how gnathiids are able to expand enormously during a blood meal and also lends caution on using total body length for comparative purposes. A range of morphometric and categorical features are available on the nonexpandable sections of the body, such as the head, pleotelson and uropods. Of the three species illustrated, the shape of the eyes and head, and the shape and setation of the pleotelson uropods are diagnostically useful. Evidence from the literature shows that the freeliving juveniles are not mancas; the manca instars are passed during the internal developmental period. Anatomical observations cast doubt on the classification of Gnathiidae as Cymothoida, in agreement with recent phylogenetic studies.
10.2307/1549103|The stomach contents of 146 Atlantic rock crabs, Cancer irroratus, 87 Jonah crabs, Cancer borealis, and 47 northern lady crabs, Ovalipes ocellatus collected from the area surrounding the former 12-Mile Sewage Sludge Dumpsite in the New York Bight were analyzed. In the dumpsite area, all 3 species principally ate, as quantified by frequency of occurrence and volume, polychaetes, especially Pherusa affinis, as well as mollusks (including squid), crustaceans, fish, and echinoderms. The proportion of mollusks by volume was significantly less in the diet of C. irroratus than in the other 2 species. Many of the taxa in the diets of the 3 species of crabs were among the dominant macrobenthic taxa, as determined by concurrent grab samples at 3 of the stations. At those stations, crustaceans were positively selected by C. irroratus, while cnidarians and rhynchocoels were not selected. In addition, the stomach contents of 27 O. ocellatus from False Hook Channel, a nearby shallower, sandy habitat, were examined. The diet of O. ocellatus at this site was >80% mollusks by volume, and the most frequently occurring prey was the Atlantic surf clam Spisula solidissima.
4094139|We studied feeding site selection and impacts by benthic fish (flounder and skates) on the amphipod Corophium volutator, an ecologically-important species in muddy intertidal communities. We determined that benthic fish foraged mainly in areas that had high densities of amphipods, on a mudflat in Nova Scotia, Canada. This observation was based on recording sediments displaced by benthic fish in areas where samples of amphipods also were taken. From gut-content analysis, we found that benthic fish fed almost entirely on C. volutator, and most consumed smaller amphipods than expected based on samples of amphipods collected from the substrate. Benthic fish also fed on male amphipods more than expected. We determined that daily foraging pressure by benthic fish on amphipods was low (about 0.3% per day) by measuring the new appearance of feeding traces made by fish. Nonetheless, fish are expected to have substantial impacts on demography of C. volutator due to the length of the fish foraging season and because fish appear to contribute to extreme female-biased sex ratios typically seen in this species.
10.2307/1547899|The marine fossorial Phoxocephalopsis zimmeri from the shallow sea floor of Magellanic South America is redescribed and made the type genus of a new family. This taxon stands in ancestral position both to the more apomorphic Urohaustoriidae of old Gondwanan seas and the vastly more apomorphic Haustoriidae confined to the North Atlantic Ocean. Urohaustoriidae have more advanced uropodal rami and Haustoriidae have more advanced mouthparts. A new species, Phoxocephalopsis gallardoi, from Magellan Strait, is described. A key to the species of Phoxocephalopsis includes Phoxocephalopsis deceptionis, P. psammophila, and a supposed new species culled from the literature.
10.2307/1549261|The taxonomy of the Indochinese potamid waterfall crabs of the genus Demanietta from Thailand and Myanmar (=Burma) is revised, and the type species D. manii is redescribed. The genus now contains 10 species, 5 of which are new, namely, D. huahin, D. khirikhan, D. lansak, D. nakhonsi, and D. suanphung. A key to the species of Demanietta is provided.
40665209|The South American shrimp Palaemonetes argentinus inhabits inland freshwater habitats such as lakes, rivers and streams, but also coastal brackish marshes and lagoons. Hence, this so-called "freshwater" shrimp is expected to be able to reproduce in a wide range of salinities. Here we examined effects of three salinities (1, 15, 25 ppt) on survival and reproductive cycle of females originating from two separate populations in Argentina: 1) Lake Chascomus (LC), a shallow inland lake with low and stable ionic concentrations; and 2) Vivorata Creek (VC), a lotic stream draining into the adjacent brackish lagoon Mar Chiquita, where salinity is tide-dependent. After an observation period of four months, survival was generally high, without showing significant differences between salinities or populations. Ovarian maturation was measured on a scale ranging from "empty" ovaries (= females with newly laid eggs) to fully developed ovaries (= females ready to spawn). Most LC shrimps (> 80%) developed their ovaries again after an initial egg extrusion (beginning of the experiment) and produced new eggs at all tested salinities. In VC shrimps, ovarian maturation and egg deposition were successful in both the lowest and the highest salinity (1, 25 ppt), but developed ovaries were resorbed in most individuals at the intermediate salinity (15 ppt). Ovarian resorption was never observed at the highest salinity treatment, thus this phenomenon may have been provoked by unknown factors other than ionic concentration. At 15 and 25 ppt, the beginning of vitellogenesis started later and the total time to ovary maturation was longer than at 1 ppt, lengthening in both populations the time between consecutive spawning of eggs by nearly 10 days. Irrespective of the origin of a population, female P. argentinus survived and completed all reproductive events under a wide range of salinities, which supports the hypothesis that this species is in an early stage of evolutionary invasion of freshwater habitats.
1549571|The funnel of Gammarus oceanicus extends as a fold of the foregut wall into the midgut lumen. It comprises an anterior segment, to which both foregut epithelium and cuticle contribute, and a posterior segment that lacks the epithelium. The latter segment consists of two layers of foregut cuticle that are in close contact and extend distally beyond the point where the foregut epithelium turns back on itself; contact between the two cuticular layers develops as the epithelium retracts from between them, in postmolt. Light microscopy does not consistently distinguish between the funnel's posterior segment and the peritrophic membrane found within mid- and hindguts; however, their ultrastructural organizations are distinctly different, and an origin of peritrophic membrane from the funnel of some amphipods, as suggested in the literature, is not the case for Gammarus oceanicus. Scattered within the posterior segment cuticle are clusters of short, highly curved, electron-lucent rods. Such features have not been described from other crustacean cuticles. However, rather than being novel structures, they are interpreted as artifacts produced by sectioning of the abundant chitin macrofibrils of the cuticle.
10.2307/1548903| The brine shrimp Artemia produces encysted embryos (cysts) in a state of obligate dormancy called diapause. Diapause is terminated by a variety of treatments, including dehydration. Previous work suggested that some cysts can be induced to reenter diapause when exposed to prolonged anoxia. Results presented in this paper indicate that heat shock (42-43C) can also lead to diapause induction. The basis for this proposal is the finding that the final hatching level of heat-shocked cysts is increased by a postheat-shock dehydration, a treatment known to terminate diapause. The respiration rate of postheat-shocked cysts was found to be much lower than controls. Electrophoretic profiles of proteins in extracts from control and heat-shocked cysts suggest that the intracellular translocation of a major protein accompanies heat shock. 
10.2307/1548649|Thysanopoda minyops, from 3,600-5,000 m depth in the central North Pacific is a large (>120 mm) euphausiid. This species has small eyes with few facets but with large crystalline cones. Photophores seem to be lacking, but where the first abdominal photophore is usually present on euphausiids, there is a specialized, ventrally protruding process (lobe) of unknown function. Bathypelagic (1,000-3,000 m) Thysanopoda cornuta and T. spinicaudata possess similar first segment lobes but also have such lobes on the fifth segment. Occurrence of similar lobes in relation to photophores in the several mesopelagic euphausiids, especially the vertical migrators, is described. Epipelagic species possess photophores but lack the lobes. Apparently blind, deep-living Bentheuphausia amblyops lacks photophores but has a series of lobes like those in the above species. Unique eye-size changes in relation to body length in deep-living T. cornuta and T. egregia are described: (1) eye size increases rapidly during ascent of early larval stages from bathypelagic to upper-mesopelagic depths, (2) decreases rapidly in later larval life during descent to postlarval depths, and (3) increases slowly thereafter, accompanying relative diminution of photophores. Thysanopoda spinicaudata, which has smaller eyes than T. cornuta, though much larger than T. minyops, seems to lack abdominal photophores but shows postlarval changes in relative eye size that are similar to the species that possess photophores. These and other adaptations to great depths, such as gill size, are considered.
10.2307/1548971| At 25C and in a suspension of about 1,000,000 carmine particles per ml, the thoracopods of Streptocephalus proboscideus beat metachronally with a frequency of about 4.3 Hz. The phase difference between successive thoracopods is about one-eighth of an oscillation. For every particle concentration tested, retention time was lower in adult females (maximum 61  19 min, minimum 30  3 min) than in males (maximum 72  23 min, minimum 47  15 min) of equal size. The speed of transport through the gut was dependent on particle concentration; with increasing particle density, retention time decreased, but increased again at the highest densities tested. The shortest retention time of carmine particles was observed at a concentration of 1,000,000 particles per ml; for yeast and Selenastrum, this concentration was 100,000 cells per ml. At the latter concentration, maximum ingestion rate also was observed. After 5 min, ingested particles were seen in the abdominal region, where the speed of transport greatly decreased. In adults, no preference between algal species and yeast was observed. Instead, distinct particle size preferences were observed among different size classes. The maximum size of ingested glass spheres was 17.2 m in larvae and 67.1 m in adults, probably a function of the size of the mouth. 
10.2307/1548336| Adult specimens of Chthamalus fragilis Darwin were removed carefully from the leaves and stalks of marsh grass and placed with their bases on the bottoms of polystyrene dishes containing sea water in order to allow reattachment of the animals. During overnight culture, animals secreted small volumes of a sea water-insoluble material which reattached the animals to the surface of the polystyrene dishes. The secreted material made a contact angle with the polystyrene surface of  15, indicating that, before "setting," the liquid precursor of the "set" material has considerable wetting properties. Dishes with reattached barnacles were mounted in a centrifuge to load the animals in shear and were subjected to increasing speeds of rotation until each of the reattached barnacles became detached. Reattached barnacles sustained relative centrifugal forces of up to 6,800  g before detachment, which usually occurred at the barnacle basis/cement interface. The strength of adhesion of individual barnacles reattached to polystyrene ranged from 0.0014-0.3589 Newtons. Using the area of attachment between cement and polystyrene dish, the strength of adhesion averaged 1.05  10<sup>5</sup>, with a range of 0.14  10<sup>5</sup> to 2.79  10<sup>5</sup> Nm<sup>-2</sup>. These data are comparable to forces of adhesion reported for the temporary attachment of cyprid larvae and the normal attachment of adult barnacles to plastics and other materials measured by techniques which load the animals in tension. Our observations and measurements indicate that the material secreted by adult barnacles under in vitro culture conditions exhibits significant adhesive properties. It is unlikely that adult barnacles detached from marsh grass reattach to polystyrene by Stefan effects. 
10.2307/1549012|Visually directed movements of the hermit crab Clibanarius vittatus (Bosc) toward 6 species of gastropod shells were studied in a circular arena with a white wall. The study tested the hypothesis that crabs visually discriminate between different species of shells. Only Investigating Crabs, those exhibiting chemically induced shell-investigation behavior, were tested. All trials were in the presence of chemical cues generated by freezing and thawing flesh from the gastropods Busycon carica or Polinices duplicatus. Directional orientation was absent when crabs were presented with the white background alone. Each shell was tested in different positions (e.g., anterior, posterior, upside-down, lateral). Crabs were attracted to shells in 9 of the 18 test conditions, with strongest attraction to Polinices duplicatus (posterior position) and Busycon contrarium (lateral position). Since attraction was not related to shell height, width, or surface area, it was concluded that crabs can discriminate between shells and were most attracted to shells that attain larger sizes. In a second experimental series, shells of B. contrarium or P. duplicatus were presented simultaneously in different positions. Crabs could distinguish between both species in different positions. When these 2 shell species were presented simultaneously, crabs were significantly attracted to P. duplicatus in the presence of the odor of either B. carica or P. duplicatus. Thus, these results support the hypothesis and further indicate that attraction to a shell involves a complex interaction of proprioreceptive input from the host shell, chemical cues indicating the availability of a new shell, and visual recognition of a particular shell species.
27753946|Snow crabs, Chionoecetes opilio, were obtained approximately bimonthly from the eastern Bering Sea and sampled for biometric information and biochemical analysis of ovaries, which included determination of moisture, ash, total lipid, protein content, fatty acid and lipid profiles. Development of the ovary during the reproductive cycle largely followed the pattern seen in other crustaceans, namely an increase in size and lipid content. However, the increase in lipid content occurred early in the development cycle and was stable thereafter. Both the lipid and fatty acid profiles were relatively stable throughout development. The fatty acid profile of the ovary of C. opilio differs from other crustaceans by having relatively high percentages of eicosapentaenoic (EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA), and low percentage of arachidonic acid (ARA). Forward stepwise general discriminant analysis of fatty acid profile indicated that it can be used to classify the development of ovaries at least during the last five months of the yearly reproductive cycle.
1549734|The sand-bubbler crab, Dotilla fenestrata (Hilgendorf, 1869), has evolved a surface deposit feeding habit and exhibits stereotyped and flexible behaviours that allow this species to respond to both the predictable and unpredictable elements of intertidal environments. In a mangrove swamp of Kenya, field studies revealed that, at the emergence from burrows with the receding tide, a portion of this crab's population abandoned the residential zone and wandered in droves. The rest fed and engaged in other surface activities exclusively around their burrow (either a feeding-trench burrow or an igloo). Laboratory analyses were carried out to assess the functional significance of the choice of D. fenestrata between these opposing spatial strategies. If crabs are small individuals or ovigerous females, the only option is to engage in burrow-orientated activities. For the other population categories, the choice will depend on the richness in edible organic content of the substrate in the residential area and on the balance between the risk of being preyed upon and the benefits of foraging over richer substrata.
10.2307/1547869|Whole tissue inorganic ion and free amino acid (FAA) concentrations and hemolymph ion levels were measured at various stages in the molting cycle of Callinectes sapidus. Hemolymph [Mg<sup>2+</sup>] increased prior to ecdysis, but otherwise changes in blood ions and osmolality were insignificant. The tissue fluid volume decreased prior to molting and was accompanied by significant elevations in whole tissue K<sup>+</sup> and Mg<sup>2+</sup> concentrations. Total whole tissue FAAs decreased in premolt and remained low in postmolt. Certain FAAs increased at ecdysis (e.g., glutamic acid) while others declined (e.g., taurine). These changes are discussed in relation to ionoregulation, energy production, and synthetic processes.
10.2307/1548008|Excorallana kathyae Menzies, 1962, is synonymized with E. truncata (Richardson, 1899) and the species redescribed and figured. Previous authors failed to describe or figure the diagnostic lateral incisions in the pleotelson and the lacinia and molar process of the mandible. The presence of vestigial molar processes and lacinia on the mandibles of excorallanid isopods, previously unreported, supports Menzies et al. (1955) and Brusca's (1981) placement of the excorallanids between the Cirolanidae and the Aegidae in a proposed phylogenetic lineage of flabelliferan isopods. E. truncata ranges through five zoogeographic provinces (Californian, Mexican, Cortezian, Galapagan, and Panamanian); it has been collected at depths ranging from 183 meters to the intertidal zone.
1549463|The total number and number per somite of type II microtrichs were counted in representatives of the suborder Hyperiidea, suborder Caprellidea, and superfamilies of the suborder Gammaridea using the scanning electron microscope. Total numbers were positively correlated with body size. Taxa with pelagic searching males had the greatest total number with tubedwellers and caprellids the fewest. The number per somite varied considerably and 2 main patterns of distribution, anterior and posterior, were recognized.
10.2307/1548886|Multiparous Chionoecetes bairdi that were ready to ovulate did not copulate if they were isolated with males <114-mm carapace width (CW). All multiparous females held with 2-clawed males >115-mm CW copulated before egg extrusion. When ripe multiparous females were held with 1-clawed males >137-mm CW, 7 of 9 test males copulated. The other females used stored sperm to fertilize eggs or copulated with another 2-clawed male before extruding eggs.
20487835|We evaluated the effectiveness of four sampling methods for freshwater crayfish in five aquatic habitat types in Congaree National Park, South Carolina, USA. Electrofishing was the most successful technique in terms of the diversity of species collected, the number of individuals collected, and the widest range of sizes collected. Seine netting was the next most successful method. Baited minnow traps were biased towards form I males and larger individuals, while dip netting was biased towards smaller individuals. The relative success of techniques depended somewhat upon species. For two stream dwelling species, Procambarus acutus and P. chacei, electrofishing collected significantly more individuals than any other technique. For P. troglodytes, the most abundant species and a habitat generalist, electrofishing was superior to dip netting in some habitats, but did not significantly differ from traps or seine netting. For Fallicambarus fodiens, no significant differences among the effectiveness of any sampling methods were detected.
1549764|The description of Dichelina phormosomae is supplemented by study of new material from a deep-water echinoid collected in the North Atlantic, and the homology of some mouthparts is reinterpreted. The phylogenetic relationships between Dichelina and other echinoderm-inhabiting siphonostomatoids are analysed. Based on inferences from the phylogenetic analysis, two new families of siphonostomatoid copepods parasitic on echinoderms are established, the Dichelinidae and the Codobidae. The hitherto unplaced genus Stephopontius is formally assigned to the family Nanaspididae.
1549341|The female genital structures of nineteen species of the subfamily Paradiaptominae (Diaptomoidea, Diaptomidae) were studied using light and scanning electron microscopy (SEM). They exhibit a common organization characterized by the absence of seminal receptacles and by the presence of a ventral genital operculum covering the paired gonopores, confirming the general pattern of the Diaptomoidea. The taxonomic value of these structures is analyzed: the shape, size and position of the genital operculum on the genital somite is proposed as a new diagnostic character for the subfamily. The Paradiaptominae species are characterized by a peculiar placement of the spermatophore on the female, in dorsal or laterodorsal position on the urosome. The observations lead to a new hypothesis on the mode of fertilization of the females via a fertilization tube.
20487832|We investigated the sex differences in the spatiotemporal distribution, body length, and gut contents of adult Neocervinia itoi, the most abundant cerviniid harpacticoid in Sagami Bay, Japan. Two other cerviniid species, Cerviniopsis sp. A and Cervinia bradyi, were also examined for comparison. The density of N. itoi tended to be higher at stations in or below sea bights with steep slopes in the bay, although there was no correlation between their distribution and chloroplastic pigment equivalent (CPE) in the sediment. In general, the sex ratio was strongly biased toward females in this species; the overall mean percentage of males was approximately 23% of adults. The sex ratio seemed to fluctuate temporally, even at the same site, although this fluctuation was not statistically significant. Comparisons of body size and sex ratio between the three species suggest that sampling bias was not the only cause for the observed skewed sex ratio. Distinct sex differences were observed in gut contents of N. itoi. Detritus-like gut contents were clearly observed in the urosomes of almost all females, whereas few males had gut contents. This result suggests that males do not forage during the adult stage. This non-feeding habit of males may result in a shorter lifespan than that of females and may be one cause of the skewed sex ratio. It remains unknown, however, whether this is a general trend among cerviniid species.
10.2307/1549283|All 6 naupliar stages of Metridia pacifica are described. Naupliar development is compared within the genus Metridia and external morphological characters are discussed with respect to previous studies on co-occurring nauplii of Calanus, Neocalanus, and Pseudocalanus. A key to the identification of the naupliar stages is provided.
41315713|The Dungeness crab, Cancer magister, is classed as a weak osmoregulator. Nevertheless, this species will enter into low salinity regimes of estuaries during times of high food abundance. The present study investigated the possible regulatory role of neurohormones on feeding behaviour during acute low salinity exposure. When the crab's eyestalks were ablated, removing the terminal medulla and the associated X-organ/sinus gland complex, they consumed more food and fed for a longer period of time compared with intact animals. Eyestalk ablated animals would even attempt to feed in freshwater, whereas intact animals would only consume food in salinities above 40% SW. The results suggest that feeding behaviour during low salinity exposure in C. magister is regulated by an inhibitory neurohormonal mechanism. This mechanism may help animals balance the demands of competing physiological processes.
10.2307/1548298| The effect of oxygen pressure on the swimming activity of hemoglobin-rich (red) and hemoglobin-poor (pale) Ceriodaphnia quadrangula was studied at 25C. The swimming time of red animals until final cessation of antennal movement was constant (38 min) in extremely low oxygen concentration, rapidly increased, and reached 100 min at 4.5 torr. The swimming time of pale animals was constant (24 min) at 3.5 torr, increased gradually, and reached 100 min at 11.7 torr. The swimming time of red animals in nitrogen-saturated water increased on exposure to 3.5 torr and reached a maximum of 35 min at 5.8 torr. The swimming time of pale animals increased above 10.5 torr and reached a maximum of 23 min at 16.3 torr. 
10.2307/1548065| In wild and cultured male Homarus americanus alternating current proved superior to direct current for electroejaculation of spermatophores. Spermatophore extrusion occurred when 10-12 mA were applied in the vicinity of the gonopore. This amperage can be obtained with 7-8 VAC, but use of an ammeter is recommended to prevent problems that can result from stimulation with excessive or inadequate current. Electrical resistance of lobster tissue stimulated in this way varied from 300-2,500 ohms, decreased with increasing voltage, and was independent of body size or electrode position. Spermatophores were largest and spermatozoa most numerous in freshly caught mature wild males, but both decreased with time in captivity. Males reared to maturity in isolation at constant 20C were poor producers of spermatozoa. In this study 52% of such males had no sperm in their extruded spermatophores, a condition not encountered in recently captured wild males of similar size. Recently captured wild males ejaculated spermatophores bilaterally in 87% of trials, compared to only 20% in males reared individually at 20C. In our system cultured males were poor producers of sperm unless they had been held for extended periods in communal conditions at ambient water temperatures. A technique was developed for implanting electroejaculated spermatophores in the empty seminal receptacles of hard-shell females. Of 93 hard-shell cultured females inseminated, 23 have spawned to date. Two of these have successfully fertilized, attached, and carried their eggs to hatching, thereby establishing the technical feasibility of intermolt insemination. 
1549897|Hoploparia McCoy, 1849 (Lower Cretaceous (Valanginian)-Miocene) is, by far, the most diverse clawed lobster genus (fossil or Recent); 49 species are known. The genus has been interpreted intuitively to be morphologically primitive and ancestral to some or many modern nephropid genera. Prior to the present study, two separate issues raised the suspicion that Hoploparia is a "wastebasket" genus--a default genus for any fossil lobster with a mainstream nephropid morphology. One issue is the difficulty in characterizing (i.e., coding) the morphology of Hoploparia, as a genus, for cladistic analysis. For Hoploparia, and far more than for other lobster genera, many characters show variable character states. A second issue is that the morphologies of some Recent genera (e.g., Eunephrops and Nephropides) seem easily accommodated within the fossil genus Hoploparia. Both issues stem from an originally ambiguous diagnosis of Hoploparia that has been variously expanded in de facto fashion to the point that, today, nobody really knows what Hoploparia means. Cladistic analyses herein indicate that Hoploparia is paraphyletic and, therefore, support the intuitive judgement that Hoploparia is a wastebasket genus. This paper, the first species-level cladistic analysis of Hoploparia, is not intended to be the sole basis for taxonomic revision but is, instead, intended to generate discussion among lobster specialists. Hopefully, this discussion will bring forth additional characters for cladistic analysis and other new insights that may lead to better supported cladograms addressing lobster taxonomy.
10.2307/1548029|Surveys of Kuwait sand and mudflats reveal two species of fiddler crabs, Uca lactea annulipes and U. inversa sindensis. It is proposed primarily on the grounds of male pleopod morphology that the latter subspecies be accorded specific status as U. sindensis. Observed ecological separation between the two species appears to be due to differences in feeding morphology and related to sediments of differing particle size and organic content.
40927837|Females of Aegla strinatii (n = 466) were sampled monthly (September 2003 to September 2005) by means of sieves and traps from Rio das Ostras (2438'16.2"S; 4824'05.2"W), at Jacupiranga State Park, South of So Paulo State, Brazil. The reproductive period was markedly seasonal (from May to September) encompassing the Austral late autumn through late winter. This is in accordance to the pattern of reproductive period variations in relation to the latitudinal climate variability verified in species of Aegla. The proportion of adult females exhibiting the ovigerous condition was higher in young/small specimens as compared to old/large ones, and suggests the occurrence of senescence in the latter group. Average size at the onset of functional maturity in females was estimated as 16.66 mm of carapace length (rostrum excluded). The number of eggs per ovigerous females ranged from 1 to 325. Eggs are slightly elliptical and average size varied according to embryonic stage. Mean ( standard deviation) carapace length of juveniles (n = 118) was 1.50  0.05mm (range: 1.40-1.65mm).
10.2307/1548635|Pseudostenhelia wellsi Coull and Fleeger, a meiobenthic harpacticoid copepod, lives in self-constructed tubes in muddy, estuarine sediments. Tubes are composed of sediment bound with acid mucopolysaccharide as shown by a positive reaction with alcian blue and periodic acid-Schiff reagent. The purpose of this study was to detail structural specializations in P. wellsi as related to secretion and storage of tube-building substances. Cuticular pores are located in the ventral cephalothorax, on the first urosomal segment (just anterior to the fifth leg), the anal segment, and on the caudal rami. Light level histochemistry shows that storage sites of mucin coincide with the pores and are found in the caudal rami, fifth leg area, and ventral cephalothorax. Massive stores of lipid-like material (corresponding to highly visible autofluorescent areas in living specimens) are also associated with pores and mucin. The largest reservoir of the lipid-like matterial is in the urosome surrounding the gut just anterior to the caudal rami. The function of the lipid-like material is unknown, but it is not incorporated in the matrix of the secreted tube. Transmission electron microscopy revealed that the mucin and lipid-like materials are secreted by multicellular and unicellular glands, respectively. The major mucin-secreting cells are found in the upper region of the caudal rami, while the largest gland secreting the lipid-like material is in the mid-urosome.
10.2307/1549468| Including the present update, 14 anostracan species, belonging to Streptocephalus (8), Branchipodopsis (3), and Branchinella (3) are currently reported from Botswana. Branchinella spinosa and Branchipodopsis kalaharensis are the only species not occurring in neighboring southern African countries, with only the latter being a true endemic to Botswana. Streptocephalus cf. bidentatus and S. cf. cladophorus/dendrophorus, distinct morphs close to the South African S. bidentatus, and to both S. dendrophorus and S. cladophorus, respectively, are additions to the fauna of Botswana, but are not given specific status. Branchinella ondonguae is also reported for the first time from Botswana. Higher species richness (33) and endemicity (64%) in South Africa are attributed to greater habitable surface area, topographic and environmental heterogeneity, and research effort. A high degree of overlapping ranges of cognate species is observed, and 2 pairs of sister species (Streptocephalus macrourus/S. cf. bidentatus and S. cafer/S. indistinctus) were found in syntopy. The occurrence of specimens with intermediate or odd morphology in the presence of, or in the area of overlap of, supposed parental species, suggests natural hybridization between S. cafer  S. indistinctus, and between S. macrourus  S. cf. bidentatus. No species were found in areas with less than 350 mm of mean annual rainfall. Species of Branchipodopsis are the only anostracans in often clear, short-lived rock pools. Expanding agricultural and mining industries, roadworks, together with inappropriate conservation management, are the most important threats to the temporary pool habitats in Botswana. 
1549488|A review of material referred to as Pontonia margarita Smith, 1869, from both the East Pacific and the West Atlantic has shown constant morphological differences between these populations. Additional specimens from the East Atlantic, collected during the CANCAP Expeditions, could not be separated morphologically from the West Atlantic population. The Atlantic specimens are here described as Pontonia manningi, new species.
41315737|The population structure of the freshwater land crab Discoplax hirtipes (Gecarcinidae) was studied on Christmas Island, Indian Ocean, to which this species is endemic in its blue colour form. Despite previous overexploitation of this crab, this is the first such study to take place for this species on Christmas Island. Surveys were conducted in the dry (non-migration) season, at Ross Hill Gardens, which is one of several permanent 'residential areas' inhabited by D. hirtipes. The sex ratio was found to be skewed in favour of males 2:1. Similarly to other gecarcinid species, male crabs were found to grow larger than females in terms of body weight, carapace width and chelae size (length and width). During the survey, few juveniles were found, which could suggest an ageing population. Despite being protected by law on Christmas Island, this is potentially worrying for a species that due to its restricted distribution continues to be especially vulnerable to outside threats, including that of aggressive invasive species and long term habitat destruction.
41315707|We studied copepod assemblage variability among years, seasons, and tidal states in the Mucuri River estuary (Bahia State, Brazil). Zooplankton samples were collected seasonally through five years (2002-2006) at three sampling stations, one of which was sampled over a complete tidal cycle (two ebb and two flood tides). Temperature, salinity, river flux, and rainfall data were collected. Winter and summer represented dry and wet seasons, respectively. Copepod abundances ranged from 40 to 63% of the total zooplankton assemblage and comprised 46 taxa, among which, common estuarine species such as Temora turbinata (first record for the studied area), Parvocalanus crassirostris, Acartia lilljeborgi, Oithona hebes were the most abundant (euryhaline species). Interannual and seasonal variations were most marked in stenohaline species, e.g., Notodiaptomus sp. and Thermocyclops minutus; density variations of euryhaline species, which made up the majority of the abundant taxa, were most closely related to tides. Diversity and richness also followed an intertidal pattern of variation.
1549717|The Rhopalophthalmus mediterraneus population of the Guadalquivir Estuary (SW Spain) was sampled monthly from January 1998 to December 1999. Density, population structure, brood size, and standing stock were recorded during both years. The estuarine population of R. mediterraneus was concentrated in the outer 20 km of the estuary. There were considerable seasonal changes in the mysid abundance, with minima observed in winter and maxima in spring and summer. Such spatio-temporal distribution seemed to be related to estuarine environmental conditions: salinity was primarily responsible for the horizontal distribution of the species within the estuary, while its seasonal trend was determined primarily by water temperature. The population was characterised by a clear dominance of adults on all sampling dates and sites, with females (66.8%, on average) significantly more abundant than males (23.8%, on average), and the proportion of adult males and females changed significantly among sampling sites, being higher at the outer area (ANOVA; SNK test, P < 0.01). Gravid females were collected throughout the year, with maximal reproductive activity occurring in spring and summer. The population has a complex life cycle, being probably multivoltine and iteroparous. The brood size was significantly dependent on female size and season. The mean length of adults of both sexes varied negatively with temperature: smaller sizes occurred in summer.
10.2307/1548061|The family Corallanidae is defined, with the monogeneric family Excorallanidae being placed in synonymy. The family is now regarded as containing the following genera: Alcirona, Argathona, Austroargathona, Excorallana, Corallana, Lanocira, Tachaea, and Tridentella. The genera Austroargathona and Corilana are of doubtful status.
10.2307/1548869|A species of the crustacean class Remipedia is reported for the first time from Cuba. Speleonectes gironensis, new species, is described from anchialine caves on the south-central coast near Playa Giron. Comparisons with other species of the genus are discussed. A key to the genus plus brief remarks on biogeography and ecology are included.
40927833|Papers within the broad designation of systematics have figured prominently in the pages of the Journal of Crustacean Biology in its first 30 years. The journal has had great continuity in its editorial policies and practices, having had only three General Editors in 30 years. Not only has the journal published taxonomic material, but also made available material in a variety of subjects that impinge on understanding the evolution and phylogeny of crustaceans, including cladistic phylogeny, biogeography, comparative anatomy, and issues of natural history. An overview of some highlights from the first 30 volumes of the journal is presented; some prognostications for the future are offered.
10.2307/1549126|Survival of the branchial ectoparasite Probopyrus pandalicola through ecdysis of the host, Palaemonetes pugio, was studied by observing infected shrimps before and after ecdysis and directly with time-lapse video. The parasite pair retained its position through 97.3% of 112 host ecdyses. This observation and positive correlations between parasite and host size support the hypothesis that bopyrid isopods remain on and grow together with their host. Video recordings of shrimp ecdysis showed that the female and male maintain their position rather than being cast off and reentering the host branchial chamber. Observations on exuviae from parasitized shrimps and from video recordings suggest that the female parasite avoids being discarded with the molt skin by immediately attaching to the newly exposed inner lining of the gill cover as the shrimp backs out of its exuviae. Reproductive activities of the parasite relative to host molting were studied. Epicaridium larvae were released from the host branchial chamber several hours to 5 days before the host molt. Spawning by the parasite female took place within several hours (median = 12 h) after host ecdysis. Expulsion of exuvial fragments of female parasites from the host branchial chamber was observed in 2 video recordings prior to spawning. In several video recordings, the usually inactive male moved from its site on the female abdomen up to and inside the female marsupium after the host molt and before female spawning, presumably to inseminate the female. Females from which males had been removed failed to produce a brood after the next host molt, tentatively supporting the hypothesis that females must be inseminated prior to each spawning.
10.2307/1548957|Eriocheir recta (Stimpson, 1858) is shown to be a junior synonym of E. japonica (de Haan, 1835). Specimens from Taiwan assigned to "E. recta" by other authors are shown to be an undescribed species, here named E. formosa, new species. To stabilize the confused taxonomy of these species, a neotype for E. recta is selected from material of E. japonica collected from near Macau. All known species and subspecies of Eriocheir de Haan, 1835, are illustrated and discussed.
10.2307/1547997|Six talitroidean amphipod species from terrestrial, semiterrestrial, fresh-water, and marine habitats were examined with scanning electron microscopy. A number of specialized and ornate grooming organs are described in which cuticular scales and setae have been modified into bristles, fans, combs, and brushes. Terrestrial, semiterrestrial, and aquatic groups possess grooming modifications quite distinct from each other, while individual species, within a single habitat group, differ much less. The structure and function of several nongrooming specializations is also discussed. Although sexual dimorphism of arthropod grooming structures is rare, such dimorphism is present in the Amphipoda. This dimorphism stems from the use of the major grooming appendages as precopulatory organs in the male. The cuticular structures described in this study are used to scrape and brush the body during grooming movements, presumably enabling these crustaceans to exploit better their environment.
10.2307/1549042|Brachinecta campestris Lynch, 1960, is added as the eighteenth species of Anostraca (Branchiopoda) recorded from California. Males of Artemia franciscana Kellogg, 1906, were observed to clasp females of B. campestris and maintain amplexus in all but one instance despite attempts by the females to dislodge them. The latter observation suggests that males of Artemia may have more control over mating than males of other anostracans, where studies indicate that females frequently free themselves from amplecting males and select males on the basis of morphological characters. This apparent difference in control over mate selection by males of Artemia may, if true, help explain the low degree of morphologic divergence observed among males of sibling species in this genus.
1549615|The sesarmid Perisarma guttatum is the most abundant crab species inhabiting the lower mangrove areas at Inhaca Island, and presumably an ecologically important species in this habitat. Among the scarce available information on its population ecology, this species is known to follow a semi-lunar rhythm of larval release, with breeding probably extended year-round. In this study, a population of P. guttatum was examined, from which estimates of sexual maturity were carried out for both sexes, and breeding activity was monitored to describe short-term variation of reproductive intensity. In an attempt to relate reproductive cycles with recruitment patterns of young, a systematic random sampling design was used to quantify and describe the juvenile population. Reproductive parameters in adults and density estimates for juveniles were obtained from samples taken at 4-d intervals over a 3-mo period. Reproductive activity increased over the study period. Females released larvae around the new and full moon, but lunar variation of the ovigerous ratio with peaks preceding full moon periods indicated that different breeding groups may account unevenly for the reproductive output of the population. Very young recruits made up the larger fraction of the juvenile population, and their density increased from the beginning to the end of the sampling season. Density variation pattern of first-crab stages followed fortnight cycles, but slow growth prevented recruitment pulses to be tracked in size-frequency distributions. Polymodal distributions corresponded to recent recruits and older juveniles originating from previous settlement seasons. Growth rates of identified age groups suggest that sexual maturity in females is likely to be achieved after 2 years or more.
1549504|A new species of porcelain crab, Porcellana lillyae, from the continental shelf of the Caribbean coast of Colombia, is described. This new species, the fourth of the genus Porcellana Lamarck currently recognized from the western Atlantic, is most similar to P. sigsbeiana A. Milne-Edwards. The new species is distinguished primarily by the dentate condition of the frontal and lateral margins of the carapace and the presence of spines on the ventral margin of the rostrum. The new species is compared with P. sigsbeiana, and a key to aid in identification of western Atlantic species of the genus is presented.
10.2307/1547849|New species of the little known genera Basipodella Becker and Deoterthron Bradford and Hewitt are described from material collected in the Atlantic off the Azores and from the Tasman Sea. Detailed examination of all known material of Basipodella (B. harpacticola Becker, 1975, and B. atlantica, new species) and of Deoterthron aselloticola, new species, has confirmed that earlier assignments of these genera to the Copepoda and Cirripedia were incorrect. These genera represent a new class of Crustacea for which the name Tantulocarida is proposed. Tantulocarids are minute copepod-like ectoparasites of other deep-sea benthic crustaceans. Their diagnostic characters include: the lack of any recognisable cephalic appendages, the possession of a solid median cephalic stylet, six free thoracic somites, each bearing a pair of thoracopods, and six abdominal somites. The anterior five pairs of thoracopods are biramous, each has a well-developed protopod and a large endite arising from the base of the protopod. The phylogenetic relationships of the Tantulocarida are discussed.
10.2307/1549061|The occurrence of ovigerous females in a large-scale, stratified, randomized survey of exploited populations of spanner crabs (Ranina ranina) off the east coast of Australia identified their reproductive period to be around December each year. Patterns in the catch rates of male and female crabs showed that females were less susceptible to capture during this period, presumably due to reduced feeding when ovigerous. Greater susceptibility occurred immediately afterward when feeding activity may have increased. The fecundities of ovigerous R. ranina collected in 2 locations and during 2 reproductive periods were quantified, using an electronic Coulter counter to count eggs. There was marked variability in the numbers of eggs per brood among reproductive periods, with estimates ranging from 78,000-256,000 eggs per brood. There were positive correlations between fecundity and body size in each reproductive period. The results are discussed in terms of the management of this fishery, involving a minimum size restriction and closures on the capture of crabs during the reproductive period.
10.2307/1549108|A new species of a bathyal stenopodid shrimp, Spongiocaris hexactinellicola, found off the Bahamas, associated with a hexactinellid sponge, Euplectella jovis, is described. The host and shrimp were collected by means of the Johnson Sea Link II submersible at a depth of 610 m. A comparison between the 3 species in the genus is provided and their distribution is discussed. A key for determination of the species of Spongiocaris is given.
10.2307/1548689|Fresh and preserved specimens of Aristaeomorpha foliacea caught in the Sicilian Channel were examined in order to establish a macroscopic scale for the rapid determination of sexual maturity in females. Four macroscopic criteria were identified as being useful for classification under difficult field conditions. The scale was tested against a microscopic examination of ovarian histological preparations, and corresponding stages were identified on the same specimens with good macro/microscopic agreement. Both procedures were compared to the gonadosomatic index method which, although less practical, may also prove to be a robust indicator of maturity. Practical uses for the proposed scale are given.
1548345|A copepod parasite, Ischnochitonika lasalliana, new genus, new species, is described from the polyplacophoran mollusks Ischnochiton striolatus (Gray, 1828) from Isla de Margarita, Venezuela, and Stenoplax boogi (Haddon, 1886) from southeast of Pensacola, Florida, in the northern Gulf of Mexico. The female, which resides in the chiton's branchial cavity, is characterized by a swollen, laterally elongate ectosoma and a bifurcated tubular endosoma that extends through the host's visceral cavity. Egg masses are attached to the lateral aspects of the ectosoma and are composed of grapelike clusters of variable size and egg number. The much smaller sexually dimorphic males exhibit 2 pairs of anterior processes. Multiple males characteristically are found with each female. Copepods have not been reported previously as parasites of chitons. Due to the lack of external morphological characters typical of many parasitic copepods, the phylogenetic position of Ischnochitonika lasalliana is uncertain.
10.2307/1549266| Macrobrachium petronioi, a native Brazilian fresh-water shrimp, was captured along the coast of Rio Branco, Canania, So Paulo State, Brazil. The eggs were green-black in early development and the average size was 1.21 mm by 0.98 mm. Macrobrachium petronioi has no free-swimming larval phase. However, newly hatched larvae possessed several zoea I characters. Therefore, they were clearly more developed than newly hatched larvae of other species of Macrobrachium with prolonged larval development. The average duration of larval development in M. petronioi was 5.5 days. During early development, the larvae subsisted on stored yolk. After the third molt, the post-larvae accepted food. The three zoeal stages prior to the postlarval stage were described and characterized, with detailed morphological analyses. This species has a partially abbreviated type of development. The larval development of M. petronioi is distinguished from that of M. potiuna. 
1549186|The number of wall plates and the manner in which they articulate or fuse to one another are major criteria in the systematics of balanomorph barnacles. Zulloa imperialensis, a new genus and species of balanid from the Imperial Formation of Late Miocene age at Yuha Buttes, Imperial County, California, represents an unprecedented experiment in the reduction from 6 to 4 wall plates. During ontogeny in this species, the second pair of carinolatera fuses with the carina forming a compound plate, a combination that Charles Darwin considered possible but improbable. Why the reduction occurred and why the experiment failed likely relates to environmental factors, but why it involved this unique combination of wall plates remains conjectural. In general, the reduction from 6 to 4 plates in various lineages has been a gradual rather than a saltational process, as is evident here.
4094231| This paper describes seasonal changes (summer vs. winter) in reproductive traits (fecundity in relation to female body size and dry mass, egg size, egg weight and reproductive output) of the semiterrestrial crab Sesarma rectum from a mangrove area (2329'S, 4509'W) on the northern coast of the State of So Paulo, Brazil. Regression analyses using log-transformed data were used to test size-dependent relationships, which were compared between the breeding periods by means of ANCOVA. During winter, the eggs produced were heavier and larger; therefore, no trade-off between egg number and female size was observed. The mean size of ovigerous females remained fairly constant across the seasons. In contrast, the reproductive output and mean dry weight of females decreased in summer. These trends may indicate the seasonal variation of energy allocate for reproduction. The ecological implications of the observed seasonal trends are discussed in the context of the temporal variation of environmental and biological factors in the region. 
20487706|The northeastern Atlantic spiny spider crab occurs from the British Islands to Senegal, where it is an important fishery resource. From morphological characters this crab has recently been proposed as a distinct species, Maja brachydactyla, although for commercial purposes it is still considered the same species as its Mediterranean congener M. squinado. We have studied variation at two mitochondrial genes in several crab populations from the Atlantic (putatively M. brachydactyla) and Mediterranean (M. squinado and M. crispata) basins, in order to clarify the taxonomic status of this crab in the northeastern Atlantic and Mediterranean regions. Phylogenetic analysis revealed that each of these three taxa forms a distinct and well-defined clade. While the divergence within each taxon was 0% for 16S and 0-0.3% for COI, divergence between taxa was 0.6-2.5% for 16S and 5.3-8.7% for COI; values that are in the range of the differences observed between other crustacean species. These results confirm the genetic distinctiveness of each taxa and support their designation as different species. Therefore, the Atlantic spider crab should be referred as M. brachydactyla, a fact that should be taken into account for conservation and commercial purposes.
41315754|Life table characteristics of three species of fairy shrimps from Thailand, Streptocephalus sirindhornae, S. siamensis, and Branchinella thailandensis are reported, based on laboratory cultures at 2426C. Comparative data on their growth and fecundity revealed that B. thailandensis had the largest size (male 26.2, female 27.8 mm) and the highest hatchability 87.67%. The shortest hatching time was found in B. thailandensis, it hatched within 3 days, while the other two species hatched within four days. Branchinella thailandensis showed more rapid growth than the other two species, and it reached maturity within 6.5 days. In contrast, S. sirindhornae had the highest fecundity, producing a mean of 35.3 broods and 17,865 eggs per individual female over its life time, whereas the other two species produced less than 8000 eggs. Life span was equal for both males and females in all three fairy shrimp species (P > 0.05). In this study, the fecundity data indicated that the number of eggs per brood recorded in the three species showed a positive correlation with the body length and age of females. The result indicated that the Thai fairy shrimps show several biological attributes making them suitable for aquaculture and other commercial purposes; B. thailandensis shows rapid growth and high hatching percentage which is suitable for mass production, while S. sirindhornae has high fecundity which is appropriate for the commercial production of eggs.
4126710|Many porcelain crabs have an unusual claw (cheliped) form that is broad, flat and thin. This seemingly flimsy form suggests claws may be used more for display than for feeding or aggressive interactions. However, in the flat-topped porcelain crab Petrolisthes cinctipes, one of the most abundant intertidal crustaceans on the Pacific coast of North America, we observed a high proportion of individuals with puncture wounds on their claws. Claws therefore do appear to be used in intra-specific aggression. To examine factors that might influence injury prevalence, samples of P. cinctipes were collected from four sites in Barkley Sound, two wave-exposed, and two protected. In addition, laboratory experiments examined the effects of density and crab size on the incidence of puncture wounds. Crabs from wave-exposed, high-density sites and smaller crabs both exhibited significantly higher proportions of puncture wounds. Although not statistically significant, laboratory experiments revealed a trend towards a higher incidence of puncture wounds in high-density groups. Wound frequency did not differ between the sexes, so these injuries are not likely a result of intra- or inter-sexual interactions. Puncture wounds were concentrated on claw fingers (either the dactyl or propus), and along the ventral margin of the manus, both of which are likely to be nearest an opponent during shoving interactions. Overall, these data suggest that the claws of P. cinctipes mediate intra-specific competitive interactions that frequently escalate to injury.
1549936|The population dynamics and reproduction of the land crab Epigrapsus notatus were studied at Hengchun Peninsula, Taiwan. Epigrapsus is the most poorly known genus of the land crab family Gecarcinidae, and differs from other gecarcinids in its much smaller size. Epigrapsus notatus leads a cryptic life and is seldom observed outside its burrow in the coastal forest. The only time it is commonly observed is when ovigerous females migrate to the shore to release larvae. The reproductive season of E. notatus is limited to two lunar months in September and October, a relative short time in comparison with other gecarcinid crabs. Ovigerous females begin releasing larvae 3-4 d after the full moon, for 3-7 d. Larval releases occur for about a 3-h period during and immediately after high tide. Ovigerous females shake their entire body to release larvae, a unique behavior not previously documented in brachyurans. Ovigerous females prefer to release larvae inside surge channels rather than on the exposed shore. The unusual larval release behavior and choice of surge channels as release sites are suggested as adaptations to life on land, to reduce the chances of being swept away by waves.
4540326|Several species of crabs from hydrothermal vent sites in the Pacific Ocean were found to be infested by small, symbiotic nemertean worms. Worms occurred on both male and female crabs, and were located in mucous sheaths adhering to the axillae between the limbs of males and females, the setae of the pleopods of females, and the sterna of infested male and female crabs. Only juvenile and regressed adult worms were observed, primarily because no ovigerous hosts were examined. Similar species of worms mature by eating eggs, then regress or die after host eclosion. Based on the size of the worms from the vent crabs, their habitus with their crustacean hosts, the presence of accessory stylet pouches, and the presence of a single stylet on a large basis (monostiliferous), we place the worms in the family Carcinonemertidae, within the genus Ovicides. Infestations were found on crabs from vent sites on the western Pacific back-arc basins, on the southern East Pacific Ridge, and on the Pacific-Antarctic Ridge, indicating a widespread distribution of the symbioses. This represents the first record of Carcinonemertidae from a deep-sea host, a new host family, Bythograeidae, for these symbionts, as well as the first record of parasitism on a deep-sea bythograeid crab.
10.2307/1548912|An extensive collection of marine isopods from the Peabody Museum, Yale University, taken from 114 collecting stations on Bermuda, is reported. The collection adds 10 new records to the list of known Bermudan isopods, including two undescribed species, Mesanthura bermudensis and Joeropsis nigricapitis. These two species can be recognized initially by their distinctive pigment patterns. Fresh material shows Anthomuda stenotelson Schultz to be a junior synonym of Anthelura affinis Richardson. Also included in the report are the descriptions of two new species collected from a cave, Munnogonium somersensis and Stenobermuda iliffei. The latter, which exhibits protogynous hermaphroditism, is shown to be a member of the Gnathostenetroididae.
1549887|Two new species of the Family Clausiidae, Likroclausia namhaensis n. gen. and n. sp. and Rhodinicola laticauda n. sp., were described from washings of polychaetes collected from an intertidal mud flat on Namhae Island in the Korea Strait and from an intertidal sandstone in Kyokpo in the Yellow Sea, respectively. The host of the former species is Dasybranchus caudatus Grube, but that of the latter is unidentified. Cladistic analysis of the family indicated that the 20 clausiid species should be kept in six groups, with Pontoclausia-group containing five species (antiqua, lobata, prima, tomis, wilsoni); Likroclausia-group, one species (namhaensis); Rhodinicola-group, three species (gibbosa, elongata, laticauda); Mesnilia-group, two species (cluthae, martinensis); Clausia-group, seven species (bacescui, curticaudatum, lubbocki, mirabilis, rugosum, thomassini, uniseta); and Pseudoclausia-group, two species (giesbrechti, longiseta). Each group is a monophyletic entity identified with one or more synapomorphies. Whilst the taxonomical status of the genera Indoclausia, Megaclausia, Pherma, and Seridium are unclear, it is unequivocal that the following four genera should be treated as valid taxa in the Clausiidae in addition to Clausia: Mesnilia, Pontoclausia, Pseudoclausia, and Rhodinicola. Also, both Doviella prima Rocha, 1986, and Clausia wilsoni Gooding, 1963, are transferred to Pontoclausia. Rhodinicola thomassini Laubier, 1970, should be transferred to Clausia for the time being.
10.2307/1549443| The first sessile barnacle from a deep-sea hydrothermal vent of the East Pacific Rise (EPR) has been recovered by the French submersible Nautile from 1725S, north of Easter Island. It is similar in general appearance to the most primitive living balanomorph barnacle Eochionelasmus ohtai known from the North Fiji, Lau, and Manus Basins, in the Southwest Pacific (Yamaguchi and Newman, 1990; Galkin, 1992), but the morphology of its opercular plates, mouthparts, and cirri is distinct. Therefore, it is recognized here as a new species of the previously monotypic genus Eochionelasmus. However, it is anticipated that even greater differences will be found between the two species when fully developed individuals of the Easter Island form are found. If so, distinction at the genus-group level will need to be evaluated. The new species is not only the first record of a sessile vent barnacle from the East Pacific Rise, but it is also the first from a midocean ridge. This discovery corroborates the hypothesis that biotic exchange between midocean ridges and back-arc basins occurs relatively infrequently or was curtailed a long time ago. 
10.2307/1547981| The phototactic swimming activity of pale, red, and carbon monoxide treated Ceriodaphnia quadrangula in low oxygen concentration was studied. The swimming speed was 43.7  7.0 for pale and 43.1  6.4 cm/min for red animals at 25C. The total swimming distance attained by animals until final standstill of the antennal movements was constant, approximately 5 m, at 0.1 ml O<sub>2</sub>/1. At 0.2 ml O<sub>2</sub>/1, the red animals swam more than 80 m, whereas pale animals swam only 7 m. An increase in oxygen concentration induced an exponential increase in the swimming distance of pale animals which reached 100 m at 0.9 ml O<sub>2</sub>/1. The swimming activity of carbon monoxide treated animals in relation to oxygen concentration showed almost the same pattern as that of normal pale animals. 
10.2307/1548976| The larvae of Panopeus africanus obtained from females collected in the Bay of Cdiz (Spain) and the Mira estuary (Portugal) were reared from hatching to metamorphosis. The larval series has 4 zoeal and 1 megalopal stages. This paper presents a description of the larval and first postlarval stages, and a comparison with described larvae of other species of Panopeus. 
1549163|A molt staging technique is described for use in the southern rock lobster Jasus edwardsii and estimates are presented for the length of molt stage and of molt cycle in juvenile lobsters. The molt cycle can be divided into 13 stages or substages, of which 10 are relatively easy to distinguish using a combination of cephalothorax rigidity, pleopod epidermis retraction, and setal formation. The stages are similar to those described for other lobsters and crustaceans with interspecific differences, including the length of D0 (apolysis) and the timing of barbule appearance. The application of this technique to field studies is discussed.
1549383|A detailed description of the 4th podobranch of the marron Cherax tenuimanus is given, describing four filaments distinguished by their apical morphology: rounded, pointed, alar, and hooked. Four response patterns of these filaments to silver staining (3 minutes in 0.25% solution of AgNO<sub>3</sub> and then exposed by immersion in Kodak developer for 30 seconds) were recognized: 1) staining filaments with an unbroken film of stain along the length, 2) non-staining filaments without stain response, 3) mottled filaments had patches of staining along the length of the filament, 4) mosaic filaments which stained in rosette patterns.
10.2307/1548752|Two new species of the genus Petrolisthes, P. trilobatus and P. squamanus, are described and illustrated. Petrolisthes trilobatus, new species, resembles P. miyakei and P. asiaticus, but differs from them in the shape of the rostrum. Petrolisthes squamanus, new species, is distinguishable from all the members of the Indo-West Pacific Petrolisthes by the combination of the carapace covered with short plumose setae but lacking distinct transverse rugae and the chelipeds with a longitudinal row or ridge of flattened squamae on the dorsal surface of the carpus and palm.
10.2307/1549107|A new family is proposed to accommodate Styracothorax gladiator, new genus, new species, collected from 2,050-m depth in the Philippine Sea. The Styracothoracidae is placed in the Cervinioidea on account of the fused rostrum, the setation of the antennary endopod, the reduction of the maxillulary exopod, and the uniramous fifth legs in at least the female. A suite of synapomorphies, including the subchelate maxilliped, suggests a sister-group relationship with the cave-dwelling Rotundiclipeidae. The primitive features of the Styracothoracidae and the phylogenetic relationships of the cervinioid families are discussed.
1549737|A comparative survey of both benthic and pelagic populations of the cumacean Bodotria similis was conducted in Oura Bay, Izu Peninsula, Japan. In the benthic populations, Bodotria similis, Bodotria pulex, Cumella spp., and Dimorphostylis spp. were dominant, and B. similis and B. pulex were spatially segregated throughout the year. The density of B. similis in the benthic population was low in summer and autumn, increased during winter, and was highest in early spring. Seasonal fluctuations in size classes and sex ratios within the benthic population were minimal, and ovigerous females and manca larvae occurred throughout the year. Size-frequency histograms of the benthic population suggest the presence of six developmental stages for each sex and that females produce more than one brood in their lifetime. Nighttime patterns of occurrence of planktonic Bodotria similis varied seasonally but peaked just after the sunset in spring and winter. The swimming individuals consisted of males and young, but ovigerous females were not found. Many manca larvae and juveniles with soft carapaces appeared from November to March, and large males with hard exoskeletons dominated in April and May. Nocturnal swimming of Bodotria similis is probably related to the molting of young, range extension, and possibly the mating behavior of adults.
10.2307/1549082|The taxonomy of the genus Fredius Pretzmann, 1967, is reviewed, and new taxa are described: Fredius adpressus, F. adpressus piaroensis, F. platyacanthus, and F. estevisi siapensis. The 8 species of this genus inhabit 4 major basins of different geological age in northern South America. The Orinoco basin is the oldest, followed by the Essequibo-Cuyuni basin. The lower Amazon basin, formed from Tertiary to Holocene by alluvionic deposition, is younger than these two. The Atlantic area, formed mainly by marine regressions, is the youngest. The phylogenetic relationships within Fredius, studied by means of a cladistic analysis, were compared with the relationships of these areas using Brooks parsimony analysis. The phylogenetic data fully agree with the area cladogram. The position of the ancestors within the area cladogram shows that most of them were present in a hypothetical major basin comprising the present Orinoco, Essequibo, and Cuyuni rivers, and that much of the evolution of the group occurred there. There is some ambiguity about the possible origin of 2 widespread species. The most parsimonious explanation for one of them is that it originated in the Atlantic drainage and then dispersed into the lower Amazon basin.
40665222|The identification of subterranean species at risk and the development of management strategies face a host of challenges such as inaccessible habitat, a lack of basic ecological information, and, in the case of aquatic species termed stygobionts, groundwater contamination and withdrawal. In light of these challenges, genetic data may inform management and conservation decisions. We present here results from an analysis of population structure of the stygobiont, Antrolana lira, from nine geographic locations spanning two-thirds of the species' entire range in the Shenandoah Valley of Virginia and West Virginia. A 658 bp fragment of DNA coding for the cytochrome oxidase c subunit I (COI) gene was sequenced from 70 individuals, yielding 14 haplotypes. Phylogenetic analysis of the 14 haplotypes showed the presence of three distinct clades which corresponded to three geographic groups. Divergence levels among sequences within sites and among sites within clades was low (uncorrected "p" = 0.00 to 0.42%), but were much higher among sequences between clades (uncorrected "p" = 9.53 to 11.24%). AMOVA corroborated these findings, partitioning over 99% of the sequence variation to differences among clades. The genetic structure of A. lira clades seemed to largely mirror the geologic structure of the area, with potential subterranean hydrologic barriers separating the clades. Geographic populations within each clade likely constituted only one or two demes. We suggest that these clades remain at risk from anthropogenic disturbances such as urban development, and propose that each of the clades be considered a distinct management unit in order to preserve the total genetic diversity for the species.
10.2307/1548341|A new genus, Centobnaster, is proposed to accommodate a single female collected from deep water northeast of New Caledonia. Centobnaster humesi, new species, is placed in the family Erebonasteridae (Poecilostomatoida) on account of the distinct palp on the mandible and the external structure of the female genital system, comprising ventral paired copulatory pores and dorsolateral gonopores. Centobnaster is considered the most primitive poecilostomatoid copepod known today because of the combined presence of 7-segmented antennules, a separate palp and unmodified gnathobase on the mandible, ventrally located paired copulatory pores, and midventral fifth legs jointed by an intercoxal sclerite. The latter character is reminiscent of primitive Misophrioida and Cyclopoida, but represents a unique plesiomorphy within the Poecilostomatoida. The Paralubbockiidae Boxshall and Huys is the only other poecilostomatoid family that has retained vestiges of ventral fifth legs. However, Paralubbockia longipedia lacks an intercoxal sclerite.
10.2307/1548158| The common shallow-water Gonodactylus in Hawaii, formerly identified with the Indo-West Pacific G. falcatus (Forskl), is differentiated from that species and recognized as a new species, G. aloha. This species is not displacing the other common shallow-water stomatopod in Hawaii, Pseudosquilla ciliata (Fabricius), but is rapidly exploiting a new habitat, dead coral. 
1549618| Hyalella azteca is a species complex distributed in North, Central, and northern South America. The identity of the species has always been a problem, especially because the original description by Saussure (1858) from a "cistern" in Vera Cruz, Mexico, is poor, and the figures are not clear. Since then, mention of the type material or specimens from the type locality has not been made by investigators using the name H. azteca. Ecological and genetic information available today suggests that there are several species in the complex commonly referred to as H. azteca. The subtle morphological differences among the populations have made the problem of defining these species very complicated. To aid in this process, we present here the morphological description of H. azteca based on the syntype series established by Saussure and deposited in the Musum d'Histoire Naturelle, Ville de Genve, Switzerland. 
10.2307/1548161|Alteuthellopsis corallina, new species (Peltidiidae), associated with the Indo-Pacific scleractinian corals Merulina ampliata, Platygyra daedala, Platygyra sp., Astreopora sp., Pocillopora damicornis var. caespitosa, Acropora exigua, and Goniastrea retiformis, is characterized by an elongate slender fifth leg armed terminally with a strong obtuse spine. Tegastes cnidicus, new species (Tegastidae), associated with the hydrozoan Aglaophenia cupressina Lamouroux in the Moluccas, is distinguished by the lack of a ventral prolongation on the genital segment of the female. With the inclusion of Tegastes georgei Marcus and Masry, 1970, and Tegastes acroporanus Humes, 1981, four species of harpacticoid copepods are now known from cnidarians in the Indo-West Pacific.
40927854|Two new species of Gourretia from South China Sea are described and illustrated. Gourretia laevidactyla n. sp. is closely allied to G. biffari found from northwest of Barcelona, Venezuela but differs markedly in having a cardiac prominence present and telson appearing truncate on the posterior margin. Gourretia sinica n. sp. appears to be closely related to the West Atlantic species G. laresi known from Venezuela but differs in the rostrum having a narrower acute spine. It is the first record of this genus in China seas.
10.2307/1548767| The spatial and temporal fluctuations of density, life cycle, and production of Microdeutopus gryllotalpa in a seminatural lagoon system were studied by taking monthly samples at 3 sites during 1991 and 1992. Its numerical abundance and biomass, which showed considerable spatial and temporal variation, were positively related to the biomass of benthic macroalgae and water salinity (stepwise multiple regression analysis, P < 0.01). Seasonal patterns were similar at all sites, with 2 main annual peaks in early summer and winter. A higher mean growth rate (0.071 mm d<sup>-1</sup>) was estimated for the warm period (T > 17C) than for the rest of the year (0.026 mm d<sup>-1</sup>; T < 17C). The population studied was multivoltine, with overlapping cohorts and a possible maximum of 5 generations per year. Using the size-frequency method, the mean annual production and production/biomass ratio for the system were estimated to be 22.42 g DW (13.49 g AFDW) m<sup>-2</sup> yr<sup>-1</sup> and 12.8 (11.7), respectively. These results indicated that in warm temperate lagoons secondary production for species such as M. gryllotalpa may be high, despite its moderate mean biomass. 
1549171|The juvenilis complex of the crayfish genus Orconectes has been problematic for over 100 years. Morphological variation across the range of the complex was examined to determine species boundaries and geographic distribution. Multivariate and univariate analyses of characters support the recognition of O. juvenilis and warrant the descriptions of two new species, O. ronaldi and O. cristavarius. The shape of the form I male pleopod, the shape of the rostrum, and the length of the areola are the most useful characters for diagnosing species within the O. juvenilis complex. A key to members of the O. juvenilis complex is provided.
20487755|The current study examines the life history characteristics of Procambarus suttkusi, a species of special concern in the Choctawhatchee watershed, Southeast Alabama, USA. The reproductive biology (reproductive status, size at sexual maturity, egg size and count, and sex ratios), molt patterns, growth, habitat associations, and population density were documented at least monthly from the East Fork of the Choctawhatchee River. Form I males were found from May until mid-September. Because young-of-the-year (rostral cephalothorax lengths ranging from 5 to 10 mm) were first observed at the end of May and ovigerous females were collected in June and July, it was estimated that ovigerous females can be found from April through July. Fecundity ranged from 141 to 228 eggs. Size at sexual maturity was 30.5 and 20 mm for males and females, respectively. Monthly length-frequency diagrams suggested that P. suttkusi may mature its first year and has an estimated life span of at least 36 months. The population density for the East Fork population was estimated at 0.25 individuals/m.
1549768|A new species of leptostracan, Nebalia schizophthalma, is described from a single female specimen from one of the deep-sea stations along the Gay Head-Bermuda Transect. The new species differs from all other known species of the Leptostraca in that the distal margin of the eye is strongly invaginated. Other unusual features include a short, upturned ocular scale, a small indentation along the ventral margin of the carapace, and the absence of strong spinelike setae on the fourth article of the antennule. The new species represents only the fifth species of leptostracan known, and the second in the genus Nebalia, from the east coast of North America.
10.2307/1549411|The ontogeny of the cypris adductor muscle (CAM) and the adult adductor muscle (musculus adductor scutorum, MAS) of the acorn barnacle Balanus amphitrite was examined during the cypris/juvenile metamorphosis. By using section series of epoxy-resin embedded material, we found that the MAS of the adult barnacle develops de novo in a preoral position, while the postoral CAM degenerates but remains present. Eventually the CAM of the cypris larva disintegrates and the remaining MAS serves to close the opercular plates of the juvenile and adult barnacle. The CAM and the MAS accordingly do not represent homologous structures and should be encoded as separate characters in a phylogenetic analysis. The character states of the CAM and MAS in the taxa comprising the Thecostraca are reviewed.
1549204| Enzyme extracts were used to characterize -amylase-, trypsin-, and nonspecific-esterase-specific and total activities during the early life-history stages of the red swamp crayfish Procambarus clarkii. Significant increases in the specific activities of all three digestive enzymes were observed prior to the onset of feeding, suggesting that digestive competence is attained prior to feeding and appears to be controlled genetically. After the onset of feeding, the digestive-enzyme-specific and total activity increased steadily through the 42nd day of development, after which point activity did not change significantly. We hypothesize that the observed increase in specific activity reflects the maturation of the hepatopancreas, as greater amounts of digestive enzymes are being produced per unit weight of tissue. As individuals exceeded approximately 100 mg in total weight, specific activity was variable and did not change substantially. Further increases in total enzyme activity (total digestive capacity) were dependent primarily on increases in the weight gain of the individual. We suggest that the first four to six weeks of development may represent a crucial stage in the development of the hepatopancreas and that perturbations that occur during this stage of development may impact future growth. The pattern of digestive enzyme expression in Procambarus clarkii indicates little or no change in nutritional requirements and is different from the patterns observed in decapod crustaceans that have planktotrophic life-history stages. The digestive enzyme activities indicate that crayfish can digest and utilize primarily carbohydrates, proteins and, to a lesser extent, lipids as macronutrients during early growth. 
40665256|The effects of salinity fluctuation on the growth, molting and energy budget of juvenile Litopenaeus vannamei was investigated at the temperatures of 20, 25, and 30C. Salinity fluctuation regimes were set in different amplitudes of  0,  5,  10 and  15 gL from a control salinity of 20 gL After a 48-day feeding trial, the lowest survival occurred at a salinity fluctuation of  15 gL for each temperature investigated. The best growth of shrimp was obtained at salinity amplitudes of  5-10 gL at 25 and 30C. The salinity fluctuation influenced food conversion efficiency but not food intake. The shrimp maintained at salinity amplitudes of  5-10 gL expended most of the energy for growth and spent less energy on respiration and excretion at 25 and 30C. Therefore, salinity fluctuating amplitudes of  5-10 gL result in higher growth rates than constant salinity conditions (20 gL) through enhanced feed assimilation and reduced energy loss in respiration and excretion.
40927851|Elaphognathia cornigera is a sponge-dwelling species of isopod that occurs in the intertidal zone in the main island of Japan. Currently, another population of Elaphognathia has been found from Okinawa-jima Island (classified as Elaphognathia sp.). Although it is quite similar in morphology to E. cornigera, the habitat and seasonal traits are quite different between Okinawa-jima Is. and Izu Peninsula. In this paper, we examined Elaphognathia sp. and E. cornigera from several sampling sites using morphological analysis and ribosomal DNA ITS2 sequences. Morphological analysis revealed adult males of Elaphognathia sp. were distinguished from E. cornigera by the number of pylopod seta: E. nunomurai, 5.5  1.1 (Haneji, N = 18) and 4.1  1.4 (Odo, N = 18); E. corngera, 11.6  2.0 (Amakusa, N = 18) and 13.7  1.4 (Miura, N = 18). Elaphognathia sp. were also distinguished from E. corngera by means of rDNA ITS2 sequences, with differences between the E. corngera group and Elaphognathia sp. being 5.3 and 5.9%, whereas the sequence differences between E. cornigera from Miura, Shimoda, and Amakusa were relatively low (0.5-1.4%). Thus, we describe a new species, Elaphognathia nunomurai.
1549594|The modifications of the first two pleopods in male shrimp have long been considered to serve in insemination of the female. The role of pleopods 1 and 2 in mating in a protandric simultaneous hermaphroditic shrimp, Lysmata wurdemanni, were investigated. Results indicate that the modified endopod of pleopod 1 is not needed to transfer sperm in both male-phase (MP) and euhermaphrodite-phase (EP) shrimp. Absence of pleopod 2 does not affect the sperm-transfer success in both MP and EP shrimp. Removal of pleopod 1 also has no impact on fertilization in the MP shrimp; however, sperm transfer is affected by removal of pleopod 1 in some EP shrimp. Even when both pleopods 1 and 2 are completely ablated, about 20% of the shrimp can still fertilize successfully and another 20% partially successfully.
10.2307/1548076| The complete postembryonic development of Longipedia americana (Copepoda: Harpacticoida) is described and illustrated based on specimens cultured in the laboratory. Development from the first nauplius to the adult took about 25 days at 20-21C, when animals were fed a mixture of phytoplankton consisting of Isochrysis galbana, Thalassiosira weiss-flogii, and T. pseudonana. 
10.2307/1548330|Swimming speed and hydrodynamic drag were measured on several individuals of two species of valviferan isopods: Idotea resecata and Idotea wosnesenskii. Isopods were allowed to swim freely in the laboratory and their swimming speeds were timed over a known distance. Idotea resecata swam significantly faster (0.208 m/s) than I. wosnesenskii (0.121 m/s); the speed showed no correlation with body mass. The difference in swimming speed suggested that I. resecata might have lower drag. To test this hypothesis, the isopods were killed and preserved, and the drag on their bodies was measured in a flow tank. Drag data were converted to drag coefficients (based on wetted area), which revealed that I. resecata had a significantly lower C<sub>D</sub> (mean = 0.059) than I. wosnesenskii (mean = 0.084). These drag coefficients are high compared with vertebrate swimmers, but are similar to those of other arthropods. The difference between the species in C<sub>D</sub> is of the correct sign, but not sufficient to explain entirely the difference in speed. Factors affecting muscle performance must be at least as important as drag. The evidence suggests that selection for body drag reduction may have interacted with selection for other morphological attributes (such as camouflage) to produce the differences in swimming speed and drag.
10.2307/1547953|Reproductive success in species that have retained a planktonic stage is dependent on the release of larvae during periods when abiotic and biotic factors are optimal. Analysis of stratified plankton samples collected from May through September 1980 indicated reproductive activity for Callinectes sapidus throughout the summer with a peak in late July. Presence of stage I larvae was positively correlated with temperature. Seasonal distribution of megalopae was bimodal with a broad peak occurring in late August through September. This suggests a two phase recruitment. Timing of reproduction and recruitment coincide with seasonal changes in current patterns that would enhance larval retention in the offshore waters near the mouth of Chesapeake Bay.
1549297|A pair of laterally flattened saclike ovaries separately lie on both sides of the alimentary canal in the posterior region of the trunk of the myodocopid ostracod Vargula hilgendorfii. Neither the oogonia nor the germarium as a young germ-cell cluster are found in the adult ovary. Several tens of synchronously growing oocytes, previtellogenic or vitellogenic, are found in the ovary, not in the ovarian lumen but on the outer surface of the ovarian wall facing the alimentary canal. Each of these oocytes is protruded outward from the ovarian wall, supported by a short stalk, a short protrusion of the ovarian epithelium composing the ovarian wall. These stalked oocytes are tightly covered by the extremely extended basement membrane of the ovarian epithelium. In the ovary of the fifth instar juveniles of V. hilgendorfii, the oogonia and very early previtellogenic oocytes are scattered among the ovarian epithelial cells of the ovarian wall facing the alimentary canal. Several tens of larger stalked previtellogenic oocytes of mostly similar size are protruded toward the alimentary canal. The oogenetic mode of V. hilgendorfii, in particular the growth of the oocytes on the outer surface of the ovarian wall, seems similar to those in branchiurans, pentastomids, and chelicerate arthropods, rather than to those in many other crustaceans. However, the ovary of V. hilgendorfii has a basic paired saclike structure, common to that in many other crustaceans, but different from unpaired tubular ovaries in chelicerates.
10.2307/1548583|During larval release in the crab Rhithropanopeus harrisii, the attached eggs release peptide pheromones that induce the female to undergo stereotypic larval-release behavior entailing vigorous pumping of the abdomen (pumping response). Rhithropanopeus harrisii is parasitized by the rhizocephalan Loxothylacus panopei, which develops a reproductive body (externa) in the position normally occupied by the egg mass. The pumping response by the host crab has been observed at the time of larval release by rhizocephalan parasites infecting other crab species. Similar behavior was observed in R. harrisii on one occasion. Parasitized R. harrisii show the pumping responses upon exposure to peptides that are similar to the pheromones released by eggs. Peptide sensitivity, however, is enhanced in the parasitized crabs in two ways: the threshold concentrations are lower and the types of active peptides expanded, from those having a neutral amino acid at the amino terminus and basic amino acid at the carboxy terminus (neutral-basic), to include acid-basic and basic-basic peptides. The preconditions for responsiveness to the pheromone peptides are apparently the presence of material on the underside of the abdomen and an internal sense (probably hormonal) that a crab is vigerous, or pseudoovigerous as in the case of parasitized crabs. The peptide receptor site is not located solely on the antennules, dactyls, or chelipeds. The evidence suggests that peptides, similar to the normal egg-hatching pheromones, are transmitted from the parasite to the crab at the time of larval release.
41315723|A specimen of a gladiator box crab, Acanthocarpus alexandri Stimpson, 1871, was captured off the northeast coast of Newfoundland during June 2009. This is the first report of the species in Canadian Atlantic waters, and represents a major northern expansion in the distributional range by approximately 800-900 kilometres. The known distribution of this western Atlantic species now extends from Newfoundland to Brazil, encompassing tropical, temperate, and sub-arctic marine ecosystems.
10.2307/1549260|New data are presented on the taxonomy, ecology, and distribution of harpacticoid copepods belonging to the families Parastenocarididae, Canthocamptidae, and Phyllognathopodidae, all of them from continental fresh water in the Philippines. Parastenocaris mangyans, new species, has been collected in superficial and deep phreatic waters of Oriental Mindoro. Its taxonomy has been studied using scanning electron microscopy. The species is characterized by a hyaline integumental window on the ventral genital somite of the female. It differs from other Asiatic species of Parastenocaris in the morphology of P4 of the male, which is more similar to the corresponding appendage of species belonging to the proserpina species group. Parastenocaris mangyans is the first species of this family to be collected in the Philippines. Epactophanes philippinus, new species, has been collected in the phreatic waters of a river on Cebu Island. The characteristic features of this new species are primarily the morphology and ornamentation of the mandibular palp in both sexes and of P3 in the male, subordinately the ornamentation of P2-P4 in the female and of P4 in the male. Phyllognathopus bassoti has been redescribed on the basis of new material collected from fresh and brackish water wells in Bantayan Island, thus broadening the distribution and the ecology of the species, which had been previously collected only in a lake in Papua New Guinea. The genus Phyllognathopus seems to be very adaptable and euryoecious; it is well distributed in any aquatic habitat and in leaf-litter on all continents and several oceanic archipelagos.
10.2307/1548796|Studies were conducted to assess seasonal and interannual changes in population abundance, size frequency, recruitment, sex ratio, molt condition, and the reproductive cycle of the blue crab Callinectes sapidus in Weeks Bay, Alabama, a subestuary of Mobile Bay. Populations sampled from soft-bottom, unvegetated sites from May 1989 to August 1991 varied significantly in density, but with little predictable annual pattern. Brief periods of peak abundance occurred sporadically in summer and spring months, followed by relatively long periods of relative stable abundance. Interannual variations in abundance occurred, with numbers of crabs much higher during 1989-1990 than 1990-1991. A cohort of subjuvenile crabs (<20-mm CW) was detected in late summer of 1989. New recruits attained a size of 20-40-mm CW by fall 1989 and exhibited little growth until spring of 1990, when they grew rapidly to the 40-80-mm CW size classes. A second cohort of recently settled subjuveniles was observed in March 1991. At least 2 year classes of crabs coexisted within the bay during the study. Most crabs collected were juveniles (20-80-mm CW), indicating that the bay serves as an important nursery area. Adult blue crabs (>80-mm CW) occurred mostly at the mouth of the bay. Sex ratios were skewed towards males when examined over the entire course of the study period. This was due to an excess of males in 1989. Crabs which had heavily fouled or soft carapaces (near or recent molt) were collected more frequently in the warm season (April through October) than the cool season (November through March). An annual reproductive cycle was evident, with gonadal maturation occurring in the summer and fall. No berried female crabs were collected, indicating that sexually mature females migrate out of the subestuary to hatch their eggs at higher salinities.
10.2307/1548657|Five new species of Sarsiella and one of Anscottiella from North Queensland are described and illustrated. In this and an earlier report (Hall, 1985), ten new species of Sarsiellidae are described from this rich locality. The genus Sarsiella is herein regarded as a complex of several groups.
1548665|A consideration of size-frequency distributions of fossil trilobite assemblages indicated that accumulated exuviae will have a different size-frequency distribution than the living population from which they were derived. This concept was examined in more detail for a population model of an extant crab species, using published data on molt increment and intermolt period, and making assumptions on mortality rates. The size-frequency distribution for living crabs resembles a normal curve (except for high abundance in very small size classes). The size-frequency distribution for corpses, exuviae, or combinations of these two, all show a steady decline with size. Very different mortality assumptions were applied to the model and the conclusion regarding exuviae was found to be robust. Thus, the size-frequency distributions of fossil arthropod assemblages, or of exuviae of living species, cannot be expected to resemble living population structures.
10.2307/1548190|The troglobitic crayfish Procambarus (Ortmannicus) delicatus is described from Alexander Springs, Lake County, Florida, a tributary to the St. Johns River. Its affinities with the epigean P. (O.) seminolae and its allies are discussed, and characters shared with Troglocambarus maclanei are pointed out and illustrated.
41315680|The population dynamics and secondary production of the fiddler crab Uca rapax Smith, 1870 in the Itaipu Lagoon (Southeast Brazil) were studied. Samples were taken monthly over a period of 12 months, in order to test latitudinal gradient predictions about secondary production and P/B ratio. Males and females showed the same growth rates (K = 2.083) and reached the same asymptotic size (15.57 mm). However, females showed higher total (Z = 3.20) and annual mortality (A = 0.96 ind-year) than males (Z = 1.89; A = 0.85 ind-year). Recruitment occurred in all months, except in June, 2007. Secondary production was estimated in 113.4 g AFDWmyear and the production to biomass ratio (P/B) was 15.09. The production and P/B ratio estimated in the present study did not agree with the latitudinal gradient literature predictions. A dinmica populacional e produo secundria do caranguejo-violinista Uca rapax Smith, 1870 foi estudada por meio de amostras mensais em um perodo de 12 meses (julho de 2006 at junho de 2007) na Laguna de Itaipu, sudeste do Brasil com o objetivo de testar as predies sobre o gradiente latitudinal de produo secundria e razo P/B. Machos e fmeas apresentaram a mesma taxa de crescimento (K = 2.083) e alcanaram o mesmo tamanho assinttico (15.57 mm). Porm, fmeas apresentaram maiores taxas de mortalidade total (Z = 3.20) e anual (A = 0.96 indyear) do que os machos (Z = 1.89; A = 0.85 indyear). O recrutamento ocorreu em todos os meses, exceto em junho de 2007. A produo secundria foi estimada em 113.4 g AFDWmano e a razo entre produo e biomassa (P/B) foi 15.09. A produo e razo P/B estimada no presente estudo no corrobora com as predies da literatura sobre o gradiente latitudinal.
1549675| The genetic structure of the common Cape river crab Potamonautes perlatus (Decapoda: Potamonautidae) was assessed among 21 populations from major drainage systems in South Africa using allozymes and sequence data from two mitochondrial genes (16S rRNA and COI). Protein gel electrophoresis of 15 loci encoding 11 enzyme systems revealed limited genetic variation in the Berg and Olifants drainages. However, in the Gamtoos and Bre river systems, and over all populations, moderate levels of variation were evident from the F<sub>ST</sub> values. Gene-flow estimates revealed high levels of dispersal within and between drainages. In contrast, phylogenetic analysis of the 16S rRNA mtDNA sequence data from 10 representative populations revealed two distinct clades. One consisted of all the rivers that drain the western escarpment, and another consisted of rivers that drain the southern escarpment. The COI mtDNA and a combined sequence data analysis consistently placed the western flowing rivers in a distinct clade. The split into two clades coincided with the western and southern drainages with the Cape Fold mountains being the barrier that separates the drainage basins. These results are discussed in light of possible geological factors that could have sculpted the present genetic patterns. Allozyme and sequence data were generally complementary at a small spatial scale (within drainages), where both markers indicated the absence of genetic structure. However, at larger spatial scales, the sequence data proved superior at detecting genetic variation. 
40927858|Canyoning has become a popular recreation activity in the Greater Blue Mountains World Heritage Area (Australia), and park management consider that the activity is having an impact on the local fauna of the fragile canyon ecosystems. Although only limited data exist on the native freshwater crayfish populations that inhabit these canyons, it has been suggested that freshwater crayfish have the potential to act as a rapid bioindicator of human impacts. As a preliminary assessment, we sampled crayfish from two canyons that received high visitation and two with low visitation. We recorded only a single species, Euastacus spinifer and this was found to occur at higher altitudes than previously recorded. There was no significant difference in crayfish abundance or size between visitation levels. There were, however, differences in crayfish abundance between individual canyons. Animals within a canyon had the same colour morph which we deduced to be genetic under selection pressure. We conclude that with an appropriate baseline dataset, crayfish could potentially provide a rapid assessment method for use by canyoners and other non-specialists to underpin management decisions.
20487761|In this paper, we report data related to the reproductive biology of a cosmopolitan mesobathyal lobster, Polycheles typhlops (Decapoda: Polychelidae), caught in the Sardinian waters between 400 and 1400 m of depth. Macroscopic and microscopic analyses were performed on 1104 females and 895 males. The observation on the gonads leads us to conclude that there are seven and four stages of development for the females and for males, respectively. Monthly variations of the percentage distribution related to various stages of development of the ovary and the presence of ovigerous females indicated that the species does not seem to follow a marked seasonal reproductive model, with a long main period for egg hatching that seems to occur between spring and autumn.
10.2307/1548719|Tagging studies of the xanthid crab Eriphia smithii were carried out from May-October 1986, and May 1987-October 1988 on a rocky shore near the Marine Station of Tokyo University of Fisheries, at Banda, Chiba Prefecture, Japan. At a separate location at Banda between May 1987 and October 1988, specimens were collected for laboratory measurement of the gonad index (GI). Spawning occurred predominantly in June and August, with nonovigerous females showing elevated GI levels particularly in late May and mid-July. From evidence from tagging experiments, the number of spawnings that occur over an intermolt period is 1 or 2. Molting and copulation in females occurred from June-September. Three types of reproductive patterns are used by this species at Banda: (1) Females molt and copulate in July-August, and in the following year spawn in June-July, releasing zoeae during July-August, after which they molt and copulate again during July-August. (2) Females molt and copulate in August-October and in the following year spawn twice between June and August, releasing zoeae from July-October. After release of zoeae they again molt and copulate (August-October). (3) Females molt and copulate early in the summer, between June and July, and subsequently spawn soon afterwards during July-August, and then molt and copulate during July-September.
10.2307/1548962|Three new species of Anisomysis and the male of Anisomysis xenops are described. Anisomysis hawaiiensis, new species, resembles A. incisa, but is distinguishable by the telson having a deeper and V-shaped distal cleft. Anisomysis extranea, new species, is easily distinguished from other species by the characteristic telson. This species is unique in that the antennular peduncle of the male bears neither a processus masculinus nor a tuft of setae. Anisomysis boraboraensis, new species, is closely allied to A. vasseuri, but different in the fourth male pleopod. The male of A. xenops, previously known as Carnegieomysis xenops, is described for the first time. The occurrence of these 3 species in the eastern Pacific Ocean greatly extends the geographical distribution of this genus eastward.
1549804|Heteropolyonyx, new genus (type species: H. biforma, new species), is established on the basis of the presence of transverse ridges on the cervical regions of the carapace and the telson being divided into five plates, characters quite different from its related genera Polyonyx Stimpson, 1858, and Eulenaios Ng and Nakasone, 1993. The male/female pair of H. biforma was found in a tube of an unidentified polychaete of the genus Chaetopterus. Polyonyx utinomii Miyake, 1943, is redescribed from the holotype specimen and recently obtained material from Japan and the Maldives. This species is readily distinguishable from the other Indo-West Pacific species of Polyonyx by the carapace and chelipeds covered with numerous transverse and oblique striae on the dorsal surface and the meri of the chelipeds having a very large, broadly rounded lobe on the dorsoflexor margin. The present record of P. utinomii from the Maldives is the first report outside Japan and greatly extends its geographical distribution westwards into the Indian Ocean.
27920101|The krill egg development rate is measured in relation to temperature. The duration from spawning to hatching is about 56 days at 0.5C. The embryological growth is somewhat faster at 2C. The development of krill eggs, cultured at 20 atm, showed progression through the various cleavage stages to the formation of the blastula. However, abrupt exposure of newly spawned krill eggs to 100 and 200 atm interfered with normal development and, therefore, high pressure (200 atm) inhibited embryogenesis. The pressure acclimation potential of the various ontogenetic stages of krill exhibited a definite trend in relation to the pattern of developmental ascent of krill larval and adult stages. Nauplii were successfully acclimated in the laboratory from 100200 atm. Advanced adult stages exhibited the least level of pressure acclimation. Gravid females showed a maximum level of acclimation at 25 atm, suggesting that spawning can occur only at depths less than 250 m. The active metabolic rate of E. superba was also investigated in this study with particular emphasis on ontogenetic differences. Postspawned female krill revealed the lowest rate of oxygen consumption. Metabolic scope of Euphausia superba is discussed in relation to ontogenetic stages and in comparison with other euphausiid species in the Antarctic Ocean.
1549390| Larvae of the common intertidal chthamalid barnacles Jehlius cirratus and Notochthamalus scabrosus were obtained from mature adults collected in central and northern Chile and cultivated in the laboratory at temperatures typical of the conditions encountered by larvae in these regions. Morphological and developmental descriptions of the six naupliar stages and the cyprid stage of both species are given. Both species clearly present the general pattern of development for chthamalids, in which the structural characters of the cephalic shield and abdominal process, in conjunction with the utilization of the alphabetical setation formula for antennae, facilitate the identification and differentiation between larval stages. The average time of naupliar larval development of J. cirratus and N. scabrosus in sea-water temperature ranging 15-18C was 31 and 37 days, while larvae cultivated in temperatures ranging 18-20C completed naupliar development after 13 and 20.2 days, respectively. This represents a 58% and 45.5% reduction in naupliar development time with a three-degree increase in mean sea water temperature for J. cirratus and N. scabrosus, respectively. The development time from cyprid until settlement and metamorphosis of N. scabrosus lasted between 9 and 11 days, depending on the temperature, while cyprid development for J. cirratus lasted 8 days at 18-20C. The average sizes of the naupliar and cyprid stages were similar between the species at both temperature ranges. Although the increased temperature reduced the time of larval development, it did not significantly affect larval sizes. 
10.2307/1549137|The distribution patterns, gill size, gill distribution, and gill ultrastructure were compared among 6 talitrid amphipods that occur in a range of habitats near Mt. Hakodate, southern Hokkaido, Japan. Two are supralittoral beachfleas, one is a supralittoral and coastal terrestrial beachflea, one is a sandhopper, and the rest are landhoppers. In all species, the posterior gills are the largest. Reduced gill size of the supralittoral species compared with terrestrial species supports the previous suggestion that the supralittoral species inhabit extremely dry environments. The gill sizes of 2 terrestrial species, smaller than those of most of Bousfield's (1984) group IVa landhoppers, confirm the belief that Japanese landhoppers invaded land via the dry supralittoral zone. In all species, the gills are covered by ion-permeable, thin cuticle layers and are composed of thick typical transporting-type epithelia characterized by both apical (AIS) and basal (BIS) infolding systems of the cell membranes. The AIS are better developed in terrestrial species than in supralittoral species. On the other hand, the BIS are associated with a large number of elongated mitochondrial and are well developed in all species, resulting in the involvement of the greater part of the cell surface and the intercellular space. These facts strongly indicate that the gill epithelia should be regarded as ion-transporting, as well as respiratory, organs. Moreover, the gills may play important roles in the active transport of electrolytes to regulate osmotic pressures of body fluids in terrestrial or semiterrestrial environments in which the animals are frequently exposed to extremely hypotonic conditions.
10.2307/1549121|Observations on growth of Cancer magister Dana from 19 studies are summarized and synthesized using statistical models. Two growth components (molt increment, MI, and intermolt period, IP) are considered separately and in combination. Five models relating MI to premolt carapace width (CW) are compared using 5 data sets; no model is clearly preferable in all cases. Three models relating juvenile IP to CW are compared using 2 data sets; for both, a log-linear model is clearly preferred. MI shows slight, but statistically significant variation among studies for both juveniles and adults. There is significant variation in IP among studies. Little information regarding environmental influence on either component for this species is available, but temperature has been shown to strongly influence juvenile IP and to have negligible influence on MI. For adults, there is evidence of a sharp decline in annual molt probability for large females (CW > 135 mm) and males (CW > 159 mm). Overall growth is projected using a growth model incorporating temperature influence on IP, demonstrating the potential for wide temperature-mediated variation in age at reproduction and fishery recruitment.
27920096|Filtration rates of adolescent Euphausia superba obtained by both constant volume and flow-through techniques are presented. Filtration rate data for a range of particle sizes are presented. An increase in the number of large particles in the water by enrichment with artificial microcapsules results in a shift of the filtration rate efficiency to a larger size range. This is expressed comparatively by the calculation of selection indices and discussed in terms of the filtration mechanism of krill. A marked difference between the values for filtration rates of krill is found when data from constant volume and flow-through techniques are compared. This is examined by comparison with other published data and alternative estimates of filtration rate are extrapolated from oxygen consumption values, energetics data, and filtering basket sweep frequency. The proposed high level of filtration rate for krill is discussed in relation to the filtration mechanism.
10.2307/1547949|Ovigerous Rhithropanopeus harrisii were collected from the Neuse River estuary, North Carolina, at the beginning of the breeding season (April), and were individually maintained in the laboratory to determine the ability of the females to produce multiple egg masses and viable offspring from a single mating. Females were able to oviposit as many as four times without repeated matings. All egg masses were fertilized. The frequency with which crabs oviposited (20-31%) was not dependent upon the number of previous ovipositions, but the number of crabs that would spawn again diminished with each oviposition. Regardless of the number of times the crabs had previously spawned, there was no significant difference in the time required to spawn another egg mass, nor in the viability of larvae hatched from these egg masses. Fifteen to 19 days were required for crabs to spawn, incubate, and hatch a clutch of larvae. Hatching success and size declined after the first hatch because of the inadequate cementation of eggs to the pleopods in the laboratory. Crabs did not spawn following ecdysis. Females capable of multiple spawnings from a single mating permit both spatial and temporal dispersal of zoeae, thus decreasing the variance in the number of surviving offspring in the next generation. Multiple spawnings may also assure continued reproduction under stressful or hazardous conditions, when mating activity may be reduced.
10.2307/1549141| Two kinds of vital stains, trypan blue and trypan red, were injected into a small fresh-water shrimp, Neocaridina denticulata. Both stains accumulated in the gills, visible as marked chevron-shaped patterns under the branchiostegite. To examine the metabolism of the injected stains, cytological observations using light and electron microscopes were made. The intake of pigment into the gills was observed immediately after injection, after which it gradually accumulated in the cytoplasm of the nephrocytes. The stains were incorporated into middle-sized vesicles (0.3-1.0-m diameter) which were fused to tubular structures. These tubular structures connect to each other, and stain precipitates were observed in the lumen of the junctions, strongly suggesting that the middle-sized vesicles are formed from swollen junctions. Middle-sized vesicles grow larger and seem to fuse to form a large vesicle called the central granule. Elimination of the central granule into the blood was not observed, suggesting that the central granule constitutes a final storage site of toxic stains, such as trypan blue or trypan red. 
41315729|Aegla alacalufi and A. neuquensis are exclusively found in freshwater systems of Patagonia. The geographic distribution range of A. alacalufi is vast and fragmented, covering continental and insular rivers. A new record of this species on Duque de York Island (5034'S-7520'W) defines the southernmost limit for the distribution of freshwater anomuran crustaceans. Aegla neuquensis is only found in Extra-Andean Patagonian rivers. The current geographic distribution patterns of these species can be explained by the existence of multiple island glacial refuges during the Last Glacial Maximum and by the hydrographie captures that occurred during the Late Glacial.
1549939| A catalogue of the type specimens deposited in the reference collection of decapod crustaceans built up by the late Gilberto Rodrguez and collaborators, from 1960 to 2004, at the Instituto Venezolano de Investigaciones Cientficas (IVIC), Venezuela, is presented. It contains the field data and taxonomic information for 32 holotypes and 25 paratypes of 42 species and subspecies belonging to three families (2 Palaemonidae, 3 Trichodactylidae, and 37 Pseudothelphusidae). /// Se presenta un catlogo de los especimenes tipo depositados en la coleccin de referencia de crustceos decpodos establecida por el fallecido, Dr. Gilberto Rodrguez y colaboradores entre 1960 y 2004, en el Instituto Venezolano de Investigaciones Cientficas (IVIC), Venezuela. El mismo contiene los datos de campo y la informacin taxonmica de 32 holotipos y 25 paratipos de 43 especies y subespecies pertenecientes a tres familias (2 Palaemonidae, 3 Trichodactylidae, y 38 Pseudothelphusidae). 
10.2307/1548564|Dry fracturing, a new technique for examining the internal structures of small crustaceans, is described. Following critical-point drying, specimens are mounted on a specimen stub with double-sided adhesive tape and pressed with a similar stub. The two stubs are then pulled apart so that the specimen is separated into two parts. Both fractions can be observed with a scanning electron microscope. Using this method, we directly observed internal surfaces of digestive tracts or gut contents of three copepod species. Moreover, this technique made it possible to observe the developing nauplii in an egg sac and internal parasites of the copepod. Dry fracturing is such a simple, inexpensive, and time-saving technique that it will be applicable to various research fields.
10.2307/1547858|In an especially good sample series of the deep-sea isopod Eurycope iphthima Wilson, substantial variation occurs in the cephalic rostrum and in several aspects of its population structure: the size-frequency distribution, size of maturation of males and females, proportions of female stages, proportions of juvenile stages, and maximum size of adults. Comparisons of samples from different depths (2,500 to 4,800 m) and different localities (northeastern and central Atlantic Ocean) show the variation to be distinctly depth-related: populations from similar depths are more similar than those from different depths. Because of continuity in other taxonomically important characters, the variation must be clinal and reflects adaptation to local environments, directed genetic variation, or both. The parallel clines in rostral morphology and population structure are most apparent on the continental slopes and rises off Ireland and in the Bay of Biscay. Bimodality in the population structure of the deeper populations is unusual; two hypotheses for its explanation are discussed, although evidence to support either is currently unavailable.
40665215|Eocarcinus praecursor, the putative earliest member of Infraorder Brachyura of Early Jurassic age in Great Britain, cannot be accommodated within that infraorder. Numerous characters are inconsistent with placement within Brachyura, including: a lack of fusion of the epistome with the dorsal carapace; chelipeds on the first and putatively second pereiopods; lack of true orbits; development of large, strong antennae; notches in the carapace to accommodate the antennae; articulating rings on the pleomeres; development of prominent epimeres; and orientation of the chelipeds. Rather, E. praecursor must be referred to its own superfamily and family within Infraorder Anomura.
10.2307/1548001| Thamnocephalus venezuelensis, new species, is described from specimens collected from an ephemeral pond located in Zulia, Venezuela (1120N, 7205W). An additional collection is reported from Falcn, Venezuela (1125N, 6940W). These two populations represent the first known occurrence of Thamnocephalus in South America. The genus was previously thought to be confined to North America. /// Se describe una nueva especie de Anostraca: Thamnocephalus venezuelensis. Colectada en charcas temporales en el Estado Zulia (1120N, 7205W) y Estado Falcn (1125N, 6940W) de Venezuela. Esta especie representa el primer registro conocido del gnero Thamnocephalus en Sudamrica. Hasta la fecha se crea que este gnero estaba confinado a Norte Amrica. 
10.2307/1548046|Three types of eyes have been observed in three different lineages of the Stomatopoda. In the Gonodactyloidea and the Squilloidea, the cornea is divided into two halves by a line of specialized ommatidia, the middle band. This band is two facets wide in the squilloids, and occupies a small portion, about 4 per cent, of the surface area of the cornea. In gonodactyloids the band is six facets wide and occupies much more of the surface area of the cornea, between 15 and 38 per cent. The middle band appears to be absent in the bathysquilloids. The greater development of the middle band in the gonodactyloid lineage than in the other lineages may be related to binocular vision and the strike of the raptorial appendage, light available in the habitat, and/or the complex behavioral patterns developed by some members of this group.
10.2307/1548217| The shrimp Procaris ascensionis occurs in landlocked pools that are under tidal influence. Individuals occur in shaded areas in deep crevices and almost never occur in sunlit or open areas. Although this species has been considered to be rare, our field observations during March 1983 revealed densities of 18.2  4.9 individuals m<sup>-3</sup> in lava caves leading off surface pools. Size segregation is evident in pools and caves, with smaller individuals spending most of their time in crevices and among the coenocytic alga Valonia and branching green algae. Large individuals primarily spend a large portion of their time in the water column swimming upside down using pereiopodal exopods and pleopods. While on the cave bottom large individuals move through algae, extending the achelate pereiopods laterally, apparently searching for prey. When a prey item is encountered, Procaris extends all five pereiopods and pulls the prey ventrally, trapping it against the gnathothorax with the aid of the third maxillipeds. Procaris then swims upside down holding the prey within a cage formed by the spinous pereiopods. Detection of prey is probably accomplished by mechano- or chemoreceptors borne on the pereiopods and third maxillipeds. Sections through the reduced eye revealed no ommatidia, suggesting that this shrimp is blind. Procaris is a voracious predator on the gammarid amphipod Melita and the atyid shrimp Typhlatya rogersi, although detailed gut analyses produced equal amounts of animal parts and plants (filamentous algae and benthic diatoms). The reproductive biology of Procaris remains unknown. 
20487829|Shell hardness was measured with a durometer for female red king crabs, Paralithodes camtschaticus, held in the laboratory over variable periods up to 107 days after molting. The data were fit best by a hyperbolic equation, with parameters  = 0.216 and  = 0.019 (R = 0.976, n = 199), and an asymptotic value of 50.7 durometer units (DU). The time required to reach 90% of complete shell hardness (H = 45.6 DU) was calculated to be 74.2 days. Molting dates for all crabs were hindcast using the last measurement that was less than H and were within 2.5  6.4 days (mean  SE, n = 34) of the actual molting date.
10.2307/1548239|The small shrimp Gnathophylloides mineri is a common inhabitant of the short spines of the sea urchin Tripneustes ventricosus found in shallow waters of eastern St. Croix, United States Virgin Islands. It shows remarkable cryptic coloration and behavioral and morphological features suggesting a past history of intense predation pressure. Gnathophylloides mineri feeds on the epithelium covering the sea urchin spines which is abraded by toothed setae on the second maxillipeds and perhaps also by small, handlike structures on the dactyls of the walking legs. It seems likely that dark pigment from the host test is incorporated by the shrimp. Filter feeding also occurs. The shrimp are usually found in groups (up to 13 on a given host) with females greatly outnumbering males. Although there is a broad overlap in size distributions, males are significantly smaller. There is evidence that shrimp move between urchins. Differential male mortality during migration may explain the uneven sex ratio.
10.2307/1549315|Crustaceans of the hydrothermal vent field of the Mid-Atlantic Ridge present graded variations of eye structure. In the shrimps Rimicaris exoculata and Chorocaris chacei, external eyestalks are missing or reduced and conventional compound eyes are lacking. The crab Segonzacia mesatlantica has small eyestalks. Our objective was to localize and describe the organ of Bellonci and the sinus gland usually included in the eyestalks. In Rimicaris exoculata and Chorocaris chacei, the organs of Bellonci are well developed and contain onion body-like structures. They are located in front of the cerebral ganglia close to the hemiellipsoid bodies, a position unusual among decapods. Each organ of Bellonci extends to a complex cuticular structure which is probably a sensory pore. In the two shrimps, the optic lobes are located within the brain. The four optic neuropile layers are present. The sinus gland is small and cupula-shaped, with usual histological features. It is located between the interna and externa medullae, adjacent to a hemolymph lacuna. In Segonzacia mesatlantica, the eyestalks contain massive nervous masses with numerous and complex chiasmata from which only the lamina ganglionaris is slightly separated. The organ of Bellonci and the sinus gland are both located inside the eyestalks on opposite sides. The organ of Bellonci contains onion bodies but no distinguishable sensory pore. The sinus gland is large with visible patches of neurosecretory secretions and is surrounded by a thick layer of connective tissue.
10.2307/1549244|Comparison of the antennulary setation patterns of adult males of species of Paracyclops revealed a common setation pattern shared with antennules of adult males of other genera of Cyclopidae. The importance of correctly identifying individual setal elements is stressed. For example, there are 2 modified setae on the first segment of P. poppei, 1 of which is homologous with the modified seta of other species of Paracyclops, and the other is unique to P. poppei. The characteristic shape of antennulary setae and aesthetascs is important in defining the subfamilies Eucyclopinae and Cyclopinae of the Cyclopidae. It is confirmed that there is a maximum of 1 aesthetasc on the first segment of the male antennules of Paracyclops.
41315690|We describe the current distributions and relative abundances of southeastern Pennsylvania's crayfish; changes in the region's crayfish fauna over the last century; and, where pertinent, the relationship of the current fauna to site-specific characteristics, basin-wide attributes, and exotic crayfish. The crayfish fauna currently inhabiting the region bears little resemblance to the historical assemblage. Whereas historical surveys yielded Orconectes limosus and Cambarus bartonii, both native species, recent collections produced eight species including five exotics. Many areas occupied by exotic Orconectes no longer support O. limosus. Cambarus bartonii was found in a number of invaded systems, but was typically a minor component of the crayfish community and may not be able to persist in those systems indefinitely. The distribution of Cambarus (Puncticambarus) sp., an undescribed member of the Cambarus acuminatus complex, was extremely limited, with populations only found in four streams, all of which are threatened by urbanization and exotic crayfish. Exotic species collections include the first published records for Procambarus clarkii in Pennsylvania and extend the ranges of Orconectes virilis and Orconectes obscurus in the state by >150 km. These results indicate the need for conservation and management initiatives aimed at preserving the native crayfish that remain in southeastern Pennsylvania.
10.2307/1549122| Newly investigated (video recordings) aspects of the biology of myodocopid ostracodes are presented, exemplified by Vargula hilgendorfii (Mller, 1890) (Cypridinidae) from shallow marine environments of the Pacific coast of central Japan. Like other myodocopid species attracted to bait (Cohen, 1982; Cohen and Morin, 1986), Vargula hilgendorfii is infaunal by day and becomes active by night, either on the substratum (e.g., feeding activities on fish carcasses) or in the water column (e.g., vertical migrations) with associated blue luminescence (Irie, 1953). All individuals from the first juvenile (A-5) to the adult stage (both sexes) bore a yellow luminescent organ (upper lip region) and were able to emit light in laboratory conditions. A synchronized stroking movement of the second pair of antennae (A2) was responsible for various locomotory activities such as swimming and digging the sediment (bioclastic sand). The first antennae (A1) have a probable tactile function in the recognition of the substratum and also in copulatory activities (suckerlike features of males). The furcae facilitated the penetration into the sediment and assisted rotations in a vertical plane, on or within the substratum. Males with a stronger muscular protopodite and a smaller body were faster swimmers than females. Specimens almost invariably reacted to light by shifting and adjusting their moving direction to reach the least illuminated area of the experimental container and/or by digging the sediment. Diggings were superficial, rarely exceeding a few mm below the sediment-water interface; they are interpreted as a response (camouflaged shelter) against predation, most probably controlled and initiated by visual stimuli. The seventh limbs are complex transformed appendages used by the brooding female to stir her free embryos within the marsupium; the limbs were more commonly used by both sexes from the fourth juvenile stage (A-2) to "brush" any region of the domiciliar concavity (appendages, lateral eyes, vestment, body) and also part of the external margins of the valves. The morphology of the seventh limb (e.g., articulated stem, bell-shaped setae) and its peculiar oscillating movement, both contributed to eject foreign particles from the domicilium. The ancestry of the seventh limbs in myodocopid ostracodes can be traced to, at least, the Lower Triassic (Weitschat, 1983a). Smaller crustacean ectoparasites frequently inhabit Vargula hilgendorfii. Onisocryptus ovalis (Shiino, 1942) (Isopoda, Epicaridea) preferentially infects nonovigerous females or females with eggs in ovaries and clutches the body of its host near the heart. There is no evidence that this parasite feeds by tearing into the ostracode's integument. The cryptic habit of O. ovalis may reduce predatorial risks. 
1549396|A new genus and species, Hampsonellus brasiliensis, is described. This species has been found in shallow, marine, soft bottoms on the southern Atlantic coast of Brazil. We discuss the principal generic differences in the Cephalocarida, which are in reproductive modifications of limb structure of posterior thoracopods.
1549398|Branchinecta mackini Dexter, 1956 (Crustacea, Anostraca) has been thought to occur both east and west of the Continental Divide of North America for more than 30 years. My study revealed that individuals from east of the Divide are morphologically distinct from those found west of the Divide. Males consistently differed in the shape of the distal end of the antenna. The eastern taxon is described and given the name Branchinecta readingi new species.
1549868|Nucleotide sequences for the 18S rDNA of 28 cytherocopine ostracods that represent 16 families were determined and compared with those of bairdioidean and cytherelloidean ostracods. Resulting molecular phylogenetic trees consistently indicated that cytheroideans formed a monophyletic group and that bythocytheroideans are paraphyletic outside of the cytheroideans. This relationship suggests that the diagnostic morphological features of the Bythocytheroidea, such as the five adductor muscle scars and the first antenna with seven articulated podomeres, are plesiomorphic. The molecular phylogenetic relationships among cytheroideans indicated polyphyly of the amphidont basic type hingement, which is distributed in four lineages, i.e., the loxoconchids, leptocytherids, schizocytherids, and a group of hemicytherids, thaerocytherids, and trachyleberidids, suggesting that the hinge structure of the amphidont basic type has evolved at least four times independently in cytheroidean ostracods. The ostracod hinge structures may have evolved in concert with the extent of carapace calcification.
20487780|Crayfishes belonging to the family Cambaridae occur in two adult male morphs, Form I which is reproductively competent and Form II which is nonreproductive. In our first experiment, we compared the behavior of Form I and Form II animals by measuring walking, sheltering, feeding, and attraction to a female conspecific in single male Orconectes rusticus. Our data demonstrated that, under laboratory conditions, Form II animals spent significantly more time in shelters than did Form I animals. The two forms did not differ significantly in the other measured behaviors. In our second experiment, we examined agonistic behavior in males of each form. When placed in intraform groups of four animals, Form II crayfish displayed fewer agonistic acts and spent less time fighting than did Form I males. In Form II males, increased sheltering may serve to reduce the risk of predation, and fewer agonistic acts may reflect a lower motivation to compete with other males.
10.2307/1549156|Life-history traits were studied in one marine and four fresh-water shrimps from tropical regions of western South America: Palaemon northropi, P. pandaliformis, Macrobrachium acanthurus, and M. olfersii (Palaemonidae). Occasional data are given for Macrobrachium carcinus and an atyid shrimp, Potimirim potimirim. Size was measured as total body length (TBL), carapace length (CL), and telson length (TL), weight as dry weight (W), and realized fecundity as number of eggs per female. Size and W of eggs were determined in an early stage of development. Relationships between measurements of size, weight, and fecundity are described with regression equations. Significant species- and sex-specific variation was found in the slopes of the allometric TBL-W relationship. In the 2 species of Palaemon, females grew to a larger size than males; they showed also a steeper W increase with increasing TBL. Opposite patterns were observed in M. acanthurus and M. olfersii, suggesting different traits on the generic level. The minimum sexable size (minimum size of males with appendix masculina) was unrelated to the species-specific maximum size. Size at the onset of female maturity (minimum size with eggs) was larger in M. acanthurus than in the other species (29 versus 20-22 mm); W at the onset of female maturity increased with the maximum size of a species. Regressions of egg number on TBL indicated the highest overall level as well as the strongest size-dependence of fecundity in M. olfersii; these parameters were lowest in P. pandaliformis. The reproductive output (RO:W of egg mass in relation to female body W) was lowest in the only marine species studied here, P. northropi (14.4 versus 18.6-21.7%). With the possible exception of the RO, the life-history traits of these tropical shrimps appear unrelated to the climatic origin or habitat of a species.
1549823|Ovigerous crabs of the xanthid Palapedia integra were collected in South Korean waters, and their larvae were reared in the laboratory. Four zoeal stages are described and illustrated. The durations of zoeal stages I-IV were 4, 4, 4, and 6 days, respectively. Morphological characteristics of the first zoeal stage are compared with those of Palapedia valentini in the Kraussiinae and to other brachyuran species. The first zoea of P. integra is significantly different from that of P. valentini in having 3+4 setae on the endopod of the maxilla. Based on zoeal morphology, it is suggested that P. integra may not belong in the genus Palapedia.
10.2307/1548693|The male copulatory organs of 10 Recent species of Cythere were compared and the relationship between the copulatory organ and geographic distribution was examined. For 9 pairs of species whose geographic distributions overlap each other, the copulatory organs are morphologically different. Conversely, the pairs of species whose copulatory organs are similar show either of the following characteristics: (1) their distribution areas are completely isolated, or (2) their distribution areas are very close or more or less overlap each other, but their reproductive seasons or their habitats are different. The significant morphologic differences between the copulatory organs of such sympatric pairs are thus interpreted as responsible for mechanical reproductive isolation. Examination of copulatory organs is very useful in ostracod systematics, especially for discrimination of sympatric species. However, the results do not always coincide with their phylogenetic relationship which is well reconstructed from the ontogenetic development of the distribution pattern of normal pores. In the case of Cythere, the diversification of copulatory organs does not seem to reflect taxonomic distance between species because of their function. Finally, geographic variation of the male copulatory organ of Cythere omotenipponica is shown.
10.2307/1548551|Two comparative growth studies were performed on spawns from the Caribbean king crab Mithrax spinosissimus (Lamarck). These studies lasted for 181 and 142 days, respectively. Crabs that exhibited long intermolt periods and a low increase in carapace length at molt during early development, because of a low water temperature and/or early lack of food, later caught up in both respects, compared to individuals raised under more favorable conditions during early development. The growth rate (carapace length) at molt (crab stages 3-12) varied between approximately 22 and 40%, and the corresponding mean weight (live wet weight) increase varied between approximately 90 and 135% (stages 7-12). Pronounced allometric growth was recorded concerning the two parameters of carapace length and width. The carapace of young crabs was considerably longer than wide, while the L/W ratio for adults was close to 1. The abdominal length and width measurements indicated that it should be possible, by visual observations, to distinguish between the sexes at a carapace length of approximately 12-15 mm, i.e., in this study, at crab stage 10 or 11, or at an age of approximately 120-140 days. In early stages prolonged intermolt periods led to a proportionally lower increase in carapace length at molt. A positive relationship was recorded between a low increase in carapace length at molt and a high mortality rate. The length of the intermolt period had, however, no significant effect on the mortality rate.
1549630|Allometric growth in three groups of American lobsters (Homarus americanus) found along the Northumberland and Atlantic coasts of Nova Scotia was compared. Three morphometric parameters were measured: (1) abdomen area, (2) carapace length, and (3) chelae length. Abdomen area and chelae length measurements were related to both carapace length and nominal length, which is (body mass)<sup>1/3</sup>, while carapace length was related to nominal length. The scaling factors of abdomen area with carapace length for female lobsters were regionally different and were significantly greater than the isometric value of 2. Comparisons were made to published data for the scaling factors of abdomen area for the California spiny lobster (Panulirus interruptus) and differences were found. The data for Homarus were compared to previous measures of the scaling of fecundity for lobsters collected from similar regions of the province. The comparisons suggest that fecundity estimates used in current management strategies should be measured on a regional basis. Carapace length does not exhibit isometric growth when related to nominal length, and significant differences in relative growth exist between sexes. Chelae morphometrics were also regionally different for male lobsters and did not exhibit isometric growth.
20487763|This study investigates the impact of waterborne xenobiotics on the rock crab Cancer irroratus. Male rock crabs were caged at two polluted sites for five weeks. One site was highly polluted while the other was slightly polluted mainly by metals. A control group was caged in a raceway tank supplied with clean sea water. The activity of branchial ATPases was increased in crabs exposed to pollution, presumably to compensate for the competition of metals with electrolytes and to facilitate the transport of metals out of the cytoplasm. The rock crab was characterized as having high basal levels of glutathione in the digestive gland ( 3500 nmol GSH equivalents/g dry weight). Exposure to waterborne pollutants failed to trigger an increase in glutathione concentration, but over time in crabs caged at the highly polluted site it elicited a 26% increment in the relative mass of the digestive gland which is an important site for glutathione synthesis. Neither cytochrome C oxidase, nor lactate dehydrogenase activity in the merus muscle was affected by pollution. By the end of the experiment, somatic growth rate was highest in the control crabs though the crabs caged at the polluted sites also maintained a positive energy balance. Gonadal growth was delayed at the highly polluted site but the size of the gonads caught up with that of the controls by the termination of the experiment.
10.2307/1548290| The common north sea shrimp Crangon crangon was studied both with scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and electrophysiology to determine its ability to detect and process neuronal displacement signals in the surrounding water. SEM showed a large population of small, hair-type sensilla of 20-500 m length found on antennae, carapace, walking legs, abdominal tergites, telson, and inner and outer uropods. Serrate setae and another prominent sensory organ of presumed chemo- and/or mechanoreceptive function were located on the subchelate leg. Microelectrode recordings from sensory roots and connectives of the ventral nerve cord revealed that the large mechanoreceptive hairs on the uropods must be dually innervated, with the two sensory cells responding 180 out of phase to each other. Sensory cells responding to identical phases of wave motion converge onto phase-specific interneurons. Directional coding by mechanosensory interneurons of the abdominal ventral nerve cord varied from directional to unselective. Sensitivity to vibration of water, sand, and the buried animal itself is maximal at 170 Hz; a fixed behavior consisting of a fast backward flicking of the large second antennae was most readily elicited at this frequency, with an absolutely lowest threshold of acceleration of 81 cm/s<sup>2</sup>, corresponding to 0.7 m amplitude of particle displacement in the surrounding sand and water. The results suggest a close relationship between mechanosensory pathways in crayfish and shrimp, and recommend shrimps as useful objects for behavioral tests of sensory capacities of crustaceans. 
10.2307/1549106|A survey of more than 250 species of copepods shows about 4% of the rami on postmaxillipedal legs have a segment that is formed later in development, and therefore is younger, than homologous segments on legs located on more posterior body somites. These younger segments are exceptions to the general rule of development that, among serially homologous segments, those found on anterior legs are older than their homologues on more posterior legs. Exceptions to this rule occur more frequently on leg 1 than expected, and appear to have originated more than once during copepod evolution. These younger segments more often are added during the terminal adult molt, which is an unusual developmental pattern for copepods.
10.2307/1548585|Studies of relative growth in crustaceans are often based, in whole or in part, upon the practice of log transformation of all linear morphometric data prior to the calculation of a least squares estimate linear regression for a broad size class of specimens. This and other practices may result in misinterpretation of the regression analysis. We propose that analysis of untransformed data with a Model II regression technique such as the reduced major axis is appropriate for description of relative growth in crustacean linear morphometric features, and that data for broad size-class samples should be examined as iteratively divided subsets, rather than assuming a priori that the entire sample is adequately represented by a single continuous function. A statistical test for evaluation of regression functions on the basis of randomness of residuals is provided.
4540309|We observed in the laboratory the behavior of six individuals of an as yet undescribed species of Speleonectes (Remipedia) over a period of 76 days. The live specimens were collected from an anchialine cave on the Yucatan Peninsula and maintained in separate aquaria at the Zoological Museum Amsterdam. In addition, field observations were conducted in the same cave to compare the laboratory results with naturally occurring behaviors. We found a variety of complex behavioral traits that include several new and unexpected findings. For example, our observations suggest that remipedes are not obligatory, but rather facultative carnivores, and that filtering particles might be the predominant mode of feeding. A digital video with examples of various behavioral traits can be downloaded at http://www. tiho-hannover.de/einricht/botanik/research.htm.
10.2307/1548177|A 51-day laboratory study was conducted to examine the effects of coded microwire tags (CWTs) injected into the basal muscle of the fifth pereiopod in 27 juvenile blue crabs, Callinectes sapidus (initial carapace width 20.8-39.3 mm). Thirty untagged crabs (initial carapace width 18.2-27.6 mm) served as a control. Mortality in tagged individuals (11%) did not differ significantly from that of controls (3%). Tag retention was 88% for crabs that molted at least once. All tagged crabs that molted twice and retained a tag through the first molt did so through the second molt as well. No significant difference was observed in growth increment per molt as indicated by an absolute and per cent increase in carapace width. However, a difference in growth rate as indicated by the lower number of tagged crabs that molted twice during the experiment was inferred from the data. The advantages and disadvantages of CWTs for marking juvenile blue crabs are discussed.
10.2307/1548861|An external (SEM, light microscopy) and internal (TEM, serial section) study of the distal segments and the setae of the first antenna in Pleuromamma xiphias, a deep-ocean calanoid copepod, is presented here. The morphological results indicate the presence of 9 identifiable setae on the distal tip of the first antenna. These include 5 dually innervated and 2 singly innervated mechanoreceptive setae. A single thin-walled chemoreceptive seta, innervated by multiple dendrites, was identified. A presumed bimodal mechano-/chemoreceptive seta has an apical pore and is innervated by 1 mechano- and 2 chemosensory dendrites. Two pores were found on the ventral surface of the distal segments of the first antenna: 1 near the base of the chemosensory seta, and the other proximal to the feathered seta. Internally, the mechanoreceptors are characterized by well-developed scolopale tubes and an extraordinary proliferation of dendritic microtubules (up to 3,000/dendrite). Externally, the setae vary in length (0.01-1 mm) and type (smooth versus plumose, stiff versus flexible, round versus laterally flattened). The setae are positioned in a single plane, pointing either anteriorly or posteriorly. The diversity in form and position suggests sensory specialization of individual setae.
10.2307/1548672| Larvae of the East Atlantic anomuran crab Galathea intermedia Lilljeborg were reared in the laboratory from hatching to the first juvenile stage. The larvae were kept in 31-32% S sea water at 15C. The complete larval development consists of 4 or 5 zoeal stages and 1 megalops stage. The larval stages are described and morphological characters are compared with those of the West Atlantic species Galathea rostrata A. Milne Edwards described by Gore (1979). 
10.2307/1549145| Fifty-two recently metamorphosed, juvenile, and young adult pedunculate barnacles, Octolasmis mlleri, were grown individually under laboratory conditions at 25-27C, fed the marine rotifer Brachionus sp. and the brine shrimp Artemia salina. Growth of the animals was monitored over 10 weeks by periodic measurements of the capitular length, the area of the capitulum, and the areas of the capitular plates. The mean plate areas, individually and collectively, increase with growth, whereas the average plate coverage of the capitulum does not change. 
10.2307/1548679|Mortensenenus minus, new genus, new species, is described from a specimen collected by Th. Mortensen at Mauritius. This distinctive new genus, the fifth to be recognized in the Coronididae, resembles Coronida Brooks, 1886, and Neocoronida Manning, 1976, in having 4 teeth on the dactylus of the claw, but differs from these genera in lacking dorsal spines or stellate tubercles on the sixth abdominal somite and telson. It differs from Parvisquilla Manning, 1973, in being much larger and in having a mandibular palp, 5 epipods, and a rostral plate that extends beyond the antennular somite, and from Acoridon Adkison, Heard, and Hopkins, 1983, in lacking a subapical ventral projection on the rostral plate and in having 4 rather than 5 teeth on the dactylus of the raptorial claw.
10.2307/1548328|This report reviews literature on multimodal control of eyestalk orientation in decapod crustaceans in relation to the ecological context of the species examined. A trend becomes apparent that the species rely on the various sensory cues with different weight according to their habitat, predominant mode of locomotion, and physical properties of the body. Four hypotheses are formulated that emphasize these trends with the aim of provoking new work on the comparative aspect and adaptive variability of sensory systems as guided by ecological constraints, and of gaining by this a deeper understanding of biological information processing.
4094236|The evolutionary relationships among the six nominal genera within the spinicaudate clam shrimp family Limnadiidae, as well as the validity of the limnadiid genus Eulimnadia, have been much debated in the literature with little consensus emerging. The lack of resolution on these topics impedes evaluations of limnadiid biodiversity, phylogeny, and character evolution. To address these issues, we used Bayesian and parsimony methods to analyze DNA sequences from three genetic loci (28S, 12S, cytb) that were obtained from representatives of five nominal limnadiid genera and one undescribed limnadiid species. These analyses confirm the monophyly of Eulimnadia and the most taxonomically inclusive phylogenetic analysis (28S) produces the following tree topology: (((((Eulimnadia, Metalimnadia), undescribed limnadiid), Imnadid), Limnadopsis), Limnadia). This topology is inconsistent with prior estimates of limnadiid inter-generic relationships. Maximum likelihood-based constraint analyses demonstrate that the above topology is significantly better than prior hypotheses of limnadiid relationships, and support the monophyly of Eulimnadia. Morphological character optimization on this topology suggests that the postulated close relationship between Limnadia and Eulimnadia is based on shared ancestral characteristics rather than synapomorphies. Furthermore, the discovery of the genetically distinct undescribed limnadiid lineage strongly supports the necessity of efforts to better evaluate limnadiid biodiversity, especially those in poorly collected zoogeographic regions.
10.2307/1549557|The varunine crab genus Neoeriocheir, previously synonymized under Eriocheir, is here regarded as a valid taxon. The type species, N. leptognathus, differs from members of Eriocheir sensu stricto in the form of its epistome, chelipeds, and male first pleopod as well as first zoeal structures. Eriocheir formosa is here assigned to a new genus, Platyeriocheir. The type species, Eriocheir formosa, is distinctly different from species of Eriocheir sensu stricto based on the structure of the carapace, the chelipeds, the thoracic sternum, and the male first pleopod, and on the form of the zoeal and megalopal stages.
4126711|The life history and reproduction of the amphipod Jassa slatteryi were investigated monthly for one year on a seagrass bed (Zostera marina L.) in Gwangyang Bay, southern Korea. The standing crop of seagrass showed two peaks in spring and fall. Population dynamics of J. slatteryi was closely correlated with the standing crop of seagrass, suggesting that there is biological interaction between these two species. The life-history pattern was annual and iteroparous with two principal periods of juvenile recruitment during the year; in spring (March to May) and fall (October to December). Overall sex ratio was female-biased. The mean body length of adults and brood size was larger in the spring breeding period than in the fall. There was a positive relationship between the brood size and body length of ovigerous females. The mean egg volume was more than
1548864| A recent proposal (Tavares and Secrtan, 1993) for restricted usage of the terms thelycum and spermatheca in the Decapoda is discussed. Although the term thelycum has been most commonly utilized to signify the female genital area in penaeoid shrimps, the proposal does not address or include some of the pertinent evidence from the extensive literature on penaeoid systematics and reproductive morphology. The suggested limited definition of thelycum is not considered justifiable given the vast diversity in spermatophore structure, attachment, and storage in penaeoids or other decapods. The view that the thelycum is formed from only one thoracic sternite is hardly tenable, because the literature on penaeoid shrimps clearly shows that two and sometimes three thoracic sternites are involved in spermatophore attachment or storage, the main criterion of the proposal for function of a thelycum. It is noted herein that the thelycum of penaeoid females may serve (a) for either temporary attachment or prolonged storage of spermatophores or (b) as an area of genital contact with the male, which leads to the apertures of paired internalized seminal receptacles or spermathecae; sperm-free male accessory substances may or may not be deposited on that area. A rigid, limited application of the term spermatheca to only one variation of sperm or spermatophore storage structure (that derived from intersegmental phragmata) is hardly acceptable given the generalized meaning of the term (=sperm storage) and the considerable variation in such structures in the Decapoda. 
10.2307/1548247|Calyptolana hancocki, new genus, new species, is figured and described, and its affinities to other genera discussed. The zoogeography of the Caribbean and Gulf of Mexico cirolanid fauna is briefly discussed. A synopsis of Caribbean and Gulf of Mexico cirolanids is given along with keys to the cirolanid-related families, and to the Caribbean and Gulf of Mexico cirolanid genera.
1549738| The population structures of Aratus pisonii and Sesarma rectum were analysed in order to compare their life histories. These two sinchronotopic species occupy distinct mangrove microhabitats in Ubatuba, So Paulo, Brazil. In order to compare the population dynamics of these two species, age and reproductive status of crabs were estimated by obtaining monthly collections over a 2-year period. Aratus pisonii follows an annual population cycle. Highest frequencies of ovigerous females were recorded during spring and summer, while juvenile recruitment peaked during the winter when the adult population was less representative. The life span of A. pisonii was estimated to be one or two years. On the other hand, recruitment of S. rectum was continuous throughout the year. Adults were consistently present in all months, suggesting that the life span of S. rectum is longer than that of A. pisonii, and its reproduction might be continuous. Temperature is correlated with frequency of breeding females and juveniles in A. pisonii, while no such correlations are found in S. rectum. These results suggest that the population dynamics of these two grapsid crabs is considerably different. 
4094214|The two forms of Hemigrapsus penicillatus (de Haan, 1835), recently distinguished on the basis of electrophoresis and differences in the size of the setal patches on the male chelae, are here recognized as two distinct species. The individuals having smaller setal patches are H. penicillatus, whereas those with larger setal patches are described herein as a new species. Living and fresh material of the two species are also clearly separated by the size and distribution of dark spots on the cephalothorax, abdomen, third maxillipeds, and chelipeds. Morphology of the male first pleopod is different between the two species. Females of the two species are morphologically identical and cannot be easily separated once colour has faded.
4094215|During monthly samplings between September 1998 and August 2000, 3,660 specimens of Ucides cordatus (Linnaeus, 1763) (2054 males and 1606 females) were obtained and examined for size (CW = carapace width) to determine growth-age equations for each sex. This species showed a slower growth, with a marked seasonal oscillation, in females as compared to males, suggesting application of the seasonal and nonseasonal von Bertalanffy growth model, respectively.
10.2307/1548676|Recent studies show that the allometric relationships between hermit crab chelipeds and cephalothorax can be affected by the type of shell occupied, and that this relationship probably results from poorly fitting shells restricting the overall growth of crabs (the stunting hypothesis). The extent of this phenomenon in natural populations is unclear. In this study, discriminant function analysis was used to test whether the shell species occupied by individual Pagurus longicarpus could be predicted based on crab morphology. The relative cheliped size of male hermit crabs varied among shell species; crabs occupying shells of Nassarius vibex and Turbo castanea had the smallest chelipeds, and those occupying shells of Polinices duplicatus had the largest. These patterns were inconsistent with the stunting hypothesis because there was generally not an association between the relative size of a crab's gastropod shell and its cheliped morphology. When such an association was present, crabs occupying relatively large shells had relatively large chelipeds; the opposite pattern is predicted by the stunting hypothesis. The relationships predicted by the stunting hypothesis may not have been seen because the crabs may not have occupied their shells long enough for the effect to occur. The observed patterns were consistent with a hypothesis that suggests cheliped morphology and shell species occupancy change ontogenetically, creating an apparent relationship between shell species and cheliped shape.
10.2307/1548228|Pairs of the crab Trapezia ferruginea and the snapping shrimp Alpheus lottini live in very stable communities on Indo-Pacific pocilloporid corals. Both crabs and shrimps were observed to defend the coral against intruders of both species in the field. In the laboratory it has been shown that various appeasement patterns must be performed by an intruder shrimp towards a crab before the shrimp is accepted on the coral by the crab. These patterns appear to be borrowed from the crab's appeasement repertoire and are never performed between shrimps among themselves. The shrimp, as the weaker of the two, has to "learn" how to inhibit the stronger crab's aggression by using the crab's own language.
4540279| This paper deals primarily with a full redescription of the mature female of Ascidicola rosea Thorell, 1859, and a young female is described mainly in regard to the urosome. The two species of solitary ascidians containing this copepod, which lacks an eye, were collected at different localities: Microcosmus sabatieri Roule at Banyuls-sur-Mer, and Ascidia mentula Mller at Strangford Lough. Many systematists have studied this long-known, elongated, pinkish copepod (Ascidicolidae: Ascidicolinae). However, the major articulation between the metasome and urosome has been interpreted differently by authors, and morphological details have not always been consistently described. The intent of the present paper is to resolve such problems. It shows that the ventral transverse spinose pad posterior to the penultimate (second abdominal) segment of the urosome of the mature female is homologous to much of the ventral part of the penultimate (third abdominal) segment of the urosome of the young female. 
10.2307/1548470|Necrocarcinus olsonorum, new species, is a minor element in the Linuparus faunal association from the Cretaceous Carlile Shale of Turonian Age around the northern and eastern flanks of the Black Hills Uplift in South Dakota and Wyoming. The species is characterized by a highly arched ovate carapace ornamented with rounded bosslike spines and small granules, and dorsal shield with reflexed and rounded edges. The shape, ornamentation, and stratigraphic position of this crab suggest that it is related closely to the ancestral stock of the calappids (i.e., Calappa). Fourteen specimens known from seven localities are preserved as carapaces unassociated with sterna, abdomens, or appendages, possibly indicating the fragility of the missing exoskeletal elements, and suggesting adaptation to a shallow burrowing mode of life in muddy substrates. One carapace preserved with its sternum and proximal parts of pereiopods 1-3 indicates that pereiopods 4 and 5 were reduced.
1549707|Gill-cleaning mechanisms of the burrowing mud shrimp Laomedia astacina De Haan, 1849, were examined based on morphology and behavioral observations. The gill complement consists of 13 arthrobranchs and 5 podobranchs, with flattened gill filaments of the phylloid trichobranch type. Gill cleaning is based on passive mechanisms involving setal systems on the scaphognathite, epipods, setobranch, and pereiopodal coxae. Multidenticulate scaphognathite setae (MSS) bearing digitate scale setules project into the gill chamber, lying over gill filaments. Proximal setules of the MSS incline to the setal base while distal setules incline to the tip; the transition zone of setule inclination is marked with an annulus. Setiferous epipods on the limb bases, except on fifth pereiopods, are armed with serrate setae, which contact adjacent gill filaments and coxal surfaces. Multidenticulate setobranch setae are found only on the coxae of third maxillipeds, thus limiting their gill cleaning functions to the anterior gills. Pereiopodal coxae bear tufts of short serrate setae together with a few multiple double-prong setae that are morphologically atypical in decapods. Active gill cleaning by pereiopodal brushes, as in callianassids and upogebiids, and limb rocking, as in astacideans, were not observed. Among thalassinideans, gill-cleaning mechanisms of laomediids appear more closely allied to those of thalassinids than callianassids and upogebiids, whereas those of axioids possibly indicate an ancestral condition.
10.2307/1548456|Three new amphipod species in the family Ampeliscidae, Ampelisca erythrorhabdota, Byblis robustus, and Byblis frigidis, are described from the shallow shelf waters of the northern Bering and southern Chukchi seas. Ampelisca erythrorhabdota is most closely related to Ampelisca macrocephala and differs mainly in the color patterns of unpreserved specimens and size at maturity. Byblis frigidis differs from its closest relative, Byblis breviramus, in having longer antennae, spines on both edges of article 6, pereiopod 7, and in lacking the enlarged lateral spine on the end of the peduncle of uropod 1. Byblis robustus differs from other Byblis in having antennae of almost equal length and a distinctly triangular shape of the posterior lobe of pereiopod 7.
1549863|Young Cardisoma carnifex were found living within burrows of conspecific adults, in diverticula starting from the main branch of the burrow. Their gill chamber structure is much less adapted for airbreathing than that of the adult. The young spend at least three years in this environment, probably feeding on leaves remaining from the adult meals. Nothing is known about when they start to dig their own burrows or how they avoid being cannibalised within the adult burrows.
1549700| Tidal, diel, and spatial variations in numbers, sex, size, and colour morphology of shore crabs Carcinus maenas caught in baited drop nets during tidal periods, at neap tide and spring tide, were studied in the strongly tidal Looe Estuary, Cornwall, Southwest England. Depth, salinity, temperature, pH, and oxygen tensions were measured simultaneously. High numbers of both genders were caught in the estuary. In total, 61% of adult crabs caught were females. However, the sex ratio (males over females) in the catches significantly increased (P < 0.05) from approximately 0.2 at the station nearest to the mouth of the estuary to approximately 4 at the innermost station. Due to the well-established relationship between carapace colouration and intermoult duration, catches were analysed with regard to red and green colour forms, besides for sex and size. Green crabs were caught throughout the estuary and constituted 79% of total catches. Green males dominated the shallow stations, whereas green females dominated the deep stations. The catch per unit effort (CPUE) was related to tidal and diel phases, with most adult crabs being caught during high tide and only few during low tide. Also, more adult crabs were caught during night time than during day time. The CPUE increased with increasing depth, and crabs were never caught at salinities below 15 and rarely at salinities below 20. Oxygen tension, temperature, and pH exerted no effect on the distribution of shore crabs. Even though conclusions based on these data depend on whether catch-data analysis reflects true population abundances, sex ratios, and colour morphology compositions, the data suggest that the small size, strong current, and high salinity characteristics of the Looe Estuary allow both genders and colour forms to migrate into the estuary during high tide and to return to the shore before low tide, thereby exploiting a marginal feeding habitat. 
27920094|During the Melville expedition to the Scotia Sea in January-March 1981, a multidisciplinary team of investigators studied the distribution and biomass of Euphausia superba, in addition to its food resources. The areas studied included five north-south transects of the Scotia Sea (3350W) where krill were relatively sparse, and an area north of Elephant Island where a superswarm of krill was encountered. Krill biomass, determined on samples obtained by paired bongo nets (1 m2), has been used to calculate the minimal daily food requirements for all stages of krill from Calyptopis I to the adult stage. The mean krill biomass in the upper 200 m of the water column in the Scotia Sea (10.6 mg dry weight m3) would require 0.1050.211 mg C m3 d1; the corresponding value for krill in the swarm area (270 mg dry weight m3) was 2.45.4 mg C m3 d1. The phytoplankton productivity for the upper 200 m in the Scotia Sea and in the swarm area was estimated to be 4.8 and 4.2 mg C m3 d1, respectively. Our calculations have been concerned mainly with the minimal daily carbon requirements for "maintenance" metabolism. Data of other investigators have been used to compare the total carbon requirement for growth of krill on a seasonal basis. In areas of dense krill aggregations (such as that north of Elephant Island) our calculations indicate that phytoplankton productivity can sustain "maintenance" metabolism by the krill population, but may not provide for full growth of the individuals. Other factors must be invoked here, such as dispersal of the swarm, horizontal movements of the krill along lines of increasing food concentrations, and advection of food resources into the swarm area. Floristic analyses of phytoplankton "in" and "out" of krill swarms suggest that the krill preferentially consume the larger phytoplankton, and leave most of the nannoplankton. Our data from the Scotia Sea indicate that this area is very high in primary production as compared to most other sections of the Antarctic Ocean, and this might be responsible for the high krill biomass reported for this area. The BIOMASS acoustic data set indicates, however, that the greatest krill concentrations exist in the East Indian Ocean (61 mg dry weight m3), where data indicate that primary production is very low. This anomaly requires further investigation on the relationship of large-scale zones of high primary production in Antarctic waters and their relation to zooplankton biomass.
27753970|Aiming at a better understanding of the harpacticoid diversity of the South China Sea, sediment samples were taken from Nha Trang Bay (Vietnam) during a sampling campaign carried out in April, 2004. Two female specimens of the monotypic genus Sentiropsis were found. These turned out to belong to a new species, Sentiropsis vietnamensis n. sp., which can be separated from the type species S. minuta by the shape of the setae of the female antennule, size of the seta of the second segment of the antennary exopod, lateral setation of the endopod of the mandible, armature of the arthrite of the maxillule, shape of the seta of the syncoxa of the maxilliped, shape of the seta of the basis of the maxilliped, ventral spinular ornamentation on the posterior half of the genital double-somite and fourth urosomite of the female, P1ENP1:P1ENP2 length ratio, armature formula of the female P5EXP, shape of the apical setae EXP3 and ENP2, length ratio of the outer spines of P4EXP1 and EXP2, the shape and size of the endopodal lobe of P5, and length of the apical seta on the P5 endopodal lobe. The diagnosis of the genus is amended.
1548452|A new species of Eulimnadia, E. belki, is described from the Chankanaab National Park in Cozumel, State of Quintana Roo, Yucatan Peninsula, Mexico. The species also occurs in Venezuela. Eulimnadia belki can be distinguished from all other species of the Limnadiidae in the New World by the unusual morphology of the eggs. The morphology of the external egg shell, a promising taxonomic character, is compared to that of all species of Eulimnadia known from Central and South America.
10.2307/1548894|Nominal species of the idoteid isopod genus Synidotea from Japan (S. laevidorsalis), western U.S.A. (S. laticauda), South Africa (S. hirtipes), and Australia (S. keablei and S. grisea) are shown to be morphologically distinct. Others probably are also. Contrary to the views of Chapman and Carlton (1991, 1994), the Japanese species has not been widely distributed by shipping. The Australian species fail several of Chapman and Carlton's attributes of introduced species: their recent discovery and restricted distribution are anticipated in a poorly explored fauna, there is no evidence of postintroduction range extension, no known human mechanisms of introduction exist, they are not associated with known introductions, nor with altered environments, and exotic evolutionary origin cannot be assessed while the phylogeny of the genus is not known. The species in the western U.S.A. is ecologically as well as morphologically distinct, being estuarine rather than marine. A record of S. laevidorsalis from the Gironde estuary, France, is, in fact, of S. laticauda and therefore an introduction from the U.S.A. rather than from Japan. This study demonstrates the importance of careful taxonomic analysis before it is concluded that marine species are introduced.
10.2307/1548238|The pore canals of the talitrid amphipod Hyale nilssoni are described by transmission electronmicroscopy and compared with the pore canals previously described for three species of the gammarid amphipod Gammarus. Structural similarities between the pore canals of the two genera include the presence of an elongate tubular portion that dilates near the junction of the exocuticle with the inner epicuticle, and a cavity in the epicuticle that provides continuity between the animal's surface and the rest of the pore canal. Differences include the presence, in Hyale, of a greater degree of fusion between adjacent elements of the system, and of an anastomosing arrangement of tubules that occupies a series of narrow spaces just below the inner epicuticle. These tubules are derived from the most distal portions of the dilatations and communicate with the cavities in the epicuticle by narrow channels. The significance of the pore canals of Hyale is discussed.
1549843| The female of Botryllophilus sarsi is described as a new species, replacing B. brevipes Sars, 1921, which is a junior homonym of B. brevipes Brment, 1909. The description is based on specimens on loan from the Zoological Museum, University of Oslo. These copepods, living in a polycitorid ascidian, were collected on the west coast of Norway in 1937 and had been identified as B. brevipes Sars. Botryllophilus sarsi belongs to subgroup 1 of morphotype A of the genus and is distinguished from its five congeners by a combination of minor morphological features of body form, antennule, legs, and genitalia. Comparison of B. sarsi with similar botryllophilins and consideration of their ascidian hosts may lead us to question whether the host for B. brevipes Sars is a botryllid. 
10.2307/1548526| The morphology and gonad history of a bilaterally gynandromorphic fresh-water crab (Potamon fluviatile Herbst) is described. The abdomen and gonopods exhibit male characteristics on the left side of the body, female ones on the right, with the exception of a partial masculinization of the first right pleopod. The right side has a normal female gonopore, the left one a penis. Internally, testes and vas deferens are present on both sides, though the right vas deferens is incomplete and does not communicate with the outside. On the right, a seminal receptacle full of sperm indicates that the animal has mated as a female. An isolated portion of gonad, also showing testicular activity, is annexed to the seminal receptacle. Mature sperms are visible throughout the gonad and vas deferens. No ovarian tissue was detected in the entire reproductive apparatus of this specimen. The haploid chromosome number does not differ significantly between the male and female sides and averages 68  1.3. The role of the androgenic hormone on sex differentiation of Brachyura is discussed. 
10.2307/1549284|In an effort to evaluate and clarify the taxonomic status of crayfishes of the subgenus Erebicambarus east of the Mississippi River morphometric and meristic characters were examined. Multivariate and univariate analyses of characters do not support the recognition of Cambarus laevis and Cambarus ornatus and they are herein considered as synonyms of Cambarus tenebrosus. A pattern of clinal variation in the width of the areola of C. tenebrosus was revealed. Examination of type material of Cambarus cahni supports the designation of Hobbs (1989) of C. cahni as a synonym of C. tenebrosus. An amended key to the subgenus Erebicambarus is provided.
1549568|Orientation of the hermit crabs Clibanarius antillensis to solid and striped targets of different visual angles was tested in a circular arena upon exposure to background sea water, calcium concentrations, gastropod odor, predatory fish odor, and seagrass odor. The test hypotheses were that (1) this hermit crab has the capacity to use visual cues for orientation and (2) it discriminates between objects on the basis of visual and chemical information. Adult crabs were tested during the day without their gastropod shells, and orientation varied with concentration and chemical cue. In general, orientation increased as concentration increased up to a maximum orientation response and then declined at higher concentrations. Solid targets representing gastropod shells attracted crabs in the presence of calcium and gastropod odor. Orientation toward striped targets representing seagrass increased in the presence of seagrass odor. Finally, orientation directly away from a target (predator avoidance response) was only observed in the presence of predator odor. Thus, both hypotheses were supported.
41315678|Crayfish are a highly diverse group of freshwater crustaceans with great ecological and economic importance. Many species construct terrestrial burrows within which they reproduce, overwinter, and/or avoid desiccation. Basic life-history and environmental tolerance information is still lacking for many species, particularly in regards to terrestrial portion(s) of their life cycle. In this paper we present and evaluate a design for a crayfish burrowing chamber that allows for experimental control of burrowing conditions, including substrate, groundwater height and flow, as well as direct observation of burrow construction and measurement of groundwater quality. Results of evaluation assays with Cambarus striatus, a widespread secondary burrower native to the southeastern United States show that chambers are amenable to studies examining burrowing behavior, survivorship, growth and water quality. Water table height was easily manipulated in chambers. Seepage rates were strongly affected by substrate type: burrows in coarse substrate filled rapidly but collapsed quickly whereas burrows in fine substrates filled very slowly and did not collapse. Cambarus striatus burrowed readily in fine substrate, produced complex burrows with chimneys, and exhibited high survivorship and positive growth over a 4 week period. Ammonia levels were higher in burrows than in the groundwater flowing through the chambers, but did not significantly affect growth or survivorship of C. striatus. Maximum burrow depth was significantly affected by substrate type, but not presence/absence of chelipeds. Suggested improvements include larger chamber size and the use of mesh barriers to keep crayfish from burrowing against the inner chamber walls.
20487727|Sequence analyses on the intron from the elongation factor-1 gene were conducted to examine the population structure of sword prawn (Parapenaeopsis hardwickii) in the East China Sea and Taiwan Strait. Five samples including 207 individuals were separately collected from the north of East China Sea (NECS) and waters off Tamsui, Taichung, Putai, and Cheding, and 102 alleles were identified. Despite no phylogeographic structure in alleles, pairwise
10.2307/1548588|Shortening of the rostrum in Aristeus antennatus in the Mediterranean Sea was studied by analyzing the relationship between rostral length and carapace length, taking the following factors into account: sexual maturity, time of year, size at first maturity, molt periods, and secondary sex characters (petasma and thelycum). Males of Aristeus antennatus exhibit marked shortening of the rostrum, which is long in juveniles and extremely short in adults. Shortening of the rostrum in males occurred at a definite time of year, between February and April of the first year of life in which sexual maturity is attained. Rostral shortening is not directly related to maturation. For this reason mature males with long, intermediate, and short rostra may coexist prior to the season of shortening. After the season of rostral shortening, all mature males present short rostra. Small males and females of all sizes display long rostra. Rostral allometry is positive in females over their entire life span. The role of rostral shortening in the general behavioral pattern of this species is discussed.
1549660|The tanaidaceans collected by submersible from a deep-sea cold-seep site in the Gulf of Mexico were examined. Three new genera and four new species are described. Species belonging to the genera Coalecerotanais new genus, Bathyleptochelia new genus, Crurispina new genus, Araphura, and Paranarthrura were identified. The tanaidacean fauna of this cold seep was composed of several evolutionary lines of both shallow-water and deep-water origin. Mouthpart dissimilarity suggests that several different feeding strategies are employed.
10.2307/1548545| Deep-sea shrimps belonging to the genus Benthesicymus were collected on 6 cruises from deep water in the western North Pacific, from 14135.0E to 15806.5E and from 2048.1N to 3951.0N. Fifty-two specimens representing 8 species, including 5 new records from the area and 1 new species were identified. Benthesicymus crenatus, B. urinator, B. strabus, B. longipes, B. carinatus, B. altus, B. investigatoris, and one new species, Benthsicymus brevirostris, are described. Keys are presented for the identification of these species. Vertical distributions of these rare species are also noted. 
10.2307/1548468|Cyst morphology of the 13 species of Branchinecta thus far recorded in North America is described by means of scanning electron microscopy. Differences in morphology are emphasized to determine whether egg ornamentation could be an easy and useful means to distinguish species even in the absence of water. The eggs of Branchinecta are compared with data from previous studies on other anostracan genera.
10.2307/1548517|A homarid lobster hatches as a prelarva and then molts successively through three larval instars (stages I, II, and III), one postlarval stage (IV), and numerous juvenile stages. Between the larval and the postlarval stages their anatomy undergoes major changes as the anatomical features characteristic of larval forms are replaced by those found on juveniles and adults. Physiology, ecology, and ethology also change progressively through stages IV and V, during which the lobster shifts from the planktonic behavior of the larva to the benthic existence of the juvenile and adult. This transition from larva to postlarva, specifically the molt from stage III to stage IV, is a true metamorphosis in which the eyestalk neuroendocrine tissue seems to be involved.
10.2307/1549123|The ultrastructure of gill filament epithelia of the crayfish Procambarus clarkii was examined during all stages of the molt cycle. When compared to events in the telson, apolysis and preexuvial cuticle deposition were greatly delayed in both respiratory and ion-transporting gill filament types, occurring only during the last 10% of the premolt. No postexuvial cuticular deposition was noted, the cuticle appearing to be complete immediately after ecdysis. No changes in the morphology of gill filament epithelia were noted that would indicate epithelial involvement in preexuvial cuticle synthesis. Silver staining, used to detect epithelia involved in active transport of ions, revealed staining patterns during all stages of pre- and postmolt that were similar to patterns seen in intermolt animals.
4540300|A species of squat lobster, Munidopsis kermadec new to science is described and illustrated from a hydrothermal vent area in Brothers Seamount, Kermadec Volcanic Arc, Southwest Pacific Ocean. It is distinguished from the allied Munidopsis lauensis, by the shape of rostrum, the erectness of eye spines, structure of the sixth abdominal segment and dactyl morphology of P2-4. This new record increases the number of species of Munidopsis reported from Southwest Pacific vent fields to five. A key is provided to distinguish the vent associated Munidopsis. New records of M. lauensis and M. sonne from Brothers Seamount are also reported here and this extends their distribution further south to the western Pacific. The habitat of the new species is briefly described. A note on the Munidopsis diversity in West Pacific vent fields is also provided.
10.2307/1548129| The deposition of endocuticle by postmolt Gammarus oceanicus Segerstrle maintained in either 10% or 100% seawater was examined at intervals for 12 days following ecdysis. After an initial inhibition or slowing of cuticle formation when the animals were transferred to 10% seawater, the frequency of lamella formation was similar in both experimental groups. Dilution of the external medium was also without persistent effect on the rate of increase in endocuticle thickness during the period of observation. 
1549211|The ultrastructure of the integument in a parasitic copepod Ophioika sp., which may be a new species, is described using SEM and TEM of specimens both in situ and dissected out of their brittlestar host, Ophiocoma scolopendrina. The parasite is found embedded in host connective tissue at the base of the arm. The surface of the parasite's integument facing the host has knob-like projections, some of which have long microvilli-like endings. Whether these structures have an absorptive function and play a role in the parasite's feeding is discussed.
10.2307/1548791|The hatching process and the prezoeal stage of the hair crab Erimacrus isenbeckii (Brandt) is described under laboratory conditions. Most prezoeae shed their embryonic cuticle within 30 min after hatching. The molting process consists of three parts: (1) stretching of the rostral spine, (2) stretching of the antennae, while flicking up of the dorsal and lateral spines, and (3) shedding of the carapace, antennae, maxillipeds, and abdomen. A unique morphological feature was recognized in the prezoeae of this species: the telsonal processes of the first zoea are protruded into the proximal parts in all processes of the prezoeal telson. The first zoeal stage was also redescribed to complement its larval morphology.
10.2307/1548055|Larvae of Probopyrus pandalicola, P. floridensis, and P. bithynis were raised experimentally in the laboratory. Development times of larvae (epicaridium to cryptoniscus) and intermediate host selection were the same for all parasite species. We used SEM and LM to obtain both morphological and morphometric data on first and final stage larvae from each species. While P. bithynis larvae are distinct morphologically, P. floridensis and P. pandalicola larvae are similar to one another, but often differ significantly in several body measurements. Furthermore, cryptonisci of P. floridensis and P. pandalicola differ in regard to host specificity, pigmentation, and swimming speed. The authors conclude that P. pandalicola, P. bithynis, and P. floridensis should retain separate species status. Finally, the morphogenetic interrelationships of our observations are discussed and we suggest that P. bithynis is more advanced phylogenetically than either P. pandalicola or P. floridensis.
40665248|A major life-history challenge for fairy shrimps (Anostraca) is the unpredictable environment of the ephemeral pool. The duration and predictability of pool inundations affects their life history strategy. The growth and reproduction schedule of a thamnocephalid fairy shrimp, Branchinella (Branchinellites) kugenumaensis, in an unpredictable ephemeral pool in northern Taiwan was monitored from 2004 to 2008. A total of 15 inundation episodes, resulting from typhoons or, occasionally, frontal systems, was recorded over the fiveyear period. Thirteen episodes lasted no more than 2-3 weeks. Two exceptionally long inundation periods were caused by additional rain events before the pool dried out. We recorded the growth patterns, egg spawning time, and clutch size of each fairy shrimp cohort during each inundation episode. No significant differences were observed in either growth or reproductive pattern from hatching to first spawning between short and long inundation episodes. The fairy shrimps stopped increasing in size during the first clutch production. Upon subsequent rainfall before the pool dried, the shrimp stopped reproducing and resumed growth, demonstrating a discontinuously indeterminate growth pattern, before resuming egg production. Body length was positively correlated with clutch size, and this can be expressed as clutch size = 0.0059  body length 3.165 The potential reproductive fitness of this indeterminate growth strategy demonstrates optimal resource allocation between growth and reproduction.
10.2307/1548412|In spite of the isolated nature of the Galapagos Islands and the scarcity of inland waters, three of the main branchiopod taxa are represented on the archipelago by Dendrocephalus sarmentosus Pereira and Belk (Anostraca), Triops longicaudatus LeConte (Notostraca), and Eulimnadia cylindrova Belk sensu lato (Spinicaudata). These species have been collected from different botanical regions within the Galapagos. The present study documents their systematics and morphology using both light microscopy and scanning electron microscopy (SEM). The current systematics of the "conchostracan" genus Eulimnadia still present problems that hamper reliable identifications. The use of egg morphology, recently suggested to be a key taxonomic criterion within the genus, is here criticized, on the basis of material identified as E. cylindrova from several North American populations. Triops longicaudatus is known from North and South America, while Dendrocephalus sarmentosus is endemic to the Galapagos. Eulimnadia cylindrova is described from the United States and Mexico. Bird migration, transport by winds, or anthropogenic action are potential agents for the dispersal of cysts from mainland-source populations and are possible explanations for the affinities with mainland species and populations. In populations of E. cylindrova sensu lato and T. longicaudatus, no males have been observed. Unisexual modes of reproduction are considered to favor colonization, since only a single egg may suffice to establish a new population.
40665212|The parasitic metanauplius larva of an undescribed species of Caribeopsyllus, the second thaumatopsyllid species to be reported from the Caribbean, was discovered in Ophiothhx angulata in Belize. In addition, metanauplii of Caribeopsyllus chawayi, whose free-living stages were previously known, were found to parasitize Ophiactis savignyi. Their ophiuroid hosts usually contained a single larva that caused them no discernable physical damage. Caribeopsyllus chawayi, which was initially described from Mexico, is here reported from Belize and is suggested to occur in Brazil. It might occur in the Pacific Ocean, as its host is circumtropical. Larvae of the Belizean thaumatopsyllids are exceptional among copepod nauplii for their large size, four pairs of appendages, true chelate mandibles, elaborate tripartite eyes, accessory photoreceptive structures (Gicklhorn's organ), sexual dimorphism, and endozoic parasitism. Thaumatopsyllus paradoxus and Caribeopsyllus amphiodiae, the only other thaumatopsyllids with known metanauplii, have the same suite of specializations. However, metanauplii of the latter two species crawl, whereas the Belizean metanauplii swim. Both Belizean species have an antennal arthrite used for feeding and well-developed mandibular setae used for locomotion, which are lacking in C. amphiodiae. They leave the host as non-feeding positively phototactic copepodids. Morphological features distinguishing the metanauplii of Belizean species from that of C. amphiodiae indicate that the latter should be referred to a new genus if the systematic significance of its unique morphology is corroborated. Similarities between thaumatopsyllids and siphonostomatoids in the ontogenesis of their caudal rami suggest that Thaumatopsyllidae may belong to the Siphonostomatoida, or be closely allied.
10.2307/1549413| Nyctiphanes simplex is one of the few neritic euphausiid species in the world. This species frequently dominates the nearshore waters of the Gulf of California, the transition zone of the California Current, and the eastern tropical Pacific off Ecuador and Per. It has a high production in coastal and upwelling waters and plays an important role in the trophodynamics of these areas. This work examines the larval growth production (Pg) of Nyctiphanes simplex in Baha de La Paz, Baja California Sur, Mxico. The data were collected during 7 oceanographic expeditions from February-August 1990. Except for August, larval growth production remained at high levels in the bay. Daily and annual growth production for both transects were estimated. The mean annual larval Pg value for the entire area was 195.7 mgdwm<sup>-3</sup>yr<sup>-1</sup>, the highest value recorded for the genus Nyctiphanes. The annual mean P:B ratio (defined as the ratio of annual production to average annual biomass for a particular species) for the bay was 35, using data representing mostly the youngest part of the population, which exhibits the highest growth rates (individuals < 6 mm). These values are related to the reproductive period of the species and to regional biological and oceanographic features present in this bay. We consider these values of larval Pg as an index that in Baha de La Paz the production of Nyctiphanes simplex is comparable to that of upwelling regions and that the bay functions as a nursery and feeding area for many other species, such as sardines, whales, manta rays, and zooplankton. 
10.2307/1547903| The new species Dendrocephalus venezolanus and Dendrocephalus affinis (Anostraca: Thamnocephalidae), collected in Venezuela, are described. The descriptions are based principally on the morphology of the frontal appendage typical of the genus. A differential diagnosis and photographs taken using the scanning electron microscope are included. /// Se describen las especies nuevas Dendrocephalus venezolanus y Dendrocephalus affinis (Anostraca: Thamnocephalidae), colectadas en Venezuela. Las descripcines se basan principalmente en la morfologa del apndice frontal tpico del gnero. Se incluye diagnosis y fotografas tomadas utilizando el microscopio electrnico de barrido. 
10.2307/1547952|Equations expressing total width-weight relationships of blue crabs, Callinectes sapidus Rathbun (Decapoda: Portunidae), from the Ashley River, South Carolina, were calculated for each sex in relation to molt stage and for intermolt (Stage C) crabs of each sex in relation to maturity and carapace form. Sex, maturity, molt sign, and carapace form significantly affected width-weight relationships. Overall, males were heavier than females of equal width. Mature males weighed more than similar-sized immature males; in contrast, mature females weighed less than immature females of equal size. Crabs with short lateral spines were heavier than those of the same sex and width with long spines. Intermolt (Stage C) and premolt (Stage D) blue crabs of both sexes were heavier than recently molted (Stages A and B) crabs of the same sex. Premolt females were heavier than intermolt females; this difference was not observed for males. Ashley River crabs were generally heavier than crabs reported from Florida, Texas, or Virginia. These differences may not be real, however, because many variables affect width-weight relationships of blue crabs and only sex differences were reported in all but the present study. Geographical variation is known to exist in crab populations, but only well-defined comparisons between populations should be considered.
4540256|The pea crab Orthotheres barbatus is one of seven species of the family Pinnotheridae reported from Venezuelan marine waters. Larval life histories are not known for any species of the genus Orthotheres. Ten ovigerous females of O. barbatus were obtained from their host gastropod, Cittarium pica, at Los Roques Archipelago, Venezuela. Larvae of O. barbatus were reared in the laboratory from hatching to the first crab stage. This species exhibits abbreviated development in both the number of larval stages (two zoeal stages preceding a megalopa) and the duration of development (minimum of four days from hatching to first crab). The number of zoeal stages for pinnotherid species described to date ranges from 3 to 5, with only Tunicotheres moseri, Pinnotheres taylori, and Nepinnotheres pinnotheres known to also have only two zoeal stages. Morphology of the larval stages of O. barbatus is described, illustrated and compared to that previously described for larvae of the Pinnotherinae. Selected larval characters are proposed as typical larval features for this subfamily and are used to support separation of this group from the rest of Pinnotheridae.
10.2307/1548368|A new species of copepod parasite of the recently erected genus Ischnochitonika Franz and Bullock, 1990, from the tropical western Atlantic, is described from the chiton Ischnochiton (Ischnoradsia) hakodadensis (Pilsbry, 1893) from the Sea of Japan, at Oshoro, on the west coast of Hokkaido, Japan. This is the second record of copepods parasitizing polyplacophorans. The female resides in the pallial groove of the host attached to its inner wall and shows neither appendages nor segmentation. The species shares the general habitus of the genus, but differs from the other described species in the shape of the ectosoma and details in the structure of the pygmy male.
10.2307/1549281|Lepidophthalmus jamaicense, originally described in limited detail on the basis of two male type specimens from Montego Bay, Jamaica, is redescribed and fully illustrated in the course of our examination of the original types, a large series of recently collected male and female topotypes, and recent collections from the southeastern Caribbean Sea. Comparative morphological studies of all the known western Atlantic species serve to distinguish materials from Belize, which are herein recognized as L. richardi, new species. Included in these comparisons and descriptions are detailed studies of ventral cuticular armor in the anterior abdominal somites, and apparent apomorphic character of particular value in segregating tropical western Atlantic populations. The occurrence of L. jamaicense in southeastern Cuba is confirmed from reexamination of museum material, and the range of the species is extended to Tobago and coastal Venezuela in the extreme southeastern Caribbean. While there appears to be strong potential for regional endemism in western Atlantic species of the genus Lepidophthalmus, the widely separated insular populations of L. jamaicense in the Antillean region appear to be undifferentiated. Reproductive history and potential for larval dispersal in this species remains unknown and may not conform to the abbreviated life histories reported for its western Atlantic congeners.
4540271| Habitat selection by small ( 15.0 mm carapace length (CL)) and large (> 15.0 mm CL) individuals of the crayfish, Orconectes marchandi, 0. ozarkae, 0. punctimanus, and Cambarus hubbsi was examined at 4 sites in 2 streams in the Spring River watershed. Replicate quadrat samples were collected from riffle, run, pool, emergent vegetation, stream margin, and backwater habitats during the summers of 1998 and 1999. A 3-factor ANOVA was used to determine effects of habitat, species, and year on crayfish density for each site and stream. Habitat selection by crayfish was determined by comparing habitat used to habitat available for each species and size class. There were significant temporal differences in habitat used by some species-size classes of crayfish, but significant species by habitat interactions were detected at all sites for both crayfish size classes. Small 0. ozarkae and 0. punctimanus used mainly vegetated habitat, whereas both size classes of C. hubbsi used mainly riffles and runs. Large individuals of Orconectes spp. and small 0. marchandi were more broadly distributed across pools, backwaters, stream margins, and vegetated habitats. Selection indices showed that individuals of all small Orconectes species and large 0. ozarkae and 0. punctimanus strongly selected vegetated, backwater and stream margin habitats at all sites and times on both streams, even though these habitat types comprised only ~15% of the available habitat. Both size classes of C. hubbsi selected mainly riffle habitats. Redundancy analyses showed a significant positive relationship between crayfish densities and percent emergent vegetation and a negative relationship with current velocity and depth. Backwater, stream margin, and vegetated habitats can contain extremely high densities of crayfish and may act as important habitats, especially for Orconectes species. 
4094206|Fishery dependent trawl samples taken in spring prior to commercial shrimp trawling season in South Carolina were analyzed for annual relative abundance, sex ratios, and ovarian development of white shrimp, Litopenaeus setiferus, during 1980-2003. Fishery independent trawl samples were analyzed for relative abundance and ovarian development of female L. setiferus during the same period. Relative abundance varied greatly among years, and was thought to be strongly influenced by winter water temperature. The decade of the 1990s was a period of mild winters and high abundance of white shrimp in South Carolina. Biological observations about size and sex ratios of shrimp were consistent with past studies done along the southeastern Atlantic coast. Proportions of male shrimp in fishery dependent collections appeared to increase with advance of maturation of female shrimp. After spawning, numbers of male shrimp declined, suggesting that males are attracted to location of females prior to spawning, as has been postulated in published laboratory studies. Analyses of fishery independent samples indicated a slight delay in time of maturation of female shrimp during cool temperatures in spring; conversely, spring seasons with warm temperatures seemed to speed up maturation. This study should help elucidate the location of spawning areas for L. setiferus off South Carolina, in addition to its primary purpose of managing the shrimp fishery on a biological basis.
10.2307/1549153|A new, troglomorphic subspecies of Asellus aquaticus, A. a. infernus, from Romania, is described and illustrated. The general architecture of the copulatory appendages, studied with SEM in Romanian and Slovenian hypogean and epigean populations, is compared and discussed. A difference in brood size was determined between Romanian hypogean and epigean populations. Extensive analysis of the data using multivariate discriminant function analysis (DFA) allowed the elucidation of racial differentiation patterns in A. aquaticus from Romania and Slovenia. The number of the initially measured morphometric characters was greatly reduced as the contribution of each character to each discriminant function was assessed. DFA divided the sample complex into distinct epigean--A. a. aquaticus, and hypogean forms--A. a. infernus (Romania) and A. a. cavernicolus (Slovenia). The size of pleopod V and its area as well as the isometric (short distal rami) uropod represent the most important discriminant characters. Distinct separation of Romanian and Slovenian cave populations, i.e., the low degree of convergent evolution toward troglomorphism, might be at least to some extent explained by a different origin of populations and by the considerable ecological differences between both habitats.
10.2307/1547866|At temperatures compatible with molting the hemocyanin in the blood of an intermolt stage C blue crab transports all but a very small fraction of the oxygen consumed. A number of previous investigations suggest that the respiratory mechanisms permitting the oxygen carrier to function at such a high level during stage C are perturbed during a molt. Many of these suggestions prove to be correct. The uptake of water and the apparent decrease in net hemocyanin synthesis during stages D<sub>3</sub> through A result in the virtual loss of the hemocyanin-oxygen transport system. A pronounced premolt alkalosis compensates for a concomitant hypercapnia. During exuviation lactate frequently accumulates in the blood, which presumably results from the inadequacy of gas exchange and aerobic metabolism at this time. When the molt is successful, however, the blood becomes only slightly acidotic, if at all, and the acidosis rapidly disappears. The changes in net metabolism of hemocyanin do not entail shifts in the composition of functionally distinct subunits that might permit an adaptation of the oxygen transport system to altered operating conditions in the blood during the early postmolt. There is, however, an increase in oxygen permeability of the general body surface, which becomes a site of oxygen uptake from the medium directly into the metabolically activated epidermis and also into the blood. In animals that survive a molt, including groups exposed to moderately hypoxic as well as normoxic water, there is no sign of tissue hypoxia and total O<sub>2</sub> uptake actually increases during the early postmolt. The critical role of these compensatory mechanisms is indicated by severe acidosis and tissue hypoxia prior to mortality in cases of aborted molts and molts that result in morphological aberrations. Later in the postmolt period the decrease in blood calcium that accompanies hardening of the new skeleton lowers hemocyanin-oxygen affinity, permitting the carrier to function at elevated blood PO<sub>2</sub>.
41315732|Male fiddler crabs either produce lateral or vertical waves. The function of lateral waves is well documented, but vertical waves have been largely unexplored. Here we explore the function of vertical claw-waving by the Japanese fiddler crab Uca arcuata by examining the context in which males produced both directed waves (the waver is facing a nearby crab) and undirected waves (waving when no other crabs are present). There are two types of mating in this species: burrow mating (the male chases a female to his burrow and they mate underground); and surface mating (the male holds the female down and they mate on the surface). Attempted burrow matings were more likely to be preceded with directed waving at the female than were attempted surface matings (83% vs. 50%). All successful burrow matings were preceded by directed waving at the female, while only 50% of successful surface matings were preceded by directed waving. Undirected waving was given in the absence of a nearby crab. The frequency of undirected waving was not related to the number of males within a 60 cm radius around the male, but was negatively related to the number of females within that distance. This suggests that undirected waving acts as a long-range female attractant.
10.2307/1548604|Intraspecific aggressive behavior of the xanthid crabs Trapezia intermedia and T. digitalis, both symbionts of corals, was observed in the laboratory. Intense agonism occurred in every encounter between conspecifics of the same sex, but never between members of opposite sexes, supporting the hypothesis that the strict pairing observed in these crabs is maintained by territorial aggressive behavior. Aggressive bouts typically began with a period of display which was almost invariably followed by violent fighting. Aggressive displays resembled those of other crab species, but fights were longer and more frequent, and injuries more common, than in other crabs. It is suggested that intense territorial aggression in Trapezia reflects the high degree of dependence of the crabs on the coral host.
10.2307/1548334|Sand-beach amphipods were sampled across an intertidal-subtidal gradient at several locations on the east central coast of Florida in 1982-1983 and 1985-1986. The amphipods collected represented 16 families and 40 species, although the Haustoriidae dominated (83%) total abundance. Five species, in order of abundance, Bathyporeia parkeri, Parahaustorius longimerus, Eudevenopus honduranus, Rhepoxynius epistomus, and Parahaustorius holmesi, made up 90% of total amphipod abundance. Only 1.5% of total amphipod abundance was found in the intertidal zone in this study, in marked contrast to other studies of sand-beach amphipods on the east coast of the United States. Abundance and species richness of amphipods increased sharply just below the swash zone. This spatial pattern is consistent with the hypothesis of Dahl (1953) that intertidal amphipods should become a less abundant component of the fauna on tropical beaches as compared to temperate ones. Strong seasonal patterns of abundance and species richness are present, with lowest values in the winter months. This temporal pattern does not appear to correlate with predator activity.
10.2307/1548736|Copulatory behavior of the crayfish Procambarus clarkii was observed in the laboratory. This behavior was asymmetrical, in that the male mounted the female and grasped her chelipeds with his chela. Crayfish in various combinations (1 female and 1 male, 1 female and 2 males, and 2 females and 1 male) were confined in an aquarium and observed. The number of copulations, the number of copulation attempts by males, total duration of copulations, and the average duration of a copulation were not different among the 3 combinations. Females initiated behavior similar to the copulatory behavior initiated by males only in experiments with 2 females and 1 male. The frequency of this reversed copulatory behavior was greater in the experiments with 2 females and 1 male than it was with the other 2 combinations.
20487739|Three new species of Lophomastix Benedict, 1904, L. boykoi, L. kellyi, and L, altoonaensis are described from the upper Eocene-upper Oligocene Lincoln Creek Formation and the lower to middle Miocene Astoria Formation of Washington State, USA. Previously only one other fossil Lophomastix, L. antiqua Schweitzer and Boyko 2000, had been described from the upper Eocene Quimper Formation of Washington. The two extant species of Lophomastix have a limited geographic distribution in the northwestern Pacific Ocean from Russia to Korea and in the northeastern Pacific from southern California to Baja California (Boyko, 2002). The description of two new Eocene and one new Miocene species suggests Lophomastix originated and was well established in the northeastern Pacific from the late Eocene through at least the early to middle Miocene.
10.2307/1548969| Calcium and magnesium contents were measured in the terrestrial crabs Cardisoma hirtipes, Gecarcoidea natalis, Geograpsus grayi, and Ocypode cordimana in relation to the intermolt cycle. Contents of these elements were of a similar order to those of marine decapod crustaceans with the exception of the Ca:Mg ratio in Geograpsus grayi (13:2) which was higher than in the other species. Regression equations relating Ca and Mg content to body size are supplied for each species. Behavioral adaptations allowed essentially all calcium and magnesium to be retained through the molt. Crabs molted in burrows (gecarcinids and Ocypode) or other safe retreats (Geograpsus) where they ate the cast exuviae and utilized the contained minerals before reemergence. Physiological adaptations for retention of Ca and Mg contribute significantly to storage in Gecarcoidea natalis, allowing retention of 14.2  4.4% Ca and 19.5  7.2% Mg by the soft crab of which 8.5  3.4% and 5.5  2.7%, respectively, were in the gastroliths. In Ocypode cordimana, storage occurred in the hemolymph and digestive gland. Physiological retention of calcium was much lower in Cardisoma hirtipes (4.5  1.36%) and Geograpsus grayi (5.1  2.1%), but all species retained relatively high proportions of their magnesium. 
1549612| The larval development of Megalobrachium roseum is completely described and illustrated on the basis of laboratory-reared material obtained from four ovigerous females captured on rocky bottoms of shallow waters in the southeastern Caribbean Sea. Megalobrachium roseum hatches as a prezoea of less than 120 minutes duration, and then molts through two subsequent zoeal stages of 5-7 and 6-8 days duration, respectively, at 25C and 37 salinity, before attaining megalopal stage. Morphology of the zoeal and megalopal stages of M. roseum is compared with those of the three other species of Megalobrachium for which the larval development has been described (i.e., M. pacificum, M. poeyi, and M. soriatum). 
1549492|Grynaminna tamakii, new genus, new species, is described from specimens taken in a small area near the south end of Shimabara Peninsula, western Kyushu, Japan. The new genus shares with the eight known callichirine callianassid genera presence of a dorsal oval, maxilliped 3 with ovate propodus and slender dactylus, and pleopods 3-5 with "stubby" appendices internae. It most resembles Callichirus but differs in possessing an elongate-oval uropodal endopod, absence of a meral hook on the major cheliped, and absence of dorsal sculpture on abdominal somites 3-5.
10.2307/1548849|Many species in the genus Pinnixa are not well differentiated, both in life and in the literature. Evolution within the genus has resulted in pairs and groups of very similar species which are frequently difficult to distinguish with existing keys and descriptions. In this paper, the 11 species of Pinnixa previously known from the California shelf are redescribed, with new illustrations. Two species, Pinnixa forficulimanus, new species, and P. minuscula, new species, from soft-bottom shelf habitats, are also described and illustrated, bringing the total number of species present in California coastal waters to 13. Host and distributional data are summarized for each species, and a key for differentiating the species is provided.
20487831|This study examined 24 hour activity patterns of a diurnally refuge seeking palaemonid, Macrobrachium australiense. The results obtained improve our understanding of the mechanistic processes that are likely to underlie observed patterns of anti-predatory refuge usage, and diurnal inactivity, in a wide range of crustaceans. When introduced to a novel environment M. australiense altered their searching behaviours in response to changes in available refugia. These behaviours were consistent with attempts to reduce exposure to predation. They altered in response to variation in stalk density of a vegetated refuge, environmental conditions, and individual body size. When settled in the environment all vegetated refuges were attractive to the test species, though higher stalk densities were preferred. M. australiense demonstrated both an active and a passive strategy of mediating exposure to predation. Like numerous other prawn species they substantially reduced activity during periods of high light. The underlying preferences and behavioural mechanisms displayed by the test animals were consistent with the theory that diurnal inactivity is a form of antipredator behaviour, even in the absence of predators. Upon subsequent exposure to predation, refuge seeking behaviour altered depending on the current activity level of the individual: during periods of low activity there was no significant change in behaviour. The presence of a predator had no significant impact upon the occurrence of periods of high activity. However, during these periods the presence of the predator caused an increase in the time prawns spent within the refuge, and decreased the number of transitions between the refuge and the open area.
10.2307/1548777| The type material of 3 of Melin's (1939) species, Eupagurus (Pagurillus) exiguus, presently referred to Pagurus, Eupagurus (Catapagurus) vallatus, currently assigned to Nematopagurus, and Eupagurus (Spiropagurus) facetus, type species of the genus Anapagrides de Saint Laurent-Dechanc, 1966, have been reviewed. Lectotypes have been selected, and the 3 taxa are re-described and illustrated. The placement of E. vallatus in Nematopagurus is confirmed. Eupagurus exiguus is conditionally retained in Pagurus until such time as females are examined. The reexamination of E. facetus has shown that it differs markedly from the generic diagnosis of Anapagrides, thus requiring an emendation of the genus. 
1549869|The taxonomic study on the Caprellidea collected from the shallow waters of north-west area of Mirs Bay, Hong Kong revealed the distribution of four species in this area. Of them, Tropicaprella minuta, new genus, new species, and Caprella hirayamai, new species, are described. Tropicaprella, new genus, is close to Heterocaprella Arimoto, 1976, but differs by the absence of the clavate projection on the pereonite 4, the elongate pereopods 3 and 4 and the five-articulate pereopod 5. The closest species to Caprella hirayamai, n. sp., are Caprella californica Stimpson, 1857, and Caprella scaura Templeton, 1836, but C. hirayamai can be easily distinguished by less elongated pereonite 1, short basis of gnathopod 2 and oval propodus with dorsal setae in gnathopod 2.
10.2307/1547987|Hexagonalia (Xanthoidea: Trapeziidae), new genus, is described from Stylasteridae in the western Indian Ocean. Descriptions and illustrations are given for two new species of Quadrella: Q. lewinsohni and Q. serenei, and for six previously recognized species: Q. bispinosa, Q. boopsis, Q. coronata, Q. maculosa, Q. nitida, and Q. reticulata. The various synonymies are discussed and a key is provided for their identification.
10.2307/1547882|Talitroides alluaudi (Talitroidea: Talitridae) exhibits a complex repertoire of grooming movements. The mouthparts and both pairs of gnathopods are the primary grooming effectors, with more grooming effort devoted to the appendages than to the general body surfaces. The grooming behavior of T. alluaudi is similar to that of semiterrestrial and aquatic talitroideans. Amphipod grooming is relatively specialized in comparison to many crustaceans. The possible secondary role of grooming as a displacement behavior is also discussed.
1549801|A new species of amphipod crustacean (Acanthonotozomellidae) from the deep-sea of the Drake Passage is described in detail. Its main characteristics that are unique for this species are: slender dorsal carinae on pereon on pleon; small cuticular teeth all over the dorsal surface, the carinae and the coxal plates; coxa 1 with deeply excavate apex.
1549166| Five zoeal stages and the first juvenile stage of the crangonid shrimp Philocheras monacanthus are described and illustrated from laboratory-reared specimens. Developmnet to the first juvenile stage took 15 days at 18C and 36 salinity. Larval morphology is compared with that of other described species of Philocheras, and a provisional key is provided. 
10.2307/1548115|Collections of isopod crustaceans from a wide variety of intertidal marine habitats in Queensland, Australia, contained five new species and a new genus of eubranchiate sphaeromatids. Descriptions are given for the different stages of their growth and some ecological considerations are discussed. The new genus is Paradella and the new species are: Paradella octaphymata, new genus, new species; Dynamenella liochroea, new species; D. ptychura, new species; D. trachydermata, new species; and Ischyromene polytyla, new species. Ischyromene Racovitza, Dynamenella Hansen, Cymodocella Pfeffer, and Dynamenopsis Baker are redefined and rediagnosed. The importance of founding species on descriptions of adult males is stressed, but this should be supplemented with descriptions of all other stages of the life cycle if possible. The form of the brood pouch of the ovigerous female and the form of the penes and appendix masculina of the mature male should be included as these characters are relatively consistent at the generic level.
10.2307/1549376|A third species of Calliasmata, C. nohochi, is described from anchialine cave systems in Quintana Roo, Mexico. The new species closely resembles C. rimolii from the Dominican Republic, of which only female specimens are known. Calliasmata nohochi is characterized by a cephalon covered with minute scales and pits, longer pleura 5, and different spinulation on pereiopods 3-5 from that observed in the other two species of Calliasmata. Differences from C. pholidota are more conspicuous, and include the absence of ventral spines on pleura 3-5, the form and spinulation of the appendix masculina of the second pleopod of the male, and dimorphism in the segmentation of the upper flagellum of the antennular peduncle, and in the second pereiopods. Sexual dimorphism is observed among specimens of C. nohochi in the proportions, form, and spinulation of the antennular peduncle and flagellum, pereiopods 2-4, and pleopod 2.
10.2307/1549300|The larval development of Latreutes laminirostris from hatching to postlarval stage was studied to understand the larval stages and their duration, and larval morphology. Nine zoeal stages and the postlarva are described and figured. The first zoeal stage of Latreutes fucorum described by Gurney (1936) can be distinguished from that of L. laminirostris in terms of rostrum length, presence or absence of a posterior dorsomedian papilla on the carapace, and a dorsomedian protuberance on the third abdominal somite. The fourth zoea of Latreutes mucronatus described by Gurney (1937) is comparable to the sixth zoea of L. laminirostris. Thus, it is postulated that the larva described by Gurney (1937) was probably in stage VI rather than stage IV. The morphological characters of the genus Latreutes are summarized.
10.2307/1548052| The complete larval development of the sponge crab Dromia erythropus collected in a shallow coral-sandy bottom off Dos Mosquises Island of the Archipilago de Los Roques, Venezuela, is described. Five zoeal stages and a megalopa were obtained from laboratory rearing at temperatures of 27.2-28.6C and salinities of 35-37. Development to the first crab stage took 28-30 days. A comparison of zoeal stages and megalopae among other dromiid species revealed species-specific characters for Dromia erythropus and possible generic characters for Dromia. Species-specific diagnostic characters between D. erythropus and D. personata lie in the number of setae on the exopodites of the maxillipeds and the strikingly different morphological appearance of the megalopa. The key diagnostic generic character for larvae of Dromia appears to be the presence of posterolateral spines. 
4094138|We sampled female Nannopus palustris Brady, 1880, from the North Inlet Estuary, South Carolina, U.S.A., monthly for a year to determine seasonal variation in a female polymorphism previously described. Two fat morphs (one with a notched and one with a straight basal region of the terminal seta of the caudal ramus) and a thin-bodied, previously unknown, morph were present sympatrically in different relative frequencies throughout the year. Total abundances peaked in February and were lowest in the summer. All three morphs differed significantly in width, but only females with notched terminal setae were significantly shorter in body length than thin and fat females. Genetic analyses of mitochondrial (cytochrome b) and nuclear (D3 expansion segment of 28S rDNA) genes demonstrated that the females with notched terminal setae were distinct from the thin and fat females with straight terminal setae, and the latter two shared common alleles. Concordance between mitochondrial and nuclear gene trees supports that notched females are a separate species from the thin and fat forms with straight terminal setae. We have yet to find a male with a notched basal region of its principle terminal setae or any male sharing alleles in common with notched females.
20487731|The most significant events of the reproductive cycle of the Patagonian stone crab, Platyxanthus patagonicus, were studied in specimens sampled in northern Patagonian gulfs from August 2004 to May 2006. Male and female crabs were assigned to stages of a scale of gonad maturity. Females were also classified according to the presence/absence of embryos on the pleopods and of spermatic content in the spermathecae. Ogives were fitted to maturity at size data. The highest frequency of pre-ovigerous females and spermathecae with hardened seminal contents occurred during the fall and winter. Fifty percent of the females reached ovarian maturity at 66.4 mm CW. Ovigerous females were frequent from mid-fall to mid-spring, peaking during early winter and mid-spring, and were unusual or absent during the summer months. Post-ovigerous females were present in samples in all months but May and June 2005, being frequent from late-spring to early-fall. Specimens with spent ovaries were common in all seasons but summer, while those with mature or recovering ovaries were present in samples taken in all months but August 2004 and May-June 2005. Fifty percent of the males reached testes maturity at 54.7 mm CW. Males larger than this size showed mature gonads year round, but a pulse of individuals with recovering testes was observed during the winter of 2005 and early-fall of 2006. Our results show that mating occurs during the fall months, spawning and embryonic incubation extends from fall to early spring, and hatching takes place during late-spring and early-summer.
10.2307/1549257|Feeding habits and selectivity of Palaemonetes argentinus were studied by examining the stomach contents of specimens from an oxbow lake throughout a year. Palaemonetes argentinus is omnivorous, feeding mainly on members of littoral benthic communities. The bulk of the stomach contents comprised algae, plant remains, oligochaetes, dipteran larvae, and a variety of organisms ranging from Rotifera to Palaemonidae. Zooplankton (rotifers, copepods, and cladocerans) were an alternative food source in winter, at low water, when macrophyte abundance had declined. In general, Oligochaeta and dipteran larvae were positively selected, Rotifera and microcrustaceans negatively, and algae indifferently, but with some variations depending on the seasons.
1549965| Changes of the gonad, survival rate, and life span of the precocious (i.e., sexually mature in their first October-November, at the age of 5 or 6 months) Chinese mitten crab (Eriocheir sinensis) were studied in a small, shallow, macrophytic, freshwater lake along the middle reaches of the Changjiang River, China. The gonosomatic index (GSI) reached peak during the next March when the female GSI was 12.32  1.75 SD% and the male GSI was 4.24  0.19%. The sexual glands degraded from then on. In the first ten-day period of the following July, there was no complete ovum in the ovary, and the sperm became thin and lost adhesion. The population declined sharply from November to July, and the last one (a female) died in the middle of July, which indicated that the life span of the precocious crab was about 12 months (from larval hatching in June to death in July of next year). The survival curve might be expressed as Y = 1.09exp(-0.018x) (Y: survival rate; x: days) for the precocious crabs stocked in experimental cages. 
1549957| In this study, Penaeus monodon hemocytes were identified and characterized on the basis of morphology, labeling by monoclonal antibody markers (mAbs Z5E10, Z6A5, Z6A6, and Z6H8), and cellular defense reactions. Using light and transmission electron microscopy (LM and TEM), three hemocyte types were identified based on the number and size of the cytoplasmic granules and the nucleus-to-plasma (N/C) ratio: hyaline cells (HC) are round or ovoid small cells with a high N/C ratio (0.58-0.77), and although they are clear under LM, a small number of granules can be seen with TEM; semigranular cells (SGC) are irregular in shape with medium-size granules (0.31-0.9 m); and granular cells (GC) are round or ovoid in shape, and contain the most and the largest (0.54<sup>-</sup> 1.9 m) granules. Immunofluorescence staining showed that separately the four mAbs labeled some of the HC, SGC, and GC. Results from double staining with Z6A5 and Z6H8 showed that all three types of shrimp hemocytes could be divided into two subclasses, one labeled by both mAbs (Z6A5<sup>+</sup>Z6H8<sup>+</sup>) and the other labeled by neither (Z6A5<sup>-</sup>Z6H8<sup>-</sup>). Beads (0.5 m in diameter) were engulfed by both HC subclasses, but not by any of the SGC or GC. Acid phosphatase and phenoloxidase were expressed only in some of the Z6A5<sup>-</sup>Z6H8<sup>-</sup> hemocytes, and not in any of the Z6A5<sup>+</sup> cells. These results suggest that cellular morphology and two of the four mAb markers (Z6A5 and Z6H8) can be used to classify P. monodon haemocytes into six functionally distinct subclasses. 
10.2307/1549079|Five species of introduced planktonic copepods from Asia, including two species of the genus Pseudodiaptomus, have been reported from coastal bays of California. Recently we have found a third species of Pseudodiaptomus endemic to the Indo-Pacific, P. inopinus, to be established in the Columbia River estuary. Comprehensive studies of both pelagic and epibenthic zooplankton in the Columbia River estuary in 1979 and 1980 did not record P. inopinus (see Simenstad and Cordell, 1985; Jones et al., 1990). In September 1990, we sampled zooplankton at three depths across several tide cycles. These samples contained high densities and all life-history stages of P. inopinus. It now appears that this species has become established and is prominent in the estuarine turbidity maxima (ETM) region. Pseudodiaptomus inopinus cooccurs in the ETM region with extensive populations of the calanoid copepod Eurytemora affinis and the harpacticoid copepod Scottolana canadensis. Preliminary results suggest that the distribution and abundance of these three species vary in response to the physical processes of the ETM. These differences may reduce potential competitive interactions between the preexisting and exotic species. Introduction was probably via ballast water from ships arriving from Asia. However, the establishment of P. inopinus may have been encouraged by a synergism between increased ballast dumping, decrease in maximum flows due to regulation of the river, and the attenuation of extreme low temperatures in the estuary during the last decade.
10.2307/1548738|Based on information from commercial catches of mud crabs (Scylla serrata) in northern Australia, 3 stages in male maturity were identified. The first transition between these stages occurred from 90-110-mm carapace width (CW), as immature crabs attained physiological maturity. This initial stage of maturity was characterized by small-clawed "adolescent" crabs. The second transition took place between 140 and 160-mm CW as adolescent males developed the large-clawed "adult" morphometry. Functional maturity was quantified by the presence of "mating scars" on the front ambulatory legs and sternum of a male. Although some adolescent crabs mated, functional maturity was far more prevalent among adult crabs, especially those in late intermolt. This is attributed to late intermolt, adult males having a greater competitive advantage during mating. The minimum legal size-limits enforced throughout Australia will protect immature males, but do not necessarily ensure that they reach the adult stage or mate successfully.
20487796|Anomalies of the number of rostral spines have been recorded in blind lobsters, Polycheles typhlops, caught in Sardinian waters (Central Western Mediterranean). The abnormal specimens, 66 out a total of 789 individuals analysed, showed all the morphometric characteristics of P. typhlops except for the unusual presence of two rostral spines instead of the canonical one. The analysis of partial nucleotide sequences of the mitochondrial cytochrome oxidase subunit I gene (COI) showed that the individuals with two spines were not genetically different from the normal specimens of P. typhlops, while both were quite dissimilar from the other Mediterranean species, P. sculptus. Our results suggest the need of an update of the morphological classification guides for this family combined with a wider genetic study.
10.2307/1549262|The female and male of Botryllophilus ruber are redescribed on the basis of specimens associated with the compound ascidian Botryllus schlosseri collected at Roscoff (Brittany, France). Morphological details of both sexes include many characteristic features that have not been presented in the original description or subsequent studies. With these features, B. ruber can easily be distinguished from the 4 other members of the female morphotype B of the genus Botryllophilus. This is the first paper in which both sexes of B. ruber have been restudied in detail.
10.2307/1548020|Feeding habits and sediment preferences were examined for five species of phoxocephalid amphipod crustaceans from high-energy sandflats in California. Crop contents indicated that phoxocephalids are predaceous omnivores, consuming a variety of meiofaunal prey as well as detritus. Prey availability, prey size, and predator size were related to the meiofauna consumed. In laboratory preference experiments, different species of phoxocephalids showed different preferences for sediment size. Amphipods swam from sediment that was much finer or coarser than the sediment they normally inhabited in the field. They burrowed rather than swam from sediment that was only slightly coarser or finer than their native sediment. Each species had the greatest preference in the laboratory for sediments that were collected where the largest populations were found. Habitat selection could allow phoxocephalids to locate favorable microhabitats, and help to maintain broad depth zonation.
1549701|The first stage zoea and megalopa of the hydrothermal vent crab Xenograpsus testudinatus Ng, Huang, and Ho, 2000, are described, figured, and compared with a typical varunid, Brachynotus sexdentatus (Risso, 1827). Further comparisons are made between the first stage zoea of X. testudinatus and those representing the remaining current families of the Grapsoidea, namely Gecarcinidae, Glytograpsidae, Grapsidae, Plagusiidae, and Sesarmidae. A number of zoeal characters, including (1) the absence of the antennal exopod, (2) the setal formula [0,4] for the maxillular endopod, (3) the presence of a spine on both the distal coxal and proximal basal lobes of the maxilla, and (4) the presence of a minute spine on the lateral margin of the telson fork, appear to distinguish X. testudinatus first stage zoea from all the other grapsoids examined for this study. The zoeal evidence suggests that Xenograpsus is significantly different from known grapsoid larvae and the genus should eventually be removed from the Varunidae. Although Xenograpsus has similarities with known Scopimera (Ocypoidea) first stage zoea descriptions, including two of the above characters (1,2) and the setation of the maxillary endopod [2,3], these are not considered significant. A new family may need to be established to accommodate Xenograpsus within the Grapsoidea.
1549713|The growth increment and molt frequency of the American lobster (Homarus americanus) ranging in size from 46 to 154 mm of carapace length (C<sub>L</sub>) from the southwestern Gulf of St. Lawrence (sGSL) were investigated by tagging and trap studies. The main molting period for lobster in sGSL was from early July to early September. Evidence for two molting seasons was observed only for male lobsters in Malpeque Bay, Prince Edward Island, and Baie des Chaleurs (Northeastern New Brunswick), but there was little evidence of double molting (< 0.2%). Evidence of animals skipping their annual molt was observed throughout sGSL. The percentage of growth increment for lobsters of the same sex tagged in premolt was significantly less than lobsters tagged in postmolt. The lower average percentage of growth increment observed for lobsters tagged in premolt is believed to be related to tagging trauma which is likely greater for lobsters actively developing a new carapace prior to molting. Male lobsters had significantly larger molt increments than females. Comparison between Malpeque Bay and Baie des Chaleurs yielded significant differences in the growth for male and female lobsters but not for berried females. The lowest average percentage of growth increment (12%) was observed for berried females. Furthermore, no relationship was observed between the growth increment and C<sub>L</sub>.
1549495|Based on plankton samples collected from an estuarine system in western Kyushu, Japan, in summer, 1998, larval abundance patterns for three species of Nihonotrypaea were examined in relation to the intertidal habitats of adults [N. japonica--sandflats within the enclosed estuary (= Ariake Sound); N. harmandi--sandflats in the area from the outermost part of Ariake Sound through the waters of an intermediate character (= Tachibana Bay) to the open sea (= the East China Sea); and N. petalura --boulder beaches in the same waters as in N. harmandi]. Largely, the distribution for adults of the three species reflected abundance patterns of their larvae. Larvae of N. petalura comprised only 6% of the sample, reflecting the lower abundance of adults. Zoea 1 of N. japonica and Zoea 1 of (N. harmandi + N. petalura) occurred from Ariake Sound to mostly the northern Tachibana Bay and from Ariake Sound to the entire Tachibana Bay, respectively. It was suggested that 1) with the progression of larval stages for 15-19 days (up to Zoea 5), the three larval species remained in Ariake Sound, while most of them disappeared from the northern Tachibana Bay; and 2) larvae of N. harmandi and N. petalura were retained throughout development in the southern Tachibana Bay, which corresponded well to the largest local adult populations of each species occurring along the northern coast of an island in the southern Tachibana Bay. Possible mechanisms generating the larval abundance patterns are discussed in relation to the oceanographic conditions of the estuarine system.
1548820|The first description since 1901 of the free nauplius of a monstrilloid copepod is presented, based on scanning electron microscopy. First-instar larvae were hatched from eggs borne by a female Monstrilla hamatapex, new species, from inshore plankton in Tanabe Bay, Honshu, Japan. The naupliar appendages are less oligomerous and bear more setae than previously reported. Their apomorphies relative to a copepod naupliar "Bauplan" are identified by comparison to first instar nauplii of other copepod orders. The new species, based on the egg-bearing female and another female from Ago Bay, Honshu, is distinguished from M. helgolandica Claus, 1863, and some literature records of the latter, a supposedly widespread species, are brought into question. A nomenclature is devised for female monstrilloid antennular setae, and a list is provided of potentially diagnostic features that never or rarely have been used until now in adult monstrilloid taxonomy.
10.2307/1548553|The first known larval stage of a species of the crab family Homolodromiidae is described from advanced embryos of a preserved Dicranodromia felderi Martin. The larvae are in some ways similar to those few larvae known for the other two dromiacean families, Dromiidae and Dynomenidae, and therefore are similar to anomuran and thalassinidean larvae in general, but differ in lacking a hairlike second telson process. The larvae are embryologically advanced in that the pereiopods and maxillipeds are well developed and the abdomen has large pleopods on somites 2 through 5. Despite this apparently advanced developmental state at eclosion, the larvae do not possess uropods, a marked difference between them and all other known late-stage larvae of the Dromiacea, perhaps slightly closing the gap between anomuran and brachyuran larval morphology.
10.2307/1548819|Production of a thumblike projection on the second gnathopod is a common feature of male amphipods of the family Ischyroceridae. The thumb signals mating intent. In the genus Microjassa the degree of thumb development varies among species from lack of a thumb, to presence of a thumb of varying length, to possession of multiple protuberances. The purpose of this paper is to determine whether there is evidence for directional evolution in thumbing, and, if so, what this might imply. Cladistic analysis using 20 characters produced a phylogeny of species having progressively longer and more numerous thumbs. It is hypothesized that the genus originated on the Pacific coast of North America in tropical waters prior to the mid-Miocene. Thumbing evolved as surface waters cooled after the mid-Miocene and speciation progressed primarily northward and eastward. Thumbing may have developed in response to increased coloniality, which would have promoted the evolution of signaling structures.
1549709| The body size-specific fecundity of Scyllarides squammosus is described based on the numbers of eggs carried externally on the pleopods of "berried" (ovigerous) females collected during June 1999, at Maro Reef, located mid-chain in the Northwestern Hawaiian Islands (NWHI). Fecundity was positively and nonlinearly related to "tail" (abdomen) width (TW); fecundity ranged from 53,807 to 227,489 eggs in 43 females spanning 52-77-mm TW. The smallest berried female encountered at Maro Reef in 1999 was larger than the smallest berried female observed during most previous years' (1986-97) lobster research cruises. Fecundity of the median-sized (60-mm TW) female caught at Maro Reef in 1999 by the NWHI commercial lobster trap fishery was an estimated 89,660  3,980 (SE) eggs. Brooded eggs averaged 0.67  0.006-mm diameter (range: 0.61-0.77 mm), equivalent to 0.17 and 0.13-0.24 mg, respectively. Egg size was unrelated to female body size. Fecundity and egg size estimates and their body size relationships are briefly compared with other scyllarid lobsters. 
10.2307/1549228| Oxygen consumption rate (<tex-math>$\dot{{\rm M}}_{\text{O}_{2}}$</tex-math>) was measured in freely moving and in-tube (artificial tubes) groups of the invasive amphipod Corophium curvispinum over a range of water oxygen tensions (P<sub>O<sub>2</sub></sub>). Field measurements suggest that its normal habitat, at least in the United Kingdom Midlands, is relatively well oxygenated. When settled in tubes C. curvispinum consumes oxygen at almost twice the rate of freely moving animals (38.9  1.1 compared to 22.2  0.9 mol g<sup>-1</sup> h<sup>-1</sup>). Challenged by low P<sub>O<sub>2</sub></sub>, <tex-math>$\dot{{\rm M}}_{\text{O}_{2}}$</tex-math> shows significant decreases in both situations. No clear critical oxygen concentration (P<sub>c</sub>) was identified, but HSC values (the P<sub>O<sub>2</sub></sub> at which <tex-math>$\dot{{\rm M}}_{\text{O}_{2}}$</tex-math> has fallen to half that rate measured in normoxic conditions) are higher than many nontubicolous gammarids. HSC is lower in in-tube animals as the result of a steeper curve of <tex-math>$\dot{{\rm M}}_{\text{O}_{2}}$</tex-math> versus P<sub>O<sub>2</sub></sub>. This may be caused by animals exiting their tubes in hypoxic conditions and reducing their individual <tex-math>$\dot{{\rm M}}_{\text{O}_{2}}$</tex-math>. <tex-math>$\dot{{\rm M}}_{\text{O}_{2}}$</tex-math> max (the oxygen consumption in normoxic conditions extrapolated from the fitted log relationship <tex-math>$\dot{{\rm M}}_{\text{O}_{2}}$</tex-math> = a + b log P<sub>O<sub>2</sub></sub>), is similar to that of other out-of-tube corophiids. Observations of tube construction, and of the ventilatory water currents, suggest that the behavior of C. curvispinum is similar in these respects to some marine corophiids, i.e., C. bonelli and C. insidiosum. However, exceptionally, it shows no intermittency of tube ventilation/irrigation in normoxia, and in hypoxia it leaves its tube to move freely. The significance of its rapid tube-building abilities, its sensitivity to reductions in P<sub>O<sub>2</sub></sub> and its high <tex-math>$\dot{{\rm M}}_{\text{O}_{2}}$</tex-math> = a + b log P<sub>O<sub>2</sub></sub> when in its tube, are discussed in relation to its recent successful invasion and spread throughout European waterways from its Caspian Basin origins. 
4094145| The stygobitic crayfish Procambarus cavernicola and Procambarus oaxacae reddelli and the epigeal crayfish Procambarus olmecorum were maintained in laboratory conditions in order to compare their oxygen consumption rates by measuring the decreasing oxygen concentration. These closely related species belong to the same subgenus and live in nearby caves and surface streams located in the same karstic region found in northern Oaxaca, Mexico. The consumption rates were monitored in laboratory conditions during fifteen hours in water maintained at 20C without food. Significant differences among the species were found. Although these species live in similar conditions of total darkness during their life cycles, P. cavernicola had the higher oxygen consumption rate; this is a result of being slightly conditioned to oxygen partial pressures of the experimental bottle. Procambarus oaxacae reddelli showed a lower oxygen consumption rate strongly correlated to the oxygen partial pressure of the water. The epigeal P. olmecorum was used as a control and showed a consumption rate slightly conditioned to oxygen partial pressures that was lower than the consumption rate of P. cavernicola. The differences in consumption rates between the stygobitic species in relation to the characteristics of the caves where they live and their adaptation degree to cave life are discussed. 
10.2307/1549299|A 3-year field study and 17-month rearing experiment were conducted on a population of the shore isopod Ligia cinerascens inhabiting a cobble shore in Tokyo Bay, central Japan. The research was designed to clarify aspects of life-cycle and reproductive traits in L. cinerascens. Most males, both in the field and in the rearing experiment, died before the onset of their second winter, but some field males overwintered twice. Most females overwintered once, bred from May through September, then died before the next winter. A small group of females, however, began breeding late in the season of the year of their birth, then most likely died without overwintering. Females in the field produced mostly 1 brood or at most 2 broods before dying, but those in the rearing experiment lived longer, producing up to 3 broods and possibly more. The results of this study indicate that the typical life cycle of L. cinerascens is annual with a 5-month breeding season, but including a shortened life cycle completed within a single breeding season. The data from the rearing experiment, however, suggest that the number of broods produced by a female may be limited by environmental factors rather than by genetic characteristics.
41315739|Tadpole shrimp are known to be important animals in the ecology of ephemeral wetlands. In the northern Chihuahuan Desert of North America, the tadpole shrimp fauna is composed of possibly three species in the genus Triops, which have variously been referred to as species, subspecies, and intraspecific variation. Our results support the presence of three morphologically distinct forms, which will be referred to herein as T. newberryi, T. longicaudatus "short," and T. longicaudatus "long." We report analyses of Triops spp. sampled in summer 2008 from 14 natural playas and man-made flood retention ponds. Data were recorded on meristic counts and quantitative measurements of morphological features. We also sequenced portions of the mitochondrial COI and ND1 genes for 72 shrimp, including individuals from all three morphological forms and for multiple ponds for each form where possible. The three forms were morphologically distinct for multiple characters and molecular analyses showed large differences in DNA nucleotide sequence and the presence of multiple unique amino acid substitutions in each form. Finally, prior literature suggests the three forms exhibit different reproductive systems, with populations of T. longicaudatus "long" thought to be gonochoric (equal sex ratios and obligate outcrossing), T. longicaudatus "short" having only self-fertilizing hermaphrodites, and T. newberryi being androdioecious, having both self-fertilizing hermaphrodites and males. While these three forms may be sufficiently distinct in morphology, mitochondrial DNA, and reproductive life history to warrant elevation to species level, additional geographical sampling and an examination of the various type specimens are necessary for a formal taxonomie revision.
10.2307/1548111|Analysis of 340 published descriptions of larval development in the Anomura and Brachyura reveals that the maxillary scaphognathite of the first zoeal stage can be classified into one of eight types. In addition, there are five sequences by which the diverse zoeal scaphognathites develop into the typical postlarval form. These features appear to be valuable taxonomic characters and provide relevant larval evidence concerning the lower limits of the Brachyura and affinities within the Anomura.
41315683|On the Scotian Shelf (SS), Chionoecetes opilio (snow crab) larval releases are spread out over at least a 12-week period in the spring. This large spread in the timing of snow crab larval release may be caused by the large variability in the timing of the spring phytoplankton bloom found on the SS, or complex ocanographie factors. It has been reported that C. opilio release their larvae in response to post bloom senescent algae exposure, and that the release may also be timed with the high spring tide. Objectives of this study include exploring the possibility of tidal, current, and senescent algae induced larval release in ovigerous C. opilio from the SS population; temperature influences were also examined. Another objective was to determine if the female or the embryos themselves control the hatching process. The average duration of hatching was 9.6 d for the warmer treatment and 12.3 d for the cooler treatment. A mixed-effects model using a logistic regression indicated no significant influence of senescent algae upon the larval release patterns (P > 0.5); and a statistically significant temperature influence upon larval release patterns (P < 0.0001). Detached embryos still hatched 14 days post removal, and throughout the duration of hatching were relatively synchronous with those still attached to the female (twosided KS, D = 0.308, P > 0.5). Larval release did coincide with local high tide and the associated higher current speeds. The results of this study indicate that C. opilio embryos are not receiving chemical cues from the female or senescent algae, but rather, are under endogenous control. Whether they rely on internal pressure, some type of internal biochemical cue or external physical factor such as hydrostatic pressure from high tides or increased current speed warrants further study.
10.2307/1548888| Mated female brachyuran crabs store the spermatozoa within the spermatheca, pending internal fertilization. The present study reports on the metabolism of sperm stored in the spermatheca of the estuarine crab Metopograpsus messor. Results of enzyme assays indicate that lactate oxidation to pyruvate predominates over pyruvate reduction to lactate within the spermatheca of M. messor. The spermathecal contents also show considerable succinate dehydrogenase (SDH) activity which is greater than the fumarate reductase (FR) activity, the SDH/FR ratio being 5.7:1. Furthermore, manometric assays demonstrate that the sperm stored within the spermathecal lumen consume ambient oxygen, the rate of oxygen uptake per 1.000  10<sup>8</sup> spermatozoa being 0.108  0.004 l  h<sup>-1</sup>. The prevalence of lactate oxidation over pyruvate reduction and the occurrence of a high SDH/FR ratio within the spermatheca, together with the spermatozoal oxygen uptake, strongly suggest that, while stored in the spermatheca, the spermatozoa of M. messor rely on aerobic metabolism. The occurrence of high lipid and the relative sparseness in carbohydrates (with near absence of free glucose) within the spermathecal lumen further reinforce our suggestion for aerobic respiration by the sperm stored in the female reproductive tract. 
10.2307/1548309|Male snow crabs, Chionoecetes opilio, 67-94 mm carapace width (CW), were held in laboratory conditions over a 6-month period and examined regularly for changes in shell rigidity, shell color, ecdysial suture, setal development, and feeding behavior. Softening and decalcification of the cheliped merus, posterior carapace, and first abdominal segment occurred during premolt. Hardening of these areas and the mouthparts and dorsal carapace together with changes in the ecdysial suture and shell color were useful for defining postmolt stages. Setal changes at the tip of the maxilliped exopodites provided a reliable method for defining premolt stages. Crabs stopped feeding 3-6 weeks before molt and for 3-4 weeks after molt. From these results a description and definition of the different stages of the molt cycle was developed which included information on the duration of each stage. The implications of the findings to the snow crab fishery are noted.
10.2307/1549282| Larval development of Megabalanus tintinnabulum was studied in the laboratory. At 26  1C the development from nauplius I-VI required about 4 days, when the diatom Chaetoceros wighami was used as food. Detailed morphological drawings and setation formulae of appendages of all 6 naupliar stages are presented for the first time. Notable features of the nauplii include the presence of a spinulated lateral margin, a trilobed labrum with teeth, long dorsal and posterior shield spines, a single tooth on the inner prong of the antennal gnathobase, comb-shaped cuspidate setae on the antennae, and spines and simple denticulate setae on the mandibular endopodite in naupliar stage II. The present description of the nauplii is not in full agreement with the previous description of this species from this coast by Daniel (1958). Differences in stage sizes, naupliar morphology, and setation of appendages are used to distinguish this species from other megabalanines and the nauplii of megabalanines from those of balanines in the Balanus amphitrite group. 
10.2307/1549310|A new genus and species of troglobitic potamid crab is described from central Laos. The new taxon possesses a unique combination of morphological characters not found in any other known fresh-water crabs. Key diagnostic characters include the compressed frontal regions, reduced eyes, auriculiform merus of the third maxilliped, long ambulatory legs, and unusual male first pleopod structure. The reduced eyes and extremely long slender legs make this species the most highly modified cave-dwelling crab reported thus far from Indochina.
10.2307/1548184| Rimicaris, a new genus, and two new species of caridean shrimps, R. exoculata and R. chacei, are recorded in swarms from a thermally influenced site in the rift valley of the Mid-Atlantic Ridge at 2608.3N, 4449.6W, 3,620-3,650 m depth. The shrimps appear to be the predominant macroinvertebrates in heated waters (at least 1.0C above ambient, 2.37C away from vents) on black sediments and layered rocks with the appearance of polymetallic sulfides precipitated from black smoker-type vents. Characters of these species indicate placement in the family Bresiliidae which is distributed in surface to mid-ocean depths. A key to the 7 bresiliid genera is given. 
10.2307/1548725|Two epiplanktonic shrimps, Lucifer orientalis and L. typus, are found in the eastern central Pacific. The occurrence of L. orientalis, an inadequately described species, is new to the fauna of the region; hence, the species is redescribed. The hypothesis is proposed that the main divergence of the lineage of Lucifer was completed before the Isthmus of Panama rose about 3 million years before the present.
10.2307/1548836| Seasonal movements and distribution of primiparous and multiparous red king crabs (Paralithodes camtschaticus) were monitored with ultrasonic biotelemetry approximately weekly for 1 year in Auke Bay, Alaska. Migration was associated with life-history events and may have occurred in response to spatial and temporal variations in environmental conditions and resources. All crabs displayed distinct shifts in depth and habitat use and followed a general pattern of seasonal movement as follows: (1) gradual movement to deep water in spring after mating and egg extrusion, and residence there through early November; (2) abrupt, synchronous movement into shallow-water areas in November, and residence there through late February or early March; and (3) gradual, synchronous movement to intermediate depths followed by movement into shallow water to molt and mate between late March and late May. The behavior of primiparous crabs was more variable than that of multiparous crabs. The differences in behavior may result from ontogenetic shifts in movements, and habitat selection. The annual range of primiparous crabs (x = 11.9 km<sup>2</sup>) exceeded that of multiparous crabs (x = 3.6 km<sup>2</sup>). Mean depth was directly correlated with photoperiod, and the sudden, synchronous movement of crabs between habitats coincided with thermohaline mixing. Females displayed a highly aggregated distribution, especially during winter in shallow water, where podding behavior of adult crabs was documented for the first time. 
1549896| The growth, mortality, and reproduction of Portunus sanguinolentus were studied using size-frequency data obtained from crabs collected in pots in the waters off northern Taiwan from October 2000 to March 2001, and October 2001 to January 2002. The Bhattacharya's method and seasonal von Bertalanffy growth curve were used to estimate growth parameters. The growth curve for males was L<sub>t</sub>=204.75 {1-e<sup>-[0.87t+0.4(0.87/2)sin2 (t)]</sup>} and the curve for females was L<sub>t</sub>=194.25 {1-e<sup>-[0.97t+0.4(0.97/2)sin2 (t)]</sup>}. A size-converted catch curve was used to estimate the instantaneous total mortality rate (Z), and Pauly's empirical equation was used to estimate the instantaneous natural mortality rate (M). For males, Z = 3.16/year and M = 1.65/year. For females, Z = 3.37/year and M = 1.8/year. The instantaneous fishing mortality rate (F) was 1.51/year and 1.57/year, and the exploitation rate (E) was 0.48 and 0.47 for males and females, respectively. The exponential relationships were presented for relationships of fecundity in number and weight of egg mass in terms of carapace width and body weight. Those relationships were statistically significant (P < 0.01), indicating that the fecundity increased with the size from 4.05  10<sup>5</sup> to 2.44  10<sup>6</sup> eggs. 
10.2307/1549533|Six new species of fresh-water crabs of the family Pseudothelphusidae from Chiapas, Mexico, are described. Two of the new species belong to the genus Phrygiopilus, which is reported from Mexico for the first time; 1 new species of Potamocarcinus is recognized; and 3 new species are placed in the genus Odontothelphusa. With the description of these new taxa, Chiapas, Mexico, can be considered as one of the areas of highest diversity for pseudothelphusid crabs.
41315676|Fecundity and brood loss during incubation were investigated in the crangonid shrimp Crangon uritai. Changes in egg length, volume and dry weight were also studied. During embryonic development, egg length and egg volume increased by 43.5% and 69.3%, respectively, whereas egg dry weight decreased by 23.2%. Crangon uritai ovigerous females (5.61-14.11 mm CL) carried 412 to 13,824 eggs per brood, depending on their body size in both early and late stages of egg development. The reproductive output of C. uritai averaged 0.24, based on dry weight in early eggs. Brood loss through embryonic development was independent of female size and estimated to be a 5.56% loss in the number of eggs and an 8.44% loss in brood dry weight. Possible reasons for brood loss include the burrowing behavior of shrimp and increasing egg size, which results in reduced area for eggs to attach.
10.2307/1547881|The diploid chromosome number 2n = 24 has been established in the harpacticoid copepod Tigriopus sp. coming from Kerguelen Island, while the population of Tigriopus inhabiting Crozet Island possesses the diploid number 2n = 22. The two populations differ also in homogeneity of the karyotype, thereby further supporting the hypothesis that these two populations belong to different species.
10.2307/1548264| A morphological analysis of the frontal appendage of the genus Dendrocephalus (Anostraca: Thamnocephalidae) shows that the basic morphological pattern (number and arrangement of the branches) is constant, and diagnostic for the genus. The morphology of branches 2D/2A/2V should be used as the main characteristic in the diagnosis of the species. A reformulated diagnosis of this genus is included. /// El presente trabajo trata sobre un anlisis morfolgico del apndice frontal del gnero Dendrocephalus (Anostraca: Thamnocephalidae). Muestra que el patrn morfolgico bsico de ste (nmero y disposicin de las ramas) es constante, y debera ser includo en la diagnosis del gnero. La morfologa de las ramas 2D/2A/2V debera ser usada como la principal caracterstica en la diagnosis de las especies. Se incluye una reformulacin de la diagnosis de este gnero. 
1549511|Malformations of the sexual appendages of Neotropical freshwater crabs are very rare. In two lots of specimens of a new species of the pseudothelphusid, Microthelphusa sucreensis, collected in 1930 and 1993, one male specimen from each lot has gonopodal malformations. In one case, the left first gonopod displays gross morphological deviations from the normal shape, and in the second case the right second gonopod has an additional rudimentary appendage resembling the first gonopod. In the Trichodactylidae, a specimen of Sylviocarcinus pyriformis (Pretzmann, 1968) was observed to posses a bifid first left male gonopod. An intersexual specimen of Valdivia serrata White, 1847, had normal first and second male gonopods and three pairs of additional pleopods all similar to the second gonopod. The left appendage on the fifth pair was clearly a female pleopod.
10.2307/1548703|A new genus and species of copepod, Norkus cladocephalus (Siphonostomatoida: Sphyriidae), is described from specimens collected from the hemibranchs of the shovelnose guitarfish Rhinobatos productus (Ayres) from southern California. The new genus is distinguished from confamilial genera by the presence of (1) an elaborately branched holdfast on the cephalothorax, (2) an expanded collar on the anterior end of the neck, (3) a dorsoventrally flattened discoid trunk, and (4) simple, cylindrical posterior processes (modified caudal rami). A phylogenetic analysis of the Sphyriidae, using the lernaeopodid genus Ommatokoita as the outgroup, was conducted. A single parasite cladogram and host summary and ecological summary cladograms are presented and discussed.
10.2307/1548089| Females of the red land crab Gecarcinus lateralis (Frminville) must leave the physiological and physical protection of a terrestrial burrow to carry their developing egg masses to the surf and release the pelagic larvae. En route, both adults and eggs may encounter increased risks from predators, extremes of salinity (rain or concentrated tidepools), and wave impact. Several types of behavior by ovigerous females reduce these risks to both adult females and larvae during migration and spawning. Females migrate directly toward the shore, reducing the time required to reach the sea. They spawn synchronously. Ovigerous females actively release eggs only when the eggs are ripe, precluding premature release, but will do so in water of any salinity, whether still or agitated. Physiological adaptations of larvae would contribute little to their survival were eggs released in extreme salinities; the range of tolerance is only 50-125% sea water. The spawning females avoid standing water of any salinity, thereby preventing release of larvae in dilute or concentrated tidepools, or those without connection with the sea. Females begin migration to the nearshore zone before egg-releasing behavior develops, hence are unlikely to release eggs prematurely if inundated by rain. Spawning females approach the surf hesitantly, minimizing the risk of being swept to sea. The reliance of G. lateralis upon adult behaviors to reduce risks during migration and spawning is compared with strategies of other land crabs which appear to rely more heavily upon larval adaptations. 
1549927|Three new species of Tegano are described, two from caves on Panglao Island, Bohol, Philippines, and one from a cave on Peleliu Island, Palau. Sriha vagabunda from Sri Lanka is reassigned to the genus Tegano based primarily on the high degree of similarity between Sriha vagabunda and species of Tegano and the fact that these species exhibit a great deal of variation in the reduction of the mandibular palp. A new species of Melita with characters intermediate between those defining the genera Abludomelita, Melita, and Paraniphargus is described from a spring on Guam. The characters of the new species and studies by previous authors suggest that Abludomelita may not be as distinct from Melita as previously believed. The troglomorphic genus Paraniphargus from the Andaman Islands and Java is reevaluated and synonymized with Melita.
4094143| The relationship between rhythms of circadian periodicity (i.e., from 20 to 28 h) and ultradian periodicity (i.e., less than 20 h) was studied in the burrowing decapod Nephrops norvegicus at the level of its cardiac activity. Animals were kept over a month under constant darkness (DD) interrupted by a few days of light-darkness regime (LD) at the beginning of the experiment. Time series (beats per 10 min) were subdivided into stages of similar numbers of days. A general mean waveform was computed per stage by averaging 24 h segments of different time series per corresponding 10 min intervals. Marked fluctuations were observed at the beginning of tests in DD, being disrupted during animals' exposure to LD. Fluctuations progressively recovered over following stages of DD. The activity part of a rhythm () was computed in mean waveforms of different time series per each stage. Resulting values were averaged at corresponding stages. A significant increment of mean  was observed from DD to LD, decreasing over the following prolonged DD exposure. Periodogram analysis was used to assess periodicities of time series at each stage. Fourier analysis was undertaken to assess the transformation of cardiac rhythms over consecutive stages not only in terms of periodicity but also as amplitude. Both analyses showed the presence of different circadian and ultradian (i.e., 12 h and 18 h) rhythms varying in their amplitude at different stages of testing. A preponderance of time series with ultradian periodicities took place in the first stage of DD. Under LD, the number of time series showing 18 h periodicity increased, but their amplitude of fluctuation was lower compared to the previous stage. In contrast, the circadian periodicity present in the first stage of DD disappeared in LD, to be restored over prolonged DD exposure. Present results suggest that a disruption of the circadian rhythm in cardiac activity generated ultradian periods when controlling oscillators became uncoupled. Results are discussed in the context of the ecology of the species, and a model based on the phase decoupling of circadian oscillators is presented to account for the generation of ultradian 12 h and 18 h periodicities. 
10.2307/1548109|The organization of the muscle cell layer surrounding the tubules of the midgut gland in Homarus americanus was examined with transmission and scanning electron microscopy. This layer contains a uniform network of broad circular myofilaments interconnected by smaller longitudinal connectives. The primary means of constriction of the lumen of the tubule appears to be by contraction of the circular muscle fibers. The longitudinal myofilaments may provide both structural support and a means for conducting the contractile impulse along the tubule.
10.2307/1549461|Eggshell ultrastructure is described in a branchiuran, Argulus japonicus. Growing oocytes of various sizes are found on the outer surface of the ovary. They are protruded outward, covered by a thin basal lamina of the ovarian epithelium which connects them on the ovarian surface. Many microvilli develop on the surface of oocytes from the late previtellogenic stage. These microvilli elongate to raise the basal lamina from the oocyte surfaces. In the early vitellogenic oocytes, large and small electron-dense granules appear and increase in number in the outer and inner regions, respectively, of the perivitelline space between the basal lamina and the oocyte surfaces. In the late vitellogenic oocytes, other large electron-lucent granules appear and increase in number in the innermost region of the perivitelline space. Mature eggs in the oviduct have a two-layered eggshell: the outer layer composed of large electron-dense granules and the inner layer of small electron-dense granules and large electron-lucent granules. Some unique features on the origin and formation of the eggshell in A. japonicus are discussed.
10.2307/1548737|Variation of the branchial formula of 18 species of crabs collected from littoral and supralittoral regions on Phuket Island, Thailand, was examined in relation to the semiterrestrial environment. All species inhabiting water-logged substrata (3 species of Macrophthalmus, 3 species of Metaplax, and Chiromantes dussumieri) had an identical branchial formula consisting of 8 pairs of well-developed branchiae. In contrast, crabs inhabiting well-drained substrata had respiratory organs other than branchiae (6 species of Uca with well-developed inner linings of the branchiostegites, forming lungs, and Ilyoplax delsmani, I. gangetica, Dotillopsis brevitarsis, and Dotilla myctiroides with "tympana" on the meral segments of the thoracic pereiopods). The branchiae were more reduced and/or absent in the species occupying higher ground. In general, the major branchiae except the podobranchiae were divided into 3 types by histological observation: the highly osmoregulatory branchiae, the weakly osmoregulatory branchiae, and the respiratory branchiae. The species inhabiting well-drained substrata, especially species of the genus Uca with fewer branchiae, had more highly osmoregulatory branchiae than the species inhabiting water-logged substrata, even when they lived at almost the same tidal level. The reduction and/or disappearance of branchiae in the species inhabiting well-drained substrata is discussed in relation to the morphology of branchiae, the development of respiratory organs (lungs and tympana), and semiterrestrial environments.
1549355|Eighty-three specimens of the bythograeid crab Austinograea williamsi Hessler and Martin, 1989, were collected from hydrothermal vent sites of the Mariana Trough. Of these, seventy-two specimens were examined for this study, including thirty-five males, thirty-six females, and one of unknown sex. Heterochely was observed, with one dactylus blunter and larger (the crusher type) than the other and one dactylus sharper and smaller (the cutter type) than the other. Females had cutters for both chelipeds, except one large female. Sixty percent of males (fifteen specimens) had a right crusher and a left cutter, and the others had two cutters. Morphometric analyses of the chela, abdomen, and carapace indicated male chelipeds were proportionally larger than female chelipeds, while female abdomens were proportionally larger than male abdomens. This sexual dimorphism was considered to be a secondary sexual characteristic related to different reproductive patterns between sexes. Additionally, using SEM, we studied the morphology of gonopods (first and second pleopods in males), which are systematically diagnostic for crabs.
10.2307/1548275|Branchial complements, gill morphology, gill surface areas, gill volumes, branchial volumes, and branchial space of the stream-dwelling parastacid crayfish Astacopsis franklinii and the burrowing Parastacoides tasmanicus are compared. A reduction in gill number in Parastacoides results from the absence of pleurobranchiae on the fifth, sixth, and seventh thoracic segments and the extreme reduction of the pleurobranch on segment 8. There is a tendency for gill filaments to be longer in Parastacoides and the terminal spines on the filaments of the podobranchiae are longer, hooked rather than straight, and occur more frequently in this species. Most of the respiratory exchange area is provided by the podobranchiae. Linear regression equations (log transformed data) describing the allometric relationship between body size and gill area, gill volume, branchial volume, and branchial space are provided for both species. Parastacoides has a significantly greater size-related gill area and branchial volume than Astacopsis and, since there are no differences in gill volume, there is also a significant increase in branchial space. Much of this additional space appears to be created towards the posterior of the branchial chamber. The differences between the two species are interpreted as adaptations for the burrowing, amphibious life-style adopted by Parastacoides. We suggest that they serve primarily to facilitate oxygen uptake, reduce the tendency for the gills to become clogged, and aid in flushing of the branchial chamber in hypoxic waters with a very high particle content; they are seen as providing secondary benefits to assist survival during the often prolonged periods when the burrows lack free water.
10.2307/1548821|The question of intersexuality and hermaphroditism was investigated in the burrowing cray-fish Parastacus nicoleti (Philippi, 1882) by examination of sexual characters of 473 specimens from Chile. Six sexual forms were initially identified, on the basis of the presence and absence of gonopores in the coxae of the third and fifth pair of pereiopods. Two basic sexual types were found in this species, primary females and protandric hermaphrodites, the latter consisting of 1 male-phase and 3 female-phase forms--1 transitional form and 2 female-phase forms--which originate from protandric hermaphrodites in male phase, through 2 slightly different ways. Permanent secondary sexual characters associated with incubation of eggs were identified in adult primary females and in the 2 protandric forms in female phase. Both the gene-dispersal model and the size-advantage model may be used to explain different aspects of this partial protandric hermaphroditism.
4094136| Two new species of fairy shrimp from North America, Streptocephalus henridumontis and Streptocephalus thomasbowmani, are diagnosed and figured. A brief account on the conservation status of the New World species of the genus and an updated species identification key are included. Streptocephalus thomasbowmani n. sp., endemic to New Mexico, U.S.A., is morphologically similar to S. dorothae. Streptocephalus henridumontis n. sp., whose populations occur along the Sonoran desert in northwestern Mxico and southwestern United States, is morphologically similar to S. mackini. The peduncle of the antennal distal outgrowth of the two new species is of the long type. Streptocephalus thomasbowmani has uniramous ovaries, whereas S. henridumontis has biramous ovaries. With the inclusion of the new taxa, the number of species of the genus recorded from the American continent is 15. Seven (S. dorothae, S. henridumontis, S. linderi, S. mackini, S. sealii, S. similis, and S. texanus) have a wide geographical distribution and seem to be under no immediate threat. Conversely, eight species have a restricted distribution. Thus, S. antillensis, S. kargesi, and S. potosinensis can be considered as Critically Endangered (CE), and S. thomasbowmani, S. guzmani, S. mattoxi, S. moorei, and S. woottoni as Endangered species (EN), following the IUCN red list criteria. 
10.2307/1548656| Pontocypria hendleri, new species, is a commensal of the ophiuroid, Ophioblenna antillensis Ltken, collected from a reef in Belize. Pontocypria calva, new species, and Pontocypria sp. B occur in trawl collections from the southwest Pacific and North Atlantic, respectively. Pontocypria helenae Maddocks, previously found on Antarctic asteroids, now has been collected apparently free-living at seven localities in the South Atlantic and South Pacific. 
10.2307/1548041|In the laboratory, females of Palaemonetes pugio with ripe ovaries usually underwent premating ecdysis at night, and were capable of swimming after one min and of walking and copulating after 2 min. Antennal contact always occurred prior to copulation and may be necessary for male recognition of female receptivity. Copulation, lasting 5-10 s, was not preceded by prolonged courtship displays and consisted of 4 distinct events: (1) lunge and capture; (2) placement of the male's thoracic-abdominal junction perpendicular to the same area of the female, ventral surface to ventral surface; (3) pleopod lowering and spermatophore transfer; and (4) disengagement. Ablation experiments demonstrated that the endopods of pleopods 1 and 2 of the male were involved in spermatophore transfer.
1549714|Study on the size at maturity of male American lobster (Homarus americanus) has traditionally been done based on a linear relationship between chelae size vs. body size assuming that a sharp change in slope occurs at onset of maturity. We analyzed this sexual dimorphism by standard log-linear transformations and bivariate allometric plots as well as by multivariate Principal Components Analysis (PCA) in order to verify the validity of this approach for determining size at maturity. These analyses showed that onset of maturity cannot be detected efficiently by claw morphometry because this secondary sexual character gradually changes from early juvenile stages, contrary to what has been believed. Observation of the presence of spermatozoa in the vasa deferentia (gonadal maturity) showed that 50% gonadal maturity occurred at 49.8 mm of carapace length for male lobster from the southern Gulf of St. Lawrence. However, gonadal maturity does not necessarily correspond to the ability to mate (behavioral maturity) in many crustacean species. Therefore, further studies are needed to assess the behavioral maturity to determine the size at maturity for male lobsters.
10.2307/1549237|Thirteen allozyme gene loci were assayed in 264 Oniscus asellus L. from 10 collection sites in Central Europe. Three biallelic polymorphisms (glutamate-oxaloacetate transaminase Got-2*, glucose-phosphate, and isocitrate Icd-2*) and 1 triallelic system (Got-1*) are described. The questionably biallelic Icd-1* was omitted from subsequent data analysis. Optimized conditions for an allozymic survey of O. asellus are presented. The G<sub>ST</sub>-fixation indices and the genetic interpopulation distances generally increased with the geographic distance separating population pairs. However, the geographic differentiation appeared very low when considering that a woodlouse lacks efficient means for active, locomotory dispersal. Moreover, the population samples could not be combined to geographically meaningful groupings. Three reasons possibly explaining the notable genetic population cohesion of a soil-dwelling isopod are discussed: the recent postglacial colonization of the Central European study area by O. asellus, human-aided passive dispersal on a large scale, and very abundant population sizes which minimize the among-stock differentiation by genetic drift.
10.2307/1549455|Seven different types of neurosecretory granules have been observed in the axon terminals of the sinus gland of the adult female lobster Homarus gammarus. They were discriminated through morphometrical and morphological criteria such as size, shape, frequency of occurrence, electron density, and axon-matrix density. Each size distribution followed a single Gaussian-type distribution. Each axon terminal contained 1 type of granule. The mean granule diameter ranged from 50 nm (type 1) to 161 nm (type 7). Type 6 and type 1 axon terminals were, respectively, the most and least frequent. An immunopositive reaction against an anti-Homarus americanus CHH was detected in the 2 largest types of granules: type 6 (mean diameter, 128 nm) and type 7 (mean diameter, 161 nm).
1549160|Sequence data for the complete 18S rDNA gene were used to address unresolved phylogenetic issues concerning branchiopod evolution. Representative taxa include all 8 extant orders of branchiopods, additional crustaceans from the Malacostraca, and 3 alternative outgroups (Myriapoda, Chelicerata, and Insecta). The results of both maximum parsimony and neighbor-joining phylogenetic analyses are congruent and indicate that branchiopods are a monophyletic class of crustaceans, and that the Anostraca are monophyletic and the sister group to all other branchiopods. The phylogenetic position of the Laevicaudata cannot be resolved, but analyses suggest a notostracan clade that is the sister group to the Diplostraca (=Conchostraca and Cladocera). Within the Diplostraca, the Conchostraca and Spinicaudata are paraphyletic as currently recognized, because the spinicaudatan clam shrimp Cyclestheria hislopi is the sister taxon to a clade (Gymnomera) comprising the cladoceran orders Anomopoda, Ctenopoda, Haplopoda, and Onychopoda. We therefore propose that the taxonomic heading "Cladocera" include a new taxon, Cyclesthera, equal in rank to the Gymnomera. Cladoceran monophyly, as described above, is further substantiated by the shared presence of expansion segments in the 18S rDNA genes of anomopods, ctenopods, haplopods, and onychopods, as well as that of C. hislopi. A phylogenetic view of the Cladocera that includes the above taxa corroborates views based on morphological comparisons that the cladoceran lineage arose from a cyclestherid-like ancestor.
1549590|The female of Haplostoma brevicauda (Canu, 1886) is redescribed primarily based on specimens living in the Ascidian Aplidium argus which is the type host. Three other Aplidium species have been confirmed to be parasitized by H. brevicauda. The redescription indicates that H. mizoulei Monniot, 1962, is synonymous with H. brevicauda. Subgroup 1 of Haplostoma, which consists of H. brevicauda and 10 congeners, exhibits at least four patterns (I-IV) of armature formulas for legs 1-4; H. brevicauda has pattern II. In this paper, the male of H. brevicauda is described for the first time based on specimens living in A. turbinatum and one other Aplidium species. A male that Canu (1892) reported as the male of H. brevicauda will be assigned here as the male of Botryllophilus ruber Hesse, 1864. The present material was obtained by the author at Roscoff, France, in 1992.
1549925|Serbanibathynella primaindica gen. n., sp. n. is described from India. It is the sister taxon of the genus Nannobathynella Noodt, 1969. The most spectacular apomorphic feature is the mandible, which has no gnathobase. Only three teeth persist on the first segment of the palp, which is subequal to the second segment in length. Both are equipped with strong musculature, and there is a joint between them allowing a backward swing of the terminal part of the palp. This joint is unique within Bathynellidae. Only Agnathobathynella ecclesi Schminke, 1980, can rival the new species in the specialization of mouthparts. The new species is the fifth species of Bathynellidae described from the tropics.
10.2307/1549524|The halophore, halothalium, and s-seta are termed herein and occur on the myodocopine first antenna, probably the most systematically significant myodocopine appendage. The morphology of the exoskeleton and distribution of these structures are described, following scanning electron and light microscopic analyses and literature comparisons. The movements of these and other myodocopine first antennal structures are studied, using video recordings of an exemplary species. Halophores are setules with a characteristic exoskeletal ultrastructure comprising a layer of very fine rings, with walls approximately circular in cross section, covered by an outer, probably elastic, layer or sheath. There is a single pore at the halophore tip. This organization permits great flexibility. If dendrites innervate halophores, the flexibility may aid in sampling for water-borne chemicals or mechanoreception. The s-seta (formerly the sensory seta) is a seta arising from the fifth article of the myodocopine first antenna that frequently possesses numerous long halophores. The s-seta is always and only present in the Myodocopina. The collective halophores distributed over the whole of one first antenna are termed the halothalium. Analogies of the structures described in this study are made with other crustacean structures.
10.2307/1549523|The monophyletic Dromiacea, including Sphaerodromia lamellata, Homolodromia kai, and Dynomene tanensis, here studied, have the following characters: (1) operculum perforate, but lacking the thoracotreme apical button; (2) opercular projections into the subopercular material, diagnostic of homolids, absent; (3) operculum discontinuous with the capsule, unlike raninoids; (4) operculum moderately thick, not extremely thin as in the cyclodorippoids Tymolus and Xeinostoma; (5) operculum not extremely wide, contrasting with the great width in cyclodorippoids; (6) periopercular rim and (7) accessory opercular ring absent, being variably present in eubrachyurans; (8) subopercular protuberance through operculum well developed (synapomorphy), weak in homolids; (9) true acrosome ray zone absent; (10) peripheral border of outer acrosome zone border not ragged, unlike some xanthoids; (11) anterolateral pale zone of acrosome contents present (autapomorphy); (12) xanthid ring absent; (13) subacrosomal chamber or perforatorium extending preequatorially, unlike Ranina ranina; (14) head of perforatorium bilateral (autapomorphy); (15) corrugations of the wall of the perforatorial chamber absent; (16) centrioles apparently absent; (17) posterior median process of the nucleus absent; (18) thickened ring (typical of Eubrachyura) absent; (19) concentric lamellae (typical of Thoracotremata) in the outer acrosome zone absent; (20) capsular chambers absent; and (21) capsular flange absent, unlike Ranina ranina and Raninoides sp. Spermatologically Sphaerodromia lamellata appears closer to the dynomenid Dynomene tanensis than it is to the mutually paraphyletic Dromidiopsis edwardsi and Stimdromia lateralis. The spermatozoon of Homolodromia kai (Homolodromiidae) shares a striking putative synapomorphy with Paradynomene tuberculata: a flange-like lateral extension of the lower acrosome zone; both species appear to lie within a dromiid clade. Neither the Dromiidae nor the Dynomenidae appear monophyletic spermatologically. The spermatozoal evidence is discussed in the light of a brief review of non-spermatozoal morphology. General morphology and spermatozoal ultrastructure both strongly endorse monophyly of the Dromiacea.
10.2307/1548386| Two very similar tanaidaceans, Leptochelia forresti (Stebbing) and L. dubia (Kryer), were the most abundant macrofauna associated with the capitula of the calcareous green macroalga Penicillus capitatus Lamarck in Puerto Rico. Both tanaids are protogynous hermaphrodites with highly skewed sex ratios. Abundances of tanaids on P. capitatus were related to habitat size. Densities (numbers per macrophyte dry weight and surface area) were much higher on the alga than on adjacent sea grasses. Abundance of male L. forresti on the habitat islands was correlated with the abundance of females of the species. Sex ratios (female to male) between five and ten to one may be related to sex reversal patterns. In light of the fact that L. forresti and L. dubia were found in equal abundance on the tops of P. capitatus, several factors suggest that males of the species are not distributed independently and that distributional patterns and sex reversals and ratios may be influenced by interspecific interactions: (1) Males of L. dubia were rare on the alga, making up less than 1.0% of the population. (2) Males of L. forresti and L. dubia never co-occurred, despite cooccurrences of females. (3) Only very large males of L. dubia were found on P. capitatus. (4) The percentage of female L. dubia in reproductive condition was very low on P. capitatus, compared to that in adjacent habitats. Hypotheses are presented to explain differences in sex ratios; these include interspecific competition among males and interspecific inhibition of sex reversal. 
27920092|Measurements of rates of feeding indicate that Euphausia superba can feed on particles ranging from nanophytoplankton to macrozooplankton; a typical animal of 120 mg dry weight processes about 450 ml water per h and ingests at a maximum about 10% of its body carbon per day. A food concentration of about 100 g carbon 11 allows the animal to ingest its minimum food requirement of 2.3% body carbon per day. Measurements of 210Po and 210Pb indicate krill from Bransfield Strait in February 1982 were feeding herbivorously. Photographic analysis of the thoracic legs employed by E. superba for feeding indicates that the mechanical power required to extract phytoplankton from the water ranges up to about 30% of its total respiratory energy.
10.2307/1547931|The life history of the amphipod Gammarus mucronatus was examined in two warm temperate estuarine habitats, a sea-grass (Zostera marina) bed and the macroalgae region (Ulva spp., Enteromorpha spp.) of a fouling community. Amphipod populations were present in the sea-grass habitat during most of the entire year ranging from <50 m<sup>-2</sup> in late summer to 1,200 m<sup>-2</sup> in June, while the algal habitat was occupied only from late winter to early summer, with maximum abundances as high as 6,800 m<sup>-2</sup>. Based on laboratory growth experiments, observations on field growth rates, and recognition of cohorts from size-frequency distributions, it is estimated that G. mucronatus is capable of producing approximately 6-9 cohorts per year. Rapid spring and summer growth is accompanied by maturation at smaller size and reduction in brood size, egg size, and development time.
10.2307/1548840| A revision of the suborder Akentrogonida Hfele (Cirripedia: Rhizocephala) is proposed, based upon characters concerning ontogeny, larval morphology, and metamorphosis. The original diagnosis of the suborder is amended to include several genera, previously considered to be incertae sedis. The family Sylonidae Boschma is reduced to a synonym of Clistosaccidae Boschma. The diagnosis of the family Chthamalophilidae Bocquet-Vdrine is amended to include the genera Boschmaella Bocquet-Vdrine and Bocquetia Pawlik. The new families erected are: Duplorbidae, new family, for the genera Duplorbis Smith, Cryptogaster Bocquet-Vdrine and Bourdon, and Arcturosaccus Rybakov and Heg; Mycetomorphidae, new family, for the genus Mycetomorpha Potts, and Thompsoniidae, new family, for the genus Thompsonia Hfele. The genus Pirusaccus Ltzen is still considered as incertae sedis, though its possible affinity to Thompsoniidae is emphasized. A list of all species of the Rhizocephala Akentrogonida is given with notes on hosts and geographical distribution. A key allows identification of all the families of the Rhizocephala. 
10.2307/1548573|A new character for the distinction of subgenera in postlarval shrimp of the genus Penaeus from the Gulf of California (Mexico) is described. The four main shrimp species, Penaeus stylirostris, P. vannamei, P. californiensis, and P. brevirostris, present clear differences in the internal/external length ratio of the two first segments of the antennular flagella. Penaeus stylirostris and P. vannamei, both belonging to the subgenus Litopenaeus, have low ratio values, e.g., mean values ranging from 0.4-1.0, whereas P. californiensis and P. brevirostris of the subgenus Farfantepenaeus have high ratio valves, e.g., mean values ranging from 1.1-3.1. When total ranges are considered, overlapping occurs in only one of the four categories in which the postlarvae were grouped according to the number of dorsal teeth of the rostrum. Even in this case, the subgeneric distinction is possible by comparing the level of the distal margin of the second segment of the internal antennular flagellum in relation to that of the first segment of the external flagellum. Differences are more pronounced within each of the categories. An identification method to the specific level is given after the subgeneric discrimination. The greatest advantage of this character over the use of chromatophore distribution patterns is the feasability of identifying postlarvae of Penaeus after prolonged storage periods.
10.2307/1548463|Female Schizidium tiberianum (Isopoda: Oniscidea: Armadillidiidae) reproduced once only during their second year of life. Males were rarely found in the natural adult population and the sex ratio was 1 M:6 F, although the juvenile sex ratio was 1 M:1 F. Ovarian and oocyte dimensions, and oocyte numbers were followed during the second half of the year. The ovary consisted of a single row of oocytes. A certain number of oocytes did not mature into marsupial ova. Mancas emerged from the marsupium starting the third week of March and continued throughout April. The females died either during, or soon after, having released the mancas. The latter fed on the female's carcass. The reproductive allocation and potential of this semelparous isopod were estimated.
4540252|Nine zoeal and one decapodid stages of the hippolytid shrimp Latreutes anoplonyx are described from laboratory-reared material. The shape and armature of the abdomen distinguish the larvae of L. anoplonyx from those of L. laminirostris, the other known species of Latreutes from East Asia. The larvae of L. anoplonyx show features not found in other Latreutinae, and Latreutes larvae show features not found in other Hippolytidae. Larval characters question the separation of the genera Latreutes and Tozeuma and the way in which the family Hippolytidae is divided into subfamilies.
1549716|Coho salmon (Oncorhynchus kisutch) and rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss) are commercially cultured in net-pens in Onmae Bay, Onagawa, Miyagi Prefecture, Japan, for eight months from November to the following July. Eight monthly samples of five rainbow trout and three bimonthly samples of five coho salmon were taken from two adjacent net-pens in this bay to study the infestation patterns of salmon louse (Lepeophtheirus salmonis). The results indicate that (1) rainbow trout was highly susceptible to salmon louse, (2) coho salmon harbored only the adult and preadult stages of the salmon louse, (3) the parasite reproduced twice on rainbow trout during the study period, and (4) the prevalence and mean intensity of infestation increased steadily into the harvest time (in July) on both species of salmonids. It is concluded that, aside from the resistance of coho salmon to infestation by salmon louse, the farmers' practice of rearing only the young fish and harvesting the fish in less than a year of culture accounts for the mitigation of salmon louse problem in Japan.
10.2307/1549448|Three species of decapod crustaceans belonging to three families are recorded from the Maliau Basin, Sabah, Malaysia. A new gecarcinucid crab, Thelphusula hulu, new species, is described. The palaemonid prawn Macrobrachium sabanus and the parathelphusid crab Parathelphusa valida are recorded for the first time from such a high altitude (490 m a.s.l.).
20487797|The genus Zuzalpheus Ros and Duffy, 2007 was established for species of the presumably monophyletic Synalpheus gambarelloides species group of the second-most speciose alpheid genus, Synalpheus Bate, 1888. However, the validity of Zuzalpheus as a distinct genus is questionnable. First, Zuzalpheus is embedded within Synalpheus in a previously published phylogeny of Synalpheus based on molecular and morphological data, making Synalpheus paraphyletic. Secondly, the three morphological characters used by Ros and Duffy (2007) to distinguish these two genera are minor compared to distinctions among other alpheid genera; only two of these characters can be considered valid, and only tentatively so. Therefore, Zuzalpheus is synonimized with Synalpheus. However, Zuzalpheus does remain an available name, which could be used in a future subgeneric classification based on a comprehensive phylogenetic assessment of Synalpheus.
40927845|Sites adjacent to (near-field) and distant from (far-field) oil-drilling platforms were sampled for harpacticoid copepods at two locations in the northern Gulf of Mexico off the coast of Louisiana, both at depths of  1100 m. The sites were located at Garden Banks Area Block 602 (GB 602) and Mississippi Canyon Area Block 292 (MC 292). Near-field sites at both locations were characterized by large numbers of a single undescribed species of harpacticoid copepod, Bathycletopsyllus sp., but this species was essentially absent from farfield sites. We sequenced a 710 bp portion of the mitochondrial cytochrome c oxidase subunit I gene (COX I) to analyze the genetic diversity and population structure of Bathycletopsyllus sp. at the two platforms, and to determine if the harpacticoids examined were either a single species, or a complex of cryptic species. We found that divergence at the COX I gene (maximum 1.6%) was within the range observed for intraspecific variability in previously-studied species of harpacticoid copepods that were well-characterized taxonomically. Thus, the two samples analyzed here were a single species and not a complex of cryptic species. In addition, there was significant genetic heterogeneity between the two samples, suggesting limited gene flow between the two sites. This was expected given the low dispersal potential typical of harpacticoids and the distance between the sites (407 km). Lastly, haplotype diversity and nucleotide diversity were both low in the GB 602 sample, giving a nominally-significant departure from a pure neutral model. This result could indicate the occurrence of selective sweeps, temporal population size variation or other processes not included in the neutral model. In contrast, haplotype diversity and nucleotide diversity were both higher in the MC 292 sample than at Garden Banks, and there was no detectable departure from neutrality. For both samples, diversity at the haplotype and nucleotide levels were within the range seen in shallow-water harpacticoid species inhabiting both uncontaminated and contaminated muddy sediments, so there was no evidence for pollution related effects in the present study.
10.2307/1548427|Reexamination of a crustacean parasitic on the gills of the scallop Patinopecten yessoensis has revealed that it is a copepod and not, as has been claimed, a rhizocephalan. The female is without appendages and its unsegmented, 8-mm broad body presents 1 dorsal unpaired and 2 pairs of lateral peripheral bulges. A small posterodorsal birth pore leads into a capacious brood pouch which is divided into 5 compartments by lateral septa. The mouth occurs in the middle of a circular area which is fused with a conical stalked structure made up of the host's connective tissue. The host's ctenidial epithelium lines the exterior of the stalk as well as the parasite body. The mouth opens into a blood lacuna in the middle of the stalk, and host blood is sucked into the digestive system which, in addition to a much subdivided pharynx, comprises an esophagus and a blind midgut. The female reproductive system consists of a branched ovary, 2 short oviducts, and an unpaired seminal receptacle; cement glands are absent. The males, 1-6 per female, are enclosed within a vesicle connected with the brood pouch; they are ovoid and have minute antennules, antennae, and mandibles placed on a small cephalic prominence. Spermatophores are attached to the inside of the male vesicle from where sperm are transferred to the seminal receptacle. Eggs are incubated in the brood pouch and develop into typical copepod nauplii.
10.2307/1548858|Sequence data from PCR-amplified 18S rDNA were used to infer phylogenetic relationships among the thecostracan crustacean taxa Ascothoracida (Ulophysema oeresundense), Acrothoracica (Berndtia purpurea, Trypetesa lampas), Rhizocephala (Loxothylacus texanus), and Thoracica (Calantica villosa, Lepas anatifera, Octolasmis lowei, Chthamalus fragilis, Chelonibia patula, Tetraclita stalactifera, Balanus eburneus). Sequence-divergence estimates ranged from 1.8% for 2 acrothoracican taxa to 24.3% for an ascothoracidan and a balanomorph thoracican. Parsimony, invariants, and neighbor-joining analyses all showed the Ascothoracida and Acrothoracica to be sister taxa and very early thecostracan lineages widely separated from the Rhizocephala, which in turn is the sister group to the Thoracica. A comparison of the secondary structure of the V3 variable domain in the 18S rRNA molecule for these taxa supports this result somewhat: the acrothoracican V3 structure is phenetically more similar to that of the ascothoracidan and branchiopods than to the other cirripedes. There is some disagreement between a morphology-based phylogeny and the current one based on molecular characters. It may result from molecular evidence suggesting an early origin and divergence of the Acrothoracica from the main cirripede lineage, as well as a substitution rate in the lineage leading to the Rhizocephala + Thoracica that is very much higher (10-12 times) than those in the other thecostracan lineages examined. Within the Thoracica, the sessile balanomorphs appear to be derived from a lineage related to scalpelloid lepadomorphs, but variation in the 18S molecule among balanomorphs is insufficient to permit inference of relationships within this group. We conclude that the Thecostraca, represented here by the subclasses Ascothoracida and Cirripedia (the latter including the Acrothoracica, Rhizocephala, and Thoracica), is a monophyletic taxon.
4094148| Reconsideration of all fossils formerly referred to the Trapeziidae Miers, 1886, suggests that both the Trapeziidae and the morphologically similar Domeciidae Ortmann, 1893, are represented in the fossil record. Two fossil species formerly considered to be trapeziids are referred to the domeciid genus Jonesius Sankarankutty, 1962. New combinations include J. oligocenicus (Beschin et al., 2001) and J. planus (Mller, 1996); thus, the recognized geologic record of the Domeciidae extends from the Oligocene to Recent. The Trapeziidae is known from three Eocene genera, including the new genus and species described here, Archaeotetra inornata. Other Eocene occurrences include two species of Eomaldivia Mller and Collins, 1991, and one species of Tetralia Dana, 1851. A few Miocene species of Trapezia Latreille, 1828, and a Pleistocene occurrence have been reported. Members of both families are symbiotic with cnidarians, and this relationship appears to have been established by the Eocene in the case of the Trapeziidae and the Oligocene for the Domeciidae, based upon the tropical to subtropical distribution and the occurrence of the fossils in each family in coral-bearing rocks. Coevolutionary processes appear to have resulted in high degrees of specialization in some genera within the Trapeziidae. 
1549937|Adult sand fiddler crabs, Uca pugilator, forage in large herds on exposed sediment during low tide. These herds form as a response to optimal foraging conditions but may have an additional benefit of water conservation. We determined water loss rates for crabs in groups of different sizes. Crabs in groups of 10 and 20, but not in a group of 5 or isolated individuals, showed a water-conserving group effect, yielding nearly a two-fold decrease in water loss rates. Other characteristics of U. pugilator (water content, dehydration tolerance, activation energies for water loss, critical transition temperature, and critical equilibrium humidity) are consistent with a hydrophilic water balance profile. Because crabs did not replenish water supplies from water vapor like some terrestrial arthropods, water conservation is vital to crab survival outside burrows. Enhanced water retention generated by herding likely permits more time for feeding outside the burrow, while also increasing feeding efficiency by minimizing frequency of water uptake. The fact that U. pugilator is semiterrestrial suggests that a reduction in water loss due to group effects may provide a mechanism for terrestrialization.
27920099|Larvae of Euphausia superba were sampled during JanuaryMarch 1981 in three Antarctic areas: the Scotia Sea (twice), waters near Elephant Island in the South Shetlands (twice), and Bransfield Strait. JanuaryFebruary larvae in the Scotia Sea averaged 250/m3 and 99% were calyptopes, dominated by stage 1. The oldest stages, Furcilia 3 and 4, had grown at slow rates, determined by comparisons of body lengths with larvae from other areas. Progressively younger stages reflected better growth, associated with a contemporary highly variable distribution of chlorophyll. Most rapid growth was inferred in a low density of larvae south of Elephant Island in March, where chlorophyll was at highest observed levels. Intermediate growth had occurred in larvae from north and east of Elephant Island, and Bransfield Strait, where chlorophyll concentrations were intermediate. During March, larvae averaged 36 stages older than during JanuaryFebruary. Abundances were 100500/m3 along 250 km in the same area sampled in January. To the north and east of Elephant Island, principal modes in larval abundances were at younger stages (by 24 stages, respectively, = about 1632 days of growth) than near the South Orkneys. An intermediate region showed an intermediate mode, implying intermediate timing of peak recruitment. Inferred development times of about 8 days per calyptopis and furcilia stage are shorter than previous estimates. In Scotia Sea areas having the highest densities of larvae in March, there were numerous developmental forms (variants) of furcilia stages 1 and 2, without clearly dominant forms. This evidence of indirect pathways during larval development and of slow growth was borne out by body-length measurements. Chlorophyll was near depletion in these areas of high densities of larvae. Data from earlier years indicate that absence of dominant forms in Furciliae 1 and 2 during March in the southern Scotia Sea may occur regularly, possibly contributing to the substantial range of body size of older year classes. Pathways of larval development observed in March were direct in coastal areas, compared with oceanic, in spite of variable ambient chlorophyll. Extremes in growth rate, population density, and food seem to interrelate, whereas intermediate states do not.
10.2307/1548871|Specimens of a new parastenocaridid copepod were collected from a murundu mound and nearby soil in the central Brazilian highlands. Principal diagnostic features of Murunducaris juneae, new genus, new species, include, in both sexes, the posterior insertion of the spiniform seta of leg 4 exopodite article 1, and, in the male, the fifth legs with massive, fused basipodites, each with a large subconical terminal spine, and the posteriorly recurved process located on the ventral midline of the fused basipodites. Murunducaris, like some other neotropical parastenocaridid genera, is among the most highly evolved members of the family. Known patterns of integumental somitic windows in the Parastenocarididae are reviewed, and their possible significance for the systematics of the family is discussed.
1549719|The inheritance of 65 RAPD markers obtained from 15 arbitrary primers has been tested in two sexual populations of the ostracod Heterocypris incongruens. The markers were selected using the criteria of reproducibility and banding-pattern clarity from the amplification products yielded by 40 primers. The expected inheritance model was inferred from the progeny banding pattern and tested with the appropriate statistics. All 65 markers followed a Mendelian pattern of inheritance and indicated that the Spanish and the Italian populations studied are genetically different.
10.2307/1548176|Carrying is a behavior in which the last one or two pairs of pereiopods of a crab are used to lift and hold an object dorsally over the body. This behavior is found in the families Homolidae, Latreilliidae, Dromiidae, Tymolidae, and Dorippidae. Crabs that carry have subdorsal pereiopods ending in spines, hooks, subchelae, chelae, or curved dactyls. Subdorsal pereiopods ending in small chelae also are found in the Homolodromiidae. All of the families that carry have been classified in the section Dromiacea except for the Dorippidae. I suggest that carrying is a conservative behavioral pattern in brachyuran crabs, and that it may be useful in determining family relationships.
10.2307/1549541|The effect of eyestalk ablation at various times on size (overall body length, carapace length, and body width) of fourth instar (postlarval instar during normal development) Alpheus heterochaelis was studied. Animals which underwent bilateral eyestalk ablation earlier in larval life grew to a significantly larger overall size compared to unablated controls and larvae ablated later. This growth was manifested as lengthening of the abdomen and was not expressed in the cephalothorax. The relationship between total body length attained and time of ablation was greatest among larvae ablated during Stage II, with overall size decreasing as time of ablation increased chronologically. The increase in overall size seen among larvae ablated progressively earlier may be a result of loss of hormonal control over hydromineral regulation and/or controlled manufacture and release of crustacean hyperglycemic hormone (CHH) by the X-organ--sinus gland, but it may also simply reflect a redirection of metabolic resources.
1549895|Crayfish are widely recognized as an important ecological component of stream systems, but there has been limited work to develop and evaluate the reliability of sampling methods for lotic crayfishes, especially efforts that are temporally and spatially comprehensive. We desired a quantitative method to assess crayfish communities in streams with rocky substrate. Our objective was to develop a method to obtain and compare representative density estimates with acceptable variance and reasonable effort, and to illustrate use of the method by using it to 1) describe and compare diurnal habitat associations by lotic crayfish, and 2) detect density changes over time. Our study encompassed four sites on two rivers, two seasons, and 8 y (1991-1998) to evaluate a 1-m<sup>2</sup> quadrat sampler, and a sampling method that stratified effort among five macrohabitats to reduce variability. This method performed well for both seasons, detecting spatial differences among macrohabitats and temporal differences among years. Spatial differences were expressed as macrohabitat selectivity by the crayfish community, and showed a consistent trend across streams and seasons. In particular, macrohabitats with slower current velocities consistently had the highest densities. Temporal differences included documentation of decreased densities in several macrohabitats across 5 y. Sampling precision, measured by coefficients of variation, was acceptable but not considered high. Statistical power was good for detecting spatial differences, but reduced and variable for detecting temporal changes. Our findings 1) demonstrate the use of stratifying quantitative sampling for lotic crayfish communities by habitats, 2) confirm the importance of evaluating sampling methods, and 3) illustrate the consistent way in which Ozarks crayfish communities used available macrohabitats.
1549510|A review of Halimede de Haan, 1835, divides this xanthoid genus into three species: H. fragifer de Haan, 1835, H. ochtodes (Herbst, 1783), and H. tyche (Herbst, 1801). The species are redescribed and illustrated, and a key is provided. A specimen of H. tyche collected off the coast of Israel is the first record of this genus from the Mediterranean.
4540269| This study is intended to characterize the ovarian development and hemolymph vertebrate-type steroids concentration during the reproductive cycle of the freshwater prawn, Macrobrachium rosenbergii. A five-stage classification based on the external observation of the ovary's size and color as seen through the tegument was used. The results showed the existence of a direct correspondence between the ovarian stages and the gonadosomatic index, the ocyte diameter, and the characteristics of ovarian histology. In each stage total bleeding of the prawns was conducted and the hemolymph concentrations of 17-estradiol (E), testosterone (T) and 17-hydroxyprogesterone (17-OHP; conjugated and unconjugated) were determined by solid-phase radioimmunoassay (RIA). High levels of unconjugated 17-OHP, relatively constant concentrations of unconjugated T, and null concentration of unconjugated E were found throughout the five stages considered. Nonetheless, low levels of E were determined in all stages, in conjugated (glucoronide) form. The highest levels were obtained in stage II and III (18.14  14.52 pg/ml hemolymph) and progressively declined in the other stages (7.53  6.76 pg/ml hemolymph). These results point out the possible involvement of vertebrate-type steroids in the endocrine regulation of the Macrobrachium rosenbergii's ovarian cycle. To our knowledge this is the first study concerning the vertebrate-like steroid levels throughout the ovarian cycle and is a step needed to characterize the hemolymph profile of these steroids in order to elucidate the possible role in the regulation of the reproductive crustacean cycle. 
10.2307/1548671|Fifteen-day old, well-fed female Daphnia magna were starved and the response of enterocytes of the anterior midgut was monitored at the ultrastructural level. The predominant features were depletion of lipid and glycogen reserves, swelling of mitochondria, reduction of rough endoplasmic reticulum and dictyosomes, and decrease of cell height to one-fifth of the height at the beginning of starvation. Intense degradation of organelles began after 4 days of starvation when whole body energy resources were depleted, as confirmed by biochemical analysis in parallel. Compared to other zooplankton species, the low ability of D. magna to survive periods of food deprivation is caused by the strategy of Daphnia to allocate energy to reproduction.
10.2307/1548181|Procaris chacei is described from Green Bay Cave, Hamilton Parish, Bermuda, and Agostocaris williamsi from caves in the Bahamas (Cat I., Grand Bahama I.) and The Turks and Caicos (Providenciales I. and North Caicos I.). Procaris chacei is the third known species of the genus Procaris, the others having been found on Ascension Island and on Hawaii. The new monotypic family Agostocarididae, proposed to receive Agostocaris williamsi, new genus and species, shares some features with the family Bresiliidae.
27753956|As The Crustacean Society completes its thirtieeth year of existence, it is time to reflect and appropriately commemorate this anniversary with an appreciation of Raymond B. Manning. This memorial augments the brief biographical sketch presented by Lemaitre and Reed (2000). On the day this issue of Journal of Crustacean Biology is being published, 11 October 2009, Ray would have been 75 and undoubly would have been proud of what the society has achieved in just three decades.
10.2307/1548079| The leptostracan Dahlella caldariensis, new genus, new species, is common at hydrothermal vents on the Galapagos spreading center and the East Pacific Rise at 13N and 21N (2,450-2,620 m depth). It was found in the throat of vent openings and clumps of mussels and vestimentiferans. The genus is most strikingly recognized by its elongate, dentate eyestalk. Living leptostracans are realigned among two families, Nebaliopsidae, new family, and Nebaliidae, new combination, which are diagnosed herein. 
10.2307/1548392|Three new genera and species of very small hermit crabs, Pygmaeopagurus hadrochirus, Micropagurus devaneyi, and Nanopagurus reesei, are described and illustrated. These are the first shallow-water genera with male sexual tubes to be reported from the Hawaiian Islands.
10.2307/1548624| The dorsolateral body surface in Gammarus setosus is equipped with integumental microtrich sensilla whose sockets are oval depressions in the cuticle. Each socket is based on 4 epidermal cells. Cell 1 forms a smooth dome on one side of the rim over the base of the microtrich, and lines the bottom of the depression with tubercles. Cells 2 and 3 flank cell 1 and meet opposite the dome where cell 4 completes the depression. The microtrich has an apical pore under a tapered hood and its surface is decorated by a scaliculus. The 8 microtrich receptor cells are at the base of the epidermis within the basal lamina. Each group is at a distance of 100 m or more from the socket it innervates. The axons associate in bundles and on each side join the tegumentary nerve behind the eyes, pass through the olfactory lobe cell layer into the tritocerebrum. Each microtrich receptor unit receives 8 unbranched dendrites. The neurons and their processes are sheathed by 4 serially arranged auxiliary cells: the thecogen, trichogen, and 2 tormogen, which are surrounded by accessory cells with dense nuclei and cytoplasm. The receptorlymph cavity delimited by the thecogen cell does not expand the receptor unit at the level of the stepwise ciliary connections. The basal bodies of the 9 + 0 cilia are unusual in having 9 doublet microtubules embedded in dense material and 9 peripheral filaments. The cuticle of the microtrich is derived from the processes of the trichogen and 2 thecogen cells which can be identified during ecdysis. In the intermolt the processes are withdrawn from the receptor canal into recesses within the endocuticle below the sensillum. Since all 8 dendritic cilia are structurally similar and receive stimuli via the apical pore, and none is associated with a scolopale or ends in a tubular body, the microtrich sensilla are presumed to be chemoreceptive. 
1548834|Immunoreactivity to antisera raised against serotonin, a biogenic amine, and FMRFamide, a neuropeptide, reveals two different populations of neurons in the nervous system of Hutchinsoniella macracantha. Neural transmission may thus use at least transmitter substances that are found in other crustaceans and invertebrates.
4126716|The hypothesis of monophyly in Paguroidea and the relationship of this superfamily to the other three superfamilies of Anomura have been reassessed using current cladistic methods and computer generated analysis. In the analysis, 79 external morphological characters were examined for an in-group consisting of the seven paguroid families, Pylochelidae, Coenobitidae, Diogenidae, Pylojacquesidae, Paguridae, Parapaguridae, and Lithodidae (divided into the subfamilies Lithodinae and Hapalogastrinae), three hippoid families, Blepharipodidae, Albuneidae, and Hippidae, five galatheoid families, Galatheidae, Chirostylidae, Kiwaidae, Aeglidae, and Porcellanidae, and the Lomisoidea's monotypic Lomisidae. The out-group was comprised of Neoglyphea inopinata, representing Fractosternalia, and the families Dromiidae and Dynomenidae representing Brachyura. This analysis has shown that Anomura indeed is a monophyletic infraorder, as is Hippoidea a monophyletic superfamily. However, while six of the paguroid families form a cohesive clade, the two subfamilies of Lithodidae form a distinct clade more closely related to the superfamily Hippoidea than to the other paguroids. Galatheoidea, as presently constituted, is polyphyletic. Aeglidae, like Lithodidae, is more closely related to Hippoidea than to the galatheoid clade formed by the families Galatheidae, Chirostylidae, and Porcellanidae. Kiwaidae is also distinct from Galatheoidea sensu stricto, but its relationship, and that of Lomisoidea, to the remainder of the anomuran taxa are unresolved in the present analysis. As a result of this reappraisal, we propose that Lithodidae be removed from Paguroidea sensu lato and elevated to superfamily rank with families Lithodidae and Hapalogastridae. Similarly, we propose that Galatheoidea be restricted to the families Galatheidae, Chirostylidae, and Porcellanidae, whereas Kiwaidae and Aeglidae are each to be elevated to superfamily rank. Anomura will then consist of seven superfamilies, Hippoidea, Lithodoidea, Aegloidea, Lomisoidea, Kiwaoidea, Galatheoidea sensu stricto, and Paguroidea sensu stricto.
27920093|Previous conceptual models relating feeding and swarming all assume that euphausiids do not feed in swarms because food is limiting, particularly in dense swarms. Present field data and shipboard experiments were designed to test this limitation and other laboratory based predictions (Antezana et al., 1982). Results strongly suggest that feeding and swarming are co-occurring events north of Elephant Island. Three lines of evidence suggest intense, active feeding behavior of swarming krill: (1) the distribution of elevated stomach pigments is consistent with an abrupt "southeastnorthwest" chlorophyll a gradient; (2) pigment-laden stomachs predominate in the area for hours, days, and even weeks; and (3) egestion rates in the absence of food suggest that animals should empty their stomachs within a few hours. Based on feeding and egestion behavior, stomach capacities, pigment content of feces, krill densities, and ambient chlorophyll a, the feeding potential of krill within the swarming area north of Elephant Island is evaluated. Because exceptionally full krill stomachs can not be explained by feeding on phytoplankton alone, we suggest that coprophagy may be occurring within the swarm. We propose that swarming may have adaptive feeding advantages not unlike those occurring in organisms of various phyla which exploit ephemeral, patchy food sources.
10.2307/1549238| The kidney-shaped compound eyes of adult tadpole shrimps of the genera Triops and Lepidurus are composed of about 310 and 170 ommatidia, respectively. Each ommatidium has a flattened cuticle on top, and is made of 4 cone cells that form a crystalline cone of the eucone type, 2 corneagenous cells and 8 retinula cells which form a fused rhabdom. Among the retinula cells, 6 are arranged in 3 mirror symmetrical pairs (referred to as R1/R6, R2/R5, R3/R4) on either side of the axis of the ommatidial cross section, while 2 unpaired cells (referred to as R7 and R8) are positioned one behind the other along the axis. The rhabdomere of R7 sits on top of the rhabdom, and is replaced by that of R8 more proximally. In its distal region, the rhabdom is formed like a  in Triops and is of a triangular shape in Lepidurus. The structure of the dioptric apparatus, the retinula and conecell patterns, the orientation of the rhabdomeric microvilli, the array of the ommatidia, and the arrangement of the ommatidial main axes are discussed with regard to the compound eyes of other arthropods. 
10.2307/1549038| The 1899 description and discussion by Henri Coutire of the cardiac notch on the posterior margin of the carapace in certain decapods is translated and reviewed, with special emphasis on the alpheids, in which it is usually present, and the otherwise similar hippolytids, in which it is almost invariably absent. The genus Yagerocaris Kensley, 1988, is transferred from the hippolytids to the alpheids. Similar notches in other decapod families are deemed not to be homologous, even though the practical importance of the structures described by Coutire continues to defy explanation. 
4540264|The production of new articles in the flagellum of the second antennae of Asellus aquaticus was studied in both undamaged and regenerating antennae. Segmentation is an iterative process in two phases: 1) the first proximal flagellomere (the meristematic article) repeatedly gives off distally a new primary article; 2) each primary article divides into four secondary articles (a quartet). To a certain extent, production and development of different quartets are independent processes. Evidence is provided that the formation of new articles and their setae are partly decoupled. During regeneration from the preferred breakage point (the so-called 'autotomy plane'), the flagellum is generated by the same mechanism of two-phase segmentation. The regenerated flagellum has a normal segmental composition, except for the tip (the apical complex), which has four flagellomeres rather than the normal five. The similar segmental pattern observed also in other malacostracan crustaceans and in insects, supports a close phylogenetic relationship among the two groups; if the latter proves not to hold, that similarity would provide an example of parallel evolution of developmental mechanism. The difference between 'true' articles and annulations, defined on the structure of the muscular system, is discussed on the basis of comparative developmental data. In general, annulations are produced more sequentially, compared with the almost simultaneous emergence of true articles.
10.2307/1548312|Size-at-instar, growth-per-molt, reproductive schedules, and morphometric allometries were investigated in four sympatric species of Cancer (magister, the Dungeness crab, gracilis, productus, and oregonensis) in Garrison Bay, North Puget Sound. Complementary observations were made on mating systems, mortality, habitat utilization patterns, and feeding. Numerical methods were successfully employed to discriminate instars in size-frequency distributions. Growth pattern, contrary to our expectation, was determinate in the four species. Geographic variation in prereproductive growth rate of C. magister is attributed to environmental factors. It is suggested that an independent stock may inhabit the Strait of Georgia-North Puget Sound area. Observations on mating behavior suggest that these polygynic species have different types of mating systems, leaning towards resource defense in C. oregonensis, female defense in C. gracilis (and perhaps also in C. productus), and explosive breeding assemblages in C. magister. Degree of sexual dimorphism is consistent with this hypothesis. Adult males of C. gracilis, C. productus, and C. oregonensis have proportionally larger chelae than females; no significant dimorphism was detected in C. magister. Male C. gracilis and C. productus show two clear allometric phases in the chela-carapace size relation. Contemporary studies of diversity within decapod guilds have frequently been done with food-resource partitioning as an explicit or implicit hypothesis. In contrast, we stress the importance of habitat, mating systems, and sexual selection as primary mechanisms underlying the diversification of this genus.
1549340|The effect of unilateral and bilateral eyestalk ablation on molting and reproduction of the estuarine crab Chasmagnathus granulata was studied, during the prereproductive (PRE), reproductive (R), and postreproductive (POST) periods under constant laboratory conditions. The effect of the laboratory conditions themselves was also evaluated by comparing the control intact crabs maintained in the laboratory with an intact outdoor group. Bilateral ablation was a stronger inducer of molting than was unilateral ablation. The former treatment induced in both sexes the highest percentages of molting (65-100%) in shorter times, as well as a higher size increment at molting, regardless of the period when it was performed. During POST period, unilateral-ablated and intact crabs from both sexes also molted, females in a higher percentage than males. No spawning was recorded in females that had undergone bilateral ablation. Unilateral-ablated and intact females first spawned and then molted during R. Unilateral ablated females also had, during R period, up to two spawnings before molting, whereas the laboratory control crabs had only one. The laboratory-control and unilateral-ablated females spawned during PRE period, while none of the outdoor control did during that period. We conclude that: (1) bilateral ablation is a very strong inducer of molting for both sexes during any season of the year, (2) unilateral ablation increases the female reproductive output during the reproductive period, and (3) the laboratory conditions used in this study are capable of inducing spawning during the prereproductive period.
10.2307/1548482|A unique and elegant setular array on the first antenna of the adult female stage of the carnivorous marine copepod Euchaeta norvegica is described. The setae are aligned along 3 planes where the paired antennae cover one plane. The second plane is covered by elongate straight setae that project anteriorly at the proximal section of the antenna and posteriorly at the distal tip of the antenna. A pair of elongate curved setae on the seventh and eighth segments of the first antenna projects perpendicular to the plane of the antenna and perpendicular to the plane of the straight setae. These 2 curved setae flanked by 2 straight setae on segments 3 and 13 project equidistant in front of the antenna. They form a 4-point quadrangular setal arrangement on each antenna. The paired structure may be designed for the early detection and localization of objects moving in 3 dimensions in the copepod's immediate environment.
1549165|The osmoregulatory responses and survival of 3 species of landhoppers (Austrotroides maritimus, Keratroides rex, and Tasmanorchestia annulata) confined to the coastal zone of western Tasmania and 2 species from inland forests (Mysticotalitrus tasmaniae and M. cryptus) are described over a range of external concentrations, from tap water to full strength sea water (approximately 1,000 mOsm kg<sup>-1</sup>. Austrotroides maritimus and K. rex showed a hyper-iso-osmotic osmoregulatory pattern (maintaining the hemolymph between 362-1,080 mOsm kg<sup>-1</sup> and 412-1,045 mOsm kg<sup>-1</sup>, respectively, over a concentration range of 40-1,045 mOsm kg<sup>-1</sup>, whereas T. annulata showed a trend toward a hyper-hypo-osmoregulatory pattern (maintaining the hemolymph between 423-948 mOsm kg<sup>-1</sup> over the same concentration range). Mysticotalitrus tasmaniae and M. cryptus, the inland species, also showed a hyper-iso-osmotic regulatory pattern. Among the coastal species, there were significant interspecies differences in hemolymph osmotic concentration at dilute external concentrations and at the most concentrated external concentration examined. Tasmanorchestia annulata showed 100% survival over the full range of salinities examined, A. maritimus showed increased mortality on more dilute media, and K. rex showed increased mortality on more concentrated media. Silver-staining studies did not reveal evidence for the existence of extrabranchial sites of ion exchange in the 3 species. The data support the hypothesis that, of these coastal landhoppers, A. maritimus, at least, is physiologically limited to the coastal habitat by a dependence on the supply of ions from sea spray.
10.2307/1549028|Diflubenzuron is an insect larvicide that inhibits chitin synthesis. The effects of diflubenzuron were investigated on a nontarget organism, the postmolt adult blue crab Callinectes sapidus. Sections (explants) of the cuticle and epithelium were cut from the dorsal carapace of freshly molted blue crabs and maintained for 6 h in a buffered Ringer's solution containing diflubenzuron and <sup>3</sup>H-glucosamine. Control sections were taken from the same animals and were maintained in a like fashion but without exposure to diflubenzuron. The sections were subsequently fixed, processed and examined by electron microscopy, or probed with a chitin oligosaccharide-binding lectin, or studied for <sup>3</sup>H-glucosamine incorporation by autoradiography. Ultrastructurally, diflubenzuron-treated tissues showed coarse clumping of nuclear chromatin, dilation of the rough endoplasmic reticulum, and vesiculation of the apical cytoplasm of the cuticular epithelial cells. Decrease in nascent chitin in the treated tissues was demonstrated at the light microscopic level by scant binding of the lectin and minimal radiolabeling in the endocuticular region. The results offer morphologic evidence that diflubenzuron can interfere with crustacean chitin synthesis.
10.2307/1549470|All 6 naupliar stages of Hemicyclops japonicus (Copepoda: Poecilostomatoida) are described on the basis of specimens reared in the laboratory. The appendages that are directly related to feeding, such as the coxa and basis of the second antenna and mandible, reach their final state of armature by the fourth naupliar stage. The second maxilla, maxilliped, and legs 1 and 2 first appear at the sixth naupliar stage. Marked differences are noted between the naupliar stages of H. japonicus and H. adhaerens, described previously. Both species exhibit the typical characters of a feeding nauplius.
1549849| We provide the first biological data for the southern king crab Lithodes confundens, found intertidally on the Atlantic coast of southern South America (5121S-5420S). Between October and December 1997 and in December 1999, specimens were found during the ebbtide in crevices of the wave abrasion platform. The size of animals progressively increased from  50 mm carapace length (CL) in October to  105 and 75 mm CL in December for males and females, respectively. The sex ratio increased from October to December, from 1:1 to 2:1 male: female. Females molted during December. A total of 61 mating pairs were found at Baha Grande (5121S, 6902W), between 16 November and 28 December 1997, and represented 31% of a total of 399 captures. Mating pairs were in precopulatory embrace, which was formed by a male in intermolt condition and a female in ecdysis. The male was always larger than the female. The relative growth of the male right chela was studied with the MATURE computer routine for two different chela dimensions, length and width. Slopes of relationships between chela sizes and CL changed at 89.8 and 87.3 mm CL, respectively. The estimated size of physiological maturity for 82 females was 68.3 mm CL. The smallest male participating in mating pairs was 75.2 mm CL. We suggest 100 mm CL as the legal size for fishery management purposes. /// Se presentan los primeros datos biolgicos para la centolla Lithodes confundens, que fueron encontrados en el intermareal de la costa atlntica del extremo austral de Sudamrica (5121S-5420S). Entre octubre y diciembre de 1997 y en diciembre de 1999, se encontraron especmenes durante las bajamares, asociados a grietas de la plataforma de abrasin de ola. El tamao de los animales encontrados aument progresivamente, de  50 mm de largo de caparazn (LC) en octubre hasta  105 y 75 mm LC en diciembre, en machos y hembras, respectivamente. La proporcin sexual aument de octubre a diciembre de una relacin 1:1 a 2:1 machos: hembras. Las hembras mudaron en el intermareal durante diciembre. Un total de 61 parejas en acoplamiento fueron encontradas en Baha Grande (5121S, 6902W), entre el 16 de noviembre y el 28 de diciembre de 1997, y representaron el 31% de los 399 animales capturados. Las parejas en acoplamiento estaban en el abrazo precopulatorio, y constituidas por un macho en condicin intermuda que siempre fue ms grande que la hembra, que estaba en proceso de ecdisis. En los machos, el crecimiento relativo de la quela derecha fue estudiado con la rutina "MATURE", para las dimensiones largo y ancho de la quela. Las pendientes de las rectas definidas entre los tamaos de la quela y el LC cambiaron a los 89,8 y 87,3 mm LC, respectivamente. La talla de madurez fisiolgica, estimada a partir de 82 hembras, fue 68,3 mm LC. El macho ms pequeo participando en una pareja fue de 75,2 mm LC. Para un futuro manejo de la pesquera, sugerimos una talla legal de 100 mm LC. 
10.2307/1548629| Additional specimens of the newly described caridean bresiliid shrimps Rimicaris exoculata and R. chacei are recorded from a hydrothermally active area, 2322.160N, 4457.072W, at a depth of 3,522 m on the Mid-Atlantic Rift about 184 nautical miles (341 km) SSW of the locality from which the species were originally described. 
10.2307/1548224|Artemia cysts were collected from 15 North American habitats: 6 sea-water salterns where the prevailing anion is chloride and nine inland lakes where the prevailing anion is either chloride, sulfate, or carbonate. On a yeast diet, 14 of the 15 populations have optimum nauplius-to-adult viability in media with sodium concentrations of 1.1-1.3 M (with sodium comprising >90% of relative molar cationic composition). However, nauplii from Jesse Lake require less concentrated media (0.6 M sodium) for the first week of development. The range of anionic tolerance of each population greatly exceeds the range encountered in the source water. Saltern shrimps live in waters with less than 5% sulfate (expressed as percentage molar anionic composition), yet thrive in media with up to 29% sulfate. Penley Artemia tolerate laboratory media which are 23% carbonate, although Penley Lake is reported to contain <1% carbonate relative molar anionic composition. Each of the four populations from carbonate lakes tolerates 0.2% to 66% of the anionic molar composition as carbonate. Media with high carbonate concentrations (up to 11 g carbonate/l, pH 9.7, obligate low magnesium and calcium) killed shrimps from high-chloride habitats but permitted nauplius-to-adult development of Artemia from 5 low-chloride lakes (Penley, Fallon, Kiathuthlanna, Jesse, and Mono lakes). Low-carbonate media (<0.2 g combined carbonate and bicarbonate/l) distinguished clusters of populations by the criterion of tolerance of chloride/sulfate (Cl/SO<sub>4</sub>) ratio. In complex solutions, differences in Cl/SO<sub>4</sub> ratio are confounded with changes in osmolarity, ionic strength, pH, and specific gravity. Observation of viability of Artemia in an array of media matched for the other parameters revealed authentic population differences in tolerance of Cl/SO<sub>4</sub> ratios. In order of descending relative chloride tolerance, the sequence is: 3 Caribbean populations, 6 other populations from high-chloride habitats, and 3 populations tested from low-chloride habitats (Fallon, Penley, and Jesse). Jesse nauplii show the least tolerance of high absolute chloride concentration. In medium No. 70 (1.1 M sodium, Cl/SO<sub>4</sub> molar ratio of 2.5, 80 g total dissolved solids/l) all populations except Jesse Lake Artemia have high fertility and viability, much higher than when cultured in sea water. Interpopulation matings in No. 70 and other permissive media produced fertile F<sub>1</sub> and F<sub>2</sub> progeny. Thus, these 15 populations belong to the A. franciscana Kellogg superspecies. Some populations (or clusters of populations) are ecologically isolated in nature and represent incipient species or sibling species.
10.2307/1548845|Copepodid stages and adults of Hemicyclops ctenidis, a poecilostomatoid copepod symbiotic with a polychaete, were discovered in a brackish lagoon located on the eastern coast of Korea. The Saphirella-like first copepodids were collected simultaneously from both water and host in the same location. This finding substantiates previous authors' contentions that the Saphirella occurring in plankton samples are young forms of poecilostomatoids. Features occurring during copepodid development are described. This is the first record of the entire copepodid stages of Hemicyclops, one of the most primitive poecilostomatoids.
10.2307/1548406|Epidermal nucleoli undergo morphological changes in Gammarus that are about to molt or that have received small integumental lesions. The nucleoli largely change from a condensed condition to one in which they appear as nucleolar necklaces, a switch that precedes a period of sustained cuticle deposition, either as part of the pre- and postmolt events or in the repair of localized damage.
10.2307/1549472|Highly repetitive DNA sequences were investigated in order to shed light on evolutionary relationships in groups of Decapoda. The investigation emphasized the relationships Aeglidae-Anomura and between different species of Aegla. Analyses of molecular restriction and hybridization patterns (RP and HP, respectively) were used as experimental approaches. Highly repetitive restriction fragments obtained from species of Brachyura, Anomura, and Aeglidae were isolated and employed as molecular probes. Our results suggest that some highly repetitive DNA sequences are evolutionarily conserved among Caridea, Brachyura, and Anomura. Moreover, a 400-bp band appears to be conserved among Aeglidae, since it was exhibited by all species studied. Relative quantification of the 400-bp band showed that it is highly conserved in these species.
10.2307/1548646| A male and a female of Gonodactylus bredini collected off the coast of North Carolina were maintained in the laboratory for 16 months. Five clutches were spawned during a period of one year. Egg masses were pinkish orange, hollow spheres approximately 15 mm in diameter. Each egg mass consisted of 800-900 ovoid eggs ranging from 0.75-0.79 mm in length and 0.64-0.67 mm in width. The periodicity between emergences of pelagic larvae from the burrow ranged from 32-91 days, with a mean of 62 days. At 28C developmental times were as follows: approximately 29-30 days from mating to the pelagic larval stage when brooding is no longer required, 20-21 days from spawning to the pelagic stage, and six days from the propelagic to the pelagic stage. The female appeared to sculpt a burrow in hard coral and then seal the burrow while larvae remained within. Only one molt was observed, during which time the stomatopod changed color before reverting to its normal hue. Larvae of G. bredini were reared to metamorphosis from the eggs spawned and hatched in the laboratory. Three propelagic, four pelagic, one supernumerary, and the first postlarval stage were described for G. bredini. The unequivocable existence of supernumerary instars has not been determined previously for any species of stomatopod. The duration of larval development is approximately 35-40 days at 25C and 30 days at 30C when larvae progress through seven stages before metamorphosing, and 40-50 days at 25C and 36 days at 30C for larvae metamorphosing after eight stages. Of the 454 larvae reared, only 4% metamorphosed successfully. Differences in color patterns, degree of aggressiveness, developmental times, and postlarval and adult characters between Bermudan and North Carolinian populations of G. bredini raise the possibility that the two populations may be distinct species. 
10.2307/1548481|The sensitivity of the rock crab Cancer irroratus to extract of the freeze-dried mussel Geukensia demissa was measured using changes in the crabs' antennular flicking rate (AFR). Concentrations of 10<sup>-6</sup> to 10<sup>-13</sup>g l<sup>-1</sup> of extract were tested. The antennular flicking rate increased significantly at all concentrations down to 10<sup>-10</sup>g l<sup>-1</sup>. Nondirected feeding behavior was observed at a concentration of 10<sup>-6</sup>g l<sup>-1</sup>. At concentrations of 10<sup>-11</sup>g l<sup>-1</sup> and below, the increase in flicking rate was not significant, although detection of the extract appeared to occur. A linear relationship exists between the ratio of AFR before introduction of extract to AFR after introduction of the extract and the log concentration of the extract.
4094233| The first description of the larval stages of a representative of the family Paguridae from the SE Pacific coast of South America is presented. Larvae of Pagurus edwardsii, a common hermit crab from the rocky intertidal environment of the Chilean coast, were reared in the laboratory from hatching through the molt to juvenile stage I. Culture conditions included water temperature of 11  1C, salinity 32  1, 12h:12h light: dark photoperiod, and feeding with Artemia sp. nauplii. The larval development of P. edwardsii included four zoeal stages (ZI-ZIV) and one megalopal stage; the duration in days for each zoeal stage was: 71: 18.9  0.5, ZII: 12.8  0.8, ZIII: 5.9  0.2, ZIV: 5.6  0.6; and 9.1  0.4 days for the megalopal stage. Descriptions and detailed illustrations are presented for each of the larval stages. Morphological comparisons made between P. edwardsii and other congeneric species with larval desciptions showed the main characteristics for the diagnosis of zoeal stages are: a) setation of antennal endopod and scaphocerite; b) spination and setation pattern of the basal endite of the maxilulle; c) setal formula of the endopodite of maxilliped 1; d) the segmentation model of the sixth pleomere; and e) the formula for the processes in the posterior margin of the telson. In contrast, the megalopal larva can be recognized by the number of setae on the endopod of maxilliped 3 and the absence of apical hooks on the appendix intema of the pleopods. 
4540323|A new species of bioluminescent ostracode, Vargula annecohenae, from Belize is described on the basis of morphology and mating displays. At night, male V. annecohenae ostracodes produce an elaborate species-specific display in order to attract females. These displays occur as a series of rapid flashes in an upward direction, above shallow grassbeds.
10.2307/1548538|The pleopod tegumental glands (PTGs) of lobsters (Homarus americanus) are structurally similar to tegumental glands found below the eyestalks. In females, PTGs cycle with the ovary and secrete at spawning. In this study, we have examined the secretory activity of female PTGs at various times before and after ecdysis to determine if they also cycle with molting. In PTGs, secretory product is released into the ductules of the common locus and then conveyed to the surface of the pleopod through the main duct of the canal cell. Microtubules are a major secretory product of PTGs and, because they remain assembled extracellularly, their release is easy to observe ultrastructurally. All glands sampled prior to ecdysis contained numerous mature secretory vesicles and showed evidence of synthetic activity. The ductules of the common locus did not contain secretory material, except for an occasional cluster of microtubules. Four days after ecdysis, the secretory cells lacked vesicles and the ductules of the common locus were swollen with secreted material. By 8 days after molting, only the microtubular secretion could be observed in ductules, and it was evident in samples taken as late as 20 days after ecdysis. In glands sampled 8 days after ecdysis, secretory cells had already synthesized numerous new mature secretory vesicles, and all subsequent postmolt samples showed evidence of synthetic activity. Our observations indicate that synthesis of secretory vesicles in lobster PTGs is a continual process and that a massive release of vesicles occurs around the time of ecdysis.
10.2307/1549322|Chromosome number and morphology were studied in gonadal tissue from eight euphausiid species, using an air-drying technique and Giemsa staining. Among Mediterranean species, haploid chromosome numbers were: n = 19 in Euphausia hemigibba, Euphausia brevis, and Nematoscelis megalops, n = 18 in Euphausia krohni, and n = 11 in Nyctiphanes couchi. Among Antarctic species, haploid chromosome numbers were: n = 17 in Euphausia superba, n = 20 in Thysanoessa macrura, and n = 13 in Thysanoessa vicina. Chromosome morphology was further studied for three species after chromosome measurements: Euphausia hemigibba karyotype showed 17 metacentric and 2 submetacentric chromosome pairs, Euphausia krohni 17 metacentric and 1 submetacentric chromosome pairs, and Nematoscelis megalops 17 metacentric and 2 submetacentric chromosome pairs. Three species sharing the same chromosome number of n = 19, i.e., Euphausia hemigibba, Nematoscelis megalops, and Meganyctiphanes norvegica were distinguished by a different slope of the decrease in chromosome size and by the presence/absence of metacentric and submetacentric chromosome pairs differing in number and position. Chromosome morphology of other species was derived from the observation of meiotic metaphases II. A majority of metacentric chromosomes was also displayed. Cytotaxonomic differences in haploid chromosome number allow the discrimination of morphologically neighboring sympatric species (e.g., Meganyctiphanes norvegica and Nyctiphanes couchi; Thysanoessa vicina and T. macrura). Euphausiids share common chromosomal features which clearly separate them from other eucarids, i.e., a narrow range of haploid chromosome number, a large chromosome size, and a majority of metacentric chromosomes.
20487743|Somatic tissues in mature copepods are determinate in growth, not undergoing mitosis; cell number remains constant throughout adult life. Here we report evidence of polyploidization for eight species of cyclopoid copepods. Using static Feulgen-DNA cytophotometry, we measured individual somatic nuclei in populations of Eucyclops ensifer from Brazil and of Eucyclops agilis from Ohio, U.S.A. Small but potentiality significant percentages of the adult somatic cells in these species, as well as in Bryocyclops caroli, Halicyclops tagea, Macrocyclops albidus, Mesocyclops edax, Mesocyclops thermocyclopoides, and Thermocyclops decipiens, contained at least twice (4C) the amount of DNA found in their diploid (2C) cells. These species have 2C DNA values that are representative of the range of genome sizes in cyclopoid copepods which, as a group, have much smaller genomes than calanoid copepods. Polyploidy may be a previously unrecognized mechanism whereby copepods alter the DNA content or nucleotype during specific stages in development. DNA reduplication preceding a cycle of endomitosis may result in a doubling of the functional genome, thus providing additional template for mRNA transcription related to specific functions.
10.2307/1548952|Stomach contents of 498 snow crabs, Chionoecetes opilio, collected between May and August 1990 with Japanese conical traps from 5 locations in Bonne Bay, Newfoundland, were examined. Food was found in 67.5% of the crabs. The main components, in descending order of their frequency of occurrence, were algae, fish, polychaetes, crustaceans, molluscs, and echinoderms. Differences were not detected between the sexes, among size groups, or between individuals with old and new carapaces. Sampling of the bottom community at the 5 locations with a Petersen grab showed differences in wet biomass and numerical abundance of potential prey. Comparisons between the ranks of food items in the stomachs and their availability in the bottom community, showed that both prey availability and food preferences are important in the field diet of Chionoecetes opilio. The food selection of the crabs examined was biased against errant burrowing polychaetes, small gastropods, amphipods, and holothurians. Sponges, Yoldia spp., ophiuroids, and small crustaceans were generally preferred and sedentary burrowing or tube-building polychaetes were eaten in proportion to availability.
1548389|The investigation of unoccupied gastropod shells by the hermit crab Pagurus longicarpus consits of the insertion of specific appendages (right cheliped, left cheliped, first right walking leg) into the shell aperture, followed by manipulation of the shell. Detailed observations revealed that the appendages were inserted in a definite sequence, and that there was significant interpopulation variation in this sequence. This variation may be a reflection of differences in shell utilization. The width of the three appendages was a significant predictor of the horizontal aperture width of shells occupied when animals were offered a choice of shells, suggesting that the appendages are being used to assess this aspect of shell morphology. Removal of combinations of these appendages resulted in compensatory use of other appendages, but had no effect on subsequent shell selection.
27920086|Time series of acoustic observations with three frequencies were made on Antarctic krill (Euphausia superba) near Elephant Island and in Bransfield Strait. Local changes of biomass were ten-fold over 23 days. The total biomass in a very large swarm near Elephant Island was 2.1 million metric tons distributed over 450 km2. The abundance in the swarm was 200500 g/m3 over a vertical extent from 10240 m. Smaller patches were 40150 g/m3 and often associated with the 100150 m bottom contour. Assessing the distribution and abundance of very large swarms presents problems beyond those of routine acoustic surveys.
10.2307/1549041|The mouthparts of early juvenile (Stage VI) and one-year old (Stage XII) American lobsters, Homarus americanus (Decapoda: Nephropidae), were examined by scanning electron microscopy. This study describes the general morphology of all six pairs of mouthparts, as well as the types and distribution of setae they bear. In addition, it extends our understanding of the developmental sequence by providing an overview of changes from hatchling larvae (Stage I) through the first year (Stage XII). The general trends in the development of the mouthparts include an increase in overall size, an increase in the number of setae borne upon all surfaces and edges, and an increase in the size and number of spines, teeth, and denticles projecting from segments of the third and second maxillipeds and from the incisor and molar processes of the mandible. Furthermore, the cutting edge of the mandible changes dramatically as the individual teeth increase in size and coalesce. A molar process appears on the inner surface of the mandible by Stage VI, although its function is not clear. The types of setae borne upon each mouthpart are catalogued and analyzed for changes throughout the developmental sequence, from the larval stages to Stage XII lobsters. The possibility that certain setae might be precursors for other types is considered. The functions of setal types are also discussed and include chemo- and mechanoreception, grooming, manipulation of food, filtering of particles, and creation of water currents. Finally, possible functions of the mouthparts are discussed in light of their structure.
4094184|We evaluated the usefulness of immersion in neutral red solution as a marking technique for studies of movement of the amphipod Corophium volutator. Amphipods were immersed for 20 minutes in solutions of neutral red at different concentrations (25, 50 and
10.2307/1548260| Skogsbergia lerneri (Kornicker, 1958) is the second species of the ostracode order Myodocopida to be fully reared. S. lerneri, a meroplanktonic scavenger, was abundant in baited jar traps set on the barrier reef off Belize, Central America, and at San Salvador Island, Bahamas. Live material was maintained in a coral reef aquarium and in small dishes. S. lerneri had 5 subadult instars and required 65-93 days to reach maturity, measured from the time eggs first became visible in the ovary. Brooding time in the marsupium was 14-18 days. New eggs were visible forming within the ovary of the mother as early as 2 days following release from the marsupium of the previous clutch of 1st instars. Females produced as many as 3 clutches of 10-22 1st instars, all apparently fertilized by stored sperm from a previous insemination. Development time of S. lerneri is similar to that of another cypridinid, Vargula hilgendorfii, partially reared at a similar temperature, but is much shorter than that of 2 other myodocopids belonging to different families and kept at 12C or less. Tables and figures showing ontogenetic changes that can be used to identify each instar and a preliminary key to the instars of the Cypridinidae are presented. Most useful characters are the number of bristles on the following limbs: the 4th segment of the 1st antenna, the ventral side of the 2nd segment of the endopodite of the mandible, and the 6th limb; and the number and shape of bristles on the 7th limb. The first 3 instars have a posterior process on the body. Females of the 5th instar and adults are larger than males. Carapace sizes of 5th instar males and adult males from different clutches of the same mother ostracode overlap. 
1548745|Over the past 25 years the crayfish Orconectes rusticus has greatly expanded its North American range. It first appeared in Illinois in 1973. Since then it has rapidly expanded its range in the northern half of the state. We report here the results of field work conducted from June 1994 to October 1995 to determine the current range and population sizes of O. rusticus in Illinois and to ascertain whether displacement of native Illinois species is occurring. Data from 102 sample sites indicate that O. rusticus occurs commonly in large portions of the Kishwaukee and Rock River drainages and in restricted portions of the Des Plaines, DuPage, Fox, Green, Kankakee, and Vermilion River drainages. An isolated population is also recorded from the Illinois River drainage. Displacement of the native Orconectes propinquus and O. virilis is noted at several sites.
20487712|The chromosomes of Crustacea, especially decapods, are usually numerous, small in size, and punctiform. These characteristics make it difficult for researchers to further investigate the chromosomes by light microscopy. As an alternative, the scanning electron microscopy (SEM) is recommended because it has higher resolution and is able to provide valuable three-dimensional data and X-ray microanalysis. The aim of this study is to obtain some fundamental knowledge for the preparation of the chromosomes of crustaceans for SEM observations. Since crustacean chromosomes are so small, impurities such as mucus and cytoplasm easily obscure the chromosome surface making it impossible for researchers to observe their fine structure. We used Artemia parthenogenetica as a model and confirmed impurities originating from the nauplii paste and the cytoplasm of the cells, and demonstrate that the nauplii paste can be removed by rinsing and the cytoplasm can be digested by trypsin.
10.2307/1549245|A male albino crayfish that lacked melanin and red pigments except in its compound eyes was captured. It also lacked a blue median line that is found on the abdomen in normal crayfish. Its compound eyes were black, as in normal crayfish. The albino crayfish was mated with a normal crayfish. The inherited characteristics of the first filial generation (F<sub>1</sub>) were the same as those of normal crayfish. One quarter of the second filial generation (F<sub>2</sub>) were albinos and the others had normal characteristics. Based on the phenotypes of F<sub>1</sub> and F<sub>2</sub>, the albino trait is recessive to normal pigmentation in crayfish and is controlled by Mendelian laws.
27753933|Males of several fiddler crab species sometimes construct sand structures (referred to as "hoods" in Uca lactea) at the entrance to their burrow, to which they attract females. Like the bowers of bowerbirds, sand structures of fiddler crabs are external ornaments that exist physically apart from the animals. Despite the mating benefit gained by possessing a structure, many males do not construct structures and some males even destroy their own structures. Structure destruction cannot be explained by the time and energy costs associated with structure construction or maintenance. This implies that the possession of a structure alone can be costly. In the present study on U. lactea, I experimentally planted hoods at the burrows of males that did not have hoods, and compared their frequency of hood destruction with that of control males (builders whose hoods were replaced with those of other males). Non-builders destroyed planted hoods more frequently than control males. Females, which do not construct hoods, also destroyed experimentally planted hoods more frequently than control males. Hoods are able to attract females, but the possession of hoods may incur some costs for crabs, probably because hoods also attract males and non-receptive females. Hence, only males that can afford the costs are likely to construct hoods.
10.2307/1548914|The foregut and midgut glands of hyperiids are strongly aberrant in comparison with gammaridean amphipods. In hyperiids, the stomach has a reduced filter capability. In the genus Cyllopus, there is only a one-step filter developed, which is of different origin from the filter structures of gammaridean stomachs. In all other hyperiids, the stomach has lost its filter function. In the genus Phrosina, the stomach cavity is completely reduced. Corresponding to the reduction of stomach filtration, the anatomy of the midgut gland is transformed from the plesiomorphic condition of blind-ending tubes to large saclike digestion chambers. The stomach connects with the midgut gland. There is a constriction between the midgut gland and the midgut. Food morsels were found in the stomach and the midgut gland but not in the midgut of these species. The role of the midgut remains obscure. This investigation yielded synapomorphies for the otherwise not well-justified taxon Hyperiidea.
1549837| Harlequin shrimp, Hymenocera picta, are monogamous and pair-bonding, and are usually found in isolated singles and pairs in the field. The apparent rarity of this species in their habitat and high levels of aggression between consexuals suggests the possibility of some sort of plasticity in their primary sex determination. In this study, the influence of social environment upon primary sex determination in H. picta was examined experimentally in the laboratory. Nave juveniles were placed in three novel social environments: paired juveniles, single juveniles, and adult/juvenile pairs. Spacing behavior and the onset of external differentiation were observed during long-term experiments for each social treatment. Gonadal development was also observed. Spacing behavior of paired shrimp reflected the sexual composition of social groups; high intrapair distance (IPD) for same-sex pairs and low IPD for opposite-sex pairs. Sex determination results were not so clear. Two of the three paired juvenile replicates displayed phenotype frequencies different from those expected from a random sample of gonochoristic organisms with a 1:1 sex ratio. However, the third replicate and the combined frequencies did not show any statistical difference from the hypothetical random sample. Furthermore, single juveniles and those paired with adults expressed sex in nearly 1:1 ratios, regardless of the sex of adult conspecifics. Histological examination of juvenile shrimp confirmed that sex was determined as early as four weeks after larval metamorphosis. Therefore, social environment had no clear effect upon sexual phenotype expressed. However, single females attained puberty at a significantly greater age and larger size than did females paired with males. Hence for H. picta, social environment had a measurable effect on the timing of female puberty. This is the first demonstration of this phenomenon in decapod Crustacea. 
10.2307/1548246| Deep-water samples off the Oregon coast yielded two new genera, four new species, and resulted in a further description of a previously described species of the Suborder Mysida. The following mysids are described: (1) The new genus Bacescomysis, which includes B. pacifica, new species, and five species of Hansenomysis: H. birsteini Bcescu, H. peruvianus Bcescu, H. tattersallae Bcescu, H. abyssalis Lagardre, and H. atlantica Lagardre. In this genus, closely related to Hansenomysis, the unjointed plate on the exopod of the uropod is the distinguishing feature. Bacescomysis pacifica is distinguished by its eyeplate, second thoracic endopod, second male pleopod, and telson. (2) The new species Boreomysis pearcyi is unique in its antennal scale, third thoracic endopod, telson, and body length. (3) Dactylerythrops latisquamosa, new species, is distinguished by its telson, eye, antennal scale, and endopod of first limb. (4) Paramblyops sp. is recognized as a new species by its rostrum and eyeplate, but is too damaged for a complete description. (5) The new genus Gibbamblyops resembles Dactylamblyops and Pseudamblyops, but is distinguished by the anterior margin of the carapace, eye, antennal peduncle, fourth male pleopod, and telson. These characters also define the uniqueness of its species, G. longisquamosa. (6) Thalassomysis tattersalli Nouvel, 1942, had been partially described from a single specimen. Four additional specimens of this species are recorded here. Slight differences are discussed, plus a complete description of the antennal peduncle and telson, which were lacking in the original description, are provided here. (7) Seven specimens of Holmesiella anomala Ortmann provided information on regional variation and allowed an opportunity for detailed drawings. 
10.2307/1548167|Munida hawaiiensis, a new galatheid, is described and illustrated from specimens taken by the Albatross 1902 survey in the Hawaiian Islands. The new species belongs to an aberrant group within the genus centered around Munida scabra. Its affinities to the closely related species Munida proxima are discussed.
20487699|Phenotypic traits often differ among conspecific populations inhabiting different environments. These morphological types may represent unique genotypes that are best suited to local conditions, or they may result from individual responses to local environmental conditions and thus represent plastic phenotypes. The barnacle Chthamalus fissus, commonly found in the upper intertidal of southern California and Baja California, Mexico, exhibits three morphs: one with an oval operculum, one with a narrow, slit-like operculum, and a relatively uncommon bent form with the operculum opening on one side. The aim of this study was to determine if differences in shell morphology among two populations of C. fissus separated by approximately 100 km result from local adaptation or are the result of plasticity in development of the barnacle shell. A reciprocal transplant experiment was conducted in which rocks with attached juvenile barnacles were transferred among populations from La Jolla, California, USA, where adults exhibit an oval operculum, and Ensenada, Baja California, Mexico, where adults exhibit either a narrow operculum or the bent morphology. The results indicate that barnacle morphology is determined by local conditions and is not due to genetic differences between the two populations. Results of a field experiment examining predation by the snail Mexacanthina lugubris lugubris suggest that oval morphs are more vulnerable than narrow morphs to this predator. Environmental factors that may be responsible for inducing this morphological variation are discussed.
10.2307/1548998| Na<sup>+</sup>/K<sup>+</sup>-ATPase enzyme-specific activity (ESA) was compared in 7 terrestrial oniscidean isopods, and in single species of fresh-water Isopoda (Asellus forbesi) and Amphipoda (Gammarus fasciatus). Assays were performed on 4 tissues in the Isopoda-pleopodal endopodites 3-5, pleopodal exopodites 3-5, hindgut-rectum, and left pereiopods 6,7. For Gammarus, ESAs were measured for the pereiopodal coxal gills (epipodites), but not for the pleopods. In terrestrial isopods, the highest Na<sup>+</sup>/K<sup>+</sup>-ATPase ESAs were associated with the pleopodal endopodites (4.80-12.80 mol P<sub>i</sub> mg<sup>-1</sup> protein h<sup>-1</sup>), tissues also revealing high Cl<sup>-</sup> permeability with silver staining. ESAs for the hindgut-rectum were rather lower (3.49-9.04 mol P<sub>i</sub> mg<sup>-1</sup> protein h<sup>-1</sup>) but significantly elevated compared to pereiopods (0.78-1.32 mol P<sub>i</sub> mg<sup>-1</sup> protein h<sup>-1</sup>) and pleopodal exopodites (1.03-3.44 mol P<sub>i</sub> mg<sup>-1</sup> protein h<sup>-1</sup>). The results concur with proposed models for endopodal secretion and hindgut resorption of NaCl during colligative water vapor absorption. Furthermore, species with lower threshold humidities for vapor absorption, and capable of secreting higher NaCl concentrations, reveal the highest endopodite and hindgut ESAs. Elevated ESAs in these tissues may also relate to ion transport during reprocessing of maxillary urine, since comparable values were found in Helleria brevicornis, an oniscidean incapable of vapor absorption. No significant short-term increases in endopodite or hindgut ESAs were observed in animals maintained in conditions necessitating frequent vapor absorption for water balance (93.5% RH) compared to controls (100% RH), or in animals sacrificed during vapor absorption. Hindgut ESAs were markedly lower in fresh-water compared to terrestrial species (2.14 and 1.40 mol P<sub>i</sub> mg<sup>-1</sup> protein h<sup>-1</sup> for Asellus and Gammarus, respectively), suggesting a minor role of this tissue in ion uptake. Pleopods of Asellus also revealed lower ESAs than in terrestrial species (2.45 mol P<sub>i</sub> mg<sup>-1</sup> protein h<sup>-1</sup>), while the pereiopodal gills of Gammarus possessed similarly high ESAs. Findings suggest that Asellus depends primarily on low integumental ion permeability for hyperregulation, while Gammarus exploits more efficient ion uptake across the pereiopodal gills. 
10.2307/1547939|The mechanosensitivity of the antennule is studied with the aid of a behavioral test. The mechanosensitivity of each type of seta is tested with the aid of a similar behavioral test. We also study the effect of tactile and hydrodynamic stimuli on the morphology of various antennular setae. The results of these experiments are discussed in relation to the electron microscopy observations on the structure of the antennular setae.
10.2307/1549471|Nucleotide sequences from mitochondrial 12S ribosomal DNA are determined for 7 species of branchiopod crustaceans: 2 from the order Anostraca (Streptocephalus texanus and Linderiella santarosae), 2 from the order Conchostraca (Cyzicus mexicanus and Eulimnadia texana), 2 from the order Notostraca (Triops longicaudatus and Lepidurus bilobatus), and one from the order Cladocera (Moina brachycephala). They are compared to other branchiopod (Anostraca: Artemia franciscana, Cladocera: Daphnia pulex), and maxillopod (Branchiura: Savignium crenatum) sequences from the literature. The total set of nucleotides analyzed consists of sequences ranging in length from 250-267 bases. Multiple sequence alignments are generated and compared to assess the effects of alignment ambiguity on phylogenetic inference. Comparison of sequences among taxa revealed that (1) there is sufficient variation for phylogenetic analysis, (2) the variation is phylogenetically informative within and between some branchiopod orders, and (3) deep-branch phylogenetic resolution is limited by saturation effects. Phylogenetic relationships are inferred by parsimony analysis treating gaps as characters, confidence limits are estimated by both bootstrapping and the decay index. With a maxillopod sequence (Savignium crenatum) designated as an outgroup, the following results are obtained: branchiopod orders are monophyletic as sampled in this survey, with the orders Conchostraca and Notostraca clustering as sister taxa. Evidence for lineage specific rate heterogeneity of molecular evolution is discussed.
1549933|This study relates to the size at morphological and physiological sexual maturity of the deep sea crab Anamathia rissoana. Between August 1997 to July 2000, 469 specimens were collected at depths of between 400 and 620 m off the western coast of Sardinia (Mediterranean Sea). On the basis of cheliped morphology, the males were classified into three demographic categories: immature, adolescent, or adult. In addition, a discriminant function analysis was performed in order to classify the males (post hoc prediction) using the biometric data relating to the four distal segments of the endopod of the right cheliped. For the females, only two demographic categories were detected: juvenile females with flat abdomen and adult females with domed abdomen. Morphological maturity was estimated from the allometric relationships between carapace width and propodus length in males or maximum abdomen width in females. For both sexes, allometric relationships were established in the specimens of each of the demographic categories. Physiological maturity was determined by observing testes or ovary size, colour, morphology, and development. Functional maturity was presumed to be the minimum size at which each sex was morphologically and physiologically able to reproduce. In males, the size at physiological maturity was clearly earlier than the size at morphological maturity, unlike in females where such values were similar.
41315764|Branchinecta pollicifera is redescribed from type material and additional material collected from Bolivian bofedal wetlands. Specific unique gonopod and genital segment features demonstrate that B. pollicifera constitutes a new genus, Archaebranchinecta, morphologically distinct from Branchinecta sensu stricto. Additionally, in B. pollicifera, the gonopod proximal projection is bifurcated as opposed to a spiniform Branchinecta, and the first abdominal segment bears a pair of ventrolateral spinule covered plates. These plates are unique amongst Anostraca. The form of the male second antennae in this species and in the related fossil species B. barstowensis demonstrates a potential close relationship, and this species is also referred to Archaebranchinecta. We also report melanisation in Andean anostracans.
1549382| The effect of 16 weeks starvation and 6 weeks refeeding on the size and chemical composition of the hepatopancreas of 2 size classes of C. destructor (20-40 g and 40-60 g) maintained at 2 temperatures (10C and 25C) was investigated under laboratory conditions. The response to starvation was not influenced by size class. In fed animals, the wet hepatosomatic index (HSI<sub>w</sub>-%) and dry hepatosomatic index (HSI<sub>d</sub>-mg/g) increased to 7% at week 2 and 36 mg/g at week 10 respectively, whereas in starved animals HSI<sub>w</sub> and HSI<sub>d</sub> decreased to 2.6% and 3.6 mg/g at week 10 respectively. Hepatopancreas moisture (HM-%) of fed animals decreased to 51% after 10 weeks, whereas in starved animals it increased to a maximum of 81% after 2 weeks. In fed animals, hepatopancreas lipid (HL-mg/g), protein (HP-mg/g), and ash (HA-mg/g) reached a maximum of 30 mg/g at week 10, 7.8 mg/g at week 6, and 2 mg/g at week 4 respectively. Hepatopancreas carbohydrate (HNFE-mg/g) in fed animals fluctuated considerably. In starved animals, HL did not significantly change for the first 4 weeks, and a minimum of 0.5 mg/g occurred at week 8. In contrast, HP decreased for the first 2 weeks to 3 mg/g, and HNFE decreased for 4 weeks to 0.67 mg/g after which no significant change occurred. Ash levels in starved animals generally decreased for 12 weeks to 0.36 mg/g. Low temperature reduced the rate of utilization of hepatopancreas nutrients. About 7 months of starvation at 10C is required for the hepatopancreas to become nutritionally depleted. Refeeding starved animals resulted in an increase in wet and dry hepatosomatic indices and all hepatopancreas nutrients and a decrease in hepatopancreas moisture. Complete recovery of the hepatopancreas of starved animals following refeeding, to levels recorded in the fed control animals, was recorded for the HSI<sub>w</sub>, HA, and HNFE. The various hepatopancreas condition indices used here are discussed in relation to their practical value and accuracy in predicting animal condition, and a classification is presented. The adaptive significance of hepatopancreas size and nutrient storage capacity is also discussed. 
10.2307/1548915| The aim of this study is to evaluate the variations in trophic relationships among species of blue crabs, which may lead to a better understanding of the mechanisms that enable closely related species to exploit the same trophic niche. Callinectes sapidus, C. rathbunae, and C. similis from Tamiahua Lagoon, Mxico, were used in the present study to investigate this question. A total of 4,038 crab-gut contents were analyzed. Of these 1,350 belonged to C. sapidus, 1,128 to C. rathbunae, and 1,560 to C. similis. Six groups of food items were identified: plant fragments (Halodule spp.), micromolluscs (Mulinia lateralis and Macoma atenta, crustaceans (Penaeus spp. and Callinectes spp.), animal residues, and sand and mud. A seasonal variation in prey composition was observed, as well as differences among ages of the three species. In general, as the size class increased, plant matter, sediment, and animal residues decreased, and micromolluscs and crustaceans increased. A clear overlap was detected for C. sapidus-C. rathbunae of their trophic niches, with a maximum overlap in winter when both species ate practically the same type of food. The same pattern was observed also for C. sapidus-C. similis. Callinectes similis-C. rathbunae show overlap in spring and winter, when ovigerous females are on their breeding grounds. Ontogenetic changes in the diet and niche overlap in relation to seasonal changes in reproductive behavior allow the three species to utilize the same resources at Tamiahua Lagoon, Mxico. 
10.2307/1549294|In order for the crayfish Procambarus clarkii to mate, each animal involved must identify the sex of the other. Crayfish are able to use chemoreception, mediated by the first antennae (antennules), as well as vision in sex identification. The relative importance of these two senses is not known; most work has centered on the use of the antennules. To assess the importance of antennules we studied mating in control pairs, in pairs where the females lacked antennules, in pairs where males lacked antennules, and in pairs where both lacked antennules. Ablation of antennules did not significantly affect the likelihood of mating or the delay before mating began. These findings demonstrate that P. clarkii can readily identify the sex of conspecifics without the use of their antennules. If the ability to identify sex had been impaired, one would expect mating to be less likely or to follow an unusually long delay. In addition, antennule ablation did not significantly affect the duration of mating. This stands in contrast to findings in the green crab Carcinus maenas, where the ablation of antennules in males leads to the substitution of multiple short matings for single long, continuous matings. It is concluded that P. clarkii can readily determine the sex of conspecifics without the use of the antennules and that the loss of antennules has no obvious effect on mating behavior.
10.2307/1548146|An illustrated description of Pseudathanas darwiniensis, new genus, new species, of the family Alpheidae, from Darwin, Australia, is provided. The new genus is related to Athanas from which it may be distinguished by the presence of the strongly spinulate border of the outer ramus of the uropod, the strongly reduced rostrum, and the lack of any periorbital spines. The proximal half of the antennal flagellum is markedly thickened and the ventral margin of the palm of the chela of the first pereiopod is provided with a dense fringe of long fine setae.
10.2307/1548696|The effect of starvation imposed at regular time intervals upon megalopal survival and duration was measured in the brachyuran crab Hemigrapsus oregonensis. Treatments included a fed control, starvation imposed after 5 days of feeding, starvation imposed after 10 days of feeding, and a total starvation control. Survival to metamorphosis did not occur in the Starvation Control. Survival measured 38% in the Day 5 treatment, and 85% and 80% in the Day 10 and Fed Control treatments, respectively. Time to metamorphosis was the same for surviving megalopae in all treatments. Feeding early during the megalopal instar appears sufficient to support successful metamorphosis in a substantial number of individuals, although the point beyond which feeding is no longer essential varies among individuals. Freedom from the need to satisfy metabolic or specific nutritional requirements during the latter part of megalopal development may permit the megalopa to adapt more effectively to the needs of the transition from the pelagic larva to the benthic adult.
4540292| In Paracerceis sculpta, a Gulf of California isopod, cx-males usually defend aggregations of breeding females within the spongocoels of intertidal sponges. Breeding isopods are also found in habitats other than sponges, but interactions among individuals in these locations are poorly known. To investigate plasticity in male-male interactions associated with mate acquisition in breeding habitats other than sponges, we examined the behavior of pairs of ct-males in two distinct environments; those in which breeding sites were absent, but females were present, and those in which both breeding sites and females were absent. We established males as residents in the presence and in the absence of females by allowing them to occupy arenas for 1 h before intruders were introduced. Residents and intruders engaged in significantly more total acts and grappled more in the presence of females than when females were absent. In the presence of females, residents became active first in most cases, and gripped females more than intruders. Latency to activity was significantly longer when receptive females were present than when they were absent. However, residents seldom interacted with intruders when females were lacking. Our results suggest that in locations other than sponges, -males compete for females and can recognize their status as residents and as intruders. These results also suggest that, as in many vertebrate and invertebrate species, P. sculpta -males attempt to mate opportunistically, and that contests for mates in atypical breeding habitats may be common in nature. We discuss the importance of distinguishing rare and highly contingent behaviors from those likely to represent adaptive behavioral plasticity, and we propose a simple criterion of commonality for their identification in behavioral analyses. 
10.2307/1548862| Pagurus maclaughlinae is an abundant component of sea-grass macrobenthos in Florida waters. As a grazer on sea-grass blades, it may play an important role in sea-grass ecology by reducing epiphyte cover on the blades. Population dynamics, habitat selection and utilization patterns, and interactions with a decapod predator were examined in field collections and laboratory experiments. At a site north of Link Port in the Indian River Lagoon, Florida, P. maclaughlinae was more abundant in beds of Thalassia as compared to those of Syringodium or Halodule. In the laboratory, Syringodium was selected in preference to Thalassia and Halodule, and choice was not influenced by presence of a predator. Sea grass with epiphytes was significantly selected over unfouled substrates. Recruitment occurred in October-February and in May-July, and the overall male/female ratio was close to 1, although month to month variation occurred. High percentages of ovigerous females were found in the fall and in the spring, and female maturation occurred at a CL of approximately 1.25-1.50 mm. Cerithium muscarum, Modulus modulus, and Nassarius vibex constituted 94% of the 13 species of gastropod shells used. Shell utilization differed between sexes, ovigerous and nonovigerous females, and among size classes. Predation experiments with the blue crab Callinectes sapidus suggested that predation rate was independent of shell species, that the presence of Thalassia offered significant protection against predation compared with bare sand, and that predation rates were not different between sea grasses. 
27753984|The harpacticoid copepod Tisbe biminiensis has been tested as live prey in marine crustacean and fish larviculture. The aim of the present study was to characterize the proteinases in the crude extract of T. biminiensis. Trypsin activity was assayed in the crude extract prepared by the homogenization of specimens reared under controlled laboratory conditions and fed on diatoms and commercial fish food. The physical-chemical and kinectics parameters were determined using BApNA as substrate. Optimal pH and temperature were 9.0 and 55C, respectively. This enzyme was thermostable until 50C. Using BApNA as substrate, the Km was 0.59 mM and the proteolytic activity was strongly inhibited by specific trypsin inhibitors. However, the presence of other proteases was observed using substrate-SDS-PAGE. Eight caseinolytic bands were observed in the zymogram, four of them were not inhibited by classical mammalian trypsin inhibitors. Trypsin from T. biminiensis showed similar properties to those described for species used in commercial aquaculture. These results demonstrate that T. biminiensis may be a source of proteases, including trypsin-like enzymes.
1549605| The present investigation was undertaken to study the effect of an abrupt change in the salinity of the medium on the oxygen consumption and ammonia-N excretion of the marine penaeid shrimp Metapenaeus monoceros (Fabricius). Results showed that in both low-saline (5) as well as high-saline (35) acclimated shrimps the respiratory rates were significantly lower in midrange salinities (20 and 25) and significantly higher in both low (5, 10, and 15) and high (30 and 35) salinities. A significant increase in ammonia-N excretion was observed when high-saline acclimated shrimps were abruptly exposed to different grades of low-saline media. Exposure to different grades of high-saline media on the other hand induced a significant decrease in ammonia excretion rate of low-saline acclimated shrimps. The O:N ratio (ratio of oxygen consumed to nitrogen excreted in atomic equivalents) showed a decreasing trend when the high-saline acclimated shrimps were abruptly exposed to low-saline media, indicating a shift towards protein dominated metabolism. A reverse trend could be observed in the O:N ratio when the shrimps were exposed to high-saline media indicating a shift towards lipid dominated metabolism in high salinities. Thus, there appears to be a shift in energy substrate utilization in these shrimps from protein dominated metabolism in low salinities (5, 10, 15 and 20) to lipid/carbohydrate dominated metabolism in high salinities (25, 30 and 35). 
1549861|During ontogeny, male rock shrimp Rhynchocinetes typus develop from the typus morphotype through several intermedius stages to the robustus morphotype, the last molt stage, which features powerful third maxillipeds and chelae. In a competition-free environment, all male stages mate in a similar manner. They guard females for 23 min to 3 h and perform several behaviors before and after they transfer spermatophores. In the present study, we observed the mating behavior of three different ontogenetic stages of male rock shrimp in a competitive environment in which the three different male stages competed directly for access to receptive females. In the first set of experiments, two males of different ontogenetic stages were placed together with a receptive female. The results indicated the existence of a linear dominance hierarchy, being robustus > intermedius > typus. In the second experiment, we examined the behavior of subordinate males while two dominant-stage males competed for a receptive female. During agonistic displays of the two dominant-stage males, the female escaped from the embrace of her (dominant) mating partner. Some subordinate males used this opportunity to pair with the female and mate rapidly without courting, contrasting to their courting in a competition-free situation. In a competitive situation, subordinate males that gained access to a female deposited several spermatophores as soon as possible (within 1 min). At the beginning of both experiments, subordinates that interacted first with the receptive female rapidly transferred spermatophores. Thus, in a competitive environment, subordinate males may use an alternative mating tactic that is characterized by speed. The social environment may impose divergent selective pressures favoring the evolution of conditional alternative mating tactics.
10.2307/1548793| The population biology of Doropygus pulex and Gunenotophorus globularis, symbiotic copepods within the ascidian Polycarpa pomaria, was studied at a locality off western Sweden. Both species showed a seasonal pattern of reproduction, having adult females overwintering and a new generation of copepods appearing during autumn. Only Doropygus utilizes the long life-span of the host and possibly reaches  1 year. While the males of Doropygus were as frequent as the females, the male of Gunenotophorus was recorded only in late autumn. Doropygus pulex was found in 92% of the ascidians, usually with several individuals in each host. Doropygus pulex showed an opportunistic life-style with considerable variation in oviposition and a prolonged release of larvae. This may be reflected in its occurrence in many host species. Gunenotophorus globularis occurred in only 46% of the ascidians and most often with only a single specimen in each host. 
40927841|Larger females generally produce larger offspring with superior qualities because larger body size can reduce susceptibility to predation and starvation. The removal of larger and older individuals from populations can decrease the survival qualities of offspring through maternal influences, and affect subsequent recruitment. Although negative impacts of larger individual-selective fishing need to be taken into consideration in resource management, there have been very few studies on maternal influences in decapod crustaceans despite the fact that this group includes large numbers of important biological resources. Thus, this study examined the effects of female body size on larval body size, weight, and survival period in the coconut crab, Birgus latro, in laboratory experiments. Ovigerous crabs having well-developed eggs were collected in filed and then first stage zoeae were collected from each female in laboratory. Both larval size and dry larval weight increased significantly with increasing female size. Larvae hatched from larger females showed significantly longer survival periods under non-fed conditions. These results suggest larger coconut crab females produce larvae with superior survival qualities. Present harvesting for coconut crab resources selectively removes larger males despite the fact that coconut crab females only mate with males larger than, or approximately equal to, themselves. Therefore, large females have fewer opportunities to mate under the present harvesting system. Larger male-selective harvesting could have greater negative impacts on the reproductive rate of coconut crabs than expected because larval quality is reduced.
10.2307/1549099|The mesopelagic shrimp Notostomus robustus has been observed from a submersible feeding on the medusa Atolla wyvillei in the northwest Atlantic. Shipboard observations of behavior of the same individuals confirmed this predator/prey relationship, as did an examination of the stomach contents of the shrimp, which included presumed nematocyst capsules and muscle tissue from the bell of the medusa. Electron microscopical examination of shrimp gut contents provided evidence for the ingestion of pelagic clay particles (elemental composition assessed using X-ray probe techniques) also, probably as an indirect result of ingestion by, or adsorption on, the prey. The functional morphology of the feeding appendages of the shrimp was inferred from light microscopical examination of the intact mouthpart bundle and of dissected appendages. The mandible of N. robustus has a small, weakly ridged molar and strongly formed slicing incisor compatible with consumption of soft food items. The mouthpart bundle is accommodated within the confines of the proximally concave proximal article of maxilliped 3, i.e., in such a way as to avoid loss of food fragments in midwater.
10.2307/1548763| Hemocyanins of 19 species of decapods (Peneidea, Caridea, Astacidea, Thalassinidea, Palinuridea, Anomura, Brachyura) were studied by isoelectric focusing. One or 2 main bands were observed with pI (Isoelectric point) between 4.00 and 4.65; in addition, 1-4 accessory bands may be present in between 3.85 and 4.55. The homogeneity of the values shows a stability of pI through molecular evolution. /// Les hmocyanines de 19 espces de dcapodes (Peneidea, Caridea, Astacidea, Thalassinidea, Palinuridea, Anomura, Brachyura) sont tudies en focalisation isolectrique. Une ou 2 bandes principales sont observes avec des pI (point Isolectrique) compris entre 4,00 et 4,65. De plus, 1-4 bandes accessoires peuvent tre prsentes entre 3,85 et 4,55. L'homognit des valeurs observes montre une stabilit des pI au cours de l'volution de la molcule. 
10.2307/1548315|Mating of the stomatopod crustacean Oratosquilla oratoria occurred between intermolt pairs in the laboratory. Mating behavior showed the following seven successive stages: (1) mutual antennulation, (2) pair walking, (3) antennulation to male, (4) antennulation to female, (5) brushing to female, (6) mounting, and (7) copulation. Behaviors (1) and (2) were repeated daily; (3), (4), and (5) were courtship with avoidance by the partner; (6) and (7) were copulatory behavior; and (7) was completed in only 7-12 s. Analysis of mating behavior and observations on sperm viability in captured females suggest that in nature mating might occur some months before spawning.
4094117|The population biology of the black land crab, Gecarcinus ruricola (Linnaeus, 1758), was studied in the San Andres Archipelago in the western Caribbean. Investigations were conducted on the islands of San Andres (SA), and Old Providence/Santa Catalina (OP). On both islands the mean size differed little between the sexes, but males reached a larger maximum size by ~5 mm CW. Crabs of both sexes reached greater mean and maximum sizes on OP than on SA (by ~10 mm CW): this is tentatively attributed to the higher human population and heavier crab exploitation on the latter. The density of crabs was higher on OP than on SA. In natural 'forest' habitats it averaged 2174 crabs
10.2307/1549446|The shrimp Microprosthema granatense, new species, is described and illustrated from material collected in Granate Bay, Caribbean coast of Colombia. This male shrimp was collected together with 3 ovigerous females of the stenopodidean Odontozona libertae Gore around the talus pile of the burrow of a tilefish. Microprosthema granatense differs from other species of Microprosthema mainly by having few spinous processes and spines on the carapace, a larger cornea, different spination of the third maxilliped and third pereiopod, and very long and multisegmented fourth and fifth pereiopods. Comparisons with other species of the genus are made and a key for the species of Microprosthema of the western Atlantic is provided. The record of Odontozona libertae constitutes the first for the southern Caribbean.
10.2307/1548388|Protandric hermaphroditism among the conicostomatid lysianassoids is documented from morphometric and histological evidence. Acontiostoma marionis is shown to have small primary and secondary males and large females which retain penial processes. Stomacontion pungapunga, A. tuberculata, Scolopostoma prionoplax, Ocosingo borlus, and possibly O. fenwicki are also protandrous hermaphrodites.
10.2307/1548673|Two gynandromorph specimens of the trapeziid crab Quadrella coronata Dana were collected in the Philippines. The specimens display both the female characteristic broad abdomen and male pleopods. Histological examination revealed only fully developed testes.
10.2307/1549118|Histological, histochemical, ultrastructural, and microbiological techniques were used to elucidate the structure and function of the female reproductive system in the snow crab Chionoecetes opilio (O. Fabricius). The anatomy of the ovary and oviduct conform to that of other brachyuran species. The spermatheca comprises a dorsal (glandular) and a ventral (chitin-lined) region, with no intervening anatomical separation. Ultrastructural and histochemical bases are presented for the dual role of the spermatheca in secretion and sperm storage. Proteinaceous polysaccharides are the dominant holocrine secretion of the glandular epithelium. A dense, morphologically homogeneous bacterial population was observed in the spermathecae of all of 25 crabs examined. A discrete layer of nonspermatophore-containing acid mucopolysaccharides appears to be transferred to the vagina and ventral spermatheca region by the male after insemination. A functional partitioning of spermatophores seems to occur at insemination; some dehisce immediately (probably due to mechanical forces), while those resisting initial dehiscence are stored in the spermatheca. In vitro experiments show that storage in the spermatheca greatly increases the tendency of spermatophores to dehisce when exposed to sea water. Functional correlates to these data are explored, with emphasis on roles and interactions of secretions, bacteria, spermatophore storage, and dehiscence, and mechanisms of ensuring last-male precedence under conditions of sperm competition.
10.2307/1548691|Analysis of monthly quadrat samples taken between November 1985 and December 1986 at Sebastian Inlet, Florida, revealed a variable seasonal abundance of Clibanarius vittatus (Bosc, 1802) and spatial distribution of hermit crabs. Mean annual abundance of C. vittatus was 7.7 hermit crabs per m<sup>2</sup> with maxima in November (13.9 crabs per m<sup>2</sup>) and in March (13.8 crabs per m<sup>2</sup>) and a minimum in January (1.5 crabs per m<sup>2</sup>). Fine mud and sea-grass habitats appear to be preferred over sandy bottoms. The average sex ratio of females to males was 3.1:1, but January and April samples approached 1:1. Large males (shield length > 10 mm) emigrated during late fall and returned in April, while females and small males remained in the study area. Egg production occurred during April through September, while recruitment of small crabs (SL < 2 mm) into shells began in September and peaked in the winter months. Females tended to have a unimodal size distribution, while males showed a polymodal size distribution with a broader range of size classes. Laboratory experiments showed that C. vittatus significantly reduced the number of amphipods, tanaidaceans, and nemerteans in areas of sea grass, and significantly reduced the number of polychaetes and isopods in areas of bare sand. It is suggested that disturbance of the substratum may explain this reduction.
10.2307/1547975| Four species of caridean shrimps inhabit the anchialine habitats of two caves on Bermuda. One represents a new genus and species (Somersiella sterreri), and one a new species (Typhlatya iliffei). A range extension is provided for Barbouria cubensis (von Martens), and Automate dolichognatha De Man (=Automate gardineri Coutire) is reported from a new habitat and is refigured. 
10.2307/1548021|Chromosomes of the calanoid copepod Eurytemora affinis are described. The diploid chromosome number determined from cells at metaphase is twenty. There are ten pairs of metacentric chromosomes which can be divided into three size classes. No evidence of a heteromorphic chromosome pair was found. The method of tissue and slide preparation is described.
10.2307/1548448|Total lengths (exclusive of furcal setae) of C1-C5 copepodids and adult Diacyclops thomasi (Forbes) varied nonrandomly on 11 sampling dates in 1984 and 1985 in 2 Colorado montane reservoirs. Total lengths of all stages of D. thomasi in Lake Dillon and those of C1-C4 instars in Green Mountain Reservoir were inversely correlated with water temperature of the 0-20-m stratum 1 month prior to capture. Older instars in Green Mountain did not exhibit an inverse length-temperature relationship, likely an artifact caused by longevity of the older animals and fluctuating water temperatures. Other unmeasured factors probably influenced the observed cycle of lengths.
10.2307/1548108|Along the central coast of Maine most female Carcinus maenas extruded their eggs in spring. The smallest ovigerous female was 34 mm in carapace width. Mating occurred from July to October, and in all mating pairs the male was larger than the female. Megalopae and Stage 1 crabs did not settle until late August, growing only to a mean of 5.5 mm carapace width (Stage 5) before winter. Renewed growth began the following June, and juveniles grew to 13-25 mm carapace width by their second winter. Most mature males molted by the end of July, whereas mature females molted from July to October, while guarded by males waiting to mate with them. On the central coast of Maine, therefore, C. maenas matures when 2-3 years old, breeds 2-3 times, and generation time is a minimum of 3 years. Compared with warmer water populations in southern Britain and Holland, the Maine coast population of C. maenas has later settlement of megalopae, slower growth, delayed maturity, longer generation time, and a longer life span. Such differences may account for the inability of populations to establish themselves in waters much colder than those of the central coast of Maine.
10.2307/1549276| Streptocephalus torvicornis and Branchipus schaefferi, males and females separately, were fed Escherichia coli at densities ranging from 1  10<sup>6</sup> to 5.5  10<sup>7</sup>. These shrimps are able to consume large quantities of E. coli. Branchipus schaefferi consumed 4  10<sup>8</sup> E. coli ind<sup>-1</sup>hr<sup>-1</sup> and S. torvicornis consumed 5  10<sup>8</sup> E. coli ind<sup>-1</sup>hr<sup>-1</sup> (0.082 mg hr<sup>-1</sup>ind<sup>-1</sup>). Consumption leveled at an initial density of 4  10<sup>7</sup> E. coli ml<sup>-1</sup> for B. schaefferi, while for S. torvicornis consumption leveled at 4.5  10<sup>7</sup> E. coli ind<sup>-1</sup>hr<sup>-1</sup>. The functional response curves of these filter-feeding shrimps showed an unexpected pattern. For the males of both species, at 15  10<sup>6</sup> E. coli ml<sup>-1</sup> there was a small decrease in consumption, while the curves of the females showed a similar decrease at 20  10<sup>6</sup> E. coli ml<sup>-1</sup>. This phenomenon is explained by assuming that the distance between the setae of the limbs, the movement rate of the thoracic appendages, or the inclination of the filtering apparatus is altered. During 5-h experiments, both species do not feed at a constant rate. 
1549820|The distribution of the rusty crayfish, Orconectes rusticus, has been purported to include large portions of Iowa and Minnesota among many other states, whereas the golden crayfish, O. luteus, has been reported from Kansas, Arkansas, Missouri, and Illinois. Recent collections made in several river basins in Iowa and southern Minnesota and examination of museum specimens collected in Iowa revealed that many records attributed to O. rusticus are in fact O. luteus. We provide a suite of quantitative and qualitative characteristics, both morphological and genetic, that distinguish O. luteus and O. rusticus and also demonstrate that female O. luteus exhibit form alternation. Comparisons of mitochondrial 16S rRNA haplotypes among populations of O. luteus, O. rusticus, O. cf. rusticus, O. placidus, and O. virilis revealed relatively high levels of sequence divergence among taxa as well as within some taxa. We conclude that O. luteus is a native species in Iowa and southern Minnesota with introduced populations of O. rusticus occurring in both states. A more thorough survey of these states, particularly Iowa, is needed to assess the distributions of O. rusticus and O. luteus. If O. rusticus has a relatively restricted distribution in Iowa, efforts to control its anthropogenic and natural dispersal may be more effective if implemented in the near future. Our study indicates the need for more research in taxonomy, even in regions where the fauna is thought to be known well, in order for the conservation of native species and detection and management of nonindigenous species to be successful.
20487842|Intermolt to premolt males of Hemigrapsus takanoi were exposed to salinities of 0, 10, 20 (control), 30, and 40 ppt. After 2, 4, and 6 h of exposure, oxygen consumption and ammonia excretion were measured. Hemolymph osmolality was measured at the end of 8 h. No mortalities were observed until hemolymph sampling. Hemolymph osmolality was maintained between 570 to 840 mmol/kg. Oxygen consumption increased significantly only at 0 ppt, compared to the control (20 ppt). Ammonia excretion levels showed a remarkable increase at 0 ppt. These results indicate that this species expends increased metabolic effort to tolerate abrupt salinity changes to freshwater compared to brackish or seawater.
10.2307/1547947| A one-year survey of amphipods and tanaidaceans associated with monospecific sea grass meadows and a bare sand substratum, under similar physical-chemical conditions, showed that the magnozosterid Thalassia testudinum supported higher numbers of peracarids per square meter than the parvozosterid Halodule wrightii and the bare sand substratum as predicted by Kikuchi and Prs (1977). However, when examined in terms of numbers of individuals per unit sea grass biomass or surface area, Thalassia and Halodule supported nearly equal numbers of epifauna. Syringodium filiforme, a syringodiid, consistently supported highest surface area-standardized abundances of epifauna. The previously reported significance of sea grass biomass in structuring crustacean assemblages held within, but not across, sea grass species. Although the amphipods and tanaids showed no species-specific association with sea grasses, the relative abundance of crustaceans was a function of both sea grass species and biomass. Relative abundance of infaunal types decreased from bare sand to Halodule to Syringodium to Thalassia sites and from low to high biomass sites. The abundance of peracarid crustaceans on sea grass meadows is a complex function of sea grass growth form and biomass which appear to mediate the distribution and foraging behavior of important predators. 
20487728|Multivariate statistical methods were employed to study the morphological variation of the freshwater shrimp (Atyaephyra desmarestii), sampled from four distinct freshwater habitats of northwestern Greece. Principal Component Analysis (PCA) and Discriminant Function Analysis (DFA) were used in order to determine morphometrical differences among the biological categories (males, females and ovigerous females) and sampling sites. Statistical analysis of A. desmarestii morphometrical and population data showed that body heights and growth of appendages are correlated to biological category. Females found to have higher values for the measured body heights than males. On the other hand, morphometrical variables related mainly to body lengths such as rostral, telson and pleon lengths, were observed to be correlated to the study sites. Characters related to the swimming capacity, such as telson length, telson width, and pleon lengths, were generally found to have higher values in ovigerous females. Furthermore, among the four ecosystems, certain variables demonstrated higher values in the fluvial ecosystems and lower values in the lacustrine.
1549875|Two new species of freshwater crabs of the genus Tehuana from the states of Tabasco and Oaxaca, Mexico, are described, and a new diagnosis for the genus is presented. Tehuana chontalpaensis, new species, was collected in a mountain river in southwest Tabasco at 900 m above sea level; it is distinguished by a first gonopod with an elongated mesial process and a large laminar lateral process with a strong lateral spine. Tehuana jacatepecensis, new species, was collected in the Jacatepec river, in central Oaxaca; it differs from other species in the genus by the first gonopod, which has a reduced, spoon-like lateral process and an ax-shaped mesial process that projects beyond the marginal process.
4540317| Approximately 65% of Tasmania's southern rock lobster Jasus edwardsii catch is taken from the west coast. Fishers from the west coast have reported that many inshore sites that were productive 10 or 15 years ago are no longer productive so that they now receive reduced effort, with effort displaced into other regions. The failure of stocks to recover in these sites despite widespread increase in biomass in the Tasmanian fishery overall suggests that recruitment to the inshore west may be low. This was investigated from puerulus catch monitoring, which has been conducted using crevice collectors at 28 sites around the Tasmanian coast at various periods. Catches at the 8 sites off the west coast (0.24  0.06 mean pueruli per collector per month) have been consistently lower than those from the 18 sites off eastern Tasmania (1.68  0.12 mean pueruli per collector per month). This spatial pattern supports the hypothesis that low recruitment to inshore west coast areas results in a population that is not robust to fishing pressure. Regional differences in recruitment point to the need to incorporate spatial components into management of rock lobsters. 
1549740|Two zoeal and one megalopal stages of Petrolisthes unilobatus Henderson, 1888, are described and illustrated on the basis of laboratory-reared material. Petrolisthes unilobatus is easily distinguished from other species of Petrolisthes by the absence of setules (first zoea) or plumose setae (second zoea) on the dorsal surface of the second and third segments of the second maxilliped endopod. Zoeal characters of this species most closely agree with those of Group 1 identified by Osawa (1995), but differ from this group by having only a single short plumose seta on the posteromedian margin of the telson in second zoea. We provide a modified table of Osawa's larval groups and propose an additional larval group, Group 7, for P. unilobatus.
10.2307/1549195|The genus Ptilanthura is redefined. The type species, P. tenuis is redescribed, with the aid of more than 500 specimens. Ptilanthura tricarina Menzies and Frankenburg, 1966, is synonymized with the earlier P. tenuis Harger, 1878. Size-frequency distributions indicate the presence of primary and secondary males in this species. A second species of the genus, P. colpos, described from the eastern Gulf of Mexico, differs from P. tenuis in body proportions, shape of the pleotelson, and in several features of the appendages.
40665246|It is difficult to take good detailed pictures of soft-bodied crustaceans (and other invertebrates); photographing animals in alcohol leads to problems with lighting and focus while drying out soft-bodied animals for photography distorts their morphology. To help better capture surface detail, the following procedures are proposed. Specimens should be fixed and stained with a general tissue stain in order to ensure an even coloration, followed by either chemical drying (using hexamethyldisilazane) or critical point drying. Specimens are then mounted to allow for whitening with either ammonium chloride (NHC1) or magnesium oxide (MgO) to highlight areas of high topographic relief. Lastly, to increase the depth of field in the resulting image, photographs should be taken at sequential planes of focus and then spliced together using a software package for that purpose (i. e., Helicon Focus or Leica Applications Suite). This method is especially useful for showing surface detail and for making comparative images of modern crustaceans to compare with fossil specimens.
1549616| The reproductive cycle and recruitment period of a ghost crab population from Ubatuba, So Paulo, Brazil were investigated by means of examining the developmental stages of gonads of breeding crabs and the ingress of young recruits to the studied population. Monthly collections over a one-year period were carried out during nocturnal low-tide periods at "Vermelha" beach. The morphology of the abdomen and pleopods was used for sex determination. All captured crabs were measured for carapace width and dissected for the determination of the development stage of the gonads. A total of 582 specimens was captured: 271 males, 241 females, and 70 juveniles. Size ranged from 8.5 to 37.5 mm for males, from 9.5 to 39.2 mm for females, and from 5.8 to 12 mm for early juveniles. Median size of males and females did not differ statistically. The frequency of ovigerous females was markedly low. The onset of sexual maturity in females is achieved at around 23 mm of carapace width. Mature females with advanced gonad stages were not recorded from May to September. Recruitment of young was highest during summer, but the presence of early and late juvenile specimens throughout the year indicates that continuous recruitment is taking place in the studied population. 
1549648|Based on a phylogenetic analysis of 104 genera and 156 species of corophiidean amphipods, we present a new phylogeny and higher-level classification for the suborder Corophiidea Leach, 1814. The phylogeny divides the corophiideans into two infraorders, the Corophiida and the Caprellida, based on a hypothesis of the evolution of different feeding strategies. Members of the Corophiida are derived from bottom-feeding detritivores, whereas members of the Caprellida are derived from ancestors that fed on material suspended in the water column. Within the Corophiida there are unspecialized clades such as the aoroids, whose members are mainly detrital feeders, as well as specialized forms feeding on living algae (family Ampithoidae) and on wood (superfamily Cheluroidea). In the Caprellida, members of the podocerid and caprellid clades often climb organisms such as hydroids in order to get their antennae as far up in the water column as possible to suspension-feed, whereas ischyrocerins build nests and then suspension-feed. Specialized forms include cyamids that attach to whales where they "feed on whale skin." Barnard and Karaman (1984) divided the Corophiidea into two superfamilies (Corophiidea and Caprelloidea) within which were nine families. The classification presented here includes those two infraorders, with 11 superfamilies, 21 families, 13 subfamilies, and 5 tribes.
10.2307/1548694|The larval development of Spiroplax spiralis was completed in the laboratory. Development consists of 3 zoeal stages and 1 megalopa. Detailed descriptions of larval morphology are provided. Morphology of zoeal stages shows both evolutionarily primitive and advanced features. Such a combination suggests a close relationship of Hexapodidae with Goneplacidae and Xanthidae (Pilumninae), but it supports also the maintenance of family status for the group. Furthermore, zoeal morphology of S. spiralis shows a condition generally more advanced than that of goneplacids and xanthids, and equivalent to that of larval Grapsidae. Spiroplax spiralis may have an abbreviated zoeal development. Such abbreviation is considered not to have modified larval morphology in such a way as to mislead in the interpretation of primitive or advanced conditions of morphological characters.
10.2307/1548848|The upper lip of Leptestheria dahalacensis contains 3 types of large, polymorphous, and polynucleate gland cells, forming 5 morphologically and topographically distinguishable glandular groups: 2 lateral (A and B) and 1 median (C). In each group the gland cells are arranged in pairs: several of A cells, 2 of B cells, and 1 of C cells. RER, mitochondria, and Golgi complexes are more or less variously shaped in the 3 types of gland cells. The secretion products have different appearances: vesicles, or bodies with dense or variously structured contents. Gland cells of groups A and B show wide intracytoplasmic lacunar areas, but only in the cytoplasm of B cells variously structured secretion bodies are visible close to such lacunar areas. In contrast, each of the 2 C cells surrounds an extracellular funnel-shaped space originating from a deep invagination of the distal part of these cells. Small epidermal cells delimiting a duct are associated with each pair of gland cells. Nerve fibers in contact with the 3 types of gland cells are also seen. The results of the ultrastructural study are discussed in light of the data available on the labral glands of other copepod and branchiopod crustaceans.
10.2307/1547915|Rhepoxynius abronius (Barnard) (Amphipoda: Phoxocephalidae) is a predominantly subtidal species of the North American Pacific coast. It is also found sub- and intertidally within the polyhaline region of estuaries of Oregon and Washington. Within the Yaquina Bay estuary, Oregon, R. abronius is an annual species producing one or two broods per year. Recruitment occurs over an extended period from mid to late winter through summer. Mortality was 20-25% per month during mid to late spring through fall, and was low in winter through early spring. Mortality may be largely due to predation. Mortality of males appears higher than that of females during the reproductive season. The annual range in biomass was 40-180 mg ash-free dry weight (AFDW)/0.5 m<sup>2</sup>, averaging 104 mg AFDW/0.5 m<sup>2</sup>. Secondary production was 160-216 mg AFDW/0.5 m<sup>2</sup>/yr and the annual ratio of production to mean biomass was 1.54-2.08. Production and the production: biomass ratio are similar to values reported for other marine amphipods with one or fewer generations per year.
10.2307/1549437|This study examines the barnacle symbionts on 168 blue crabs, Callinectes sapidus, taken from both shallow and deep estuarine environments in the area of Beaufort, North Carolina. The purpose of the study was to quantify the prevalence, intensity, abundance, and spatial distribution of the ectosymbiotic barnacle Chelonibia patula on blue crabs. The proportion of blue crabs fouled was 67%. There was no difference in the prevalence of barnacles on crabs from the shallow versus the deep environment. Results indicate female crabs were significantly more fouled than males. This suggests that the prevalence and intensity of barnacles are dominantly controlled by the migratory habits of the host, since female crabs spend more time in deeper waters of higher salinity, where they are more likely to be fouled by barnacle larvae. The spatial distribution of barnacles on the crab carapaces was controlled by the surface topography of the carapace with more barnacles on the lateral regions than medial. The orientation of the carinal to rostral axes of the barnacles on the carapaces of the host crabs was measured, but no preferred orientation was found. The costs and benefits of epibiosis are reviewed and the barnacle/blue crab relationship appears to be more beneficial to the barnacles than to the host blue crabs.
10.2307/1548244| The bopyrid isopod Probopyrus buitendijki (Horst, 1910), the only known bopyrid parasite of the commercially important palaemonid shrimp Macrobrachium rosenbergii (de Man), is redescribed and fully illustrated on the basis of collections from Thailand, Malaysia, and Indonesia, including type-material. Probopyrus latilamellaris Nierstrasz and Brender  Brandis, 1923, is considered a junior synonym of P. buitendijki. Though similar to P. borrei (Giard and Bonnier) it is readily distinguishable by means of characters presented. 
1549805|Previously undescribed fossil material from the late Eocene Hoko River Formation and the Oligocene Makah Formation, Olympic Peninsula, Washington, provides new insight into the evolution and biogeography of five families of decapod crustaceans. New taxa include Homola vancouverensis, Xeinostoma? antiqua, and Daldorfia himaleorhaphis. New material makes it possible to provide a complete reconstruction of the dorsal carapace of Macrocheira teglandi, and a possible juvenile Branchioplax washingtoniana is described for the first time. The range of the genus Homola, known in modern oceans, has been extended into the late Early Cretaceous, and the occurrence of that genus in rocks of the Pacific coast of North America marks the first authentic report of the Homolidae from that region. The Cyclodorippidae is now known to have inhabited the Pacific coast of North America as early as the late Eocene. The geologic range of the genus Daldorfia now extends into the Oligocene, and its earliest known occurrence is from rocks of Washington, U.S.A.
1549217|Genetic relationships among 37 local populations of Geothelphusa dehaani from southern Kyushu, Japan, were examined by electrophoretic analysis at 15 loci encoding 12 enzymes and a general protein. Local populations from the mainland of Kagoshima Prefecture, southern Kyushu, were genetically interrelated, independent of body coloration (red, blue, or two-tone types). Populations from the islands neighboring the Kagoshima mainland were differentiated into two genetic groups, which are distantly related to each other, also independent of body coloration, except for the populations from the Koshikijima Islands, west of Kagoshima mainland. One group of island populations was genetically associated with the mainland populations, both forming a clade of a mainland lineage. The other group, recognized as an island lineage, was highly differentiated from the mainland lineage. Both lineages, mainland and island lineages corresponding to blue and red color types, respectively, were sympatrically distributed on Koshikijima Islands, thus possibly suggesting a secondary contact. It is suggested that the observed genetic differentiation among local populations of G. dehaani in southern Kyushu possibly resulted from geographic isolation, consistent with the past geological process of island formations in the region.
4540275| This study focuses on the ovarian maturation stages in Farfantepenaeus paulensis, which are reported for each stage with histologic, stereological, and morphometric analyses, as well as the specific female protein profile. Unilateral eyestalk-ablated females were dissected and the middle lobes of each ovary were rinsed in cold 100 mM phosphate buffered saline containing 0.001 PMSF, for light microscopic and biochemical analyses. Fragments of ovary were fixed in Bouin's solution, cut into 7 m sections and stained for morphometric and stereological analyses. Immunohistochemistry was used for the detection of vitellin immunoreactivity. The ovarian protein profile was determined using ELISA, SDS-PAGE and Western blot assays. Five ovarian maturation stages were classified by histological analysis: immature, early maturing, late maturing, mature, and spent. Germ cell diameter varied from 48 m ( 8) for ogonia in the immature stage to 224 m ( 43) for vitellogenic ocytes in the mature stage. Protein profiles in ovarian stages showed the presence of seven bands and in Western blot analysis two bands immunoreactive to vitellin antiserum were detected with molecular weights of 105 kDa and 75 kDa. In the ELISA assay vitellin was detected in the five maturation stages and a gradual increase of this protein was observed from the immature stage to mature stages. 
10.2307/1549235|Several species of sponge-dwelling alpheid shrimps (Synalpheus) exhibit unusual colony organizations reminiscent of those found in social insects, but few of these shrimp species have been studied in detail. We sampled colonies of S. filidigitus from its two main hosts, the sponges Oceanapia sp. and Xestospongia spp., at Carrie Bow Cay, Belize. Colonies contained all size classes of shrimp, from recent hatchlings to mature, brooding females. The majority of colonies consisted of <30 individuals, although a few reached much greater numbers (maximum = 94 in Oceanapia and 121 in Xestospongia). In all but one of the colonies sampled containing mature female(s), only a single female (the "queen") was present. Distinct cohorts of juveniles, apparently produced by the resident female, were recognizable in several colonies, and the total number of individuals in the colony was strongly correlated with the resident female's size and fecundity. These observations suggest that, as previously shown for the eusocial S. regalis, the colony is a close-kin group consisting mainly of the queen's philopatric offspring. Comparison of females from a range in colony sizes revealed an apparent ontogenetic transformation in the queen's morphology. Although smaller (presumably younger) females were morphologically similar to males, queens from larger colonies were considerably larger than males, had proportionally longer and wider abdomens, and had the massive major chela of the first pereiopod replaced with a small chela identical to the normal minor first chela. Colonies of S. filidigitus are similar in organization to those of S. regalis, suggesting that S. filidigitus may be eusocial according to the traditional definition. This brings to 3 the number of species of Synalpheus reported to exhibit this paradoxical social organization.
10.2307/1549110|The monotypic genus Epulotheres is erected with E. angelae, new species, from Barbados, as its type species. Epulotheres resembles Ostracotheres Milne Edwards, 1853, and Calyptraeotheres Campos, 1990, in having a 2-segmented palp on the third maxilliped. It differs in that feature from most species of Pinnotheres Bosc, 1802, sensu lato, and other pinnotherid genera which have a 3-segmented palp on the third maxilliped. Epulotheres differs from Ostracotheres in being much smaller, in having a hexagonal rather than subcircular carapace, and in having a much slenderer and shorter propodus on the third maxilliped, with its apex rounded and narrowed rather than having a broad, spatulate propodus that is longer than the carpus. Epulotheres differs from species of Calyptraeotheres in lacking both sharp lateral edges and anterior longitudinal sulci on the carapace.
10.2307/1548783| Two fresh-water crayfishes, Astacus astacus and Procambarus clarkii, and a marine crab, Carcinus maenas, were examined for the presence of -1,3-glucan-binding proteins in their plasma. By the use of a monospecific rabbit polyclonal antiserum to the -1,3-glucan-binding protein of Pacifastacus leniusculus, 2 proteins from the plasma of Astacus astacus with molecular masses of about 105 kDa and 95 kDa as well as a 100-kDa protein in the plasma of Procambarus clarkii could be detected. No protein in plasma of Carcinus maenas cross-reacted with the anti-Pacifastacus leniusculus -1,3-glucan-binding protein antibodies. The cross-reactive proteins from plasma of Astacus astacus were purified by immuno-affinity chromatography. The isolated proteins were homogenous as judged by electrophoresis on SDS-PAGE. Isoelectric focusing of the purified proteins gave pIs of about 6.1 and 6.4. The purified proteins from the plasma of Astacus astacus enhanced the activity of a hemocyte lysate supernatant-derived phenoloxidase of Pacifastacus leniusculus as did the -1,3-glucan-binding protein of Pacifastacus leniusculus. 
10.2307/1549002|Three breeding trends were observed in mangrove grapsids and ocypodids from Mgazana. First, significant changes were found from continuous breeding in the low shore (Macrophthalmus grandidieri) to seasonal breeding on the middle to high shore (Uca and Sesarma spp.). The higher on the intertidal a species occurred, the larger the crab and the more defined the breeding season (Sesarma meinerti). Small species (M. grandidieri) have adopted a strategy of continuous breeding to maximize reproductive output. The second pattern was a staggering of spawning peaks among seasonal breeders with increasingly later peaks the higher the crabs occurred on the shore. Sesarma catenata commenced breeding in August, while the high intertidal species Uca lactea annulipes was ovigerous in March. The third trend was a sharp decline in breeding activity in autumn (March) when temperatures dropped. For the grapsids and Uca vocans hesperiae, sex ratio peaks declined during ovigerous periods. With the exception of M. grandidieri and S. meinerti, there were significantly more males than females. Breeding periodicity may be controlled by a combination of factors, including latitude, temperature, food availability (both adult and larval), and intertidal zonation. Larval interspecific competition in coexisting guilds (Sesarma and Uca) could be minimized by staggering egg-bearing peaks, with breeding delayed and more defined higher on the intertidal.
10.2307/1548113|During the molt from third- to fourth-stage, larvae of Homarus americanus metamorphose into their adult form and pigmentation. In the course of the fourth stage, their pelagic life changes to a benthic existence. Artificial substrate choice experiments and qualitative illumination experiments show that during the early fourth stage the phototactic response reverses from positive to negative. Together with positive thigmotaxis, this results in a choice of dark crevices. Among natural substrate choices, preferential settlement occurred on macroalgal-covered rocks, followed by rocks on sand, mud, and sand. Moreover, when no choice was given, settling occurred most rapidly on macroalgal-covered rocks (34 h), followed by scattered rocks on sand (38 h), and mud (62 h); no settling occurred on sand even two weeks after the last animal had settled on all other substrates. These animals continued to explore the sand substrate with dives to the bottom. Although mud was not a preferred substrate in choice tests, the animals that chose mud and those that were presented only with mud settled successfully and were immediately efficient in their burrowing behavior, constructing U-shaped tunnels even in the center of the aquarium without using a pebble or rock as a starting point. These laboratory tests confirm field observations that lobsters can successfully exploit a variety of substrates. They show that a substrate with preformed crevices is preferred for settling, but other substrates can be manipulated to make suitable burrows.
1549839|The reproduction, growth and population dynamics of the deep-water pandalid shrimp Plesionika edwardsii Brandt were studied in the South Tyrrhenian Sea (central Mediterranean Sea, Italy). Individuals were collected between 100- and 350-m depth during an experimental trap survey conducted in the April 1998-November 1999 period. The mean catch did not show differences in relation to either sampling depth or season. Reproduction appeared to be continuous throughout the year even if the main reproductive activity occurred in April-July. The small ovigerous females were 15.5 mm CL, whereas the mean size at which 50% of females were ovigerous (L<sub>50</sub>) was 18 mm CL. Differences in size at maturity were recorded during the year. The L<sub>50</sub> reached the minimum value in June and maximum in October-November, at the end of the breeding season when the reproductive stock was composed mainly of a few large females. A main recruitment cohort was observed in January, although new cohorts of juveniles appeared in each sampling period. The von Bertalanffy growth curve parameters were estimated for both sexes using the relative mean carapace lengths at ages. Females grew faster and reached larger size after maturity than males. Longevity was estimated to be around 3.5 years for both sexes.
40665249|The acorn barnacle, Semibalcmus balanoides is a sessile, simultaneous hermaphrodite with a large and extensible penis, making it an excellent model system for the study of reproduction in hermaphrodites. Several different factors affecting the likelihood of reproductive success were measured: neighbor distance, body-size, and penis length. We used regression methods to determine the extent to which these factors influenced the reproductive success and found that neighbor distance and body size were the most important factors in determining the probability of fertilization. Penis length was also an important component of mating success and was closely linked to body size. This data can be used to help infer the viability of expanding or contracting populations of acorn barnacles like S. balanoides.
10.2307/1548178|This study refutes the long-standing hypothesis that coral gall crabs are filter feeders. Hapalocarcinus marsupialis collected mucus by fanning the third maxillipeds or by scratching the coral with the legs. Utinomia dimorpha used chelipeds to collect mucus and other debris, or to snip pieces of coral tissue. Favicola rugosa used mouthparts and chelipeds to make a mucous ball and sweep it along the coral surface to pick up mucus and debris. SEM photographs of the mouthparts of each species show setae ill suited for filter feeding, but useful for collecting coral mucus.
10.2307/1548739|Chromatin diminution, the fragmentation and elimination of chromosome regions during early embryogenesis, occurs in some species of free-living, fresh-water copepods. We studied the variation in timing of this developmental trait by examining durations of cell stages in several genera of Cyclopidae. Chromatin diminution varied in timing within and among genera, and ranged from the 8-64-cell stage. The timing of chromatin diminution, as measured by the number of hours post fertilization, differs considerably within and among genera. An unusually long cell-stage duration relative to that of other cell stages is indicative of the stage during which chromatin diminution occurs or the preceding stage. Thus, the relative length of cell-stage durations within a species is a reliable assay for the presence or absence of chromatin diminution.
10.2307/1548701|Axiorygma nethertoni is described from material collected in about 30 m of water off the Key Largo area of the Florida Keys, and from 52-58 m in the Gulf of Mexico off the west coast of Florida. The genus is characterized by the possession of sexually dimorphic chelipeds, and by the absence of an appendix masculina in the male. The species burrows in sand flat areas around coral heads, with densities of up to 80/m<sup>2</sup>. The burrows, usually about 15 cm long, are often blocked by debris such as calcareous algal fragments. The species is considered to play an important role in the transfer of material across the sediment-water interface.
20487711|A new species of Periclimenaeus is described from Madeira Island, in the northeastern Atlantic Ocean. It is closest to P. pearsei Holthuis, 1951 from the western Atlantic, but it can be distinguished by the shape of rostrum, the size of exopod in relation to endopod in third maxilliped, the relation between the carpus and the chela of pereiopod 1, the relative size of second pereiopod minor chela, and the number of setae on appendix masculina. This is the first record of the genus Periclimenaeus in the eastern Atlantic.
20487700|Seven diet models offering were designed to investigate their effects on growth of the shrimp Litopenaeus vannamei, with a mean body weight of 1.380  0.005 g (mean  SE) at a temperature of 25  0.5C. The shrimps under different treatments were periodically fed with polychaete worm (PW, Neanthes japonicus) and commercial formulated diet (FD) with the ratio of 0:1, 1:4, 1:2, 1:1, 2:1, 4:1, and 1:0 in feeding frequency of PW followed by FD, respectively. Only one kind of food was offered each time and all the shrimps were fed twice daily. The result of the 45-day experiment showed that the specific growth (
10.2307/1548471|Epischura fluviatilis is reported from L Lake, near Aiken, South Carolina. Its diagnostic features are described and illustrated. Excavations on one caudal ramus surface, left dorsal in female, right ventral in male, could fit together during copulation and help to secure the copulatory position.
10.2307/1548645|Rock crabs, Cancer irroratus, from the Mid-Atlantic Bight, spend warmer months in deep water, migrating in fall to shallow waters to molt and mate. In doing so, they move from a habitat lacking solar cues to one with various LD ratios. Exposed to LD photoregimes, crabs entrain locomotor activity to a diel (24 h) periodicity. Most activity occurred in the dark period, with increases at artificial dawn and dusk. To examine whether crabs entrain to seasonal and nonseasonal photoperiods, they were tested for rhythmicity under a variety of photoperiods. Locomotor rhythms rapidly entrained to photoperiods with 6-h phase advances or delays and durations of less than or more than 24 h. Responses were strongest when the photoperiods corresponded to ambient photoperiods. It is proposed that C. irroratus possesses a weak endogenous rhythm and that activity is synchronized by exogenous cues, when they become available in the seasonal inshore migration.
10.2307/1548794|Two distinct types of calceoli are reported from Gammarellus angulosus. The small "gammarellid type" is found on the peduncle and encircles the flagellar segments of the first and second antennae of immature and mature animals. The large "pontogeneiid type" calceoli are found singly on the flagellar segments of mature males. The presence of two types of calceoli on one species indicates that calceolar morphology should be used with caution in the higher classification of gammaridean amphipods.
10.2307/1548141| In this posthumous paper, the third in a series of reports on pelagic ostracods collected in southern-hemisphere and Antarctic waters by RV Eltanin, and provided by the Smithsonian Oceanographic Sorting Center, depth and station records are reported for Gigantocypris sp., Macrocypridina poulseni, and 76 halocypridid species and subspecies. Records are based on examination of 473 samples from 182 stations between 33 and 70S in the Pacific sector of the Southern Ocean; South Atlantic and Indian Ocean sectors were covered in previous reports. No new taxa were recognized in this study. Of the 76 halocypridids, 17 were not seen in Eltanin samples from other sectors, but most (perhaps all) of these are widespread and occur in northern-hemisphere waters. Six species, including Archiconchoecia bidens Deevey, 1982, and Conchoecia eltaninae Deevey, 1982, listed in previous Eltanin reports but not in this one, bring the far-southern halocypridid species list to 82. Fewer than half of these (at least 24 and perhaps 37) are known south of the Antarctic Convergence. Of the list of 24, because many "Antarctic" ostracods live at great depths in other oceans, probably none are exclusively Antarctic in distribution, though A. bidens is not yet known beyond its type locality at 7156S. 
10.2307/1548416|Two new species of lysianassids are described from Bermuda. Collection data suggest that Ensayara entrichoma is a pioneer species; these data, combined with morphological features, suggest also that it is an inquiline species. Shoemakerella lowryi is a primarily benthic species that is most often associated with the adhering sediment of algal holdfasts in shallow, subtidal, low-energy environments. The discovery of a species of Ensayara from Bermuda extends the range of this genus. The new species of Shoemakerella supports the validity of this former monotypic genus. The only other lysianassid recorded from Bermuda, Lysianassa punctata, is identified as S. lowryi.
1549958| Petrolisthes laevigatus is commonly found in the intertidal zone from southern Peru to southern Chile. Its geographic distribution and its location in the intertidal zone suggest that this species should have ample physiological and biochemical adaptability to environmental change. Several experiments were conducted on P. laevigatus specimens collected in south-central Chile (Coliumo Bay) to determine: (i) the relationship between specific oxygen consumption rate and temperature; (ii) the presence and activity of lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), octopine dehydrogenase (OPDH), strombine dehydrogenase (STRDH), alanopine dehydrogenase (ALPDH), and alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH); and (iii) resistance to hypoxic conditions in sea water. The specific respiration rate at temperatures frequently found in Coliumo Bay was 0.054 and 0.058 ml O<sub>2</sub>h<sup>-1</sup>g<sup>-1</sup> at 10.5C and 13C, respectively. LDH and OPDH activities were found in muscle tissue, heart, and visceral mass (midgut gland, gonad); OPDH presented a lower activity than LDH. Both enzymes presented high activities in comparison to other decapods. No activity was detected for ALPDH, STRDH, and ADH. Crabs subjected to low dissolved oxygen concentrations (i.e., 0.79 to 0.96 ml O<sub>2</sub>l<sup>-1</sup>) died after three hours of exposure, and no oxygen consumption was detected during this period. Accordingly, P. laevigatus is not adapted to long-term conditions of environmental hypoxia. Nevertheless, compared to other decapod species, P. laevigatus can cope well with short-term environmental and/or functional hypoxia due to the high activity levels of LDH and OPDH and the presence of both enzymes in the heart. 
1549824|A greater understanding of population dynamics is essential in the management of any species. The Western Gulf stone crab, Menippe adina, is taken as incidental by-catch in the blue crab, Callinectes sapidus, fishery in Mississippi. However, there is a lack of information on the ecology of M. adina in estuaries of the northern Gulf of Mexico. We know that M. adina is associated with hard-bottom habitats such as rock-rubble jetties and oyster reefs and that this habitat is sparse in Mississippi Sound, which mainly consists of soft-bottom habitat. Many studies have demonstrated that habitat complexity is important to several benthic crustaceans because it provides a matrix of different sized refuges that organisms can use to escape from predation. The importance and availability of refugia varies throughout the life history of organisms because of the increase in size of an organism as it grows. Refuge limitation acting on a specific size class may create a demographic bottleneck thereby limiting the production of a population through mortality, migration, or stunting of the affected size class. We tested this refuge limitation bottleneck hypothesis in juvenile stone crabs by supplementing an existing oyster reef with four different sizes of polyvinyl chloride (PVC) pipe. We found that lack of refuge affected both population size structure and density of large juvenile stone crabs on the reef. We also found that competition for available refuges may occur among M. adina and two other xanthid crab species, Eurypanopeus depressus and Panopeus simpsoni. We examined the diet of oyster toadfish, Opsanus beta, in Mississippi Sound and found that the three xanthid crabs comprised a significantly large portion of oyster toadfish diet. Predation by O. beta emphasized the importance of the availability of suitable refugia for the xanthids.
10.2307/1549308|Abundant material of the rare lobster genus Thaumastocheles, recently collected from Taiwan, led to an extensive survey of the Indo-Pacific specimens of this genus deposited at various institutions. Altogether 82 specimes of Thaumastocheles from the Indo-Pacific (Madagascar to Japan and New Caledonia at depths of 70-1,753 m) were examined and 2 distinct species are recognized. The 2 species, T. japonicus Calman, 1913, and T. dochmiodon, new species, differ mainly in the shape of the cutting teeth of the first chelae and the lateral carinae of the abdominal tergites. Both species are found in Japan, Taiwan, and the South China Sea.
1549587|The cyst deposition behaviour of Streptocephalus torvicornis is described as the first documented case of active cyst deposition in Anostraca. The functional morphology of the brood pouch of S. torvicornis is described and illustrated using both Light Microscopy and Scanning Electron Microscopy. The brood pouch is an elongated tube-like structure with a subterminal crescent-shaped opening. During cyst deposition, the females insert this structure into the sediment to a depth of almost 10 mm, and deposit the resting cysts, analogous to an insect ovipositor. The opening mechanism of the genital pore is explained by contraction of a branched longitudinal muscle. The adaptive value of laying cysts into the soil and possible dispersal strategies are discussed.
1549968|The memory capabilities of individuals of four species of crayfish (two invasive species and two native species) were tested in the laboratory. Individuals of the invasive Orconectes rusticus and the native O. virilis were tested in Michigan, and the invasive Procambarus clarkii and the native Austropatmobius pallipes were tested in Italy. Following pairing of conspecific alarm odour and a novel odour (goldfish odour), individuals were tested one day, one week, and either three weeks later (Italy) or two and four weeks later (Michigan) for inhibition of feeding responses by goldfish odour. In all four species, exposure of animals for just two hours was sufficient to establish an association between the novel odour and elevated predation risk. In both species pairs, individuals of the invasive species showed evidence of retention of the learned association longer than did individuals of the native species. The results are consistent with the general hypothesis that invasive species have a greater capacity for behavioural plasticity.
4094193|This laboratory study investigated design features for artificial reefs to be used as enhanced juvenile lobster habitat. These features included size of brick shelters, size of rocks in rock piles, and the character of the underlying substrate. Experiments using brick shelters tested the ability of two lobster sizes (50-59 and 82-89 mm CL) to enlarge shelters by digging in sand-gravel bottom. If the gravel size was 1-2 cm both lobster sizes occupied > 90% of shelters by 22 h and the difference between occupancy at 2 and 22 h was not significant. If gravel size was 3-5 cm or 6-8 cm fewer shelters were occupied and the excavation of the sand/gravel took longer. Piles of three sizes of rocks were each placed on hard bottom as well as sand/1-2 cm gravel bottom, and the number of lobsters occupying each rock pile noted after 2-days. Six times more 70-79 mm CL lobsters and 1.7 times more 50-59 mm CL lobsters occupied rock piles on sand/gravel than hard bottom. For all rock sizes and substrates combined, three times more small than large lobsters sheltered in rock piles. The greater sheltering by lobsters on sand/gravel bottom and by smaller lobsters was thought to be related to the size of shelters available or that could be created between the rocks and the bottom by excavating under the rocks. Nearly all lobsters in the piles were located between the rocks and the bottom rather than among the rocks. A final experiment compared occupancy of 0.7 m and 1.2 m diameter rock piles by 60-69 mm CL lobsters where both pile sizes were of large rocks on sand-gravel. The larger piles attracted more lobsters, but neither the number/m
10.2307/1549029| Two types of eggs (diapause or subitaneous) produced by females of the copepod Eurytemora affinis from both natural and laboratory populations collected from Lake Ohnuma, Hokkaido, Japan, were examined under various photoperiod and temperature conditions. In the lake, females produce subitaneous eggs from May to mid-October and switch to producing diapause eggs in late October. In the laboratory, females raised from nauplii collected in late autumn (November) under spring conditions (15C, 12L:12D) produced exclusively subitaneous eggs, whereas those raised from nauplii collected in spring (May) under late autumn conditions (10C, 10L:14D) produced exclusively diapause eggs. More than 79% of the females raised from nauplii under 10L:14D, at both 10 and 15C, produced diapause eggs, but more diapause eggs were produced at 10C. These results indicate that the type of eggs to be produced by females of E. affinis is determined in response to environmental conditions experienced during their naupliar stages, and that a short-day photoperiod (10L:14D) is the primary cue for inducing diapause egg production, and low temperature (10C) promotes the effect. Even under spring or summer conditions (15C, 12L:12D or 14L:10D), females reared in crowded cultures <latex>$(>80\ \text{females}\cdot \text{l}^{-1})$</latex> partially produced diapause eggs, suggesting that a high population density also induces the diapause egg production. 
10.2307/1548609|We have examined the ultrastructure of the glands in pleopods of mature male and of juvenile and sexually mature female lobsters. Glands are present in both sexes but are most abundant in sexually mature females with well-developed ovaries. The glands are comprised of three cell types (secretory cells, a central cell, and a canal cell) which are arranged in rosettes. There are two types of secretory cells: one produces homogeneous granules and the other honeycombed granules. The central cell has peripheral and central lobes; the central lobes interdigitate with narrow apical projections on the secretory cells. The canal cell possesses a thin ductule which opens into the lumen of the gland and appears to convey secretory material from the lumen to the surface of the pleopod cuticle. Scanning electron micrographs of the pleopod surface reveal that exudate is usually present in the ductule openings; this suggests that the glands secrete continually. Because of their ultrastructural features, we propose that these glands be referred to as "pleopod tegumental glands." Our data suggest that the pleopod tegumental glands have functions beyond attachment of fertilized eggs to the ovigerous setae.
4094202| The female of Haplostomides hibernicus (Scott and Scott, 1895) is fully redescribed on the basis of a single specimen living in the compound ascidian Polyclinum aurantium Milne Edwards, which was obtained at Strangford Lough in the Irish Sea in 1995. This copepod was collected by the author, together with specimens of H. scotti Chatton and Harant, 1924, from the same ascidian. The redescription confirms that the specimen of H. hibernicus is comparable in morphology to the copepods that Scott and Scott (1895) described as (7)Enterocola hibernica from Valentia Island and that Chatton and Brment (1910) redescribed as Aplostoma hibernica from Roscoff. The result of this study indicates that H. scotti is synonymous with (?)E. beaumonti Scott and Scott, 1895, which was found together with (?)E. hibernica in an unidentified ascidian at Valentia Island. 
10.2307/1549019| A broad range of salinity-temperature conditions (salinities from 3-31 and temperatures from 19-31C) significantly influenced growth rates and subsequent body mass of the estuarine mysid Mysidopsis bahia reared in the laboratory from the first free juvenile stage through first brood production by the mature adult. Not only did salinity and temperature significantly interact to affect mysid growth, but a highly significant three-factor salinity-temperature-age interaction modified growth in this species. Response surfaces depict that maximum body mass was obtained after 4 weeks at temperatures between 24 and 29C and in salinities (S) above 19. Optimal salinity-temperature conditions for growth of M. bahia are correlated with both its resistance patterns to these dominant environmental factors and its distribution pattern in estuarine waters. Canonical analysis of the empirical data produced an absolute maximum dry weight at 26 S and 27C after 4 weeks of growth. Salinity conditions accounting for optimal growth are in close agreement with the isosmotic point (24 S) for this species, suggesting reduced growth efficiency concurrent with osmotic stress, particularly hypoosmotic stress. Maximum growth rates of mysids reared under a broad salinity-temperature range occurred during the second week, just prior to maturation, suggesting that changing levels of reproduction are correlated with modifications in mysid growth over time. 
1549748|Hexapodid crabs are recorded from Taiwan for the first time. A new genus and new species, Latohexapus granosus, is described. Most similar to Hexapus and Hexapinus, Latohexapus can easily be distinguished by its proportionately much broader carapace with prominent granulated and well-defined regions, a very broad thoracic sternum which has a deep transverse groove between thoracic sternites 3 and 4, and a male first pleopod which extends well beyond the male telson. Paeduma orientalis (Rathbun, 1909) is also recorded from Taiwan on the basis of a female specimen.
1549212| Specimens of a monstrilloid copepod of the genus Monstrilla collected (1908) by the U.S. Fisheries steamer Albatross in the Sulu Sea, west coast of Mindanao, Philippines, and deposited in the U.S. National Museum of Natural History were taxonomically restudied. Specimens were originally identified as females of Cymbasoma longispinosum Bourne, 1890, by C. B. Wilson. Reexamination revealed that besides a single female of C. longispinosum, three other specimens were present in the same vial. One of these was identified as a new species of Monstrilla and is described herein. The new species can be distinguished by a combination of characters but mainly by having very long antennules and a bilobed fifth leg with two long setae on each lobe. The other two individuals are females of M. elongata Surez-Morales, 1994. This species has been previously recorded only from the Caribbean Sea. This record in the Philippines represents a significant range extension for this species. This one and the new species represent an interesting addition to the Asiatic monstrilloid fauna. Regional records of Monstrilla in the Far East are also presented herein. The Philippines and east Indonesia seem to be the most speciose areas for this genus in the entire region. 
10.2307/1548533|Eudiaptomus yukonensis, new species, described from a shallow tundra pond at Shingle Point, Yukon Territory, differs from its morphologically similar congener, Eudiaptomus graciloides (Lilljeborg, 1888) in the shape and ornamentation of the wings of the female metasome, the short setae of the female endopods, the spines of the male right antennule, and the characters of the male P5. Eudiaptomus yukonensis is the second species of the genus to be reported from North America.
10.2307/1549229|Oxygen consumption rates (MO<sub>2</sub>) were measured for 3 species of cave-dwelling crayfishes, Procambarus pallidus, Procambarus erythrops, and Troglocambarus maclanei. The MO<sub>2</sub> values for the cave-dwelling species were compared to MO<sub>2</sub> values measured previously over a broad range of masses in the surface-dwelling crayfish Pacifastacus leniusculus. MO<sub>2</sub> values reported for other surface crayfish are not different from Pacifastacus leniusculus of the same mass. The MO<sub>2</sub> values for the cave species were all significantly below the MO<sub>2</sub> values for the surface crayfish of the same mass, indicating that the cave crayfish have reduced aerobic metabolism. Critical oxygen tensions or P<sub>c</sub>s (the ambient oxygen partial pressure (PO<sub>2</sub>) at which resting MO<sub>2</sub> is no longer constant, but begins to decrease) measured for 2 of the cave species (P. pallidus, 29 Torr; T. maclanei, 25 Torr) were lower than those reported in the literature for surface species (35-40 Torr). The third cave species, P. erythrops, showed no decrease in MO<sub>2</sub> down to an ambient PO<sub>2</sub> of 20 Torr. The PO<sub>2</sub> measured in water samples taken from 6 of the same submerged caves in which the crayfish were found showed great variability (mean = 71 Torr, range = 26-145 Torr), but was not lower than the PO<sub>2</sub> of surface water samples taken outside of the caves. This suggests that low oxygen availability may not have been the primary selective force in the evolution of reduced oxygen uptake rates in cave crayfish.
27753983|The complete larval development and the morphology of the first juvenile stages of two freshwater-breeding crab species endemic to Jamaica are described and illustrated in detail in the present paper. One of these species, Sesarma windsor, lives in and near caves in the karst regions of central western Jamaica, whereas the second species, Metopaulias depressus, occurs sympatrically but with a wider range in western and central Jamaica in water-filled leaf axils of bromeliads. Even if these species are placed in separate genera, they are extant representatives of the same adaptive radiation that resulted in at least ten Jamaican endemic crab species thriving in different landlocked habitats. Consequently, larval morphologies of the two species are very similar, but conspicuously different from the developmental patterns in their marine relatives. Both species display an abbreviated mode of development, showing morphological reductions in some features and pre-displacement in the expression of several others. Both species pass through two non-feeding zoeal stages, after which S. windsor moults to a facultatively lecithotrophic megalopa. In contrast, M. depressus directly moults from the zoea II to a juvenile stage (also facultatively lecithotrophic) that shows a mixture of juvenile and vestigial larval characters, such as a partly folded pleon, but no longer larval traits such as natatory pleopods. This represents the first record of larval development with no megalopal stage for Sesarmidae. A closely related species from mangroves in the Caribbean and northeastern South America, Sesarma curacaoense, shows a reduction in larval development, but with different morphological characteristics. We here discuss whether this could be a shared ontogenetic character or the consequence of convergent evolution.
10.2307/1549440|The complete larval development (2 zoeal stages and the megalopa) of the majid crab Macropodia longipes is described and illustrated from laboratory-reared material obtained from an ovigerous female captured on muddy bottoms of the continental shelf in the western Mediterranean Sea. The morphology of the larvae is compared with that of the previously described species of the genus Macropodia.
40665264|The systematic status of Galatheacaris abyssalis is assessed on the basis of recently collected material. Mitochondrial DNA analysis reveals that the 16S rRNA sequence from one specimen is identical with that of Eugonatonotus chacei, while the COI sequences of the two taxa diverge only by 0.6% (3 bp), indicating that the two taxa are conspecific. Based on the morphological development of specimens attributed to G. abyssalis, we conclude that this taxon represents the megalopal stage of E. chacei. Therefore, the family Galatheacarididae and the superfamily Galatheacaridoidea should be abandoned.
10.2307/1548566| In this note the frontal knob morphology of a number of Italian populations of Artemia from Sardinia and Central Italy is analyzed and discussed. All of the samples examined showed a subconical shape of the knobs, almost identical to the description formerly given for the Artemia from San Bartolomeo salterns (Cagliari), once named A. salina (Barigozzi, 1974; Piccinelli and Prosdocimi, 1968), and subsequently named A. tunisiana (Bowen et al., 1978; Barigozzi, 1980; Clark and Bowen, 1976). As already pointed out by Mura et al. (1989), all the Mediterranean samples we examined exhibited a common pattern in frontal knob morphology. According to a recent investigation (Baratelli et al., 1988), all the samples from Sardinia, even though characterized by heteroploidy to some extent, seem to correspond in respect to morphological characters to the typical morphology of A. salina sensu Barigozzi (1974), and hence to the morphology of A. tunisiana, as the first Sardinian Artemia observed was subsequently named (Bowen, 1965; Bowen et al., 1978). Nonetheless, the problem concerning to which species of the genus should these populations be ascribed needs further investigation, particularly considering recent data on north African and Sicilian populations (Rodin et al., 1987). Therefore, we prefer here to use only the generic name (Barigozzi, 1980; Barigozzi and Baratelli-Zambruni, 1982; Bowen et al., 1980). 
10.2307/1549370|The seasonal distribution of the talitrid amphipod Trinorchestia trinitatis on an exposed sandy beach was examined in relation to moisture content and temperature profiles of the sand. Sand in which animals burrowed always had moisture levels >1.7% of the wet sediment weight throughout the year. Monthly mean moisture values for talitrids ranged from 3.0-5.0%. During winter, talitrids were found high up on the beach far from the reach of the surf and burrowed deeply to avoid freezing. After the thaw in early spring, animals reduced their burrow depth and moved downshore. Large animals began migration earlier than smaller animals. From late spring to summer, the population concentrated near the strandline left by wave action during the preceding high tide, burrowing shallowly. During this period the distribution patterns varied with animal size and reproductive condition. Small animals, especially juveniles, were located shoreward of and burrowed at shallower depths than large animals and ovigerous females, which were located higher on the beach. In late summer, burrowing depth of talitrids increased as temperatures in the surface layers rose. Behavioral responses, such as burrowing and surface migration to cope with the wide fluctuation of environmental factors, mainly sand moisture content and sand temperature, are suggested to be important mechanisms enabling T. trinitatis to survive in the physically severe sandy beach environment.
10.2307/1549371|Fallicambarus gordoni, a crayfish found only in pitcher-plant bogs, is restricted to the DeSoto National Forest, Perry County, Mississippi, U.S.A. The species is active from late fall through late spring, and apparently estivates during the summer when bogs are dry. Ovigerous females were found in late fall and winter, and small juveniles were collected in February. Form I males were found throughout much of the year, except during summer months when no crayfish were collected. Burrows of F. gordoni are complex and similar in structure to those of Fallicambarus fodiens. Catch per unit effort ranged from 0.02-0.17, suggesting that counting burrow structures will not give an accurate population estimate of this imperiled animal.
41315701|Relative to other economically important marine animals, there is limited knowledge of the reproductive characteristics of the male Australian red claw crayfish Cherax quadricarinatus. In this study, the structure of the male reproductive system of C. quadricarinatus and the progression of spermatogenesis were examined histologically and using transmission electron microscopy (TEM). The male reproductive system of C. quadricarinatus is composed of paired testes, vasa deferentia, and genital appendixes. Each testis has a nonbranched collecting duct and numerous attached seminal acini. Spermatogenesis occurs mainly in the seminal acini. Germ cell development is synchronous within each acinus, but not between different acini. Spermatids, formed after meiosis, undergo a complicated metamorphosis until the aflagellate spermatozoa are finally formed. Early in the metamorphosis, a highly convoluted membrane lamellar system is assembled in the cytoplasm as the chromatin begins to condense. The convoluted membrane lamellae split into numerous small vesicles which amass together and condense to construct a helmet-shaped acrosome cap, the concave side of which forms an acrosomal vesicle. In the meantime, the chromatin's decondensing expands the nucleus, while granular material, mitochondria, and membrane lamellae remain in the cytoplasm. Finally, the acrosomal cap and vesicle move to the surface and protrude through to the outside of the spermatid. The chromatin condenses again, enabling the nuclear volume to decrease and thereby forming a mature aflagellate spermatozoon.
10.2307/1547964|The objective of this paper is to document patterns of complexity in the aggressive and reproductive behavior of mantis shrimps, and to test the hypothesis that lineages with more complex behavior evolve more rapidly than those with relatively simple behavior. Stomatopod taxa that occupy preformed holes in coral or rock habitats show more specialized social behavior, more elaborate morphological adaptations for aggression (color patterns, ornamentation, and armor), complex courtship and copulation, and more extensive parental care than taxa that excavate their own burrows in mud or sand substrates. Similarly, taxa of large body size in both coarse and level bottom habitats show more complex agonistic interactions and associated morphological adaptations than smaller relatives. We use a biogeographical and morphological method to examine degree of taxonomic divergence, degree of local species radiation, and incidence of apparent extinction in the East Pacific, West Atlantic, and East Pacific zoogeographic subregions for lineages of stomatopods with relatively complex or simple social behavior. We hypothesize that lineages with complex behavior have more endemic species, fewer cognates, and fewer conspecifics among these subregions than lineages with relatively simple social behavior; that lineages with complex behavior undergo more local species multiplication than lineages with relatively simple behavior; and that extinctions are more frequent in species with more complex than simple behavior. However, species that occupy coarse substrates and have associated complex behavior and morphology do not diverge, multiply, or become extinct significantly faster than expected. Similarly, larger taxa do not evolve more rapidly than relatives of smaller body size. Instead, rates of divergence and speciation are significantly inversely related to body size and larval dispersal potential. Although stomatopods show some of the most complex behavior known in invertebrates (with the possible exception of the cephalopods), this behavioral sophistication does not appear to be a predominant force molding the pace of evolutionary change in these marine crustaceans.
1549209|Limnadia lenticularis, a well-known representative of the Conchostraca Spinicaudata in Europe, was generally accepted as a parthenogenetic species. During an intensive faunistic study of Austrian conchostracans, four of a total of 364 collected L. lenticularis specimens were males. This paper provides the collection localities, compares the sex ratios of the five conchostracan species found in Austria, and describes the general morphology of L. lenticularis males, focussing on SEM of the male claspers.
10.2307/1548248| The genus Holobomolochus is redefined based primarily on the absence of rostral hooks. Five species are presently considered members of the redefined genus. They are: Holobomolochus glyphisodontis (Kryer), H. vervoorti Cressey, H. chilensis, new species, H. dawsoni, new species, and H. wilsoni, new species. The first author is reassigning to other genera those species with rostral hooks formerly included in Holobomolochus. The genus is so far known only from the western Atlantic and eastern Pacific. 
10.2307/1549184|We evaluated the genetic diversity of 2 populations of the pampean fresh-water shrimp Macrobrachium borellii at its most southern geographical distribution by means of the PCR-based technique RAPD (random amplified polymorphic DNA). As a result of either small population size, greater degree of isolation, or greater inbreeding, genetic diversity was lower in an artificial pond population than in a population from a small tributary of the Rio de la Plata. The high level of diversity scored in this species with RAPD markers is striking in comparison to the low H values reported by other authors for decapods, including Macrobrachium rosenbergii, with allozyme markers. These results demostrate that RAPD polymorphisms can be useful measures of diversity in these taxa.
1549974|Radio tracking technology has, for many years, been applied successfully to studies of vertebrates, particularly mammals and birds. Recent reductions in transmitter size have enabled these techniques to include invertebrates. However, perhaps because the radio tracking of invertebrates is especially problematic, relatively few studies have been carried out. In particular, there are relatively few radio tracking studies of decapod crustaceans, especially terrestrial species. Here we report the practical use of radio transmitters to track a tropical, amphibious fresh-water land crab, Eudaniela garmani, in the rainforests of the Caribbean island of Tobago. We include a method for gluing tags to the crabs' carapaces which allows individuals to be tracked for periods of up to 12 months.
40927843|The content of carotenoids and retinoids was compared in the eyes of two Finnish populations of the opossum shrimp, Mysis relicta, which have been reproductively isolated for at least 9000 years: one from the deep, dark, Lake Pjrvi, the other from the Baltic Sea (Pojoviken Bay). The eyes of the lake population (LP) are highly susceptible to light damage, while those of the sea population (SP) are more resistant. Carotenoids are known to act as antioxidants protecting cells against free radicals and reactive oxygen species; retinoids, on the contrary, may be phototoxic in certain conditions. Analyzed by spectrophotometry and HPLC, the carotenoid content was broadly similar in the eyes of the two populations as regards both total amount and relative proportions of more than 20 components. Noteworthy differences were found in only three of the major components, among these astaxanthin, which was two times higher in SP compared with LP. The most interesting finding was the 1.6-fold higher content of retinoids in LP compared with SP, with retinol as the dominant component (40% of total) in both populatiosns. Retinol is a precursor of the visual-pigment chromophore retinal. The result is consistent with the idea that animals inhabiting extremely dim light environments, where very little photoregeneration of metarhodopsin to rhodopsin can occur, need a large store of chromophore (or precursors) for effective "dark" regeneration of visual pigment. We suggest that almost all the rhodopsin is then in the native state and massive pigment activation following exposure to stronger light may trigger photoreceptor damage. If such animals are handled without due light protection, e.g., when transferred to a new habitat or collected for biological experiments, their vision will be severely impaired.
40665220|Two species in the new genus Watlingia are described from the Chatham Rise, east of New Zealand, from depths of 350-530 m. The subadult female and male are described and figured for W. cassis, and the subadult female is described and figured for W. chathamensis. The new genus is characterized by the maxillule palp with a single seta, well-developed accessory flagellum of the antennule, and biarticulate uropod endopod.
10.2307/1548145|Acoridon manningi, new genus, new species, is described on the basis of two specimens from the Gulf of Mexico. The new genus closely resembles Coronida Brooks, 1886, and Neocoronida Manning, 1976, but differs from both of these genera by having five teeth on the dactylus of the raptorial claw, a telson with a marginal carina, the dorsal ornamentation of the sixth abdominal somite and the telson composed of long blunt tubercles, and the posterior margin of the telson armed with three pairs of teeth. This report constitutes the first record of the family Coronididae from the western Atlantic.
10.2307/1547895| Cataleptodius floridanus is an abundant (> 100 individuals/m<sup>2</sup>), small, xanthid crab inhabiting intertidal coral rubble on Glover's Reef, Belize, Central America, but it is uncommon in slightly deeper suitable habitats. To test the role of bonefish in limiting the depth distribution of the crab, a wire mesh cage extending from the shore line into deeper water was constructed to exclude bonefish from their normal foraging in the study area. The cage of 12  12 mm mesh allowed passage of C. floridanus and other small decapods. After 17 days C. floridanus in "deep" and "medium" depth quadrats inside the cage were more abundant and significantly larger than those in "deep" and "medium" depth quadrats outside the cage. Abundance and size distributions did not differ significantly between crabs collected from shallow quadrats inside and outside the cage. Heavy diurnal predation by bonefish in Belize restricts this species to very shallow water. Pitho aculeata abundance also increased inside the cage. 
1549484|Coral-dwelling stomatopods, as well as other groups of marine invertebrates, are dwarfed on Pacific atolls compared to high island or mainland faunas. Particularly on atolls, typical body size diminishes progressively within lineages and among assemblages of species as one moves eastward from the Austral-Asian continental region of highest diversity toward the mid-Pacific, which is a region of high endemism. Populations on atolls are particularly diminutive. Lower productivity in the Central Pacific than on the Indo-West Pacific continental shelf and lower productivity on atolls compared to high islands may explain this pattern. In the mid-Pacific, however, smaller body sizes result in fewer, smaller, less well-dispersing offspring, trapping the lineage as a peripheral endemic. Dispersal from the large species on the Austral-Asian continental area appears to dampen differentiation in the adjacent West Pacific region, which is characterized by low endemism. The East Indies "center of origin" and the "peripheral speciation" models are not mutually exclusive, however, since the Austral-Asian continental seas are inhabited by both large and small species, and endemism among small lineages is even higher in the Indo-West Pacific continental region than in the peripheral areas. Here, biotic factors associated with competition for refuges may have selected for small species that can exploit the much more numerous small refuges in the reef, while the pugnacious larger species follow a riskier and energetically expensive path, fighting viciously for increasingly rare large holes in the calcareous substrate in order to reap the territorial and reproductive benefits that result from large body size.
10.2307/1549543|Armases miersii is the only crab known to complete larval development in supralittoral rock pools. This habitat is characterized by harsh and highly variable abiotic and biotic conditions, requiring ecophysiological and ontogenetic adaptations. In this study, the complete larval development of Armases miersii from laboratory-cultured and field-collected material from Jamaica is described. Development consists of 3 zoeal stages followed by a megalopal stage. It is thus abbreviated in comparison to other species of the genus Armases and the closely related Aratus pisonii, which have 4 zoeae and 1 megalopa. Morphology of the zoeal and megalopal stages is compared with those of other species of the genera Armases and Aratus for which larval development has been described. The reduction of zoeal stages is discussed in relation to its ecological and evolutionary relevance.
40927847|During the development of PCR primer sets for microsatellite marker loci from enriched genomic libraries for three squat lobster species from Galatheidae (Decapoda: Anomura); Munida rugosa (Fabricius, 1775), M. sarsi (Huus, 1935), and Galathea strigosa (Linnaeus, 1761) (collectively known as squat lobsters), a number of unforeseen problems were encountered. These included PCR amplification failure, lack of amplification consistency, and the amplification of multiple fragments. Careful examination of microsatellite containing sequences revealed the existence of cryptic repeated elements on presumed unique flanking regions. BLAST analysis of these and other VNTR containing sequences (N = 252) indicates that these cryptic elements can be grouped into families based upon sequence similarities. The unique features characterising these families suggest that different molecular mechanisms are involved. Of particular relevance is the association of microsatellites with mobile elements. This is the first reported observation of this phenomenon in crustaceans, and it also helps to explain why microsatellite primer development in galatheids has been relatively unsuccessful to date. We suggest a number of steps that can be used to identify similar problems in microsatellite marker development for other species, and also alternative approaches for both marker development and for the study of molecular evolution of species characterised by complex genome organisation. More specifically, we argue that new generation sequencing methodologies, which capitalise on parallel and multiplexed sequencing may pave the way forward for future crustacean research.
1549487|Two new pontoniine shrimp species of the little known genus Typton Costa, T. manningi and T. capricorniae, from Queensland, Australia, are described and illustrated. The Indo-West Pacific species of the genus are reviewed, and a key for their identification is provided. All six Indo-West Pacific species of the genus, associates of sponges and sparsely reported from East Africa to Japan, are known from Australian waters.
20487713|Caprella mutica (Amphipoda) has been successfully reared through several generations per year for public exhibition in a tank of 500 L, more than five year after introduction of the species into the Port of Nagoya Public Aquarium, Japan. The tank was equipped with a coral sand bed filter, a circulation system, and a heater/chiller unit. Artificial seawater (Reef Crystals) was used as a medium. The diatom Phaeodactylum and hatched juveniles of Artemia were provided as food for C. mutica. Two years after the introduction, the sex ratio (females/(females + males)) was 0.50. Males reached body lengths up to 20.5 mm, while the largest female was 10.4 mm long. The average number of embryos/female was 33.0. Embryos were 0.38 to 0.41 mm in the long axis, and 0.30 to 0.33 mm in the short axis. These reproductive characters enable the production of multiple generations in a single year.
10.2307/1548751|Two new species of the Proscinidae collected from the eastern North Pacific are described. Proscina vinogradovi is distinct from all other species of the genus by the propodus of pereiopod 2 with a palm, and by the broad carpus of pereiopod 7. A key to all known species of Proscina is presented. Cheloscina antennula is different from all known species of the family by the prehensile pereiopods 1 and 2, and by the segmentation and presence of 2 long large aesthetascs on antenna 1.
1549688|In adult females of the halocyprid ostracod Conchoecia imbricata, paired saclike ovaries lie separately at the both sides of the alimentary canal in the posterior region of the trunk. The ovarian wall consists of a thin layer of the ovarian epithelium, making itself into many folds. Oogonia, very early previtellogenic oocytes, and young somatic interstitial cells are gathered in a nipple-shaped germarium in each terminal of the ovaries. In the germarium, oogonia are concentrated in the most terminal region, and very early previtellogenic oocytes are located in the remainder, arranged in order of their sizes, the larger ones nearer to the ovarian lumen. These oocytes grow and leave the germarium, not to enter the ovarian lumen, but to ride on the outer surface of the ovarian wall, sandwiched between the ovarian epithelium and its basement membrane. They grow further to mature, supported by a few tall ovarian epithelial cells and raising the basement membrane of the ovarian epithelium. The larger oocytes lie farther from the germarium on the ovarian wall. Both the basic ovarian structure and the arrangement of the early female germ cells in the germarium of C. imbricata are common to those of the podocopid ostracods, many other crustaceans, and other mandibulate arthropods, but the further growth of the oocytes on the outer surface of the ovarian wall is similar to the pattern seen in the myodocopid ostracods, the branchiurans, the pentastomids, and the chelicerate arthropods. Such an intermediate oogenetic mode in C. imbricata is unique, not only among the ostracods and other crustaceans, but also among other mandibulates and the chelicerates.
41315711|The present distribution of two hermit crabs, Clibanarius vittatus and Pagurus maclaughlinae, was assessed for comparison with a study done more than 30 yr ago on decapods of the region. Clibanarius vittatus presently occurs in low or moderate density only at Sebastian Inlet. Retreat of C. vittatus from sites that it formerly occupied is attributed to intolerance of its larvae to low salinities recorded in the lagoon during recent reproductive seasons. Pagurus maclaughlinae remains the most abundant and widespread hermit crab in the lagoon. Its present distribution seems unchanged from the reference study despite prolonged periods, sometimes years, during which salinities declined to 12-25 in many areas distant from inlets.
10.2307/1549439|Mother-young association was examined in 9 species of caprellid amphipods in the genus Caprella. Five species: Caprella arimotoi, C. danilevskii, C. glabra, C. okadai, and C. penantis showed no interaction between mother and young after emergence from her brood pouch, but various degrees of prolonged cohabitation of young with their mother were observed in the other four species. In Caprella subinermis, though no maternal care was observed, the first instars remained on the body of the mother for up to 4 days, and then dispersed before the first molt. Aggregations of young protected by the mother were observed in the other 3 species. Aggregations of a mother with multiple cohorts of young were found in Caprella decipiens, while C. monoceros and C. scaura had single cohorts of young on or around the body of the mother. Based on field data and results of field-rearing experiments, the cohabiting period is up to 30 days in C. decipiens and up to 20 days in C. monoceros. For 5 species having different degrees of mother-young association, one-month field-rearing experiments under predator-free conditions were conducted. The results showed that the presence of the mother increased both the survival and growth rate of the young in C. monoceros, but the presence of the mother increased only the growth rate in C. scaura. In the other 3 species, C. danilevskii, C. decipiens, and C. subinermis, the presence of the mother did not positively affect either survival or growth of the young.
10.2307/1548835|Patterns of molting of the hermit crab Diogenes nitidimanus were observed in the laboratory. Data were obtained for 5-day periods after the time of the collection throughout the course of 1 year. The frequency of molting exhibited a bimodal pattern with 1 peak in spring and another in fall, though there was a slight difference between sexes. In both sexes, molting occurred more often in the reproductive season than in the nonreproductive season. Females molted more often than males during the reproductive season. Growth increments became smaller as the size of the crabs increased; this reduction was more marked in females. Females often did not increase or even became smaller at molting, in particular during the reproductive season. Such cases were very rare in males. Shell-size adequacy was assessed for molted crabs by comparing the size of shells actually used by the crabs with those chosen by crabs from shell sets with a wide size range. Females occupied shells smaller than those preferred, whereas males had optimum-sized shells. Zero or negative growth in females may result from the effects of utilizing smaller shells as well as higher energy requirement for ovaries than testes. The growth mode of this species was considered to be indeterminate, with egg laying during some instars, and one or more layings per instar.
1549344|Newly recovered fossils from the Eocene Hoko River Formation of western Washington, USA, constitute the first recognized occurrence of the Cheiragonidae Ortmann in the fossil record. The Cheiragonidae are recognized as a distinct family and are clearly distinguished from the Atelecyclidae Ortmann based on numerous characteristics of the dorsal carapace, appendages, sternum, and chelipeds. The genus Montezumella Rathbun is removed from the Atelecyclidae and placed within the Cheiragonidae. The reassignment of Montezumella to the Cheiragonidae extends the known occurrence of the family into the late Eocene. Montezumella eichhorni n. sp., Trichopeltarion granulosa n. sp. are recognized from Tertiary rocks of Washington, and Trichopeltarion merrinae n. sp. is recognized from late Miocene rocks of New Zealand.
10.2307/1548165|An undescribed species of mysid belonging to the genus Amathimysis was obtained from box core samples taken at 11 to 45 m depth off Tampa Bay, Florida. This new species, Amathimysis brattegardi, can be distinguished from the three other species of Amathimysis by the presence of strong posteriorly directed mucronations on the abdominal pleura and spination of the telson. The description of A. brattegardi, new species, and a key to the species of Amathimysis are presented.
40665214|The hydrothermal vent crab Gandalfus yunohana is found along the Izu-Ogasawara Arc in the north-western Pacific at depths from 420 to 1400 m. To study the larval developmental characteristics of this vent endemic species, we collected adult crabs from a depth of 445 m in May 2005 from the Kaikata Seamount (2642.607'N, 141 04.457'E). These individuals were maintained at atmospheric pressure and temperature (15 and 18C) for several months, until two females spawned and released larvae. Larvae were maintained at atmospheric pressure and at five different temperatures ranging from ~ 18 to 30C and fed Artemia sp. At ~ 18C, no larvae survived until the second zoeal stage. Some larvae reached the second or third zoeal stages when reared at ~ 21C. At 24-30 C, six individuals metamorphosed into the megalopal stage following a fifth or sixth zoeal stage 34-60 d after hatching. Megalopae swam actively, but they eventually died 58-104 d after hatching and showed no signs of moulting into the juvenile crab stage. Newly hatched first stage zoeae were phototactic, and we observed relatively high temperature requirements for larval survival and development. These facts suggest that zoeae may be distributed relatively high in the water column in warmer near-surface waters during their planktotrophic development. This is the first report of successful larval rearing of any species of bythograeid crabs. Our study establishes the conditions under which the megalopae moult to the first crab stage, laying the groundwork for future experiments.
10.2307/1548237|The structure of the attachment organ of Cardiodectes medusaeus (Wilson) is examined by the use of light, scanning, and transmission electron microscopy. The entire attachment organ resides within the bulbus arteriosus of the host's heart. It is a syncytial mass measuring approximately 2 mm in diameter. The organ is covered by a thin cuticle. Transmission electron microscopy reveals a myriad of delicate microvilli projecting from the underlying cytoplasm to the inner surface of the cuticle. Nuclei, mitochondria, rough endoplasmic reticulum, free polyribosomes, autophagosomes, and Golgi apparatus are subcellular constituents of the organ. Large crystalline aggregates, dispersed throughout the cytoplasm, are visible with both light and electron microscopy. Prussian blue staining of the crystals indicates a high iron content. Ultrastructurally, the crystals are identical to ferritin, and function to detoxify and store iron obtained from blood meals. The role of the cytoplasmic organelles in digestion of blood and formation of iron crystals is examined. Because digestion of host erythrocytes, and synthesis and storage of ferritin occur within the attachment organ cytoplasm, the organ may be considered as an elaboration of the digestive tract.
4094192|The local movements and activity patterns of American lobsters, Homarus americanus, were monitored inside a 50 m by 50 m underwater enclosure (mesocosm) using ultrasonic telemetry. Forty-four lobsters of both sexes, ranging in size from 62 to 93 mm in carapace length, were continuously tracked for 2-10 days in 2002 and 2003. As a population, the movement rate of lobsters depended on time of day, as defined by dawn, day, dusk or night. Lobster movement rates were significantly higher during night and dawn than day and dusk hours. Movement rates did not differ by lobster sex, size or between years of the study. The effect of time of day differed between lobsters, and there was considerable variability in the time of day when individual lobsters were most active. Thirty lobsters moved significantly more during the night, five moved significantly more during the day, and nine did not move significantly more during the day or night. Therefore, while there was a general tendency for lobsters in this study to be more active at night, certain factors in their natural habitat modulated this nocturnal bias, which led to a tremendous amount of variability in their daily patterns of behavior.
