30002114|A structural cross-section is presented which extends across the Variscan fold belt in southwest Ireland between Sherkin Island on the south coast and Castleisland, County Kerry in the north. The cross-section is divided into two parts by a zone of faults in the Lough Leane (Killarney) area, often taken as the line of the Variscan 'thrust front', but which are more probably high angle reverse or wrench faults. To the south the line of cross-section transects a region of thick Old Red Sandstone non- marine sequences and Lower Carboniferous marine clastic deposits folded into a series of major open asymmetrical anticlinoria and synclinoria. There is an important change of fold vergence in the vicinity of Mount Gabriel near the south coast, to the north of which the Bantry syncline is an important structural low which preserves 500 m of Namurian strata. Basement form and structure may have controlled the symmetry and style of folding, as well as the location of important fault zones, in the Upper Palaeozoic rocks of this southern region. North of the Lough Leane (Killarney) faults the thick Dinantian carbonates are disposed in broad open folds with disharmonic folding in the overlying Namurian beds due to dcollement at the base of the Namurian section.
30002160|The Quaternary succession displayed in a nine kilometre stretch of coastal cliff section cut through the Screen Hills kame-moraine between Blackwater Harbour and Tinnaberna, County Wexford is described and four major litho-stratigraphic members are identified. The environments of deposition of each member are discussed and the sequence is considered to represent the advance, retreat and marginal oscillation of a terrestrially based Irish Sea ice-sheet during the late Midlandian glacial stage. Evidence of large scale glacio-tectonic deformation is used to construct a simple model of multiple, but minor readvance of the snout during the building of the kame-moraine.
30002115|Vesicular lava flows are found at two levels near the base of the Old Red Sandstone succession in north County Waterford. They consist of a series of mugearite flows which are clearly extrusive with strongly vesiculated tops infilled with sediment. The lavas are assumed to be Upper Devonian in age; regional correlation is not possible. A map showing locations of Devonian volcanism in the south of Ireland is presented.
30002161|A fall of dust occurred over southern Ireland and parts of northern England on November 28, 1979. The composition of the material is similar to that of previous dust falls over Europe. The major component is silica, both as quartz and as organic opalcristobalite. The cristobalite occurs as tests of various micro-organisms. Other minerals present include muscovite, hematite and calcite. Weather conditions, the composition, the similarity to other dust falls of known source and to desert dust indicate an origin in northern Sahara.
30002200|The central complex of Slieve Gullion, northeast Ireland, exposes the eroded core of a large Tertiary shield volcano in which relics of an older Caledonian granodiorite, the Newry Granodiorite, appear as screens separating successive intrusions of Tertiary gabbro and granophyre. Thermal metamorphism and extensive partial melting of this granodiorite have produced marked petrographic and textural changes which are not obvious at grain boundaries between quartz and feldspar. Here the coarse granitoid fabric of the unmodified granodiorite gives way to micrographic intergrowths of quartz and feldspar in the thermally metamorphosed rocks. The textural changes are most obvious in granodiorite adjacent to the Tertiary basic intrusions. Here, in addition to the textural changes in the felsic minerals, Ca-rich and Ca-poor pyroxene replace the amphibole and biotite which are typical of the unmodified granodiorite. Temperatures calculated from coexisting clinopyroxene and orthopyroxene in hybrid granodiorite adjacent to Tertiary dolerite are between 800C and 830C. The chemistry of the modified granodiorite remains unchanged suggesting that the metamorphic process was isochemical. Localised hybrids formed at contacts with the Tertiary basaltic and granitic rocks. These hybrid rocks display chemical evidence for interaction between the Caledonian Newry Granodiorite and the Tertiary magmas of the central complex. Variation diagrams suggest that the hybrid rocks formed by the mixing (assimilation) of increments of fused or partially fused Newry Granodiorite with Tertiary granitic or basaltic magmas.
30002194|Following almost torrential rain in the late afternoon of 1st August 1980, seven bog-slides occurred within a distance of 2 km on the northern slopes of the Slieve-anOrra mountain block, County Antrim. Examination of the slides shows several common characteristics: all had breaks of slope at the head of the movement, there were drains and/or streams present, and a suitably impervious layer over which movement of the peat took place. These characteristics in combination with the weather of the preceding six months and the extreme rainfall event of the 1st August led to the slides.
30002462|An outcrop of Dalradian quartzites within which are intercalated a series of competent single layer ore bands has been deformed by a series of post-D structures. The ore bands show evidence of an early phase of layer parallel extension, which was followed by a period of folding. The folding was accompanied by intensive transposition of foliation. Transposition structures have not previously been described from Connemara and their recognition here is important as it may bring into question some of the fabric evidence used for the dating of metamorphic events and, at the same time, explain some apparently anomalous macroscopic structural features.
30002128|Measurements of potential evapotranspiration (PE) from an irrigated lysimeter have been collected over a two-year period at Coleraine, County Derry. For both years and for twenty-two of the twenty-four months the experimental measurements yield PE values which are systematically higher than Meteorological Office estimates of PE made for the site based on Penman's (1963) formula. The results are compared with findings elsewhere, possible reasons for the differences between measured and estimated PE are discussed, and a preliminary examination of the differences in relation both to soil heat flux and aerodynamic factors is presented.
30002457|A pilot study of longshore variation in pebble size on an Irish shingle ridge suggests that whilst high water-mark and ridge pebble size increases to the south reflect a simple southward increase in wave energy under northeast waves, size and sorting variations at low-water mark suggest a northward counter-drift under southerly waves.
30002271|The Devonian rocks of Ireland are of nonmarine 'Old Red Sandstone' facies except for a development of late upper Devonian marine facies in South Cork. The oldest Irish Devonian rocks are probably those assigned to the Dingle Group of County Kerry, which conformably overlies upper Silurian marine strata. The thick Devonian succession in the South Munster Basin commences in the late-Middle or early-Upper Devonian and terminates with marine 'Strunian' sediments. In central and northern Ireland much of the Old Red Sandstone conformably underlying the marine Carboniferous is 'Strunian' or Dinatian in age. Coarse clastic rocks of Lower and Middle Devonian age are known in five geographically separated areas in northern Ireland. Macrofossils are relatively rare in the Devonian of Ireland, but plant miospores are abundant in some parts of the succession, and have been extensively used for correlation.
30002133|The palaeogeography of Ireland through Tournaisian times is reconstructed on the basis of well-dated miospore assemblages from some 30 sections in the nonmarine Upper Old Red Sandstone, and overlying marine sediments. The Upper Palaeozoic sea first entered Ireland from the south in late Devonian (Tn1) times, progressed steadily northwards, reaching Cork Harbour by Devonian/Carboniferous boundary times, and the Clew Bay area of northwest Ireland in the early Visan. The top of the Old Red Sandstone facies is demonstrated to be strongly diachronous in Ireland, and much of the Old Red Sandstone in central and northern areas is shown to be Carboniferous, not Devonian, in age.
30002151|The Old Red Sandstone stratigraphy of the Comeragh Mountains is redescribed and extended to areas east of the Comeragh Mountains in north County Waterford. The stratigraphical terminology of Capewell is retained in a modified form as: 1, Coumshingaun Conglomerate Formation; 2, Comeragh Conglomerate-Sandstone Formation; 3, Nier Sandstone Formation; 4, Kiltorcan Formation. The Croughaun Beds, previously considered to be older than the Upper Old Red Sandstone sequence, are here considered as part of that sequence and are lateral equivalents of the Comeragh Formation. The disconformity considered by previous authors to lie at the top of the Coumshingaun Formation is not recognised and the whole succession is considered to pass up conformably into marine Carboniferous rocks. Spores extracted from near the base of the Kiltorcan Formation give an uppermost Devonian (Tnla) age; palaeontological evidence is not available from lower in the succession. Major thickness and facies changes are recognised passing to the north and east of the Comeragh Mountains and correlations are made with adjacent areas.
30002460|Two olivine-dolerite bodies discovered in a stream section at Druminshin Glebe, near Carrigallen, County Leitrim are interpreted as Tertiary sills intruding Carboniferous (Courceyan Stage) limestones and shales, overlying sandstones. The dolerites are strongly differentiated with olivine decreasing and plagioclase and pyroxene increasing upwards. The mineralogical layering is attributed to a flow differentiation mechanism.
30002154|The Ordovician rocks around Herbertstown, County Meath, consist of mudstones in the lower part (Clashford House Formation) with a sparse shelly fauna of upper Ordovician age overlain by a dominantly volcanic sequence of tuffs and lavas (Herbertstown Formation). The sequence is very similar to that exposed at Balbriggan, 8 km to the east, and is consistent with an island are environment as suggested by earlier authors.
30002270|The chemical mineralogy of a peridotite xenolith from the lower layers of the Currywongaun-Doughruagh intrusion is presented. In composition the constituent minerals link the Dawros and Currywongaun intrusions, strengthening the concept of a direct genetic relationship between these bodies, and suggest that the inclusion may be from what were originally the upper levels of the Dawros sequence. Detachment of the xenolith from the latter and incorporation into the derivative Currywongaun magma probably occurred during the
30002458|Cation exchange capacity values are reported for the silt and sand separates from 10 soil profiles derived from a variety of parent materials. The CEC's of the sands were negligible except for those from soils derived from basalt in Northern Ireland. Silt CEC's ranged from 2.4 to 47.4 me/100g. Highest values were given by silts from the basalt-derived soils. Silts from the spodic horizons of podzols also had high values. All other silts had CEC values which were much less than those for the corresponding clay separates. The CEC's of the silts and sands from the basaltic soils are attributed to the occurrence of smectite in aggregates which are geological in origin. Incomplete dispersion probably accounts for the high values exhibited by the silts from spodic horizons.
30002135|The Maumtrasna Formation (probably Ordovician) of western Ireland comprises at least 2000 m of coarse clastic sedimentary rocks. Various parameters of the clasts and matrix from conglomerates within the formation are described. Some of the results indicate the possible influence of glacial activity during, or prior to, deposition of the formation. This suggests that Ordovician glacial activity may not have been restricted to areas south of the Iapetus ocean during the Ordovician.
30002142|Effective and buffered cation exchange capacities are reported for a number of Irish soils derived from a variety of parent materials. Values of effective CEC ranged from 1.10 to 36.50 me/100g with a mean of 10.72 me/100g. Buffered CEC (pH 8.2) values ranged from 6.03 to 62.9 me/100g with a mean of 23.71 me/100g. The differences between effective and buffered CEC (pH-dependent CEC's) ranged from 0.04 to 46.02 me/100g with a mean of 12.99 me/100g. Effective CEC was correlated with clay content and specific surface area but not with organic matter. Buffered and pH-dependent CEC's were correlated with organic matter content and specific surface area but not with clay content. Extractable Fe and Al were found to be well correlated with pH-dependent CEC. Multiple regression analysis showed that variations in specific surface area and organic matter content accounted for less of the variability exhibited by effective CEC than exhibited by buffered CEC. Addition of extractable Fe and Al improved the precision with which the regression equations predicted effective CEC. The form of the equations suggested that extractable Fe and Al reduced effective CEC, presumably through interaction of positive charge with negative sites on layer silicates and organic matter.
30002150|Residual Bouguer anomalies over the Iveragh peninsula appear to be produced by variations in depth to the boundary between Devonian sandstone and slate formations. Northeast southwest trending anticlines and synclines mapped at the surface are confirmed by the gravity map to continue at depth but some influence of older, Caledonian trends may well be present. A major northwest southeast trending discontinuity is present in the neighbourhood of Cahirciveen.
30002125|Vertebrate fossil material is described from several levels within the Old Red Sand-stone succession of the western end of the Iveragh Peninsula, County Kerry. The material indicates a latest Middle to early Upper Devonian age from the lower part of the succession, refuting previous attempts to correlate it with the late Silurian/early Devonian Dingle Group exposed 20 km to the north.
30002149|Palaeomagnetic measurements carried out on samples from a conglomerate of Carboniferous age indicate that large scale remagnetisation has taken place between early Namurian and Upper Permian times and at a time which probably postdates the deformation of the conglomerate.
30002363|Four early six-inch Ordnance Survey sheets from County Galway, each bearing manuscript geological annotations, have been found in University College Galway. The annotations date from the 1840s and they are evidently the work of Patrick Ganly, one of the staff of the Valuation Survey administered by (Sir) Richard Griffith. The field observations recorded were mostly made during the revision of Griffith's quarter-inch geological map of Ireland following its first appearance in 1839, and the field-sheets afford a new insight into both the history of that famed map and Ganly's personal contribution towards its completion.
30002110|The limits and directions of ice movements in south Wexford from inland and from the Irish Sea were investigated. The boundary of the Irish Sea deposits extends from west of Enniscorthy to Duncormick, while deposits of inland origin reached the same easterly limit. The inland ice moved in a south to southeasterly direction but the distribution of Carnsore granite boulders indicates a west and northwesterly move- ment of Irish Sea ice.
30002124|Physical and chemical properties in representative soil profiles from the Clonroche Soil Series in County Wexford have been examined. Spodic and cambic horizons occur within the series. Field and laboratory findings show that spodic horizons occur on coarser textured parent material but are not necessarily related to landscape position. The presence or absence of a spodic or cambic horizon may lead to separation of soils at a high level of classification, although their potential productivity may be similar.
30002111|Published isotopic data have suggested that the lead-zinc-copper deposits on the eastern margin of the Leinster Granite formed a long time after the emplacement of the granite. However, late alterations in the granite and the distribution of lithologies within the granite aureole suggest the possibility that the metals required were leached from the aureole rocks. It is probable that this process would have been initiated during or soon after the intrusion of the granite.
30002164|Data for 36 profile pits from a 3 km section through the Straffan Soil Complex near Kill, County Kildare confirm the substantial variability in its soils. Apart from changes brought about by the pedogenesis, considerable spatial variability originates in the parent materials. These include particle size distribution patterns identified by visual and tactile means in the field and by laboratory analyses. Separate lithologic depositions as well as post-depositional erosional changes not obvious in the field were identified. Of the 36 pits examined, only 25 were confidently regarded as having soils derived from 'uncontaminated' local till. Use is made of average clay, pH and coarse sand: fine sand depth functions to locate a lithologic discontinuity and weathering surface of significant duration at an average depth of 30-40 cm from the present surface.
30002147|A small conodont collection from the Curlew Mountains contains a probable element of Pterosphathodus celloni, indicative of a Telychian (late Llandovery) age. Two larger collections from the Ballynane Member, Annascaul Formation of the Dingle Peninsula are dominated by Ozarkodina sagitta and Kockelella variabilis respectively. Uncertainties about the stratigraphical ranges of these species preclude precise age determinations, but a probable Wenlock age is indicated for one locality and an early Ludlow age is most likely for the other.
30002120|A 6-point whole-rock Rb-Sr isochron age of 40424 Ma (
30002221|Dublin Bay is a small, shallow (<20m) sandy embayment on the eastern Irish coast and is enclosed by the headlands of Howth and Dalkey. The bathymetry is dominate by north-south tidal current ridges which originated in the Boreal, c. 8500 BP. Recent sediments have been grouped into three textural zones, termed the Bay Approach, Outer Bay, and Inner Bay Zones. The first zone reflects the regional Irish Sea pattern of mobile, clean, medium sand becoming finer to the north. The Outer Bay Zone is a mixture of this regional sediment and anthropogenic sludge dumped off Howth Head. The sediment is composed of bimodal, muddy, fine and very fine sand. The Inner Bay Zone is characterised by clean, very fine sand winnowed from the offshore sediment.
30002459|The Lower Palaeozoic rocks of the northwestern part of the Devilsbit-Keeper Hill inlier (Keeper Hill district) comprise fault-bounded sequences of essentially turbidite lithologies, similar to those comprising the upper Wenlock Hollyford Formation which makes up the southern part of the inlier. The Silurian rocks of the Keeper Hill district are therefore referred to the Hollyford Formation. In the Keeper Hill district the Hollyford Formation consists mainly of sandy turbidites and argillites both of which commonly occur as parts of thinning and fining upward sequences. These sequences form sand bodies enclosed by argillites. The assemblage (sand bodies/argillites) is thought to represent outer fan sedimentation. In two fault blocks resedimented conglomerates are enclosed within mudstones. These are interpreted as inner fan deposits. Caledonide folds in the area mapped comprise east northeast, southward verging F folds which have been rotated by major, east northeast trending, monoformal flexures, so that the dip of the F fold envelope ranges from steeply northwards to shallow angles southwards. Superimposed upon F and F folds are late Caledonide brittle structures and, where the F fold envelope is relatively flat-lying, east-west flexures which are considered to be Hercynian in age. The fold history of the Keeper Hill district is comparable to that of the Southern Uplands. Sedimentological and stratigraphical, as well as structural considerations indicate that the Devilsbit-Keeper Hill inlier is part of the Southern Uplands belt. In this case the 'Navan-Silvermines Fault' can no longer be equated with the postulated course of the 'Iapetus Suture'. Possible implications of this conclusion are briefly discussed.
30002137|Neolithic farmers armed with polished stone axes and mattocks to create cultivation-patches arrived in Ireland about 3,000 BC. Bronze Age ridges and furrows almost certainly worked with wooden spades dating back to 1,500 BC can be found below extensive areas of blanket-bog in western Ireland. The most primitive type of plough, the ard, which lacks both coulter and mouldboard, probably came into Ireland in the later phases of the Bronze Age, about 700 BC. Eventual contacts with Romanised Western Europe, about 300 AD, introduced the Irish farmer to new cultivation methods, including the plough armed with a coulter to cut through grass roots. When the mouldboard (to overturn the cut sod) reached Ireland is a matter of controversy; it may have been as early as the seventh century AD. The all metal plough was reaching its final form in the early years of the nineteenth century, but this was a time that coincided with the disastrous rise in population in Ireland. The vast mass of the Irish population became too dependent on the spade and the potato. The tractor, powered by an internal combustion engine, reached Ireland about 1910, and today Irish agriculture is all too dependent on oil.
30002224|Chloritoid in the Ardara aureole is restricted to sericitized andalusite porphyroblasts. Textural evidence shows it grew from, or with, chlorite kaolinite sericite during the cooling phase of the thermal metamorphism when f HO conditions were appropriate. The sericitization of andalusite is described in terms of ionic reactions and is seen to be the reverse of the prograde reaction. Evidence from the aureole rocks in general indicates that a non-penetrative deformation with a consequent influx of water was responsible for sericitization, and production of chloritoid would not have occurred unless the deformation had broken down the andalusite. The chloritoid shows static recrystallization, and the association of chloritoid with deformed rocks is due to its common formation during a cooling phase of metamorphism, after deformation had produced a suitable environment in which it could grow.
30002197|Simple hydrological investigations were undertaken in an area of lowland karst near Mullinahone to provide a strategy for flood alleviation and land drainage. Speleological exploration and a water tracing experiment showed that although turbulent flow prevails in the groundwater system, flow velocities are less than 12m/h. Construction of a 335 m drainage tunnel resulted in an increase in these velocities to over 700m/h. This allows flood waters to drain away more rapidly which, together with alterations to surface channels, has removed the flood hazard and increased land drainage. A number of problems arose during adit construction because of the nature of the limestone and these are discussed.
30002146|Serpentinites occur in pelitic schists of the Lough Feeagh (Southern Highland) Group of the Dalradian Supergroup of south Achill Island, County Mayo. The serpentinites occur as irregular olistoliths from a few millimetres to several metres across enclosed in and intruded by pyritiferous graphitic pelite. The serpentinites consist of actinolite, talc, antigorite, carbonate and fuchsite. The enclosing rocks have been subjected to polyphase deformation, are complexly folded and have suffered extensive recrystallisation under low greenschist facies conditions. The serpentinites have been incorporated in the metasediments either by gravity sliding and/or thrusting of unconsolidated sediments and ultramafic rocks. They occur within a turbidite succession that is separated from quartzites and pelitic schists correlated with the Appin Group by a major tectonic slide. Mafic volcanic rocks that occur adjacent to this slide in the Lough Feeagh Group contain crossite. These relationships are interpreted to indicate that "oceanic" crust was involved during deposition and possible early imbrication of Dalradian sediments of the Southern Highland Group. Blueschist metamorphism may be related to tectonic sliding or subduction. Other serpentinite occurrences in the Southern Highland Group elsewhere may have a similar origin. This occurrence indicates that it is unlikely that the upper part of the Dalradian Supergroup was deposited in an ensialic basin.
30002272|Published data suggest that, with a few exceptions, heulandites are biaxial positive with a variable axial angle, very small to large; axial plane and
30002113|Immature greywacke sandstone of probable mid-Ordovician age crops out near the western end of the Longford-Down inlier. It consists predominantly of andesitic clasts with conspicious augite and brown hornblende, but it also contains fragments of granite, metagabbro, mica-schist, serpentinite and glaucophane. The detritus was probably derived from newly erupted calc-alkaline pyroclastics (suggesting that subduction was in progress during or just before deposition of the greywacke) and also from a high P/T metamorphic belt (suggesting the existence of an earlier subduction system which became extinct, and then exhumed, prior to greywacke deposition). The greywacke is probably a continuation into Ireland of similar andesite- and blue-schist-bearing greywackes of Ordovician age in southwest Scotland.
30002220|Atmospheric dust was deposited by a light fall of rain in the early hours of 15th May, 1979 over parts of the north of Ireland. The synoptic charts for that time provided no immediate indication of the source region. Subsequent isentropic analysis of the previous trajectory of the air containing the dust suggests that the dust was injected into the atmosphere over the western Sahara by sand and dust storms that were reported there between 8th and 10th May. The dust cloud moved westwards over the Atlantic as far as 22W before curving to the northeast and crossing Ireland.
30002162|The results of new fieldwork in the Avoca volcanic belt are presented, the chief difference from previous interpretations being that the felsic volcanics are regarded as a pile of ignimbrite flows. The evidence for this is the gradational transitions between lava-like and tuff-like rocks, the persistence of the welded horizons over distances of several kilometres along strike and the presence of columnar jointing. In the absence of rhyolite domes the presently held Kuroko-type model for the origin of the ore deposits is no longer tenable and a slightly different model is proposed in which the metallic ores are derived by fumarolic activity from within the ignimbrite pile.
30002116|The Old Red Sandstone rocks surrounding the Slievenamon Inlier in Counties Tipperary and Kilkenny were re-mapped and their stratigraphy, sedimentology and structure interpreted. The Old Red Sandstone rocks rest unconformably on a Lower Palaeozoic succession and are overlain conformably by marine rocks of Lower Carboniferous age. The Old Red Sandstone succession ranges from 400 to 690 m in thickness in the area, and can be subdivided into two formations. The older Carrigmaclea Formation consists of conglomerates, pebbly sandstones and cross-stratified sandstones; all of the units being red, brown or pink in colour. The overlying Kiltorcan Formation consists of yellow sandstones, red, yellow and green mudstones. The sedimentology of both formations is discussed. It is concluded that the Carrig- maclea Formation is composed mainly of braided river deposits while the Kiltorcan Formation contains deposits of non-braided low sinuosity rivers and lake deposits. The area was on the northeastern edge of a major depression and clastic material was derived almost entirely from the north and east. The structure of the area is relatively simple. The strata were folded into a large east-west trending anticline. North-south faults and north-south, east-west and north northeast-south southwest joints are the dominant brittle structures.
30002165|Two regional scale rock stratigraphic units, the Strokestown and Gowna Groups, separated by a major strike fault, are recognised in the western end of the LongfordDown inlier. The Strokestown Group comprises five formations which range in age from Llanvirn (?) to (?lower) Silurian, whereas the Llandeilo-Caradoc age Gowna Group consists of three formations. Both groups are dominated by greywackes, but also include other lithologies such as argillite, chert and spilite. A transition from deep to relatively shallow water depositional conditions is defined in the Strokestown Group by the presence, or absence, of amygdales in spilites. Argillite and chert colouration alternates between black and red-green-buff, the age of each colouration phase corresponding well with generalised trends in the British Caledonides, although there are local variations. The stratigraphic sequences are compared, and correlation suggested, with other sequences in the Northern Belt of the Southern Uplands of Scotland, the Longford-Down inlier and in County Mayo. The presence of Silurian rocks in the Irish equivalent of the Northern Belt, generally considered to be Ordovician age, is discussed. A number of previously unrecorded graptolite assemblages, identified by Dr R. B. Rickards, are described.
30002456|A new inlier of Lower Palaeozoic sedimentary and volcanic rocks to the east of Clew Bay is described as the Letter Formation and dated as Ordovician on the evidence of fragmentary chitinozoa.
30002273|The sparse and poorly preserved brachiopod fauna of the Ballyvorgal Group (upper Ordovician) of Slieve Bernagh, County Clare is re-examined and considered to belong to the distinctive Foliomena fauna, a late Ordovician deep-water shelly assemblage. The stratigraphical and palaeoecological implications of this occurrence are briefly discussed and the contribution to the understanding of the depositional environment of the Ballyvorgal Group assessed. The Irish occurrence is found to be consistent with the other known environmental settings of the Foliomena fauna.
30002152|The Old Red Sandstone rocks of the Devilsbit outliers in north County Tipperary, which lie with striking unconformity on the Silurian, are of alluvial fan origin. Rocks of this facies are not otherwise represented in the south midlands: the Old Red Sandstone rocks of Slieve Bloom  northeast Devilsbit are medial  distal alluvial sequences of Tournaisian age. The rocks of Devilsbit Mountain are older, and are believed to have been preserved by faulting prior to deposition of the later Old Red Sandstone, with subsequent uplift.
30002129|Transverse sand bars between 1 m and 13 m in length have extended lakeward from a small beach in Lough Neagh, Northern Ireland. Formed under a low-energy wave regime with no regular water level fluctuations, the first bar nucleus appears to arise from interaction of opposing longshore currents. Once initiated this bar extends lakeward, eventually generating its own diagnostic current system which in turn acts with existing longshore drift to form further bars. In time a hierarchy of evenly spaced bars of irregular length develops.
30002274|A new fossil locality of latest Ordovician age in County Cavan is described. The fauna includes trilobites and graptolites, the former representing a new genus and new species of the Dalmanitidae; herein only the new species, Mucronaspis (s.l.) cellulana, is erected. The trilobites are the first shelly fossils to be recorded from the graptolitic Lower Palaeozoic succession between Longford and Down; they are believed to be deep water forms. Both trilobites and graptolites show interesting links with those in the highest Ordovician sediments of Dobb's Linn in the Moffat area, south Scotland, which lies more or less along strike to the northeast.
30002166|A soil sequence on varying relief and parent material is described for Forth Mountain, County Wexford. Glacial till, geliflucted from the steeper slopes to lower elevations, gives rise to surface-water gleys. On the acidic, coarse textured quartzitic material at the higher elevations iron pan podzols occupy the less steep slopes, while gley podzols occur in local concavities.
30002126|The miospore contents are described of thin coals and associated sediments from the
30002123|The literature relating to periglacial features in Ireland is reviewed. It is shown that, contrary to established belief, active periglaciation occurred within as well as beyond the Midlandian ice limits. The spatial and stratigraphical distribution of features so far discovered in Ireland is described and analysed.
30002195|The stratigraphy and sedimentology of the Slieve Bloom and northeastern Devilsbit Mountains are described in detail. The succession is dominated by medium to coarsegrained and pebbly sandstones, with rare conglomerates, alternating with red mud/ siltstones and associated caliches in its lower part, comprising a range of facies which are interpreted as the deposits of meandering streams, with a possible transition to ephemeral or braided stream conditions in the upper part. Associated lacustrine sequences have yielded identifiable plant fossils and a diverse palynoflora, which has enabled the onset of Upper Old Red Sandstone sedimentation and the marine transgression which terminated it to be dated. The Old Red Sandstone succession, which rests unconformably on Silurian sediments, is assigned to a single formation, the Cadamstown Formation, which ranges in thickness between 100 m and 350 m.
30002461|Silurian turbidite successions in Lecale are segmented by strike-parallel faults into clearly defined structural blocks. Upright major and minor F folds in the Portaferry and Ballyquintin blocks describe primary northward-descending monoformal fold envelopes. In the Ardglass block, the envelope of minor south-verging anticline-syncline fold pairs is steeply inclined and faces north. Slaty cleavage is axial planar to all folds in the Ballyquintin block, and stretching lineation is normal to fold plunge. The same cleavage transects, striking consistently clockwise of, F closures in the Portaferry and Ardglass blocks, and gently inclined stretching lineation and fold plunge are approximately coaxial. A model of late D superposition of sinistral shear on primary compressional strain is inferred. Two systems of secondary folds, with congruous crenulation cleavages, have consistently opposing vergence. The total Caledonian history of folding, cleavage, kink bands and faulting is punctuated by syn-D and D intrusion of lamprophyre dyke swarms. Early structure is compatible with deformation and northward translation above a destructive plate margin. Southward intensification of D, and deflection of wrench fault trend within Lecale, might relate to closure of the subduction system by plate collision.
30002109|Dolerite intrusions with unusually wide, zoned, metamorphic aureoles form a linear belt within the Lower Palaeozoic Ribband Group strata of southeast Ireland. The dolerite has commonly been altered to chlorite, albite and other secondary minerals, but primary igneous minerals showing systematic modal and compositional variations are preserved within the larger intrusions. The aureoles are up to 140 m wide and consist of a broad outer zone of chlorite-spotted pelite, a middle zone containing fine-grained decussate muscovite, and an inner zone containing coarse-grained muscovite and spessartite. Explosion-breccias, characteristic of the middle zone, are interpreted as the result of degassing of a volatile-rich basic magma as it intercepted a fracture zone at depth. The inner zone contains oriented spessartite-rich rafts and zoned bodies and is considered to be an obducted sedimentary envelope, carried upwards by the intruding dolerite. The intrusions pre-date Caledonian deformation, unlike most other dolerite intrusions in southeast Ireland.
30002223|Conodonts, plant miospores, and acritarchs are described from the Courceyan (Lower Carboniferous) Ballyvergin borehole in County Clare. Two new miospore taxa, Retusotriletes crassus sp. nov. and Apiculatisporis heteroconus sp. nov., are erected. Almost all the acritarchs recorded occur in the Ballyvergin Shale, and are mostly recycled Cambro-Ordovician and Silurian forms. The conodont evidence suggests that the Spelaeotriletes pretiosus  Raistrickia clavata (PC) Miospore Zone spans the Tn2/Tn3 boundary in terms of Belgian stratigraphical notation.
30002122|The mineralization at Avoca consists of massive ores (sulphides and oxides) and zones of low grade mineralization (feeders to the massive ores) contained in a sub-marine acid volcanic pile of probable Caradocian age. Rhyolites and dolerites/diorites intrude the volcanics, their emplacement being structurally controlled. The volcanic pile is isoclinally folded and massive ore units are often attenuated along strike as a result of bedding plane slip. This has led, historically, to the mineralization being regarded as lode type. The mineralization is spatially, and probably genetically, related to rhyolite centres. The massive sulphides are belived to have formed in restricted basinal areas close to mineralizing centres where strongly reducing conditions prevailed. The oxide ores probably formed in an alkaline oxidising environment either marginal to areas where sulphides were forming or in association with mineralizing centres which discharged their fluids directly into such an environment. Zonation of Pb and Zn with respect to Cu is present in the sulphide units.
30002268|In the northeastern part of Clare Island, at least 300 m of predominantly fluviatile clastic sediments have been divided into the Maam Formation (c. 200 m, red beds) overlain by the Capnagower Formation (c. 100 m. vari-coloured beds). Sedimentation started with development of a southerly derived scree fan banked against the Caledonian Leck Fault; then a northerly derived alluvial fan deposited red sand and gravel in a braided channel system. Southerly derived more mature clastic sediment followed, being deposited in meandering channels which overstepped the earlier escarpment of the Leck Fault. The uppermost 20 m of succession shows evidence of a marginal marine environment penetrating into this intra-montane basin of Clew Bay. The succession is downfaulted along east-west trending faults and lies at the western end of the Clew Bay Syncline of Hercynian age. Diverse plant miospore assemblages of late Tournaisian (Leckascannalmore Member) to early Visen (Kinnacorra Member) age have been obtained from six horizons in the Capnagower Formation. Four new miospore species have been erected: Acanthotriletes macrogaleatus, Verrucosisporites irregularis, Grandispora microdecora and Radiizonates mirabilis. Several other taxa are rare or absent in Europe, but well known in the Mississippian of Nova Scotia, Canada.
30002139|Re-examination of palynological preparations from the Slievenamon inlier demonstrates that the base of the Ahenny Formation is of Llandovery age, as is the lithologically correlative Ballindysert Formation of north County Waterford. This implies that the Silurian part of the Slievenamon succession is well over 6000 m thick.
30002463|The conodont faunas are described and five biozones established. The Polygnathus spicatus Partial-range Biozone occupies the upper part of the Houseland Member, and the Polygnathus inornatus Local-range Biozone occupies most of the Lyraun Cove Member, both of the Porter's Gate Formation. The succeeding Hook Head Formation contains no diagnostic conodonts in the lowermost part, the remainder being divided into the Pseudopolygnathus multistriatus Local-range Biozone, the Polygnathus communis carina Local-range Biozone and the Polygnathus mehli latus Partial-range Biozone. One new taxon, of P. mehli latus, is erected.
30002361|From averages of the deep water wave climate, a computer program is used to simulate nearshore wave conditions along the coast of southern County Wexford, to enable the delimitation of instantaneous littoral power cells. From the spatial distribution of the cells a framework of sediment transport paths is established, although no attempt is made to produce a time integrated model because of the lack of wave directional data. Major relocation of littoral power cells occurs mainly through changes in direction of deep water wave approach, with only minor relocation when wave height and period are altered. Southerly and southwesterly waves generate numerous small cells along the Tacumshin/Lady's Island and Ballyteige barriers whereas one major cell occurs on the former under south easterlies with a predicted direction of transport from east to west. The Saltee Islands, 8 km south of Kilmore Quay, create a wave shadow effect under most wave directions, resulting in significant differential incident wave energy levels between exposed and lee shores. Consequently magnitudes of morphological response would be expected to vary between the east and west barriers, to an extent dependent on deep water wave energy levels and directions of approach. Preliminary morphodynamic observations compare favourably with simulated conditions.
30002198|The Old Red Sandstone sequence at Dunmore East, County Waterford is described and correlations are made with Hook Head 5 km to the east. The Templetown and Harrylock Formations as defined at Hook Head are recognised and the former is divided in the Dunmore East section into three members. The rivers which laid down this sequence evolved from sheetfloods or coarse proximal braided streams (Knockavelish Head Member) through braided-meandering streams (Brownstown Head Member), coarse braided streams (Beenlea Head Member), and meandering streams with gravelly and fine-grained point bars (Harrylock Formation). Northwesterly palaeocurrents in the Knockavelish Head Member suggest that deposition was initiated in a small basin on the edge of the larger Munster Basin which lay to the south and west. Palaeocurrents higher in the sequence are dominantly from the north and east.
30002159|A stratigraphic sequence over 3.5 km thick is described from the Carrick-on-Suir Syncline. Seven new formations are defined. Late Devonian to early Dinantian continental clastics pass up into thick and varied Dinantian shelf carbonates. Stratigraphically useful fossils such as miospores, conodonts, corals and foraminifera have been used to show that the Dinantian rocks range in age from Courceyan to Asbian. A small outlier of Namurian rocks is identified. The sequence is shown to be comparable in many respects with previously described successions from the Dinantian of southern Ireland north of Cork City.
30002219|In addition to referring to known morphological features and fossiliferous deposits of Tertiary age in Ireland, the paper suggests that many further Tertiary landforms await recognition in Ireland, and suggests some types of locality where further search for fossiliferous deposits might be made.
30002148|Slieve na Calliagh was selected for a study in pedogenesis because the date of soil formation is known, the parent materials are uniform, and the prehistory of land use can be inferred. Five soil types were mapped, and their resource examined. Slope and aspect appear to be the most important factors affecting soil formation. In general, podzols are confined to 15-20 north-facing slopes at the top of the slope sequence. Below this zone are brown podzolics, and lower down are brown earths. Variation in evapotranspiration over the hill accounts for the position of the podzols, but it fails to explain the distribution of the brown podzolics and brown earths.
30002127|An analysis is presented of the lithological sequence, structure and metamorphic history of metamorphic rocks between Lough Talt and the Ladies Brae. Lithostratigraphical correlation with Moine and Dalradian successions is inconclusive. The area is divided into two structural blocks by a major northeast-trending Grampian slide zone. A polyphase deformation history is described within each block involving large
30002134|In a till section at Stillorgan, County Dublin, shelly Irish Sea till was underlain and overlain by limestone till of inland origin. Carbonate, pH and particle size analyses are presented for the three tills.
30002121|The Maumtrasna Group of coarse sandstones and conglomerates with minor acid volcanics in eastern Murrisk, which has been regarded as being part of the Ordovician succession, is seen in the light of reinterpretation and new evidence as being possibly as young as Devonian in age. Recognition of these lightly deformed rocks may be used to infer an end-Devonian age for the final pulse of Caledonian tectonism in northwestern Ireland.
30002269|Major and trace element values have been determined for approximately 70 samples of Tertiary basaltic rocks from northeast Ireland. A petrogenic scheme is proposed involving olivine fractionation as the principal control on the basis of these results. The basalts are essentially tholeiitic but are transitional in relation to the Hawaiian alkali and tholeiite series. The volcanic activity occurred in two phases with gradual differentiation towards intermediate and acid rocks, followed by a return to more primitive conditions. This differentiation appears to be along a single tholeiitic trend from the basalts.
30002140|A new record of the Carboniferous rugose coral genus Orionastraea, only the third from Ireland, is described from County Kilkenny. Other known occurrences of this coral, from Counties Clare and Tyrone, are re-examined in the light of new material. The specimens belong to two species, O. placenta (M'Coy) and 0. rete Hudson, both new to Ireland, and indicate a Brigantian age (
30002167|The relationship between channel bank erosion, monitored over a 14 month period, and a number of hydrometeorological parameters is examined. The influence of frost action, particularly through the formation of needle ice, was found to be the most significant factor determining erosion at one site and on the upper portion of the bank at the other two. On melting of the ice a readily erodible skin of material remains covering the bank face. Towards the middle and lower sections of the bank hydrological variables, particularly gauge height, become more important in controlling the removal of material. Measured erosion rates varied between and within sites, ranging from 7.6-13.86 cm per year, confined mainly to the winter season, especially December and January. During the summer the action of subaerial surface processes on the bank resulted in the formation of a thin covering of loose material, which was removed in early winter. Comparison with other available data showed erosion rates recorded in this study to be higher than previously reported for Northern Ireland, but well within the range for similar bank material measured elsewhere. In total 5.9 tonnes of material were eroded from the channel banks accounting for four per cent of the annual suspended sediment load of the river at the study site.
30002222|The Ordovician rocks between Slane (County Meath) and Collon (County Louth) are described. The succession is divided into three groups of which the oldest, the Slane Group (consisting of the Brittstown, Hill of Slane, White Island Bridge, Bryanstown, and St Mary's Formations) contains Llanvirn graptolites and is overlain unconformably by the Grangegeeth Group (Collon, Knockerk, and Fieldstown Formations). The Grangegeeth Group contains lower Caradoc shelly faunas and graptolites of the Climacograptus peltifer Zone and is followed conformably by the Mellifont Abbey Group (Broomfield and Oriel Brook Formations) containing, in the lower part, graptolites belonging to the Dicranograptus clingani and Pleurograptus linearis Zones. A rather sparse shelly fauna near the top of the Mellifont Abbey Group suggests an Ashgill age.
30002267|Sedimentological and petrographical evidence suggests that southeast Ireland lay to the west of a major sediment source area during Lower Palaeozoic times. A general eastwards migrating (regrading) deep-sea fan sequence is postulated with the area becoming the site of episodic island arc volcanism during Caradocian times. The lower part of the succession contains modified grain-flow, proximal turbidite and possible fluxoturbidite deposits, suggestive of an inner to middle fan sequence. The central and upper parts of the sedimentary succession are dominated by distal turbidites and general outer fan and basin plain facies associations. Contourite deposits occur at two stratigraphical levels in the sequence. The patterns of sedimentation were governed to a large extent by spasmodic faulting associated with the fractured northwestern margin of a major continental plate.
30002153|The term Calp was introduced by Kirwan in 1794 for dark, argillaceous, finegrained Carboniferous limestones of the Dublin district. A literature survey reveals that the locus typicus for the Calp is the Lucan and Palmerstown area of south County Dublin. Field examination and petrographic analysis of the Calp limestones demonstrates that they are of basinal facies and Arundian age.
30002359|The nature and composition of soils developed on drift deposits of differing age in a 150 ha farm at Piltown, County Kilkenny are reported. The major soil parent materials are (i) Munsterian-age drift, (ii) colluvium, (iii) Midlandian-age sands and semi-sorted gravel, and (iv) recent alluvium. The areal distribution of these deposits is mapped and the soils developed on them are discussed in terms of texture, reaction, iron contents, taxonomic placing, etc. The soils developed on Munsterian-age drift are generally more acid and podzolised than those on the younger Midlandian-age drift, with the exception of eroded and/or rejuvenated areas. Soils developed in alluvium/ colluvium are variable and exhibit wetness features generally. The lithology of the stones and pebbles indicates that much of the Munsterian-age drift originated in the volcanic rocks of eastern and southern County Waterford.
30002196|A newly discovered, richly fossiliferous rottenstone lens within grey mudstones of the Oriel Brook Formation contains trilobites, bivalves, ostracods, nautiloids, hyoliths, bryozoans, and the following genera of articulate brachiopod: Glyptorthis, Skenidioides, Dicoelosia, Leptestiina, Chonetoidea, and Christiania, hitherto unreported from this formation. This brachiopod assemblage compares closely with that found in the Jerrestad Mudstone of southern Sweden, which is early Ashgill in age. A correlation with the Cautleyan Stage of the Ashgill Series is suggested for the Oriel Brook Formation, based on the presence of Christiania portlocki Mitchell and Dicoelosia of the lata species group. Volcaniclastic rocks are recognised and described for the first time from within the formation and the allochthonous faunas contained in both the rottenstone lens and the enclosing ashy mudstones suggest deposition in an active submarine slope environment adjacent to a centre or centres of volcanic activity.
30002138|A suite of Caradocian volcanic rocks in southeast Ireland overlies, and is interbedded with, a sequence of distal turbidites. The early members of the suite are dominantly shallow sumbarine basaltic pyroclastics and occur as isolated conebuilding centres. The later and more voluminous volcanics, consisting of lava flows and various types of shallow submarine and subaerial pryoclastics, are largely rhyolitic and form a well-defined line of relatively closely spaced volcanic centres. Field relationships and geochemistry are consistent with suggested theories of the development of the volcanic suite on the edge of a fracturing continental plate associated with a Lower Palaeozoic arc-trench subduction system. The early volcanics are tholeiitic and may represent magma derived from the partial melting of lithosphere and/or upper mantle material. The rhyolites are calc-alkaline and may reflect magma derivation by the remelting of downfaulted continental crust. The rocks have undergone chlorite-grade greenschist facies metamorphism, and combined petrographical and geochemical features suggest extensive metasomatism of Na, K, Ca, Rb and Sr. However, most of the other major and trace elements appear to have remained immobile.
30002360|Drop-stone and allied structures from stratified glacigenic sediment at Ely House, County Wexford are examined. The sediments are interpreted as waterlain tills derived from basal melt of a floating ice-shelf that abutted into a large glacio-lacustrine basin covering much of the lower Slaney valley during Midlandian times.
30002108|The earliest Irish earth-science papers were produced around 1690 and published in the Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society of London. Not until after 1787 did the (Royal) Dublin Society and the Royal Irish Academy give Ireland its earliest scientific periodicals, and since then earth-sciences research has appeared in 23 Irish serial publications. Those publications have contained 1776 papers in the earth sciences, but the rate of publication has not been constant. A sharp increase in research output after 1830 was followed by a decline after 1890 and by a marked revival since the 1950s. Formerly the journals published many papers dealing with non-Irish topics, but in recent decades they have developed an almost exclusive concern with Irish geology. Since 1787 the most popular counties with geological authors have been Antrim and Dublin, and the least discussed are Monaghan and Westmeath. The most common type of paper is the stratigraphical; 26 per cent of the papers have dealt with pre-Devonian rocks. The journals have contained fewer classic papers than have English and Scottish journals, but many Irish-published papers by authors such as Kirwan, Richardson, Mallet, King, Rowney, and Joly have made their impact upon the geological world at large.
30002141|Three developmental sequences of soils were studied in a 145ha Forest Park in County Wicklow. The topo- (or clino-) sequence includes Brown Podzolic, Brown Earth, Gleyic Brown Earth, Low-humic and Humic Gley soils developed in slaty parent materials. Changes in translocation of mobile constituents within and between profiles were noted as was the influence of groundwater levels. Igneous rock materials include various volcanic tuffs, diorite and dolerite and these give rise to sets of soils whose properties appear to be dependent on the parent materials mainly. The tuff soils are typically Acid Brown Earths, Brown Podzolics and Lithosols, while those of the basic intrusive rocks are mostly Brown Earths. The doleritic soils have very high levels of iron. The exchangeable cation populations of the sequences are directly related to their respective parent materials. A chronosequence of soils was studied on differing-age gravel deposits in the Avonmore River Valley. Regosols occur on the most recent gravels, Brown Earths on middle-age terraces and Brown Podzolic soils on the oldest and highest terrace.
30002112|Petrographic studies of the grey Doogort Limestone (Dalradian) on Achill Island, County Mayo, indicate that it is composed of alternating laminae of carbonate minerals and organic matter. It is interpreted as being stromatolitic and peritidal in origin, and comparison is made with a number of other limestones of comparable age from different environments.
30002218|Pollen and spore assemblages from three Irish Tertiary deposits are reviewed. By comparing these assemblages with the palynological data from more than fifty sections within the Tertiary throughout northwest Europe a number of groups of rare taxa are seen to have restricted stratigraphical occurrence. This enables a rough age to be determined for each of the three Irish deposits. But the majority of the pollen and spore taxa seem to extend more or less throughout the Tertiary, and the evolutionary and ecological significance of this is discussed. It suggests that there was very little plant evolution throughout the Tertiary in northwest Europe and that most of the differences between pollen and spore assemblages must be explained by invoking ecological factors.
