30061392|Synthetic feldspar with composition
30059148|Nine pairs of Lambert equal-area maps of the world are presented. Six pairs show the probable distributions of major continents and oceans at the present day and during the "Tertiary" (Eocene), "Cretaceous," "Jurassic," "Triassic," and "Permian" periods. The remaining three pairs of maps show the probable latitudinal distributions of major continental and oceanic regions during the "Lower Carboniferous (Mississippian)," "Lower Devonian," and "Cambrian/Lower Ordovician" periods. All maps are centered on the equator or inferred paleoequator. Each pair shows two views of the world from diametrically opposite equatorial points. The maps are essentially the same reassemblies as those drawn as Mercator and polar stereographic projections.
30060944|The Navajo Sandstone of the American Southwest was deposited at approximately 190 Ma in a giant, subtropical dune field near the western margin of Pangea. From this unit, we report thick intervals of dune crossstrata that were churned by insects and trampled by reptiles. Although dunes continued to migrate freely, the distribution of trace fossils shows that plant life in wet interdune areas sustained high levels of animal activity on the dunes for many thousands of years. We interpret this suite of structures as the record of a pluvial episode climatologically similar to the period of greening in the Sahara 400010,000 yr ago. A high percentage of the rainfall on the Navajo erg recharged the water table and led to the development of highly dilute, local groundwater flow systems that discharged into interdune areas.
30069402|The lead-zinc ores of the Viburnum Trend were deposited as replacements and open space fillings within the Cambrian Bonneterre Formation. The shapes of rare earth element (REE) patterns of unmineralized limestones and dolostones of the Bonneterre Formation (host rocks) are similar to each other and to shale REE patterns, regardless of facies or of insoluble residue content. In mineralized zones, recrystallized and mineralized dolostones (mean La/Sm = 2.6), vug dolomites (mean La/Sm = 1.6), and vug calcites (mean La/Sm = 0.9) have La/Sm ratios that are significantly lower than those of host rocks (mean La/Sm = 5.7). Vug calcites have lower Sm/Lu (mean = 6.7) and vug dolomites have higher Sm/Lu (mean = 22.5) than host rocks (mean Sm/Lu = 11.5). Preliminary partitioning experiments and estimates of the effects of complexing suggest that the observed REE patterns of carbonate minerals could not have developed from a solution with a REE distribution like that of host rocks or by dissolution and reprecipitation of REE from immediate host rocks. The Sm/Lu ratios of vug dolomites and vug calcites may be explained by precipitation zoning, but the low La/Sm values are best explained if the Viburnum Trend ore solutions had very low La/Sm ratios. Mixing of host-rock and ore solution REE took place during ore deposition; host rock REE became much less important during deposition of vug carbonates. When more is known about the distribution of REE in rocks along possible solution paths and about the partitioning behavior of REE between solutions and these rocks, REE studies may provide additional information regarding paths of solution flow and possible source rocks for the lead-zinc deposits in the Viburnum Trend and in other Mississippi Valley Type ore districts.
JG116402|The India-Asia collision resulted in the formation and uplift of the Himalaya and the enhanced uplift of the Tibetan plateau. The transition from marine to continental facies within the IndusYarlung Tsangpo suture zone and along the northern margin of the Indian plate provides the most accurate method of dating the closure of the Tethys Ocean separating the Indian and Asian plates. Other indirect methods of dating the collision, such as paleomagnetism, dating the UHP metamorphism along the north margin of India, dating the youngest subduction-related granites along the southern margin of Asia, and dating the postorogenic Indus Molasse Group deposits within the suture zone, cannot provide such a precise or reliable age of collision. Ophiolite obduction onto the Indian passive margin occurred during the latest Cretaceous and predated initial collision of the two continental plates. Unconformities occur beneath the Late Maastrichtian Marpo Formation and beneath the Danian Stumpata Formation on the shelf and beneath the Upper Paleocene Sumda Formation in the suture zone. Stratigraphic and structural data from the Indian plate continental margin in the Ladakh and Zanskar Himalaya, northwest India, suggest that the final marine sediments were shallow marine limestones deposited during planktonic zone P8, corresponding to the Cusian stage of the late Lower Eocene (Ypresian) at 50.5Ma. A regional unconformity across shelf and suture zones above these rocks marks the beginning of continental red bed deposition (Chulung-la and Nurla formations). The age of the final marine sediments is similar in Waziristan (northwest Pakistan) to the west and the South Tibet region to the east, suggesting that there was no significant diachroneity along the IndusYarlung Tsangpo suture zone. South of the Himalaya in the Hazara syntaxis, Pakistan, the youngest marine sediments correspond to nummulite-bearing limestones of the shallow benthic zone SBZ10 and planktonic foraminifera P7 zone (5251Ma). The timing of closure of Neo-Tethys between India and Asia corresponds closely to the ending of subduction-related granodiorite-granite magmatism along the Ladakh-Gangdese batholith (southern, Andean-type margin of the Asian plate) and precedes the drastic slowing of the northward drift of India. Continental fluvial-deltaic red beds unconformably overlie all marine sediments, both in the suture zone and along the north Indian plate margin.
30066156|Grain boundary and surface diffusion are considered as possible means for extending the range of solid diffusion in metasomatic processes. A mathematical model of a granular solid is proposed, and an asymptotic (large-time) solution for diffusion in this system is obtained, giving the distribution of solute as a function of distance and time. It is assumed that both lattice and grain boundary diffusion are operative, and that unit concentration is maintained at the free surface of the solid for all time. The solution strongly suggests that surface and grain boundary diffusion cannot greatly extend the range of solid diffusion over that obtained by strictly lattice mobility.
30084831|Seismic reflection profiles reveal a network of deeply buried channels that extends from coastline buried bedrock valleys to some 50 km off Rhode Island. Thalwegs below sea level reach 100-286 m in Coastal Plain deposits. The limited extent, depth, and longitudinal profiles of these channels together with the seaward lobate boundary of the channel pattern suggest severe ice scour modifications of late Tertiary-early Pleistocene preglacial river valleys. Maximum ice advance is correlated with a pre-Woodfordian ice margin of the Wisconsin stage.
30068180|A new skull of Youngina capensis, in which the palate, brain case, and quadrate region are preserved in excellent condition, is figured and described in detail. Several previously unknown features of the skull strengthen the conclusion that this form is on or near the line of ancestry of the Squamata and Rhynchocephalia.
30055976|The terms "throw" and "heave" have three independent meanings in fault terminology. The usage of these two terms as suggested by the Committee on Fault Nomenclature of the Geological Society of America has not been universally accepted, nor is it likely to become standard. The writer proposes that the terms throw and heave be abandoned, and that descriptive language be used in fault discussions.
30062468|Some experiments are described in which a medium sand was deposited on a sloping bed in still water in the laboratory. Estimates of the grain-fabric orientation of the deposits were obtained from measurements of the anisotropy of their magnetic susceptibility. It was found that an anisotropy of susceptibility could be produced, which was very similar to that produced by deposition from running water. The possibility is discussed that grain-fabric orientation in rocks may sometimes be produced in a similar manner and that confusion may arise if the presence of depositional slopes is not recognized.
30056305|Cephalaspis schrenckii Pander is a Silurian ostracoderm generically distinct from both Cephalaspis and the forms to which the term Tremataspis is usually applied. Under strict application of taxonomic law this species is the genotype of Tremataspis. This would result in confusion; it is advocated that the rules be suspended and C. schrenckii be made the type of a new genus, Witaaspis.
30058026|It is postulated that the Ordovician bentonite beds of Eastern North America were derived from numerous local, rather than one centrally located volcano. Six criteria, which should be considered in any attempt to correlate bentonite beds, are given. In central Pennsylvania a correlation has been established between the bentonite beds over an area which is 70 miles along the strike and 23 miles across the structure. A datum plane has been established throughout the area which cannot vary in age by more than a day or two.
30080204|Ground magnetic surveys of the Quaternary (0.770.98 Ma) Little Cones and surrounding areas of southern Crater Flat, Nevada, reveal detailed images of buried basaltic lava flows not evident from surface exposures. Magnetic maps derived from these surveys show an apron of buried lava extending radially up to 300 m from the center of the two cones. Modeling of the anomalies indicates burial of the lava apron by up to 15 m of alluvium on top of approximately 10 m thick lava flows. From these results, we estimate a volume >0.01 km
30079890|Neodymium isotopic data are reported for pure chemical sediments from the Siderian Kuruman and Penge Iron-Formations (IFs) in the Transvaal Supergroup, South Africa. From a large sample set for which petrographical and chemical data was available, we selected samples which best represent the pure chemical sediment and still carry the primary rare-earth element (REE) distribution for isotope analyses. Both the Kuruman IF ( + 1.9 and +1.1) and the Penge IF (+ 0.2 and -0.2) show
30065529|The Argentine Precordillera generally is interpreted as a fragment of continental crust and sedimentary cover that was rifted from the Ouachita embayment of southern Laurentia in Cambrian time. Synrift sedimentary successions in the northern part of the Precordillera and in the Birmingham graben of southern Laurentia include thick evaporite deposits. Analyses of strontium isotopes indicate that the evaporites are of late Early Cambrian age, consistent with biostratigraphic correlations. Variations in strontium ratios indicate that these Early Cambrian salinas had a persistent base of marine water and that contributions from meteoric runoff varied through time and with location. The stratigraphic and isotopic data suggest a depositional setting of restricted circulation within a system of extensional fault blocks. The salinas occupied graben blocks that were connected to marine circulation and that intermittently received meteoric runoff carrying fine detritus and radiogenic strontium from horst blocks of continental crust. The evaporites in the Precordillera show less meteoric influence than the evaporites in the Birmingham graben, which was far inboard from the continental margin of southern Laurentia. These relationships are consistent with continental rifting in Early Cambrian time, extension of continental crust, and deposition of synrift sediment in graben blocks that were partially open to marine circulation.
30060229|Ancient big river systems can be identified by a combination of facies mapping, paleocurrent study, analysis of unconformities, and the careful reconstruction of the tectonic history of a region. Ancient or modern, the location of big river systems on cratons largely follows structural lows such as deep-seated rifts, aulacogens, and geofracture systems; on a continent-wide scale many big rivers debouch on trailing continental margins and into marginal seas, where they tend to be localized by deep geofracture systems intersecting the coastline. Big river systems have their greatest longevity on cratons where some have persisted as long as one sixteenth of earth history. A major factor in any river system is the marine history of its drainage basin, a history that in turn is dependent upon the region's tectonic history.
30058910|A belt of old schists is separated from the granite that intrudes it by a transition zone, which consists of foliated rocks formed by the metasomatism of the schist. Some porphyritic rocks have been developed. There is no evidence that the rocks of the transition zone were fused or that they were in the state of a "crystal mush."
30059965|Planed surfaces on areas of folded and faulted Paleozoic limestones constitute an important part of the present topography of the southern edge of the Fergana basin in Russian Turkestan. D. I. Mushketov, on the basis of evidence here reviewed, gives the interpretation that the surfaces are parts of a peneplane which was formed before Upper Cretaceous times and has since been faulted and partially stripped of its covering of later sediments. Observations of other geologists which tend to confirm or reject the conclusions of Mushketov are summarized. A discussion of the agents which produced the peneplane leads to the conclusion that it was formed by normal stream erosion.
30069381|Les essais entrepris jusqu'ici d'une dfinition des conceptions d'interglaciaire et interstadial le plus souvent souffrent du dfaut qu'ils se servent d'argumentations d'un seul domaine de l'exploration des priodes glaciaires. A l'auteur il semble qu'une explication visant  toutes les sous-disciplines soit possible en reconstruisant l'histoire du climat, qui finalement constitue la base des phnomnes. L'histoire du climat d'autre part le mieux reprsente par une courbe de glaciation (diagramme de la limite de glace en fonction du temps). Sur la base d'un tel diagramme on dfine les thermomres (des priodes relativement chaudes) et les cryomres (des priodes relativement froides) du Quaternaire en graduation suivante (premirement l'unit la plus grande): Thermomres Interglaciaire Interstadial Intervalle Etappe Cryomres Glaciaire Stade Phase chelon /// Die bisherigen Definitionsversuche der Begriffe Interglazial und Interstadial kranken meist an dem Mangel, dass sie Argumentationen nur eines Fachgebietes der Eiszeitforschung verwenden. Eine auf alle Unterdisziplinen abgestellte Erklrung erscheint dem Autor am ehesten mglich, wenn man die Klimage-schichte, die letzten Endes den Erscheinungen zugrundeliegt, mittels der Ereignisse im glaziren Faziesraum rekonstruiert. Die Klimageschichte hinwiederum wird am besten durch eine Vereisungskurve (Eisrandlage/ Zeitdiagramm) abgebildet. Auf der Basis eines solchen Diagrammes werden die Thermomere (rel. warme Zeitabschnitte) und Kryomere (rel. kalte Perioden) des Quartrs definiert in folgender Abstufung (grsste Einheit zuerst): Thermomere Interglazial Interstadial Intervall Subinterval Kryomere Glazial Stadium Phase Staffel /// Attempts made so far to define the terms "interglacial" and "interstadial" periods suffer from the use of arguments from only one branch of Quaternary research. An explanation adapted to all subdisciplines appears possible only if the climatology, which is the primary basis of all the phenomena, is reconstructed by help of events in the glacial facies range. The climatology is best represented by a glaciation curve (glacial margin/time diagram). On the basis of such a diagram, the "thermomers" (relatively warm periods) and the "Kryomers" (relatively cold periods) are defined in the following terms (largest unit at top): "Thermomers" Interglacial Interstadial Interval Subinterval "Kryomers" Glacial Stage Phase Staffel
10.1086/670653|We report an Early Paleozoic hornblende quartz monzonitic pluton from the Tiereke region in the central South Tianshan Collisional Belt (STCB). Laser ablation ICP-MS U-Pb zircon dating reveals that the pluton was emplaced during the Late Silurian at 
30079643|A drilling unit of the California Company penetrated pre-Cambrian gneiss in the San Rafael swell, Utah. A detailed microscopic description of the rock and its minerals is presented. The mineralogical composition and many of the textural features indicate that the gneiss had an igneous origin and should be named a "granodiorite gneiss." The foliation was probably caused by flow of the partly crystallized magma. The early separation of the plagioclase in the form of large tabular grains is an important factor contributing to the foliation and inequigranularity of the rock and accounts for the high degree of orientation of the plagioclase grains parallel to the plane of foliation. The survival of many typically igneous features is strong evidence that the gneiss was not foliated or recrystallized after its complete solidification.
30059990|Samples of diatomaceous sedimentary rock from the Oregon continental shelf appear to have come from a definable stratigraphic unit. This unit may be, in part, a correlative of the Pullen Formation of northern California. Diatoms and silicoflagellates from the offshore rock unit suggest a Delmontian (late Miocene) age. This occurrence of diatomaceous upper Miocene rock on the Oregon shelf adds to the growing list of such occurrences in the upper Miocene around the Pacific.
30080231|Mautia Hill, situated in the Mozambique Belt of East Africa, is a locality famous for its unique highpressure whiteschist mineral assemblages. The rocks are located in a complex regional tectonic setting that is critical to understanding the amalgamation history of Gondwana.The timing of the PanAfrican Gondwana collision in this region is still a topic of considerable debate, especially because the age of the Mautia highpressure metamorphism/metasomatism has yet to be established. We have extracted detrital zircons with extensive lowU overgrowths and dated them using the UPb SHRIMP method. Detrital zircon cores indicate that the sediments came from a region identical to the adjacent Tanzania Craton and adjacent Western Mozambique Belt. One detrital grain has a
30061938|Sm-Nd isotopic compositions are reported for 20 fine- and 5 coarse-grained samples of the Belt-Purcell Supergroup of western North America.
30057157|From the concept of permanence the fundamental question arises as to how the distribution of continental and oceanic sectors came into being. Three groups of theories are discussed: (1) theories starting with a primary surface layer of basaltic composition; (2) theories starting with the resonance theory of the moon's origin and considering the result of such a hypothetical happening on a sialic surface layer of continental thickness; and (3) theories considering the influence of convection currents on a surface layer of sialic composition.
30059248|The peridotite in the Lizard area of Cornwall was intruded during a period of regional metamorphism of intensity producing blue-green hornblende amphibolites in rocks of basaltic composition. It is demonstrated that the peridotite has a high-temperature aureole in which assemblages characterized successively by brown-green hornblende, brown hornblende with hypersthene and augite, and typical hypersthene + augite pyroxene granulites are developed in rocks compositionally equivalent to the regional metamorphic assemblage. Chemical analyses of whole rocks, four hypersthenes, six clinopyroxenes, and five amphiboles are used to compare the metamorphic assemblages with those developed in other metamorphic gradients. In some areas of complex contact of peridotite and granulite or in granulite included within the peridotite, the granulite has become the more mobile rock and locally intrudes and includes blocks of the peridotite margin.
30066134|Extensive chert gravels underlying the Smithland and higher erosion surfaces of the uppermost portion of the Mississippi embayment are considered remnants of three coalescing alluvial fans related to the ancestral Mississippi, Cumberland-Ohio, and Tennessee rivers. The shape and topographic form of the largest of these remnants, the Smithland surface of western Kentucky, best illustrates an alluvial-fan origin. The ancestral Tennessee and Mississippi alluvial fans have contrasts in direction of sediment transport, heavy-mineral suites, metamorphic quartz, and sand roundness. Chert pebble roundness is similar, however, and experimental abrasion data indicate that the maximum roundness of 19-23-mm. chert pebbles can be obtained in approximately 70 miles. Available evidence suggests that a large but indeterminate portion of the primary and secondary modes was derived less than 100 miles from the Mississippi embayment's periphery.
30082338|Cataclysmic Ice Age floods in the Pacific Northwest began as early as 1.52.5 Ma, on the basis of an evaluation of surface exposures and recent borehole studies within southeastern Washington. Field evidence suggests at least two episodes of preWisconsin (i.e., >130 ka) glacialoutburst flooding. A Middle Pleistocene flood is identified by normal magnetic polarity, calcretecapped deposits that yield maximum Th/U age dates from 200 to >400 ka. The deposits with reversed polarity are correlated to Early Pleistocene (>780 ka) floods. While exposures of preWisconsin deposits are limited because of erosion and/or burial, the record of earlier Pleistocene flooding is preserved within giant flood bars. These bars show incremental growth, representing a composite from cataclysmic floods deposited intermittently through the Pleistocene. In one giant flood bar, up to 100 m thick, deposits interpreted as Matuyama age indicate that the bar had grown to half its present height by 780 ka. Furthermore, Matuyamaage, reversedpolarity flood deposits may be underlain by up to another 15 m of normally magnetized deposits at the base of the flood sequence. This normalpolarity interval appears to be associated with Early Pleistocene cataclysmic floods, perhaps of Olduvai age (>1.77 Ma). Many of the features associated with cataclysmic floods, such as coulees, giant bars, and streamlined loess hills, may have been established during the Early Pleistocene and were only slightly modified by up to hundreds of subsequent flood episodes.
30081304|A granite-porphyry which comprises most of the Southern Complex of the upper peninsula of Michigan and which has been variously considered Laurentian or post-Huronian is indicated by interpretation of field evidence to be post-Lower Huronian and pre-Middle Huronian in age. It is named the Ford River granite. The possibility is suggested that this granite may be a correlative of the Algoman granites of the north shore of Lake Superior.
30067418|The channeled scablands of the Columbia Plateau in Washington are extensive elongate denuded tracts of basalt, deeply scored by huge high-gradient glacier-born rivers. As physiographic features they are unique. All the rivers which produced them converged to Snake and Columbia valleys, and the record of the tremendous flood thus engendered has been found all the way from the pjateau scablands to Portland. Columbia River Valley below the confluence of Snake River carried a flood which at Wallula Gateway was 2 miles wide and reached 750 feet above present river level, at Arlington was 7 miles wide and 450 feet above present river level, at Lyle was 3 miles wide and 430 feet above present river level, and at Portland was nearly 20 miles wide and 350 feet above present river level. The field evidence for the flood consists of (1) noteworthy, even spectacular, denudation and erosion of slopes below the upper surface of the flood, (2) spreading of the river in favorable places back among preglacial hills, (3) deposition of great gravel bars, some of them nearly as thick as the flood was deep, (4) damming of Snake River above the entrance of the glacial rivers by a delta built upstream against the course of the Snake, and (5) deposition of the Portland Delta, 350 feet thick, 200 square miles in area, and with bars 100 feet high on its surface.
30079903|Greenstones may be useful in tracking the role of oceanic plateaus in the growth of continents. Lithologic proportions, Th/Ta ratios, and Ni concentrations in greenstone basalts of all ages show that arcrelated greenstones greatly exceed oceanic plateau and MORBrelated greenstones in abundance. This distribution may be accounted for by the preferential obduction of arcs formed on top of oceanic plateaus during collision of plateaus with continents. Because thick oceanic plateaus resist subduction, a significant volume may be accreted to continental margins during collisions; and over time, these plateaus may evolve into lower continental crust. This idea has important implications for continental development in that the lower continental crust may come chiefly from accreted oceanic plateaus, while upper continental crust forms by subductionrelated processes. Consistent with this model are high seismic wave velocity layers in the lower crust of Proterozoic cratons similar to highvelocity layers in the lower crust of oceanic plateaus. Mafic xenoliths from the lower continental crust also have high measured seismic wave velocities. Relatively low Th/Ta ratios and high Ni contents of many lower crustal mafic xenoliths are also consistent with the model. The model can account for the common lack of a positive Eu anomaly in lower crustal rocks. Wrangellia, an oceanic plateau accreted to the American Cordillera in the Cretaceous, may provide us with a young and stillevolving example of continental crust forming from two sources: the lower crust from an accreted oceanic plateau and the upper crust from subductionrelated processes. Growth of the lower continental crust during the Archean may have occurred rapidly as buoyant oceanic crust and oceanic plateaus were accreted to existing continents, especially during the Late Archean when a supercontinent may have formed. The first continents in the Archean may have formed by collision of ocean ridge/plateau crustal blocks with each other followed by subduction zones developing around their margins leading to the production of felsic upper crust.
30058839|Attention is directed to a recent discussion of "available relief," "critical relief.' and "drainage relief." Suggestions are made for redefining two of the terms, and the factors involved in the development of relief are examined. It is shown that the spacing of drainage lines (texture of topography) is a factor of prime importance in determining quantity of relief, and that available relief may vary greatly with differences in stream spacing. Finally, it is suggested that stages of landmass dissection should be expressed in terms of the amount of mass removed, not in terms of amount of upland surface destroyed; and it is concluded that available relief offers a useful basis for judging the progress of landmass removal.
10.1086/673259|This article investigates how, where, and to what extent the mineralogical and chemical composition of sand-sized sediments is modified by extreme weathering in modern equatorial settings, with the ultimate goal of learning to read climate from the sedimentary record. To single out the weathering effect, we studied the compositional trends of fluvial sands along the western branch of the East African Rift between 5S and 5N. The relative durability of different detrital components, as well as potential hydraulic-sorting and grain-size effects, were assessed by comparing samples with similar provenances in different climatic and environmental conditions or of different size classes within the same sample. Sands of equatorial central Africa at the headwaters of the Congo and Nile basins display the full spectrum of petrologic suites characterizing rift-shoulder and volcanic rift provenances. Unlike in arid Arabia, quartzose sands are not restricted to areas where detritus is recycled from prerift sedimentary covers. In a hot humid climate, weathering can effectively obliterate the fingerprint of parent rock lithology and produce a nearly pure quartz residue even where midcrustal basement rocks are being actively uplifted and widely unroofed. In such settings garnet is destroyed faster than hornblende, and zircon faster than quartz. Weathering control on detrital modes is minor only in the rain shadow of the highest mountains or volcanoes, where amphibole-dominated quartzofelicdspathic metamorphiclastic sands (Rwenzori Province) or clinopyroxene-dominated feldspatholithic volcaniclastic sands (Virunga Province) are generated. Our detailed study of the Kagera basin emphasizes the importance of weathering in soils at the source rather than of progressive maturation in temporary storage sites during stepwise transport and shows that the transformation of diverse parent rocks into a quartzose white sand may be completed in one sedimentary cycle in hydromorphic soils of subequatorial lowlands. Micas and heavy minerals, which are less effectively diluted by recycling than main framework components, offer the best key to identify the original source-rock imprint. The different behavior of chemical indexes such as the CIA (a truer indicator of weathering) and the WIP (markedly affected by quartz dilution) helps us to distinguish strongly weathered first-cycle versus polycyclic quartz sands.
30079586|Four districts furnished samples for a study in rock-weathering. Mineralogical data and fourteen new chemical analyses are presented in tables and diagrams. The granite gneiss of Morton, Minnesota, shows a marked loss of soda and lime in early stages of weathering but a more gradual loss of potash and baria. The progress of the decomposition is interpreted from a series of six samples of residual clay. Kaolinite is an end product. New chemical analyses of material from the Medford, Massachusetts, diabase are presented as a check on the older data. Ferrous and ferric iron determinations on samples of diabase and of glacial till suggest that the till is less oxidized than the underlying diabase, indicating preglacial weathering of the diabase. A diabase on the north shore of Lake Superior, Minnesota, is weathered locally to a depth of 40 feet but shows little chemical change except oxidation. An amphibolite from the Black Hills, South Dakota, yielded beidellite or related clay minerals by decomposition of its hornblende. Calcite has been leached, and other minerals attacked. On the basis of the present and earlier studies, a mineral-stability series in weathering is proposed. The arrangement of the common rock-forming minerals in this series is found to coincide with the reaction series. Experimental work on the attack of silicate minerals by water is in accord with the suggested mineral-stability series.
30079597|The skull and skeleton of the anomodont reptile Aulacocephalodon peavoti are figured and described. A restoration based on the mounted skeleton in Walker Museum is presented.
30078301|Approximately 20000 years ago, the main part of a large turbidity current was channeled between the Caicos Outer Ridge and the Bahama Escarpment until it spread fanwise across the central Silver Abyssal Plain floor. Unusual grain size and compositional changes in the turbidite appear to have been produced by surges superimposed on the main flow. Sharp decreases in the thickness and grain size of the turbidite on the slopes of the Caicos Outer Ridge indicate that the depth of the current was approximately 35 m as deposition began at the first abyssal plain core site. Estimates based on the fall velocity of the fastest settling particles deposited from suspension suggest that the flow velocity was approximately 3 m/sec as the current began to move across the abyssal plain floor. The transition from deposition of turbidite sediments with graded bedding to deposition of parallel-laminated sediments appears to have occurred at similar or slightly lower flow velocities than those predicted for the transition from antidunes to upper flat bed conditions in rivers and estuaries.
30068782|A wave-flume experiment was conducted to investigate the influence of wave height and rock strength upon the elevation of shore platforms having a marked scarp at the seaward margin. Breaking waves were allowed to act on a steep model cliff to produce a platform. Results indicated that platform elevation increases with increasing rock strength if other factors are constant. It was suggested that a considerable difference in platform elevation in the field can arise depending on wave height and rock strength. The water depth in front of platforms proved to be important for the study of platform elevation.
30055636|Field studies on the depth of folding, laboratory experiments in faulting with analysis of stress-strain relations, and the two-sided character of various mountain systems, have led to the conclusion that the wedge-shaped block is the typical form of compressed mountain ranges. The typical wedge apexes downward in the middle of the deformed zone. Other considerations have resulted in the extension of the wedge shape and wedge dynamics to plateaus and to the elevation and deformation of continents. This paper outlines the development of the theory, after which the folding of mountain chains, the elevation of plateaus and the deformation of continents are discussed briefly in terms of the wedge principle. Consideration is also given to the means of adjustment along the wedge borders, to the reasons for the asymmetry of mountain wedges, the importance of relative position on the continents and in the wedges in determining the direction of overfolding, and to certain aspects of the related vulcanism.
30059238|Two high-carbonate sediment cores from the mid-Atlantic and one from the Caribbean were analyzed for major constituents by wet-chemical methods. All major constituents appeared to have been deposited at a greater rate during glacial times than during the post-glacial period. The elements involved in clay sedimentation showed a sharp increase in deposition rate at the end of the last glaciation. In the Atlantic cores, manganese showed evidence of post-depositional rearrangement. In the Caribbean core, both manganese and magnesium are inversely correlated with paleotemperature and presumably were deposited to a large extent by the same mechanism.
30060580|The Gaston rebound tester is used to determine the relative elasticities of various minerals. Under this test fluorite, pyrite, quartz, and garnet are shown to be more elastic than steel. The remarkable rebound of 97 per cent was obtained on garnet, the elasticity of the ball itself being only 92 per cent on this scale.
30062438|Three mechanisms are responsible for tidal inlet migration in an updrift direction (counter to net longshore transport): (1) attachment of distal ebb tide delta bars to the downdrift barrier spit; (2) storm-induced breaching and subsequent stabilization to form a new inlet; and (3) ebb tide discharge around a channel bend creating a three-dimensional flow pattern which erodes the outer channel bank and accretes on the inner channel bank. The last two mechanisms can result in either updrift or downdrift inlet migration, depending on channel geometry in the bay and barrier beach configuration. The last mechanism is discussed here for the first time. Analysis of historical charts and aerial photographs, combined with an historical storm synthesis, shows that all three mechanisms are active at a natural tidal inlet along a sandy coast (Nauset Inlet, Cape Cod, MA). On a time scale of 10 years, these mechanisms were effective in producing an updrift migration of more than 2 km. Initiation of updrift migration coincided with a marked increase in storm frequency perturbing the historically stable inlet position. Subsequent updrift migration resulted from ebb-delta bypassing and channel bend flows.
30065045|Spinel lherzolite xenoliths from Lorena Butte, an alkali basalt cinder cone on the flanks of the Simcoe shield volcano in south-central Washington, are the first mantle xenoliths found in the Pacific Northwest. Several of the xenoliths contain unusually alkaline silicate glass in veins, in fractures, and as a thin film between grain faces. The samples equilibrated at temperatures of 930 to 980C, and at least one, and possibly two, higher-temperature thermal events are recorded in coexisting ortho- and clinopyroxenes in two samples. The samples reflect oxidizing conditions, from 2.3 to 3.9 log units above the QFM oxygen buffer, near the upper
30068568|Compounds of gallium and germanium isostructural with the feldspars have been prepared, and some of their crystal-chemical properties are here described. In the Na and K feldspars,
30060886|The late Precambrian Vendian Glaciation may have been triggered by a worldwide fall of temperature following the locking up of carbon dioxide in Upper Riphean Dolomites. In this "anti-greenhouse" mechanism, the Vendian case appears to differ from Gondwana and Pleistocene events which are restricted to the poles and not worldwide in extent. In the Vendian, but not in the Gondwana or Pleistocene glaciations, thick dolomite deposits almost always precede the tillites. And dolomite stones in those tillites indicate even more extensive Upper Riphean dolomite sedimentation than outcrops preserved today. Immediately after the glaciation, dolomite sedimentation generally became less important than before. Attention is given to the geochemical problems relating to atmospheric carbon dioxide balance. The synchroneity of glaciations is discussed, with regard to their central importance in Precambrian stratigraphy. The need to consider glaciations individually and not generalize from one to the other is stressed.
30062093|Avalanching occurs on slopes underlain by loose granular solids, for example, the slip faces of dunes and deltas and mountain screes, in response to a particle deposition-rate gradient which steepens these slopes to states of instability. The frequency, size, and behavior of the avalanches thus released are shown theoretically to depend on the particle deposition-rate gradient, the particle concentration at the time of deposition, the particle size and density, and the avalanching medium. Experiments made under simplified conditions using natural sands, glass beads, and natural grains provide satisfactory confirmation of major features of the theory, though some unexplored problems remain. The results are significant for the interpretation of certain kinds of sedimentary structure and landscape form and, insofar as data are available, prove consistent with the properties of avalanches observed from experimental sand dunes and mountain screes.
30061389|This paper describes experimental work and microscopic observations on the formation of accretion steps on slickenside surfaces. The majority of the accretion steps observed were incongruous in attitude, that is, these steps had their risers opposing the movement of the overriding block. A mechanism is proposed for the formation of accretion steps whereby the steps are bounded by two sets of tension cracks, one parallel to the maximum compressive stress and the other perpendicular to the shear plane. On parting of the shear plane, these steps are plucked out of the host rock and adhere to the opposite side of the shear plane. It is suggested that after a large amount of shearing the shape of the steps may be modified so that they have a congruous attitude.
30075161|Beach sediments of Isla Perez consist of about 60 per cent Halimeda algae, 25 per cent coral, and 15 per cent foraminifera and others. Six discrete sediment populations are present, distinct in skeletal origin, grain size, grain shape, and position on the island. Large blocks of massive coral occur on the southeast margin, facing the strongest waves. Sticks of staghorn coral make up extensive ramparts chiefly along the south coast, and also form a pavement with sticks oriented perpendicular to shore just below the water line. The most abundant sediment is 0 sand, chiefly discoidal Halimeda segments; superbly sorted 2 sand, chiefly coral grit, blankets the west coast where waves are gentlest. Gastropod fecal pellets form a thick layer at the back ends of two shallow, calm, restricted bays. Carbonate mud, resulting from abrasion of coral and Halimeda, is present in small amounts in the subtidal sediments. All the pure sediment populatons have very similar good sorting values,ranging from 0.3 to 0.6 over a thousandfold range of mean size; these values are equivalent to those achieved on terrigenous beaches, therefore surf action tends to produce similar sorting values on pure materials no matter whether the beach material is calcareous or siliceous. Mean size, sorting, and skewness form a helical trend when coplotted for these samples. Subtidal sediments, particularly those from marine grass flats, are much more poorly sorted, give more non-normal curves, and have a much larger content of material finer than 3. Staghorn coral breaks down selectively into two size fractions: sticks, the size of the joints in the parent colony, and 2 grit, the size of the crystal packets composing the skeleton. Halimeda breaks down into 0 flakes and into 10 dust, the size of the component microcrystals. Grains of all sizes are uniformly angular and dull except on one part of the coast, where measurable rounding and polish occur. This is probably caused by the low rate of supply of fresh coral at this site.
30062023|Metamorphosed mafic dikes in the Laurentian Blair River inlier of northern Cape Breton Island, Nova Scotia, are related to the opening of the Iapetus Ocean during the breakup of the supercontinent Rodinia. The dikes were metamorphosed during a Paleozoic (likely Silurian) thermal event related to Appalachian orogenesis but were not deformed significantly. Two dikes yielded UPb zircon ages of
30078291|A beach undulation (rhythmic topography) is an equilibrium beach form. The water wave energy flux depends upon the refraction of the hydrons (water wave packets), and the angle of the breaking waves is determined by the refraction of the wavelets within a hydron. The refraction of the hydrons and wavelets work together to provide a constant longshore drift of sediments.
30059010|A suite of lavas from Great Ararat is described. Analyses are reported for Si, Al, Fe, Mg, Ca, Na, K, Ti, Mn, S, P, Ba, Nb, Zr, Y, Sr, Rb, Zn, Cu, and Ni. Two distinct series can be recognized, each consisting of andesite, dacite, and rhyodacite (designated Low-Y and high-Y series), they are distinguished by significantly different K. Mn, P, Nb, Zr, Y, Rb, Cu, and normative feldspar contents-The high-Y series corresponds closely to a normal calc-alkali series, but the low-Y series is relatively deficient in K, Mn, P, Nb, Zr, Y, and Rb.
30079656|Hitherto it has appeared that faulting is rather rare in Malaya, despite other indications of strong earth movements. Now, due largely to a wide diversity of lithology within a small compass, considerable faulting has been demonstrated in the Baling area in the northwest of the country. This comprises two complementary fault sets disposed in a typical Anderson-type wrench-fault pattern. The displacements, however, although essentially strike slip in nature, are in the opposite sense to that implied by the disposition of the faults. It seems that two phases of compression have occurred, forces being aligned north and south in the earlier phase, in which the faults were initiated, and east and west in the later one when the present-day displacements were effected. The principal fault of the Baling area, the ok Bak fault, has been mapped for some 51 miles and postulated for a further 52 miles in NW. Malaya. It exhibits sinistral (left-lateral) displacement of 32-36 miles. Continuing the line of the fault through the Thai-Malay peninsula, it is seen to coincide with a number of geological and morphological discontinuities which can be largely resolved by restoring the indicated offset along the Bok Bak fault. It therefore seems that the fault is at least 650 miles long. In common with many other large wrench faults, the date of the inception of the fault is obscure. It appears, however, that the main (sinistral) movement took place in the Mesozoic orogeny (Jurassic to Cretaceous). There is evidence of wrench faulting in other parts of Malaya, and it is likely that this fault style will prove to be more widespread here than previously suspected.
30080012|The Takaka Terrane of New Zealands South Island contains a Middle to early Late Cambrian intraoceanic island arc assemblage that consists of the terrigeneous to volcanogenic Haupiri Group sediments and the predominantly mafic Devil River Volcanics. Pb, Nd, and Sr isotopes, and major and trace element data are presented here for the Haupiri Group sediments. These data have implications for (1) the stratigraphy of the Takaka Terrane, (2) the reconstruction of the Cambrian Gondwana margin along Australia/Antarctica, and (3) geochemical and isotope provenance studies in general. Nd isotopes, Th/Sc, and rare earth elements (REE) show that the volcaniclastic components in the Haupiri Group sediments reflect the concomitant island arc and backarc volcanism. These sediments can probably be linked with the Early Cambrian Kanmantoo Group and Ordovician Lachlan Fold Belt sediments in SE Australia. To explain the Nd isotope compositions, published detrital zircon populations, and paleocurrent data, an Antarctic source with Grenvillian and RossDelamerian age granitoids, as well as a significant portion of reprocessed Paleoproterozoic and/or Archean crust, is required. We adopt a bipolar subduction model for the Cambrian Gondwana margin along Australia/Antarctica and support the previous suggestion that the Cambrian arc assemblages of the Takaka Terrane of New Zealand and the Antarctic Bowers Terrane belong to the same arc system with a paleogeographical position offshore the Antarctic continent.
30065528|The use of stratigraphic plane analysis, a new graphical technique to view simultaneously both spatial and stratigraphic distribution of biostratigraphic data, has documented important shortterm oceanic events in the high southern latitudes during the Maastrichtian. Singleoccurrence or restrictedoccurrence horizons on Seymour Island using traditional onedimensional (temporal) composite range charts have been viewed as artifacts of preservation or collection failures. When the Seymour Island data are evaluated from a spatial perspective using stratigraphic plane analysis, it is clear that these restrictedoccurrence horizons are not due to collection failures or incomplete preservation but represent important biotic events, probably associated with widespread thermal events documented in the deepsea record and to midMaastrichtian changes in sea level. These shortterm events, in combination with the longterm decline in temperature at the end of the Cretaceous, may have been important contributory factors leading to the extinction event at the end of the Cretaceous.
30071078|Numerous dikes and veins of aplite and pegmatite in the Osi area of Nigeria were studied with a view to ascertaining the mechanism of emplacement. Offsetting of the invaded rocks of a magnitude and direction appropriate to dilation is so rare as to appear to be quite fortuitous. Where offsetting is not entirely absent, it is commonly of a different magnitude and frequently in the opposite direction from that to be expected on dilation of the invaded rocks. In such instances emplacement has evidently occurred along planes of shearing formed under compressional stress. Nondilational emplacement is also clearly indicated in the case of the irregular bodies and ramifying networks of veins. The criteria advanced are similarly of significant application in the mode of emplacement of "ptygmatic folds." Processes of metasomatic replacement, conveniently termed "aplitization" and "pegmatization," are believed to have been those responsible for the development of the bodies described, while internal evidence for the operation of such processes is sometimes provided by the textural features of the dikes themselves. The broader petrogenetic implications emphasize the need for a closer scrutiny of the criteria that are commonly accepted as indicative of intrusive relations.
30060951|Many interpretations of oxygen levels in the Precambrian atmosphere use interpretations of Fe distributions measured in paleosols. This article addresses the current lack of knowledge concerning baseline Fe translocations in modern soil analogs for the 2.25Ga Hekpoort paleosol at Waterval Onder, South Africa, as well as the lack of understanding of diagnostic petrographic features related to Fe translocation preserved in the Precambrian paleosols. Petrographic features related to Fe translocations include redoxrelated Fe depletions and enrichments, and possibly FeMn nodules, which compare favorably with similar pedogenic features in Paleozoic paleoVertisols and modern analog Vertisols. Additionally, preservation of sepicplasmic microfabrics in the Hekpoort paleosol, which are characteristic of clay soils experiencing shrinkswell, supports previous paleoVertisol interpretations. Total Fe losses in Vertisols are 10%50%; losses increase with increasing soil age and with increasing mean annual precipitation but appear to be independent of parent material differences (unconsolidated sediments, sedimentary rocks, mafic rocks). Total Fe losses in Paleozoic paleoVertisols are comparable to those of Vertisols. Nearly complete (75%99%) loss of total Fe characterizes the upper 220 cm of the Hekpoort paleosol, if the underlying basalt is assumed to be the parent material. The apparent greater mobility of Fe in the Hekpoort paleosol most likely reflects the lower (but not anoxic) P
30065155|Augen gneisses were emplaced as phenocryst-bearing granodiorites at
30057945|A study of about three hundred well-preserved calyces of Allagecrinus americanus Rowley has shown an unusually complete series of growth stages. The arm facets develop first on the LAR and RPR, then on the LPR and RAR, and finally on the AR. The anal series is introduced about the same time as the facet on the AR. The orderly appearance of arm facets is accompanied by an increase in the size of the calyx, a lessening in the strength of the ornamentation, and a greater differentiation of the radial plates.
30063812|A common problem in paleocurrent analysis in flysch sequences arises when the strike and dip of cross laminae cannot be measured, even though a general paleoflow direction is evident from two-dimensional, cross-sectional exposures. A new method of paleocurrent analysis is described which makes use of these imperfectly exposed sedimentary structures. It is assumed that younging direction and the attitudes of bedding and fold axis are known; and that the cross laminae within a coset all appear to dip in the same direction. The line of intersection between the outcrop surface and the cross lamina of unknown attitude is measured in the field. A simple stereographic manipulation yields two numbers: an estimated paleocurrent direction corresponding to the tilt-corrected apparent dip direction of the cross lamina, and an uncertainty, normally in the range of
30064161|Evidence from vertebrate and invertebrate fossil assemblages and isotopic analyses supports the hypothesis that during the Pliocene biological productivity in the eastern Gulf of Mexico was considerably higher than during the Pleistocene and Recent. Late Pliocene faunal changes in the eastern Gulf, Western Atlantic, and possibly elsewhere may have resulted, at least in part, from this shift in productivity conditions. Even if marine temperatures declined, paleontological and isotopic data appear to require a change in productivity in the Late Pliocene. This putative productivity decline may have been caused by some combination of causes at three geographic scales: (1) globally-marine productivity may have fallen due to changes in continental weathering; (2) regionally-North Atlantic productivity may have fallen as a result of initiation of North Atlantic Deep Water formation (possibly a consequence of formation of the Central American Isthmus, CAI) and resulting net transfer of nutrients to the Pacific; (3) locally-productivity may have fallen only in the eastern Gulf, due to circulation changes assisted with the formation of the CAI, and an accompanying decline in upwelling. The relative importance of processes at these three geographic scales remains unclear. The probable role of the formation of the CAI in two of the three, however, points to the importance of further investigation of the paleoceanographic consequences of this event for Late Cenozoic biological communities of the region.
30068767|The Rivire des Plante ophiolitic Melange (RPOM) is the largest and best exposed of the three known ophiolitic melanges that contain blocks of Chain Lakes Massif (CLM). All three lie along the Baie Verte-Brompton line, which marks the suture between the continental rocks of the Humber zone and the oceanic rocks of the Dunnage zone. The ophiolitic melange is composed of: serpentinized ultramafic rocks, some of which are sheared and/or carbonatized; blocks of amphibolitized gabbro; basalt; volcanogenic breccia; and conglomerates. It also contains "continental" K-rich granitoid rocks and high-grade metamorphic (upper amphibolite facies) rocks. The RPOM is part of the Saint-Daniel Melange, an accretionary prism onto which the RPOM has been technically emplaced. The CLM was part of a terrane accreted to the Laurentian margin during the Taconian orogeny. Blocks of the CLM along the Baie Verte-Brompton line are interpreted as fragments of this terrane caught within the suture zone. It is proposed that the CLM could be the equivalent of Grenville-derived greywacke originally laid down during the phase of continental rifting that led to the formation of the Iapetus Ocean and was later tectonized and metamorphosed during the Taconian and Acadian orogenies. The RPOM would represent the relic of a serpentinite diapir that rose within a deep oceanic fault. The presence of continental rocks like the CLM suggest that a continental magmatic arc was put in contact with an oceanic crust along this fault.
30065729|Outcrops in the Thurston Island area of West Antarctica consist primarily of plutonic rocks that range in composition from gabbro to granite and yield isotopic dates from 347 to 97 Ma. They intrude amphibolite-grade gneisses of probable early Paleozoic or late Precambrian age and are associated with a suite of basaltic to rhyolitic volcanic rocks of unknown, but probably pre-Tertiary, age. The plutonic rocks have mineralogical and chemical compositions typical of I-type batholiths, and most have calc-alkaline geochem-ical affinities. The assemblage of igneous rocks in the Thurston Island area resembles the igneous suites at active (Andinotype) continental margins; its existence is evidence for a long period of subduction in this part of West Antarctica.
30059256|It is shown in this paper that it is possible to use remanent magnetism as a tool for geologic classification, Several suites of diabase dikes from Ontario and Quebec were sampled and widely differing magnetic properties found. It is shown that the direction of remanent magnetization, as well as the intensity, forms separate and distinct criteria for distinguishing between swarms. An earlier paper indicated that the direction of stable remanent magnetization is distorted by the shape of the dike. In spite of this distortion, widely differing directions of remanent magnetization indicate that the magnetic field of the earth existed in Precambrian times and that it wandered considerably in that era.
30065612|New paleomagnetic and radioisotopic data are reported from two late Tertiary high-elevation, non-marine basins in the eastern Cordillera of Bolivia. (1) Quebrada Honda, located at 22 S lat., consists of a 300 m thick section containing abundant Santacrucian or Friasian (middle Miocene) fossil mammals. This locality is constrained by mean
30065520|Field and UPb geochronology data are presented for two new occurrences of Permian Himalayan granites, at Parkatchic (at ca. 270 Ma) and Sankoo (at
30058865|Old drainage lines in bas-relief have been found in Nejd, Eastern Saudi Aarbia, south of Darb Zubaida, 350-400 kilometers west of the Persian Gulf. There had been developed a hard caliche in this area. On this caliche surface a dendritic drainage pattern was formed. Wind, assisted by leaching action of waters, has scooped out hollows and eroded between the tributaries leaving old stream beds as tops of hills and ridges (Fig. 1). Such a fossil drainage may be called "suspendritic."
30079615|Stoff, Temperatur, und Druck an der Schlotmndung sind die wichtigsten Zustands-grssen eines Vulkanausbruchs. Der feste und flssige Stoff bleibt whrend der Frderung volumenkonstant, der gas- oder dampffrmige unterliegt der adiabatischen Ausdehnung und Abkhlung. Fr den Santorinausbruch 1925-26 liegen zahlreiche pyrome-trische Temperaturmessungen der Lava an der Schlotmndung und Bestimmungen der Tagesfrderungen von Lava vor, die die Ausflussgeschwindigkeiten der Lava aus dem Schlot mit bekanntem Durchmesser zu ermitteln gestatten. Mit Hilfe der Poiseuille'-schen Formel ist hieraus die Viskositt der Lava zahlenmssig zu erfassen und den jeweils gemessenen Temperaturen zuzuordnen. Die Viskositt des Santorinmagmas entspricht etwa der gewisser technischer Silikatglser. Die Morphologie vulkanischer Gebilde, wie Strme, Staukuppen, Felsnadeln hngt von der stark temperaturabhngigen Viskositt ab. Es wird in einer Kurve die Beziehung Hhe: Basisdurchmesser der Staukuppen zur Viskositt dargestellt, die im plastischen Gebiet umbiegt und Anhaltepunkte fr die Entstehungstemperaturen der Staugebilde herauslesen lsst. Die Steighhe der Eruptionswolke liefert mit dem in dieser Hhe herrschenden Dampfdruck und der Temperatur die Zustandsgrssen des Entspannungszustandes, das heisst das Ende der adiabatischen Ausdehnung und Abkhlung, denn der Dampf steigt solange auf, bis er sich mit der umgebenden Atmosphre in ein Gleichgewicht gesetzt hat. Ist die Mndungstemperatur gegeben, so folgt nunmehr auch der Mndungsdruck aus den Adiabatengleichungen, damit ist auch die dritte Zustandsgrsse, die sich bisher der Bestimmung entzog, zahlenmssig erfasst. Die Wasserdmpfe treten aus der grssten Profilenge des Schlotes, die an der Schlotmndung liegt, mit Schallgeschwindigkeit aus. In diesem Fall wird das Verhltnis Mndungsdruck zum Herddruck gleich dem kritischen Druck Verhltnis und eine Funktion des adiabatischen Exponenten. Mit dem kritischen Druckverhltnis und den Adiabatengleichungen ist mit den Zustandsgrssen der Mndung auch der Herddruck und die Herdtemperatur am Anfang des Schlotes zu gewinnen. Die Schallgeschwindigkeit im Wasserdampf bei der Mndungstemperatur liefert schliesslich noch den Wrmeinhalt der Masseneinheit an der Mndung und im Herd, ein ausgezeichnetes kalorisches Masz fr die Intensitt des Vulkanausbruchs. Die Differenz des Wrmeinhalts am Anfang und Ende der Ausbruchsperiode ergiebt den Erschpfungszustand in Zahlen. Zum Schluss werden die Zustandsgrssen des Sakura-jima, Pel, Lassen Peak mit dem Santorinausbruch vergleichend gegenbergestellt.
30062277|There are two main schools of thought pertaining to the origin of sandstone-rich melange terranes such as the Franciscan Coastal Belt of northern California. One view maintains that the deformation is tectonic, associated with offscraping or underplating of detritus within a subduction zone. The other opinion is that early-phase disruption is caused by gravitational failure of trench-slope sediment. Sedimentary facies data from modern subduction zones have significant bearing on both of these interpretations. Such data, especially from regions bordering continental arcs, demonstrate that sandy deposits are concentrated within specific environments, most notably the wedge of turbidites common to trench floors; sands may also occur on the adjacent abyssal plain and within trench slope basins. In contrast, a typical apron of slope sediments consists almost exclusively of hemipelagic muds. Even though submarine slides are no doubt common on steep trench slopes, most such slides simply involve remobilization of the muddy slope cover. Facies associations within the Franciscan Coastal Belt contrast markedly with the muddy character of the slope apron; thus, it is unlikely that either deposition or subsequent gravitational failure occurred within such a setting. Instead, the sandy strata probably represent accreted and tectonically-deformed trench-floor or abyssal-plain deposits.
30080876|Adsorption is advanced as a principal factor in the distribution and fractionation of minor constituents in minerals. The effects of adsorption on the processes of nucleation and crystal growth are considered as important factors in controlling compositional relationships between coexisting minerals and possibly determining certain mineral assemblages. The possibility that adsorption during crystal growth may cause slight disequilibrium conditions is indicated. The changes of the trace element content in certain metamorphic rocks between different metamorphic facies are illustrated, and the possibility is discussed that such metamorphic transformations may provide a liberation of ore-forming materials.
30079618|Four objectives of quantitative study of sediments are outlined, each of which requires specially collected samples. The corresponding techniques of collection are here called engineering sampling, descriptive sampling, environmental sampling, and correlation sampling, according to the purpose of the samples. The steps in the systematic collection of samples for the first three purposes are outlined. Certain principles underlying efficient correlation sampling are considered. There are two techniques for environmental sampling depending on the kind of measurements to be made. Criteria are given for determining whether or not composite samples may be used. When composite samples are unsuitable, samples from individual layers are required. In the latter case, the sedimentation-unit concept furnishes a practical field tool for the rational selection of the layer or combination of layers to be sampled as a unit. An example of the use of the sedimentation unit, showing how the boundaries of the individual units are determined, is given in detail. Six general steps for the determination of a sedimentation unit are given. Devices for obtaining the samples are described.
30080195|Unequivocal evidence for the Proterozoic reconstruction of AustraliaAntarctica and Laurentia remains elusive, although various authors have interpreted sedimentary and igneous events in terms of initial (Neoproterozoic) rifting, and final (Neoproterozoic/Cambrian) drifting. The synchronous rifting and drifting reflect the tectonics of a late Neoproterozoic Pangea (East Gondwanaland and Laurentia) that amalgamated along the Mozambiquean belt 720 Ma and broke up at 560 Ma by growth of the PaleoPacific and lapetus oceans. In this paper these events are interpreted as part of a 400 m.y. supercycle comparable to the 320 Ma amalgamation of Pangea A and its 160 Ma breakup during Supercycle A (320 Ma to present). Events near the end of the Cambrian (500 Ma) in East Gondwanaland included epeirogenic uplift of cratons, shown by widespread K/Ar and apatite fissiontrack dates, and the inception of quartz turbidite fans, intense deformation and intrusion by granite of the Antarctic and southeastern Australian margins, followed by a global sealevel maximum. These events are comparable to the midCretaceous (10090 Ma) epeirogenic uplift of Australia, intrusion by granite of the western USA and elsewhere, followed by a second global sealevel maximum. Both supercycles were driven by pulses of supercontinentinduced heat that caused global rifting by extension, subsidence, and filling of sedimentary basins, followed by continental drifting and seafloor spreading. Our detailed compilation of the tectonic effects of Supercycle B (720320 Ma) suggests that Pangeainduced heat has punctuated earth history since at least 720 Ma. The previous Pangean amalgamation, indicated by the global 1100 Ma (Grenvillian) deformation, suggests a third supercycle that introduced the modern regime of plate tectonics.
30080863|Dip direction of torrential cross-bedding is a vectorial property providing a rapid measure of the local direction of sediment transport. Over 500 measurements in the basal Pennsylvanian Caseyville and Mansfield sandstones of southern Illinois and Indiana were taken, to explore its possibilities and limitations as a measure of direction of regional sediment transport. The analysis of variance helped interpret the pattern of variability, indicate the reliability of averages, and improve the efficiency of sampling effort. The host topography of the Mississippian-Pennsylvanian unconformity exercised a strong control on the basal cross-bedding direction. Averages of many measurements along 260 miles of outcrop, however, accurately indicate a southwesterly direction of sediment transport for the Caseyville and a southerly direction for the Mansfield. The importance of a northerly source is suggested but would have to be evaluated by petrologic study.
30068555|The Nain Plutonic Suite (NPS), about 1.30 Ga, underlies some 19,000 km, intruding the boundary between Middle to Late Archean rocks in the east (Nain Province) and Late Archean and Early Proterozoic rocks in the west (Churchill Province). Nd isotopic compositions in most igneous units of the NPS reflect their geographic position relative to the inferred boundary between the Nain and Churchill Provinces. Rare exceptions are local intrusions of olivine-bearing basic rocks with highest
30061011|Convincing evidence has been found that the generally accepted ideas regarding the average composition of meteorites are incorrect, owing to the fact that collections have not been completely representative.
30079588|The eastern prong of the southern Rocky Mountain province in New Mexico, called the Sangre de Cristo Mountains, is usually described as a great anticlinal structure. Its eastern border and general internal structure conform to this definition but its western border is a fault-line scarp facing the down-faulted structural basin of the Rio Grande depression. This depression is underlain by partly consolidated fan deposits-the Santa Fe formation of Miocene or early Pliocene age. A water-laid tuff, the Picuris formation, with interbedded basalt in places underlies the Santa Fe unconformably. These two formations are separated from the older rocks of the Sangre de Cristo both by erosional and by fault contacts. The fault pattern is irregular and consists largely of en echelon faults trending northwest, but so overlapping as to produce a north-south trend of the scarp from Santa Fe to Chimayo. North of this point the Picuris re-entrant forms an extension of the depression eastward, and the Picuris prong, bounded by a complex fault pattern, forms an extension of the mountain area westward. The Rio Grande depression has been eroded in several successive stages. At the earliest stage the area of outcrop of the Santa Fe was reduced to a plain and the fault scarp was reduced to maturity by erosion. Later revival of streams has accentuated the topography and given the mountain front an apparent height about twice as great as it had in the early stages of erosion.
30080243|The Irrawaddy (Ayeyarwady) River of Myanmar is ranked as having the fifthlargest suspended load and the fourthhighest total dissolved load of the worlds rivers, and the combined Irrawaddy and Salween (Thanlwin) system is regarded as contributing 20% of the total flux of material from the HimalayanTibetan orogen. The estimates for the Irrawaddy are taken from published quotations of a nineteenthcentury data set, and there are no available published data for the Myanmar reaches of the Salween. Apart from our own field studies in 2005 and 2006, no recent research documenting the sediment load of these important large rivers has been conducted, although their contribution to biogeochemical cycles and ocean geochemistry is clearly significant. We present a reanalysis of the Irrawaddy data from the original 550page report of Gordon covering 10 yr of discharge (18691879) and 1 yr of sediment concentration measurements (18771878). We describe Gordons methodologies, evaluate his measurements and calculations and the adjustments he made to his data set, and present our revised interpretation of nineteenthcentury discharge and sediment load with an estimate of uncertainty. The 10yr average of annual suspended sediment load currently cited in the literature is assessed as being underestimated by 27% on the basis of our sediment rating curve of the nineteenthcentury data. On the basis of our sampling of suspended load, the nineteenthcentury concentrations are interpreted to be missing about 18% of their total mass, which is the proportion of sediment recovered by a 0.45m filter. The new annual Irrawaddy suspended sediment load is
30058852|The region is especially interesting from the standpoint of geomorphology. Erosion of monoclinal structure of the Animikie and Keweenawan formations has developed ridges with an asymmetrical profile, known as "sawtooth mountains." The ridge and valley topography in the area underlain by the Rove slate and associated intrusives (dikes, and sills) resembles that of the folded Appalachians. The preglacial drainage pattern was trellised. The Duluth gabbro is banded; those zones composed of minerals less resistant to weathering and erosive agencies underlie the valleys, and the more resistant rocks, such as the "red rock," make up the ridges. The lakes located on the Saganaga granite are irregular in outline and are not oriented in any particular direction. The Pleistocene ice sheets produced noteworthy changes in the drainage lines. Numerous glacial lakes now occupy depressions which show striking east-west alignment. Many of the streams are new or have been forced to find new channels. Waterfalls and rapids and postglacial gorges are common.
30059324|Field evidence from the Josephine (southwestern Oregon) and Red Mountain (New Zealand) peridotites indicates that compositional layering in alpine-type peridotites pre-dates emplacement into the crust, and is dissimilar in origin to layering in stratiform intrusions. Field, geochemical, and textural evidence all suggest that the layering formed during anatexis and upward flow of the peridotite in the mantle. A cumulus origin for the layering is rejected as there is strong geochemical evidence to suggest that alpine-type peridotites are the residues of partial fusion in the mantle. Although the layering superficially resembles layering in stratiform intrusions, there are no other features present which suggest a magmatic origin. The orientation of the layering, however, closely resembles that of strain-slip (or crenulation) cleavage in the axial zones of old mountain belts suggesting a deformation related origin. It also appears unlikely that the layering is solely the product of a mechanical segregation accompanying deformation ("flow layering") inasmuch as evidence for prolonged high-temperature creep of the peridotites is found throughout the entire peridotite whereas the layering is not. The most likely mechanism for the origin of the layering appears to be metamorphic differentiation accompanying deformation, pressure solution creep, and anatexis of the peridotite. This suggests that pressure-solution creep may be a principal creep mechanism in areas of ascending athenosphere such as below mid-ocean ridges.
30079424|We examine the timing of deformation and exhumation of the Nanga ParbatHaramosh massif in the western syntaxis of the Himalaya. This study presents geochronologic and thermochronologic data obtained from basement, shear zone, and intrusive units within the massif to reveal the Cenozoic tectonic evolution of the massif and to document the extent of the PlioPleistocene tectonic activity. These results combined with structural and petrologic observations indicate that the western Himalayan syntaxis was tectonically active for a protracted length of time and that the deformational succession was punctuated by three episodes since the beginning of the IndiaAsia collision: (1) The western syntaxial Indian plate rocks (future Nanga Parbat) underwent metamorphism, melting, and deformation during the initial collision of India with Asia and the associated island arc, the result of which is recorded as Eocene to Early Miocene metamorphic and magmatic ages and Oligocene cooling preserved in the Indian cover metasedimentary sequences that flank the younger, highgrade core. (2) Transpression along the South Karakorum fault to the north during the Late Miocene resulted in an episode of crustal scale doming and associated tectonometamorphic processes within the Himalaya syntaxis concurrent with the formation of other Late Miocene domes that developed in the Karakorum to the north and east. (3) At the core of the massif during the PlioPleistocene, the latest evolutionary stage of Nanga Parbat produced granulitegrade metamorphism, anatectic melting, and rapid cooling with deformation manifested as a popup structure, overprinting the Late Miocene doming.
30063988|Evidence concerning heterogeneous growth of meteorites and planets is summarized, and a generalized model for the growth of the Earth and Moon is presented. The solar nebula was chemically inhomogeneous and did not develop under physical and chemical equilibrium. A cloud containing interstellar dust and supernova debris yielded a range of planetesimals partly represented by meteorites. A range of oxidation state is needed to explain the components of the enstatite-, ordinary-, and carbonaceous chondrites, which may have formed at increasing distance from the Sun. Meteorites provide evidence on surviving planetesimals that range from cold mechanical aggregates to metamorphosed and melted varieties. Each terrestrial planet began to grow from nearby slow planetesimals, and the velocity of surviving planetesimals increased because of gravitational deflection. Growth was essentially completed within
30067038|Sediment flux to the coastal zone is conditioned by geomorphic and tectonic influences (basin area and relief), geography (temperature, runoff), geology (lithology, ice cover), and human activities (reservoir trapping, soil erosion). A new model, termed BQART in recognition of those factors, accounts for these varied influences. When applied to a database of 488 rivers, the BQART model showed no ensemble over or underprediction, had a bias of just 3% across six orders of magnitude in observational values, and accounted for 96% of the betweenriver variation in the longterm (30 years) sediment load or yield of these rivers. The geographical range of the 488 rivers covers 63% of the global land surface and is highly representative of global geology, climate, and socioeconomic conditions. Based strictly on geological parameters (basin area, relief, lithology, ice erosion), 65% of the betweenriver sediment load is explained. Climatic factors (precipitation and temperature) account for an additional 14% of the variability in global patterns in load. Anthropogenic factors account for an additional 16% of the betweenriver loads, although with ever more dams being constructed or decommissioned and socioeconomic conditions and infrastructure in flux, this contribution is temporally variable. The glacial factor currently contributes only 1% of the signal represented by our globally distributed database, but it would be much more important during and just after major glaciations. The BQART model makes possible the quantification of the influencing factors (e.g., climate, basin area, ice cover) within individual basins, to better interpret the terrestrial signal in marine sedimentary records. The BQART model predicts the longterm flux of sediment delivered by rivers; it does not predict the episodicity (e.g., typhoons, earthquakes) of this delivery.
30079751|Determination of the age of fault motion poses a challenge in tectonics, yet rarely produces satisfactory results. We describe a new method in which the age and magnitude of dip-slip faulting are estimated from contrasting cooling histories of footwall and hanging wall rocks adjacent to the Hope fault, northwest Montana. The Hope fault has been interpreted in the past as a mostly right-slip fault. New kinematic data,
30056937|Shamshir Ghar Cave in southern Afghanistan near Kandahar has had only a short history of occupancy. The cavern formed inside the mountain probably in the Miocene but was opened approximately two thousand years ago. Sediments in the cave preserve a surprisingly good historical sequence of the cave's history. Loess, which blankets higher terraces near Gulbahar, north of Kabul, make it possible to date the well-preserved terraces as Wisconsin and post-Wisconsin. The terraces are representatives of vast quantities of rock which were removed during mountain glaciation of the Panjshir Valley. The age of archeological sites in the loess blanket or in the terraces should be related to this general framework of geological history.
30063686|It is pointed out that the distribution of color in a sediment is as important in determining the general color effect as is the total amount of coloring matter present. It is shown that quartz will become iron-stained only in the absence of more active adsorbants, that orthoclase acquires iron stain more readily than quartz, and that while A1(OH) is a good adsorbant of iron, pure kaolin will adsorb but little unless activated by some such substance as the alkali carbonates. The iron content of clays up to about 5.0 per cent FeO is shown to be a linear function of the alkali content, the equation
30068228|Helderberg limestones have been subjected to late-burial solution and layer-parallel shortening by cleavage formation with twinning. They also record deformation during passive macrofolding due to emplacement of the underlying blind thrust system including: passive cleavage rotation during flexural flow, perhaps by grain-boundary sliding; cleavage intensification in gentle fold limbs; and cleavage dilation in steep limbs by cleavage-normal untwinned calcite fibers. Cleavage dilation was the second dilation event as bedding solution structures were previously opened with bedding-normal fiber growth during layer-parallel shortening. Thus, pre-existing solution structures were commonly exploited as fluid conduits and precipitation sites.
30058498|A method is put forward whereby the optic angle of a crystal may be found in a section perpendicular to an optic axis. Curves of darkness for two series of spheroconics are drawn and the medial lines are plotted. The axis of the isogyre in a crystal section is referred to these curves whereby the value of 2V may be obtained to within approximately four degrees.
30068826|The basal Wamsutta Formation of the Narragansett Basin, MassachusettsRhode Island, contains
30070673|Lake faunal diversity has been the focus of many modern studies; however, there have been few studies comparing the lacustrine diversity in the modern and fossil record. Whether or not this comparison is possible is dependent on preservation. By comparing the exceptional preservation of the
30053572|To date there is no statistical theory which assesses the statistical significance of a cluster of data points on a contoured density diagram. In lieu of such a theory, we derive, using a Monte Carlo method, an empirical statistic, P, that can easily yet rigorously test the significance of a cluster of points for a given N at a given level of confidence when counted using a Gaussian weighting function. Multiple random samples of N data points (18 $\leq$ N $\leq$ 800) are drawn from an infinite uniform parent population and counted on the hemisphere to obtain the density surfaces. The empirical point-density statistics $P_{95}$ and $T_{95}$ are the highest and lowest 95th percentiles of the 1000 "peak" and "trough" values calculated for each N. A peak density value (a maximum on a contoured plot) greater than $P_{95}$ for a given N has less than a 5% likelihood of being drawn randomly from a uniform distribution and is therefore a statistically significant cluster at the 95% confidence level. Similarly, a point-density trough less than the derived statistic T for troughs indicates statistical significance. Tables and line graphs of P and T are given as functions of N for seven confidence levels. The statistic $P_{95}$ requires higher point counts than has been previously thought necessary for significance and, moreover, varies substantially with sample size.
30055672|A type area of Tertiary sedimentation is described which occurs to the south of the Santa Elena peninsula. Though the discussion is confined to one area, the observations can be applied in general to the Tertiary formations which are found along this part of the coast belt. An attempt is made in the stratigraphical succession to zone certain of the Oligocene and Eocene formations, and a description is included of the lithological types which occur in the series. The presence of igneous dikes and the incorporation of "foreign" volcanic rocks in the Tertiary sedimentation is also discussed, and a general account given of the geological history of the formations. Brief reference is also made to the Quaternary deposits, which occur in the form of raised "terraces," and are locally known as tablazos. Ancon Point itself is a structural outlier of Oligocene beds faulted against the Eocene formations of the mainland. In addition to a description of the local features of structural interest, a general review of the regional tectonics is included.
10.1086/649816|A Middle Devonian suprasubduction zone ophiolite, the Caren Unit (northwest Spain), displays amphibolitefacies ductile deformation fabrics related to the onset of the Rheic Ocean closure. Two different fabrics, an early high
JG80062|The Xionger volcanic rocks constitute a large Paleo-Mesoproterozoic volcanic belt along the southern margin of the North China Craton. The volcanic rocks can be petrographically and geochemically classified into the basaltic andesiteandesite and dacite-rhyolite series, with the former being the dominant component of the Xionger volcanic rocks. The volcanic rocks of the dacite-rhyolite series have been derived from the wet and low-temperature differentiation of the basaltic andesiteandesite series at shallow depth, suggested by regional geological, lithological, and geochemical studies. In addition, crustal assimilation was involved in the magmas to form volcanic rocks of the dacite-rhyolite series, as suggested by low 
JG116604|Medium- to high-grade metasedimentary rocks are exposed as isolated domains in mostly metaigneous crystalline rocks of the Chiapas Massif Complex (CMC), which forms the basement of the southern Maya Block, southeastern Mexico. Laser ablation multicollector inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry U-Pb isotope analyses on inherited detrital zircon cores show two principal age distributions: (
30068766|Heat advection by upward-migrating fluids in one possible mechanism for elevating temperatures within the earth's crust. Models are presented that compare the thermal impact of a pervasive upward flux of fluids to that of the same flux focused into vertical parallel planar channels. In channelized flow, the average temperature across channels is lower than that of pervasive flow at comparable times in the systems' evolutions. As the channel spacing decreases, the evolution through time and steady state approach that of pervasive flow, with pervasive flow representing the limiting case of zero spacing. When channel spacings are small relative to the length of the vertical flow path, lateral temperature gradients around channels will be very shallow for any geologically reasonable flux. When small fluxes, such as may be generated from pelites undergoing progressive metamorphism, are focused into very widely spaced channels, the resultant temperature increase around channels may be discernable with geothermometry, but lateral temperature gradients around channels will be very shallow. Large sustained fluxes, such as may be produced from subduction zones, can have a large thermal impact without focusing. When such fluxes become focused into widely spaced channels, steep, easily discernable lateral temperature gradients develop around the channels.
30063668|Present theories of the growth of ice crystals are briefly reviewed. The assumption of Wright and Priestley that ice contains some molecules which move about in the crystals is discussed. An account is given of the method of finding absorption bands in a piece of ice. It was found that the thin region between the ice crystals is highly absorbing. About half of the heat waves were absorbed in the bands of absorption, but in other parts of the infra-red spectrum the layer between the crystals is transparent. This fact is used to explain crystal growth in a solid piece of ice. This theory can be applied to ice in the natural state if proper allowance is made for the existing conditions.
30055693|Fault block mountains have long been recognized in the genetic series of land forms. Physiographers now distinguish fault scarps from fault-line scarps or erosion scarps. The criteria for recognizing these two kinds of scarps are considered in this paper for the purpose of reaching a better understanding of their application and significance. It is shown that many of the features which are commonly regarded as evidence of fault scarps are generally possessed also by fault-line scarps, which are formed by differential erosion on previously faulted substructures.
30070744|Axial concentrations of the first formed minerals, caused by an inward motion of crystals during flow (Bagnold effect), occur in the sheeted dykes of the Guevgueli ophiolitic complex (Greek Macedonia). The resulting chemical differentiation within individual dykes mimics that seen in random samples of the dyke complex as a whole and of the overlying lavas: the differentiation of these formations is due primarily to redistribution of crystals during flow.
30065711|The Pinware terrane in the eastern Grenville Province of Labrador is characterized by abundant granitoid rocks but a lack of metasedimentary gneiss. On the basis of newly obtained U-Pb zircon ages, the following history is outlined. Supracrustal rocks, including felsic volcanics, were formed at
30071161|The Nanga Parbat-Haramosh Massif of the western Himalaya has undergone a complex metamorphic and denudational history over the past 1.8 Ga. Metamorphism in the Tato region is characterized by a Barrovian type metamorphism followed by partial melting and recrystallization along shear zones during nearly isothermal decompression while the massif was still at temperatures >550C. Mineralogical and textural evidence for this path includes garnet zoning patterns, late-stage migmatization, abundant cordierite both in schists and leucogranite dikes, replacement of high-pressure assemblages by low-pressure assemblages, and abundant low-density inclusions. Thermobarometry on the nonmigmatized gneisses reveals conditions of 540-740C at 7.1-13.1 kbar. Thermobarometry in the migmat-ized rocks reveals final equilibration at 608-675C at 3.9-6.8 kbar. Early fluid inclusions occur in quartz inclusions within garnet porphyroblasts that grew during decompression. The last fluid inclusions to be trapped occur in microfractures that locally crosscut several grain boundaries and, hence, record conditions after quartz grain boundary migration ceased. Examination of all the petrologic and fluid inclusions data conclusively show a very rapid denudation event late in the collisional process. Rapid denudation resulted in the advection of isotherms to shallow crustal levels causing an elevated geotherm (~60C/km) in the upper crust, metamorphism along shear zones, and partial melting of the crust at depths of ca. 22 km.
30071517|The apparent "two-line" hyperfine spectrum of
30070717|A petrofabric analysis of the widespread cleavage in the Moccasin member of the Lowville formation in western Virginia has shown the presence of a relict sedimentary quartz fabric, corresponding to the sedimentary fabric of beds without cleavage, along with a quartz fabric girdle about B. This condition has been interpreted as indicating an incipient stage of metamorphism which developed cleavage in the Moccasin and not in adjacent members because the cleaved incompetent beds of the Moccasin are composed of quartz grains of widely different sizes surrounded by large amounts of calcite and clay, the whole being intimately mixed and completely unassorted. Several possible interpretations of the mechanical processes involved in the formation of the cleavage are considered.
30058862|Processes of differentiation are commonly considered to dominate in producing compositional diversity of igneous rocks, while a more or less inconspicuous part is assigned to assimilation. Positive evidences of differentiation are local and, when attempts are made to explain widespread diversity by this means, many questionable assumptions are required. The writer throws doubt on these assumptions and ascribes a minor part to differentiation. Using thermal evidence for an inductive solution of magma tic problems, he derives the view that most magma is generated by frictional heat during wide and forceful migration and is, therefore, depending on compositional environment, more or less heterogeneous from birth. Without ignoring the local importance of certain processes of differentiation, the view is supported that mass diversity results in the main from heterogeneity of parent magma and not from differentiation in homogeneous magma chambers.
30071193|The authigenic minerals in the Oriskany, Berea, and Big Injun sandstones are quartz, calcite, dolomite, orthoclase, microcline, albite, chlorite, kaolinite, and pyrite. Most of the quartz grew in open spaces, but some replaced clastic calcite. Two stages of silicification occurred in parts of the Berea sandstone. Authigenic chlorite appears as fringes around the detrital grains or around the early quartz growths. Calcite occurs as secondary rims on clastic calcite and as a cementing material in the voids. Rhombs of dolomite occur in the interstices and as replacements of feldspar and the clayey matrix. Authigenic feldspar is present in the form of overlays around detrital grains. Secondary kaolinite occurs as an alteration product of feldspar and as a filling in many of the voids which remained after the crystallization of the other minerals. Most of the authigenic minerals formed after burial, because the secondary growths are generally free of strain and fill the cracks in fractured grains of mica and feldspar. The secondary calcite and chlorite probably formed from primary constituents in the sediments. Most of the silica was apparently derived from outside sources because little solution of quartz occurred at the points of contact between the detrital grains.
30078415|Ion microprobe (SHRIMP) UPb dating of single zircon grains extracted from granite cuttings from the subsurface of southeastern Georgia (Pierce Co.) yields a welldefined crystallization age of
30058998|The high-low quartz transition of a vein quartz and a composite quartz sample were compared at up to 10,000 bars pressure, using a comparative DTA technique. The differences are smaller than 0.2C, suggesting that such a composite sample may be preferred for use as a DTA thermal standard. The transition temperature ranges from 572.6C at 1 bar to 825.3C at 10,000 bars. The best fit of the data is given by two expressions:
30081058|The Lykling Ophiolitic Complex is composed of the Lykling ophiolite, the Geitung formation, plagiogran-ites, and the Sre Lyklingholmen formation. The ophiolite is unconformably overlain by the late Cambrian Geitfung fm., which, together with cross-cutting plagiogranites, represents the development of a primitive volcanic arc. The Sre Lyklingholmen fm. rests unconformably on the other units and is dominated by coarse sedimentary breccias whose clasts were derived exclusively from the underlying parts of the Lykling Ophiolitic Complex. The breccias form both coarsening-upward and fining-upward sequences and are interpreted to represent submarine scree and sediment gravity flow deposits. The breccias contain angular to subangular clasts more than 100 m across. We consider that the deposition of the Sre Lyklingholmen fm. was related either to submarine fault-scarps associated with the uplift history of a primitive volcanic arc in the Iapetus Ocean or to an oceanic fracture zone that intersected the arc.
30055921|Gneisses made from an argillaceous sediment and dioritic injections are described. The injected material is of the same composition and texture as the pegmatite and aplite dikes intruded in these gneisses. The contact of gneiss and granodiorite consists of a mineralized brecciated zone on a large scale. Pyrrhotite and chalcopyrite are the most important ores.
30059172|The geologic evidence indicates that the calcite in the Nussbaum formation of Cimarron County, Oklahoma, exerted great force in crystallizing. This force was sufficient to move considerable masses of rock material and to split grains of quartz sand.
30079802|Distribution of paleotemperatures has been studied in Paleozoic rocks of the Variscan fold and thrust belt of the NW Cantabrian Zone (Spain) by a combined application of illite crystallinity (IC) and conodont color alteration index (CAI). Results show that the diageneticmetamorphic grade increases with the increase in rock age, as marked by decreasing IC values and increasing CAI values. Moreover, the CAI isogrades roughly reflect the structural traits of the area, indicating that maximum temperatures were attained during sedimentary burial previous to folding. The geothermal paleogradient obtained suggests conditions near the boundary between low and middle
30058024|In the following pages there is presented (a) a review of the classification of streams according to stages of development, in which the criteria for discriminating different stages are discussed, and some misconceptions regarding stream behavior are corrected. (b) The classification of streams according to genesis is then considered, and an attempt made to define with greater precision certain terms regarding the significance of which differences of opinion appear to exist, (c) The classifications of streams with respect to genetically associated structures, and (d) with respect to structures not concerned with the origin of the streams, are more concisely presented, as is also (e) the classification of streams with respect to past changes of level. (f) Drainage patterns are briefly referred to, but the discussion of this subject is left to a companion paper subsequent to this article in the Journal of Geology.
30069362|Grain-size analyses of samples from zones of the profile of weathering developed on Peorian loess along the Ohio Valley in the vicinity of Owensboro, Kentucky, indicate a characteristic size distribution and silt-clay ratio for each zone. Comparison with grain-size analyses of Peorian loess elsewhere along the Ohio Valley indicates a regional uniformity and suggests similarity not only of origin and parent material but of postdepositional weathering. Analyses demonstrate a sharp separation between the Peorian and the underlying Farmdale loess and provide a basis for regional correlation and for evaluation of the postdepositional history of the deposits.
30068691|Laboratory and field sand tracer experiments have been conducted to determine the longitudinal (stream-wise) mass spreading coefficient of sand under the oscillatory motions of progressive surface water waves. The laboratory data were obtained in a wave channel sufficiently large to generate monochromatic waves with periods up to 5 sec and heights of about 38 cm. The field experiments were conducted off the Oregon coast, outside the breaker zone in water depths of 16-18 m. Mass spreading coefficients, determined from the time-rate of change of variance of the tracer distribution, were found to be proportional to the entrainment rate of tracer at the injection site. A direct relationship based upon random-walk considerations was also found between the sand spreading rate and the wave orbital parameters. A spreading model based upon the continuous release of tracer from a line source was compared with favorable results to the observed tracer distribution patterns.
30058952|This article is a discussion of four detailed cross-sections that show correlations of the Triassic-Jurassic red beds in Wyoming. Individual beds have been recognized and traced over considerable areas, so that correlations can be satisfactorily made with the type localities of the Sundance formation in the Black Hills and of the Chugwater formation north of Cheyenne. It is concluded that the name Chugwater should only be used in the "restricted" manner suggested by Reeside; that the Jelm should be enlarged to include all Upper Triassic beds; and that the Nugget sand and overlying red beds belong in the Sundance formation.
30078453|The average (unweighted) chemical composition of 33 pre-Cambrian slates is (in per cent):
30084952|This paper treats of the boulders in the Carboniferous Caney shale in the Ouachita Mountains of southeastern Oklahoma. Some of the boulders are composed of local rock, but others are composed of rock which does not crop out in the Ouachitas. As theories of long-distance transportation of the so-called exotics are considered inadequate, a theory is developed which explains the origin of the boulders from a local source. Evidence is cited which indicates that rocks like those which comprise the apparently foreign boulders underlie certain areas in the Oklahoma Ouachitas. A land, Bengalia, existed along the north side of the Ouachita area throughout most of Paleozoic time. Crustal warpings caused variations in the positions of land and sea areas, and erosion exposed the older rocks. During most of Mississippian time, Bengalia formed the north barrier of the filter-basin-like Ouachita trough in which the thick Stanley and Jackfork formations were deposited while only a few hundred feet of lower Caney shale were being laid down to the north and west. By later Caney time, Bengalia and Llanoria, the land to the south, were both lower, and straits connected the trough with seas to the north and west. Earth tremors, accompanying downwarping of the trough, caused submarine landslips of boulders from Bengalia into the upper Caney shale then being deposited in the northwest side of the trough.
30082301|This paper presents chemical and petrographic data for certain granitic rocks in the Llano uplift region of central Texas. The samples include five granites, a granite-porphyry dike rock, and an aplite. The chemical and petrographic characters of these rocks suggest close relationship, and the variation of the oxides with silica content (68-77 Per cent) is shown in the usual variation diagram. It is possible that the granites were evolved by the fractionation of one or more related or chemically analogous liquids. The mechanism favored to explain the origin of the granites is a process similar to "filter-pressing" acting in late stages of the fractional crystallization of the magma. The escape of the hyperfusibles which are concentrated in the residual alkalic liquids in the late stages of crystallization may have been effective in initiating the filter-pressing mechanism. This process is considered to be competent to explain the chemical and textural characteristics of the central Texas granites.
30066082|Combination of deep-sea coring and land-based studies has provided a quantitative view of volcano genic sediments in and around the Lesser Antilles arc in the late-Quaternary. Of the total of
30061087|Leucogranites provide timing estimates for deformation, particularly extension, in many orogens. On this basis, the time of extension in the East Greenland Caledonides has been estimated at 420430 Ma. UPb SHRIMP (sensitive, highresolution ionmicroprobe) analysis of zircon and monazite from selected leucogranites was undertaken to establish the age of the Payer Land detachment zone, an extensional structure that places lowgrade metasedimentary rocks on granulite facies gneisses that record highpressure (1.41.6 GPa) metamorphism at ca. 405 Ma. Deformed equigranular granites associated with upper plate lithologies give ages of
30063037|The quicksands of the area average the same mineral composition, texture, and degree of roundness as the non-quicksands. They are always supersaturated with water, which in some cases can be determined to be moving with upward current. The quicksand is not a type of deposit, but a condition of equilibrium.
30061990|Garnets from the alteration zones and the country rocks surrounding the massive sulfide deposits at Ducktown, Tennessee, show strong compositional zoning of Mn and Fe and occasionally that of Ca and Mg. Observed continuous decrease of Mn (and Ca) and continuous increase of Fe (and Mg) from the core to the edge of crystals indicate that the mineral has been formed during prograde metamorphic events. Previous study shows that the minerals in the alteration zones, including garnet, are depleted in their
30060692|The lower Ord River of Western Australia experiences a tidal range of 5.9 m at its mouth and has a typical "funnel-shaped" or exponentially converging form. The tide within the lower Ord behaves as a standing wave, and tidal amplitude decreases at a cosine rate from a maximum at the mouth to zero over a distance which corresponds to one-quarter tidal wavelength. The point of zero amplitude corresponds to the upstream limit of tidal influence and to the point at which channel convergence ceases. Because of the cosine variation in amplitude, tidal prism decreases upstream at a nonlinear rate. Depth and width convergence rates tend to balance frictional dissipation and produce a condition of equal work per unit area of channel bed by coadjusting with tidal prism. Bedload transport patterns and an upstream increase in sinuosity are attributable to an upstream increase in tide wave asymmetry. In contrast to the Ord, the King River, located within the same region and dynamic environment, is highly sinuous and has parallel banks and a low width/depth ratio. The tide in this channel is similar to a progressive wave. Correspondingly, amplitude is constant from the mouth to a point only a short distance downstream from the limit of tidal influence; tidal prism decreases at a constant linear rate. This situation seems to be attributable to a low value for the ratio of channel length to tidal wavelength.
30065151|Late Miocene (
30068817|We report the results of a magnetostratigraphic investigation to improve the stratigraphical and chronological resolution of the Pondaung Formation of central Myanmar. A total of 98 samples were collected from 45 sites through a 319mthick section at the fossiliferous locality of Yashe Kyitchaung or the Primate Resort (yielding primate species
30085018|A numerical model of the tides in an idealized Cretaceous Seaway of North America is used to calculate the lunar semidiurnal tide for a variety of possible values of controlling parameters. The most important parameters are the bathymetry and boundary conditions. Since the bathymetry of the Seaway is not well known, it suffices to use uniform-depth models. Separate runs are made for depths of 100, 200, and 600 m in a completely closed basin. The largest response is for the 200 m depth, because of a resonance of the Seaway at 211 m. Five additional runs are made for a depth of 200 m and different combinations of tidal forcing, according as the tidal force acts directly on the Seaway (independent tide) or indirectly through the Seaway's possible connection with the Arctic Ocean or Gulf of Mexico (co-oscillating tides). It is found that the independent tide accounts for the majority of the response of the Seaway. This is the opposite of modern marginal seas where the co-oscillating tide predominates. The co-oscillating tide from the Arctic Ocean is very small compared with the independent tide, but the co-oscillating tide from the Gulf of Mexico can be significant. If the Gulf of Mexico is not tidally connected with the Seaway, a radiation condition along the southern boundary is appropriate. This reduces the independent tide of the Seaway by about 20%. The most "realistic" run combines a northern boundary open to the Arctic Ocean, an independent tide in the Seaway, and a radiation condition on the southern boundary. The maximum range of the tide elevation that results is 86 cm, and the maximum current speed is 10 cm
30068438|The Mima mounds occur on certain prairies of glacial outwash in western Washington. The mounds are closely spaced, round or oval, from 10 to 40 feet in diameter, and from 1 to 7 feet in height. The typical mound is a double-convex lens of loose, unstratified, black silt-gravel set in a shallow pit in stratified yellow outwash gravel. Mounds are found only where a thin layer of soil overlies a compact bed of gravel, not on deep prairie soils. The Mima mounds are formed by pocket gophers (Thomomys talpoides) over long periods of time. Gopher activity in any particular place destined to become a mound site starts with intensive burrowing, such as that required in the construction of a nest, which loosens the soil and stimulates the growth of vegetation. The vegetation, in turn, furnishes food for the gophers and encourages them to concentrate their activities in the vicinity. A stage is reached where the gophers find sufficient food on the mounds to maintain them the year around, making it unnecessary for them to forage, except at rare intervals, into the intermound depressions. In deep burrowing to create living quarters gophers dig a shallow pit in the stratified gravel beneath each mound. The smaller elements in the stratified gravel removed by deep burrowing become mixed with silt to form the substance of the mound lens. Stones too large to be moved by the gophers are undermined and settle to the bottom of the mound. In shallow exploratory burrowing in the peripheral zone the gophers do not undermine large stones but remove soil from about them, eventually leaving them exposed on the surface of the ground.
30061148|Ultrabasic clasts in a lunar breccia have internal oxygen isotopic fractionations reflecting an igneous origin with no evidence of isotopic redistribution in subsequent metamorphism or recrystallization.
30056839|Both potash- and soda-feldspar end-members are believed to be trimorphous. The Millard-Michel Lvy theory of submicroscopic twinning and the theory of polymorphism are considered to be independent. The former is not competent to explain the results of thermal analysis or the cusps in the thermal expansion curves. The consequences of trimorphism, including perthites of two generations, are discussed.
30062158|Eclogite xenoliths from kimberlite have long been considered as products of crystallization of basaltic magmas within the upper mantle, and the Ca/(Ca + Mg) and Fe/(Fe + Mg) values of garnets in some suites have been interpreted as representing a fractionation sequence. Many recent studies, however, have concluded that some xenolithic eclogites have originated by subduction of oceanic crust. We show that coesite and/or sanidine occur throughout virtually the entire compositional range of mantle-derived eclogites, although in igneous crystallization models these minerals should be present only in the more "evolved" (i.e., Ca- and Fe-rich) compositions. The distribution of these two minerals constitutes petrographic and major element evidence consistent with an origin for these eclogites through subduction of altered oceanic crust, without subsequent partial melting.
30058863|The Ritter region lies near the crest of the Sierra Nevada, southeast of Yosemite National Park, California. It is composed of an "attached roof remnant" which consists largely of metamorphosed pyroclastic rocks that have been invaded by small forerunners of the Sierra Nevada pluton. The composition and structural relations of the various rock masses are discussed. It is concluded that space for the intrusions was created largely by forceful displacement of the meta-volcanics. Two directions of regional discordance are noted, and their possible importance to the problem of intrusion is suggested.
30056564|Vertebrate remains from the Pennsylvanian of Illinois have been obtained from deposits of the following types: red beds, sandstone channel fills, gray clays, including nodule-bearing beds associated with coal, black carbonaceous shales, and coal. The types of vertebrates recovered differ widely with the conditions of deposition. This is shown in a review of well-known localities for which new faunal lists are given, based on recent revisions, and of studies of new localities. Additions to the known Pennsylvanian faunas have come from the new localities. The fish faunas are shown to be close to the descendant Permian faunas. Analysis of the tetrapods, which are principally amphibians, emphasizes the inadequacy of the knowledge of amphibians and reptiles from typical Pennsylvanian deposits. It is probable that future work in Illinois will add to the knowledge of the Pennsylvanian vertebrates of the state but the chances of discovering extensive deposits containing well-preserved vertebrates appear to be remote.
30069334|The crevice fillings on the north shore of Lake Superior are irregular in their surface pattern, and the crevices probably resulted from thermal contraction in basaltic flows. The material was derived from erosion of the rocks exposed in the area, mostly basalt and basalt tuffs; but partly from associated felsites. The fillings were washed into the cracks and are older than the flow lying above the filling.
30079884|Large thrust sheets of complexly folded (
30075234|The about 500 km long coastal stretch of central Dronning Maud Land (DML), East Antarctica, is critical for understanding both Gondwana and Rodinia assembly. In common Gondwana reconstructions central DML lies at the potential southern extension of the Mozambique Belt. We report the first extensive geochronological study of magmatic and metamorphic rocks from the area. These new UPb SHRIMP zircon and SmNddata of rocks sampled during the German international GeoMaud 1995/96 expedition indicate that the oldest rocks in central DML are Mesoproterozoic in age. The crystallization ages of metavolcanic rocks were determined at c. 1130 Ma. Syntectonic granite sheets and plutons give ages of c. 1080 Ma, contemporaneous with metamorphic zircon growth at granulite facies conditions. An anorthosite intrusion and a charnockite are dated at c. 600 Ma. Subsequent metamorphism is recorded for at least two different episodes at c. 570550 Ma and between 530 to 515 Ma. The latter metamorphic event reached granulite facies and is associated with the syntectonic intrusion of a granodiorite body at Conradgebirge. Initial 
30058337|This paper is an attempt to apply the systematic principles of geomorphology to an analysis of the land forms of the moon. A comparative approach, based on desert morphology, has both potentialities and limitations. A deductive approach, in terms of structure, process, and stage, is considered more fruitful. In the absence of air and moisture on the moon, the dominant processes at work are slow mechanical disintegration of rock material and its transportation and deposition under gravity. The term "graviplanation" has been introduced. An early stage is the formation of scree at a generally higher angle of rest than on earth, owing to lower values of lunar gravity. Further comminution leads to the creation of flat "graviplanes," each crater acting as a local base level. Protracted transfer of material from higher to lower graviplanes would eventually make the lunar surface entirely smooth. The progress of this cycle is inevitably delayed by meteorite impacts, which re-create relief. While any part of the initial cooling surface remains, differentiation is bound to continue. This is the stage of youth, exhibited by the maria. Maturity follows when the whole surface is crater-scarred, as in the uplands; thereafter, the meteorites strike weakened, instead of compacted, rock, and their powers of creating relief begin to diminish. The proved decrease in their numbers through lunar history accentuates this tendency. The denudational processes gradually become relatively more efficacious. The graviplanation cycle can never have been rejuvenated by marine transgressions. Therefore, apart from lava flows, the moon's surface is entirely the work of a single, barely mature cycle. The extreme slowness of lunar change in comparison with that of the earth cannot be overemphasized.
30062201|Lead isotopes are sensitive indicators of crustal interaction in arc magmatism because of the large contrast in lead concentration between mantle-derived magmas and continental crust and the three independent decay paths in the U-Th-Pb system. Preserved within Wopmay Orogen (1.94 to 1.84 Ga) are the remnants of three magmatic arcs. The isotopic composition of lead in alkali feldspars separated from a diverse suite of samples from all three arcs fall in a relatively tight cluster with
30060889|Mixtures of nepheline, quartz, and halite react in the presence of water at 1 kbar total pressure. Depending on bulk composition, subsolidus assemblages-all coexisting with vapor and/or aqueous liquid-are: quartz-albite-halite, albite-sodalite-halite, nepheline-albite-sodalite, nepheline-sodalite. Below 550C, analcime appears, permitting the assemblages albite-analcime-sodalite, analcime-sodalite, and nepheline-analcime-sodalite. Below 625C, a supercritical saline fluid coexists with solid phases; when the mole fraction of NaCl in this fluid is high, analcime cannot form. Above 625C, an aqueous vapor coexists with a dense
30065020|The thermal stabilities of simple hydrous solids are discussed from a crystal-energy point of view. It is shown that the relative thermal stabilities of such solids are related to the field strength of the cation to which the OH-group is attached. If the field is only moderately strong, then the stability of the hydrous compounds increases with decreasing field strength around the cation which is attached to OH. In other words, the relative thermal stabilities of the hydrous solids are opposite to what one would expect on the basis of the strength of the metal-OH bonds. The reason for this is discussed in some detail. If the field around the ion at which OH is attached is stronger than a certain limit (coinciding with the field around
30058703|Deposits quite similar to natural helictites were formed in the laboratory by allowing solutions of different salts to evaporate. These deposits indicate that natural helictites grow at the free end and assume their crooked shape as a result of the chance orientation of crystals. Artificial formations similar to gypsum flowers suggest that the natural gypsum flowers grow at the attached end and assume their curvature, not as a result of strain, but by a more rapid growth on one side than on the other.
30081203|This article utilizes the general assumption that cliff erosion is dependent on the strength of wave assailing forces and the resistance of the cliff material. It considers the possibility of understanding and describing coastal cliff erosion processes, particularly basal erosion, through a mathematical analysis of one of the clearest manifestations of its action, i.e., the development of the basal cliff notch through mechanical wave action. It analyzes profile change through time, assuming a cliff composed of uniform strata. Deterioration of the cliff is expressed by means of the erosion function, which in this study is related to the cliff erosion rate. An equation, termed the Belov, Davies, Williams (BDW) equation, has been formulated for a moving surface, and this is proposed as a mathematical model of cliff profile change. Explicit solutions of the BDW equation are found for both steady state and timedependent erosion rates. In both cases, it is assumed that wave erosion intensity decreases exponentially with height. Solutions obtained showed that cliff retreat, related to basal notching, depends upon the erosion intensity and magnitude of the geophysical parameters. The model predicted the occurrence of cliff basal notching, the depth of which is comparable to field observations and can be applied to other locations. It is believed the approach and model has the potential to be developed further for other structural contexts such as locations with a variable lithology.
30078286|We present new stratigraphic and petrographic data on the easterly-derived medial Ordovician flysch sequence of western New England and eastern New York State. A conformable relationship exists between the flysch and underlying early Paleozoic continental rise sediments within the western Taconic Allochthon. Farther east in the Allochthon we observe a possibly disconformable relationship. Contrary to previous interpretations, these facts suggest that at any place within this paleogeographic realm the sediments were undeformed and untransported at the initiation of flysch deposition. At least three sources contributed detritus to the flysch: (1) Taconic Sequence sediments; (2) deformed and metamorphosed pelitic, psammitic, and volcanic lithologies; and (3) igneous rocks of dominantly mafic-ultramafic affinities. These three sources are respectively interpretable as: continental rise, accretionary prism, and ophiolitic-volcanic arc assemblages, which are recognized in the regional geology of western New England. There is a progressive decrease in the age of the basal flysch from that within the allochthonous Taconic rocks to that deposited on top of the parautochthonous and autochthonous early Paleozoic carbonate shelf sequence. This indicates westerly progradation of the flysch synchronous with westward transport of allochthonous realms. Truncation of regional folds in Taconic rocks by shelf carbonate slivers on the basal thrust of the Allochthon shows that Taconic rocks were consolidated and strongly deformed well before the end of their westerly transport. The stratigraphic and petrographic data indicate progressive and diachronous east to west thrust stacking, deformation, and metamorphism of paleographic realms during the Taconic orogeny, a medial Ordovician continental margin-volcanic arc collision. They are evidence against emplacement of the Taconic Allochthon as one or several gravity slides detached from their origin.
30084954|Mountain Lake occupies an unusual position on the axis of a breached anticline, where two homoclinal ridges overlook it. The valley of a stream flowing through one of these ridges was apparently dammed by blocks creeping downward from the ridge, thus impounding the lake.
30056605|The metamorphism of siliceous dolomitic limestone is considered with the aid of a composition tetrahedron which suggests that the changes may be referred to thirteen steps or grades of increasing decarbonation, taking place at successively higher temperatures at any given pressure. At the temperature appropriate to each step a certain phase assemblage becomes unstable and each step is characterized by the disappearance of its appropriate phase assemblage. The survival of that phase assemblage in a rock is rigorously indicative of the fact that the step in question has not been attained. In most of the steps, to wit ten, the disappearance of its phase assemblage is accompanied by a more conspicuous phenomenon, the appearance of a new phase, a meta-morphic mineral, but this appearance of a new phase cannot be regarded as rigorously indicative of the accomplishment of the step since the new phase can be produced otherwise. Nevertheless, if certain additional conditions are fulfilled, the new phase will appear only when the temperature of the appropriate step is attained and the metamorphic minerals then become indicators of grade of metamorphism. In the order of the rising temperature steps at which they are produced the ten minerals are tremolite, forsterite, diopside, periclase, wollastonite, monticellite, akermanite, spurrite, merwinite, and larnite. Examination of their natural occurrence suggests that they are for the most part produced under conditions which permit their use as temperature indicators.
30063375|Indurated surficial veneers are a characteristic phenomenon on exposures of unjointed granite in the southeastern states. They are caused by deposition of iron oxides in the interstices between the partially dis-aggregated mineral grains of the "sap" rock at the surface of the exposure. Breaching of veneers produces such peculiar erosional forms as weather pits, cavernous boulders, and pedestal rocks.
30066289|Near Cambria, California, a Franciscan trench slope basin of Late Cretaceous age is intruded by two diapirs of blueschist block-bearing, mud-matrix melange. The rise of the diapirs caused major upturning of the bedded strata within a few hundred meters of the contact and complex interfingering of mud-matrix melange with basin sediments near the contacts. At one locality, a fragment of basin sandstone is observed partially detached from the wall rock. The mud-matrix melange is highly mobile, and the intrusive character during diapirism is clearly analogous to that of magma in igneous intrusions. Diapirism may be responsible for large-scale intercalation of slope and slope basin sediments with subduction generated melange at actively convergent plate margins.
30060799|Petrological and geochemical data have been obtained from silicic metavolcanic rocks, associated metamorphosed basic dikes, and overlying pyroclastic and sedimentary rocks in the Lincolnton, Georgia-McCormick, South Carolina area. The study area is within the Little River series, a western continuation of the Carolina Slate belt. The lower stratigraphic sequence is composed of massive, coarse to medium-grained units locally termed "metadacite" but which chemically might be termed quartz keratophyres. Part of these units represent massive flows or massive tuffs, but some coarsely crystalline portions may be intrusive domes formed in the core of a volcanic center. These are overlain by a sequence of pyroclastic tuffs, crystal tuffs, and lapilli tuffs which grade vertically into argillites. Prominant unconformities are not recognized in these sequences. Chemical analyses and petrographic relationships of dikes and massive volcanics which probably represent magmatic associations demonstrate that these lithologies are similar to those of the primitive island arc tholeiite association. All units are more sodic than normally reported from continental calc-alkaline volcanic belts, or andesitic island arcs. Alteration of the pyroclastic units has caused an increase in
30081289|This study was undertaken for the purpose of determining hypotheses for pothole erosion that could be demonstrated by laboratory experiment. Three types of power circuits, experimentally demonstrated, are used to explain the three types of stream potholes. The bearing of these results on the "moulin" and "grinder" hypotheses is discussed.
30057998|Evidence is presented to show that in a hilly part of Ohio the last ice sheet did not melt back with a definite front, but melted down. The drainage and relief of the region are considered briefly, and the glacial boundary across the area is described. Areas of morainic topography are present north of the glacial boundary, but the location and distribution of these are such that they are not regarded as true recessional moraines. The gravel deposits, which were laid down around ice masses left in the valleys, are described and the conditions of deposition discussed. At least one lake existed which was dammed by stagnant ice.
30059315|Navy Fan is a deep-sea fan forming as a result of the overflow of sediment from San Diego Trough into San Clemente Basin. It appears to have preserved its growth pattern unmodified by the effects of the Holocene transgression or of tectonic activity. Since the beginning of the last glaciation about 56
30060828|In terms of the gross first-order effects of plate tectonics, there appear to be three major classes of coasts and several subclasses, depending upon their position relative to the moving plates of the tectosphere: (1) collision coasts, that is, those on the collision edge of continents and island arcs; (2) trailing-edge coasts, that is, those on the trailing edge or noncollision side of a continent; and, (3) marginal sea coasts protected by island arcs. The trailing-edge coasts range in form from the tectonically new coasts facing beginning separation centers to the morphologically active coasts bordering the debris plains formed from the erosion products of the continents. The good coherence between certain morphologic and tectonic features of coasts was used as a guide in formulating a purely morphologic classification with tectonic implications. The morphologic classification is defined simply in terms of the width of the continental shelf and the relief of the adjacent land forms: (1) mountainous coasts; (2) narrow-shelf hilly, and plains coasts; and (3) wide-shelf hilly, and plains coasts.
30060299|Most living cave streams are misfits, engaged in altering ground plans or chamber cross sections, or both, better to suit their needs, and doing this by familiar procedures of surface streams. The chambers and ground plans undergoing alteration have been inherited from earlier, different, and now vanished conditions to which the caves were adjusted. The alterations are superimposed readjustments to the new conditions. The thesis of William Morris Davis that limestone caves are first and most largely developed below the water table is supported by observational data on cave ground patterns and on numerous features of cave floors, walls, and ceilings. Genetic classification of patterns and features is attempted with the purpose of establishing criteria for both phreat-ic and vadose origin. Nearly 50 per cent of the caves examined in this study possess traits from both experiences, very many have had only a phreatic history, very few are wholly vadose in origin. In many caves an epoch of clay filling occurred after the phreatic solution ceased and before a lowering water table allowed the formation of free-surface streams. Some fills yet remain almost intact, others are fragmentary remnants, still others are recorded only by superimposed wall and ceiling modifications left by the streams which have removed the clay. Most caves are out of adjustment with the topography of their region and therefore are older than the present cycle of erosion. Some caves beneath accepted peneplains seem to date back to the last stages of those earlier cycles. A concept of concentrated subwater-table discharge, physically like the pressure flow in water mains, is argued from the character of the big springs of Missouri and from features of many cave chambers.
30068804|Near-surface metamorphic bedrock at Heath Steele Mines, New Brunswick, was fractured to depths of at least 35 m and possibly as deep as 120 m, during two stages of glacier overriding. Fracturing was accompanied by crack-filling of sediment-laden melt waters, increased pore pressures, freezing, and joint expansion. The upper few meters of the bedrock surface were extensively brecciated and folded. Brecciated bedrock fragments were reoriented as passive strain markers of interstitial ice deformed by subglacial shear. Dynamic glacigenic deformation is distinguished from older structures by: (1) structural associations with direction of glacial movement; (2) fracture infillings of distally derived and striated material; (3) iron-staining along open fractures; (4) near-surface strain partitioning of deformation, and (5) absence of axial plane foliations in fold structures.
30062469|Paleocurrent indicators in thin, shallow marine calcarenites of the Kope and Fairview Formations (Upper Ordovician) in an area immediately west of Cincinnati exhibit great directional variability. Taken collectively, cross-bedding data plot as a polymodal pattern with two pairs of roughly opposing modes: N.-S.SW., and SE.-W.NW.; the vector mean is S.SW. and has a low consistency factor. Stratigraphical grouping of the data produces a significant difference between the vector means of the two formations, although low consistency factors remain; the mean trend of Kope paleocurrents is westerly, and that of the Fairview is southerly. The ripple marks (megaripples) in the calcarenites of the Kope Formation have wave lengths ranging from 43 to 152 cm., and average 81.6 cm. The corresponding dimensions for those in the Fairview are 40, 137, and 70.4 cm. Ripple indices for both formations are slightly more variable than the wave lengths, but the means are identical, having a value of 13.4. A significant decrease in wave length occurs from the upper third of the Kope to the upper third of the Fairview, and is probably related to a general, time-dependent shallowing of a broad tidal sea and a hydraulic energy decrease in the currents which generated the ripples. Sedimentologic and paleontologic considerations suggest that, during early Late Ordovician time, broad shallow banks existed in the Cincinnati area where biogenic carbonate was deposited. A predominantly calcareous lithotope graded into a mudstone lithotope to the northwest. Strong currents flowed on a somewhat irregular sea floor topography, possibly along broad (tidal?) channels trending parallel to one or more of the cross-bedding modes, and redistributed the skeletal debris on the carbonate banks.
30058268|A brief account of opposed schools of thought regarding erosion surfaces is given. It is suggested that the convex break of slope between the flatter part of one erosion surface and the marginal slope of the next lower surface is the main criterion for recognition, on contoured maps, of erosion surfaces. A method3 of altimetric (morphometric) analysis is described, and graphs for a number of Australian and other maps are presented. A recurring pattern, with some variations, is noted on the graphs. In some cases correspondence exists with levels mentioned in the literature of the area. It is suggested that stepped erosion surfaces, to perhaps 2,000 ft. and over, may be a world-wide feature in stable regions, despite the difficulty of explaining their apparent non-deformation. Baulig's suggestion of a measure of universality of geomorphic events is recalled.
30056140|As an answer to the question "What would be the effect upon the wall rocks if a granodiorite magma rich in superheat, alkali, and silica were to be injected into highly foliated meta-andesite schists which are saturated with ground water, the injection taking place in the hypabyssal region?" it is suggested that the schists would be converted into syntectic magma similar to the invading magma.
30063942|The design of a solid-state temperature controller employing silicon-controlled rectifiers which is adapted for hydrothermal experimentation is described. The controller permits the temperature for an experiment to be set from a cold start without significant overshoot, and with a properly designed furnace, temperatures up to 1,000 C. can be readily maintained within
30081199|Leucogranite crops out in the upper Imja Khola, Khumbu Himalaya, Nepal, where it makes up approximately 50% of the exposed bedrock. Leucogranites and their associated aplitepegmatites typically intruded as concordant sills, millimeters to kilometerswide. The exceptional Nuptse granite is an ellipsoidal pluton of nearly 1km radius, which probably resulted from the ballooning of a sill and is wrapped in concordant country rock foliation. Smallscale structures and mineral paragenesis indicate syntectonic intrusion into high temperaturelow pressure sillimanite + muscovite  cordieritebearing country rocks. Penetrative deformation of the country rock and sills is characterized by foliation striking N 60 E/40 NW and by northnorthwestplunging mineral lineation subparallel to fold axes of decimeter to meterscale isoclinal folds and centimeter to decimeterscale kink folds and crenulation. A volatilerich phase played a fundamental role in the development of the Imja Khola leucogranites. It was responsible not only for pegmatitic rocks but also for autometasomatism producing (1) late growth of poikiloblastic Kfeldspar megacrysts; (2) millimeterwide microveins of albite, which replaced magmatic quartz, plagioclase, and Kfeldspar; and (3) growth of tourmaline in schist. The metasomatic origin of Kfeldspar poikiloblasts is supported by textural evidence and K/Na and Ba profiles. The volatilerich phase also played a fundamental role in assisting leucogranite migration. The low viscosity and high pressure of the aqueous phase enabled it to pervade, to disrupt, and to heat up the country rock, giving rise to pathways that permitted the intrusion of the much stiffer magmatic phases.
30062057|Quartz-kyanite eclogites in the Tauern Window of the Eastern Alps contain abundant hydrous phases and carbonates. Glaucophane-kyanite eclogites have been identified, and the relationships among the phases paragonite, glaucophane, zoisite, talc, magnesite and dolomite in association with garnet, omphacite, kyanite and quartz are discussed. Quartz-omphacite-kyanite veins, together with the observation of aqueous fluid inclusions (
30079695|Crystallization is viewed as a kinetic process, the relative "ease" of which is influenced by details of the structures involved. The word "simplexity" is used as a measure of structural complexity. In general, high "simplexity" is synonymous with disorder, or structural simplicity, or high entropy. Nucleation and growth of phases with high simplexity are favored-in many cases over more stable compounds of lower simplexity. The aluminosilicate minerals are examined from this point of view. Available information on laboratory syntheses is used as some measure of "ease" of crystallization. The crystal-chemical similarity of
30069388|Diamonds found in Wisconsin drift in Ohio, Indiana, Michigan, and Wisconsin are proposed to have been carried south from an ancient meteorite crater at present outlined by the Nastapoka island arc in southeastern Hudson Bay. Following meteorite impact, brecciation extended to a depth of about 150 km., and fragments of this mantle-rock breccia, enclosing diamonds, are inferred to have been brought to the surface in a central uplift similar to those found in lunar craters. Following the crater's formation, sediments filled it and were lithified, but these rocks are thought to have slid by gravity from the central part of the crater as it rose isostatically, permitting the diamond-bearing rocks to be re-exposed.
JG80095|Spatial variation of natural conditions (geomorphology, geography, and geology) and human perturbations (deforestation and reservoir retention) in river basins determine the variability of within-basin riverine sediment fluxes. Originally developed to determine a 30-yr normal of sediment load at a river mouth or for a whole basin, the scaling model BQART is validated to predict the sediment discharge from within-basin tributaries. Subbasins of the monsoonal-influenced Magdalena River are used here as case studies. By taking into account spatially variable geological, climatological, and human influences of the Magdalena tributaries, and by incorporating observational data to adjust for floodplain trapping due to a tectonic depression, the BQART model overestimates the cumulative sediment flux of 21 tributaries by 25% compared with observations (
30055881|This is a description of the discovery of Silurian fossils in French West Africa, which for the first time offers definite information regarding the age of the sediments in the great area between the Atlantic Ocean and Timbuctu on the Niger and between the Senegal River on the north and the mouth of the Niger on the South. It describes the most southerly occurrence of Silurian fossils known in Africa and one of the three or four known occurrences of these fossils in all Africa.
30065515|Cenozoic landscape development on the southeastern Australian rifted margin, as recorded by midTertiary basalt flows that preserve ancient landforms, is generally considered to be very slow. EoceneMiocene basalts of the southeastern Australian highlands flowed down paleovalleys, indicating that landscape dissection was already well under way at the time of their eruption. Within the deeply incised Blue Mountains, however, Miocene basalts cap relatively flat hilltops, suggesting that most incision postdates their emplacement. We have studied the controls on these apparent lateral variations in Cenozoic landscape development using both field observations and numerical models. We have mapped the Blue Mountains basalts in detail to reconstruct the Miocene landscape and to quantify both the amount of subbasalt relief and postbasalt incision rates. New geochemical and KAr geochronological data indicate that most of the Blue Mountains basalts were derived from a common magma source and were erupted in a relatively short time span (20.114.5 Ma). Subbasalt relief is remarkably gentle; it does not exceed 100 m for any single basalt cap and is of the order of 200 m for the entire region. This contrasts sharply with a presentday relief of up to 700 m in major river gorges. By comparing the reconstructed midMiocene and presentday topographies, we estimate plateau lowering and river incision rates at <14 and 40 m m.yr.
30081081|Petrologic and geochemical examination of a varied suite of intermediate, mafic, and ultramafic rocks dredged from the deep flanks of the Tonga Trench between 20S and 21S show that the landward slope has not developed by accretion of material from the subducted Pacific plate. The lowermost trench slopes (> 9000 m) are part of a graben in the Mesozoic Pacific plate; the west and east walls of this graben expose normal- and enriched-type ocean-ridge basalts. The distribution of recovered rock types suggests that the shoaler (< 9000 m) nearshore flank is crudely layered from peridotite (up to 8500 m), to gabbro (to 7000 m), to volcanic rocks (7000-5000 m). Peridotites are fresh to moderately serpentinized harzburgites, with some dunite and minor lherzolite. They are distinctly more depleted in clinopyroxene and have more magnesian mineral compositions than are characteristic of tectonite periedotites from ocean-ridges, fracture zones, and many ophiolites. Volcanics from the upper nearshore slope are basalts, andesites, and dacites. Unlike the N- and E-type basalts being subducted, they are most similar to low-Ti, low-Ba arc volcanics from the Lau Ridge and Mariana forearc. Overall, the coherent 4 + km crustal section of the nearshore flank exposed above the structural plate boundary at 9000+ m is geochemically unlike crust generated in mid-ocean. It may be primitive island-arc crust, older oceanic crust modified by island-arc volcanism, or atypical ocean-ridge crust upon which the Tonga arc was constructed. There is no evidence of accretion of material like that being subducted-non-accretion or tectonic erosion are inferred to be the principal processes which have shaped this margin.
30066084|In Indiana the buried Terre Haute Bank extends from the west-central part of the state to the south-central part. It consists of Silurian carbonate rocks several hundreds of feet thick that are dominated by dolomitized reef-derived sediments. More than 100 discrete reef bodies are recognized along what was a broad structural hinge line peripheral to the proto-Illinois Basin. At least two reef generations arose during Middle and Middle-to-Late Silurian time. The reefs, therefore, collectively have Silurian and Devonian (Lower or Middle) covers. Because deep drilling is sparse and limited seismic surveys in the bank area are confidential, mostly indirect evidence must be used for reel interpretation, consisting especially of structural deformation (broad sense) of the rocks encasing the reefs and composing the reef flanks. This deformation was a long-term process that affected even the youngest Paleozoic rocks preserved in this area, and it possibly continued to the present. Diagenesis, including differential compaction, is the most important factor, a conclusion that tempers the sometimes popular ideas on tectonic processes and on early diagenesis. Probably many reefs still await discovery. The range of circumstances that apply to these reefs (in paleogeographic setting, genesis and abortion, and erosion and burial), together with sparseness of deep drilling, suggests that this province is inadequately explored at sub-Mississippian depths for hydrocarbon potential.
30082339|The Spontang ophiolite forms the highest tectonic thrust slice above the MesozoicEarly Tertiary continental margin of the north Indian plate in the LadakhZanskar Himalaya. Detailed field mapping, combined with geochemical analysis, has defined two major units: a full ophiolite sequence (Spontang ophiolite) overlain by an upper unit consisting of >500mthick basaltandesite volcanic and volcanosedimentary rocks of island arc affinity (Spong arc). The Spontang ophiolite comprises a harzburgitic mantle sequence, gabbroic and ultramafic cumulates, isotropic gabbros, and highly tectonized sheeted dikes feeding pillow lavas, with a few uncommon highly fractionated plagiogranites. A separate lherzolitic peridotite unit, affected by possible transformrelated shearing, was thrust over the harzburgites in the west, possibly during the early stages of subduction initiation beneath the ophiolite. Wholerock geochemistry and UPb geochronology show that the ophiolite formed at a normal midocean ridge spreading center during the midJurassic and that the intraoceanic island arc sequence was erupted on top of the oceanic basement during the Campanian. The Spong arc is interpreted to have formed above a northwarddipping subduction zone that was responsible for the obduction of the Spontang ophiolite during the Late CretaceousEarly Paleocene. Although the Spong arc shows many similarities to the andesitic Dras arc within the Indus suture zone, structural, tectonic, and palaeomagnetic constraints indicate that the Spong arc was a separate intraoceanic island arc. This interpretation requires three northwarddipping Tethyan subduction zones during the Late Cretaceous, beneath the Spong arc, DrasKohistan intraoceanic arcs, and the southern margin of Asia, similar to the western Pacific region today.
30060262|The construction of Mackinac Straits bridge has provided new data on the Paleozoic and Pleistocene history of the Mackinac region. The bedrock includes carbonates, chert, shale, and gypsum of late Silurian and middle Devonian age. Leaching of salt in the Pointe Aux Chenes (Upper Silurian) formation permitted the collapse of overlying rocks and produced the Mackinac breccia, but brecciation was not so intense or of such great magnitude as suggested in earlier studies. The breccia has been reconsolidated by loading under younger sedimentary rocks, recemented by secondary calcite, and perhaps additionally compacted by loading under glacial ice. The breccia has a bearing capacity considerably in excess of the load imposed by the bridge. Glacial deposits above bedrock are till and lacustrine clays of the Valders glacial substage, although older glacial deposits occur on the northern sides of the submerged Mackinac River gorge and a tributary channel. A buried sea stack encountered in probing indicates a level of only 152 feet A.T. for the lowest water level of the Lake Chippewa-Lake Stanley low-water stage. No unusual construction problems were encountered during the removal of the glacial overburden or in the emplacement of the foundations on bedrock. Subsidiary problems of ice pressure and thrusting, wind, and currents are compensated for in the engineering design of the bridge.
30079885|Quantification of morphology of bedding-parallel and transverse (or "tectonic") stylolites from the southern Appalachians reveals that, regardless of tectonic setting or stylolite orientation, lithologic heterogeneity controls stylolite development. For example, stylolites in more heterogeneous carbonate lithologies (packstones and grainstones) are more serrate than those in wackestones and mudstones. Similarly, early-forming stylolites are more serrate than late-forming stylolites, and computer simulations suggest that decreases in porosity or other lithologic heterogeneity cause the less serrate nature of late-forming stylolites. The linkage of a stylolite's morphology to its time of development should allow field estimation of timing of stylolitization and thus of timing of loading or compression. Although bedding-parallel and transverse stylolites generally result from different kinds of compression, morphological relations indicate that their development follows the same fundamental patterns. Bedding-parallel stylolites are, on average, thicker and less serrate than transverse stylolites, but that difference may only reflect the development of some bedding-parallel stylolites in clay-rich beds. Bedding-parallel stylolites can predate or postdate transverse stylolites that they intersect, illustrating that bedding-parallel stylolites, which are commonly considered "diagenetic," can have a tectonic origin, either from loading by thrust sheets or from loading by orogenically derived sediments. Transverse stylolites, which provide the best record of the lithology in which pressure dissolution began, are found in host rocks with insoluble residue contents ranging from 2 to 21 wt %. The broad range of clay contents disproves previous claims that stylolites form only in clay-poor carbonate rocks, and it suggests that the role of clays in pressure dissolution may depend on whether clays are the only source of permeability in the host rocks.
30079899|This paper is an attempt to measure our understanding of volcano/atmosphere interactions by comparing a box model of potential volcanogenic aerosol production and removal in the stratosphere with the stratospheric aerosol optical depth over the period of 1979 to 1994. Model results and observed data are in good agreement both in magnitude and removal rates for the two largest eruptions, El Chichn and Pinatubo. However, the peak of stratospheric optical depth occurs about nine months after the eruptions, four times longer than the model prediction, which is driven by actual SO
30065003|Approximately 55% of the Adirondack highlands is underlain by granitic to tonalitic rocks that can be subdivided into five groups based on age, composition, and field occurrence: (1) early calcalkaline tonalites (ca. 1300 Ma) and associated granitic rocks (ca. 1250 Ma) of the southern and eastern highlands, (2) older anorogenic plutonic rocks (1145-1160 Ma) that occur throughout the highlands, (3) younger anorogenic plutonic rocks (ca. 1130 Ma) that envelop anorthosite massifs in the central highlands, (4) younger granitic rocks (1095-1105 Ma) of the northwest highlands, and (5) late leucogranitic rocks (1060-1080 Ma) that occur throughout the northern highlands. The data presented here are in good agreement with zircon ages from the Green Mountains of Vermont as well as from southern Ontario and Quebec and suggest similar geologic histories for these regions. These results document a protracted and complicated evolution for this portion of the Grenville Province.
30071222|A marine hyperpycnal plume is a particular kind of turbidity current occurring at a river mouth when the concentration of suspended sediment is so large that the density of the river water is greater than the density of sea water. The plume can then plunge and possibly erode the seafloor to become self-maintained for a particular period of time (hours to weeks). Frequency of hyperpycnal plumes emanating from river discharge can be predicted with knowledge of rating curve characteristics, particularly during flood conditions. Examples of these curves are shown for middle-sized North American rivers. Semi-empirical relationships among average discharge, average sediment concentration, and the discharge during flood are proposed and applied to 150 world rivers. Results show the importance of small and medium sized rivers in their ability to trigger underflow at their mouth. There are at least nine "dirty" rivers that may trigger underflows during one or more periods of the year. Most other rivers are cleaner and have hyperpycnal plumes only during floods. Large rivers do not generate underflows at their mouth because sediment retention within their expansive coastal flood plains effectively reduces the upper limit of the suspended concentration. Underflow transport may be an important process in marine-delta construction and should be considered in sedimentary basinfill modeling. Proposed equations and nomograms may assist engineers in infrastructure design seaward of a river mouth.
30061081|Ussingite is unstable at 1 kb total pressure in the system
30057997|Bowen, Miller, and Balk have proposed theories of the origin of the Adirondack anorthosite. These theories have been discussed by many geologists. Certain aspects of their proposals are applicable to the rocks of that region. I believe that there is sufficient evidence to question whether the problems there are completely understood and solved. This paper, therefore, is a discussion of four chief theories, with the conclusion that Balk's views are the most satisfactory at the present time. There are, however, several difficulties with his postulates.
30056995|Waves out at sea, though usually forming a complex pattern, have essentially the same characteristics over large distances. Upon entering shallow water, these waves are transformed under the influence of bottom features, and such transformations may be so marked that breaker heights may vary greatly over short distances along the shore. The effect of bottom features upon waves can largely be interpreted in terms of a simple physical process-wave refraction. In turn, wave refraction may be responsible for alteration of the bottom features by accumulation or removal of sediments and, in this manner, be an important factor in beach erosion. In this report the role of wave refraction is first reviewed in the light of other processes affecting the transformation of waves in shallow water. The mechanism of refraction is illustrated by means of a few idealized examples, such as the refraction pattern along a straight uniformly sloping beach, over a submarine canyon and ridge, and around a headland. Next it is shown that extreme variations in breaker height along the beach north of La Jolla, California, can be computed for typical swell conditions, taking the complex local bottom topography and the orientation of the coastline into consideration. These changes are computed from refraction diagrams for typical swell conditions, and they compare favorably with observed changes in wave height, thus indicating that wave refraction is the primary mechanism controlling changes in wave height along a beach, and that friction, diffraction, and other processes can be of secondary importance only. Finally, it is noted that the transportation of sediments is dependent upon longshore currents, rip currents, and horizontal diffusion and that all these factors are greatly influenced by the existing refraction pattern.
30060278|The postdepositional sole trails of Flysch psammites occur only in thinner beds up to a thickness particular to each species. This proves instantaneous deposition of the individual beds, as postulated by the turbidity-current theory. The majority of the sole trails are predepositional mud burrows washed out and sand cast by turbidity currents. Thus erosion of an unusual type must have preceded every turbidite sedimentation.
30068865|The Baker Lake Group (Baker Sequence) represents the record of the formative stage of Baker Lake Basin, a series of generally elongate, northeaststriking, halfgraben, and faultbounded troughs filled with continental redbeds and coeval voluminous ultrapotassic volcanic rocks. An estimate for the time of basin initiation is given by a UPb (zircon) age of
30068485|The dominant products of subglacial volcanic eruptions in Iceland are pillow basalt and sideromelane tuff. Physical and thermal studies of these materials indicate that rapid heat transfer from magma to ice takes place during the eruption. Heat from the cooling magma is more than sufficient to melt the volume of ice displaced by the growing volcanic pile. The mechanism by which the eruption switches from effusive (pillow basalt) to explosive (tuff) involves magma vesiculation combined with rapid chilling by meltwater. The transition is somewhat pressure dependent, generally occurring at water depths of 100-200 meters.
30064998|Data on mass-age distributions and latitudinal limits of Mesozoic-Cenozoic shelf carbonate, on Cenozoic deepening of the CCD in all major ocean basins, and on the abundance of pelagic chalk in epicontinental carbonate sequences, indicate that the primary locus of global limestone deposition has gradually shifted from shallow cratonic to deep oceanic settings since Jurassic time. This change is generally coincident with progressive emergence of continents during global regression as well as with taxonomic diversification of calcareous plankton, and implicates one or both processes as the primary control on carbonate sediment partitioning between shallow and deep marine reservoirs. Widespread pelagic carbonate does not occur with Phanerozoic ophiolite sequences until the late Mesozoic and generally corresponds to origins of planktonic foraminifera and diversification of coccolithophorids. Similarly, cratonic chalk is largely re-stricted to Cretaceous sections. Correlation of Mesozoic-Cenozoic positions of the CCD and global sea level, lack of carbonate in pre-Mesozoic lowstand ophiolites, and the restricted presence of epicontinental chalk in highstand sequences imply that patterns of carbonate deposition primarily reflect subequal but nonconcurrent influences of biological and eustatic processes in determining sites of carbonate accumula-tion. Available data suggest deepening of the global CCD throughout much of the Phanerozoic in response to planktic evolution, with shorter-term change correlative with variation in continental freeboard. The descending CCD intersected relatively narrow ridge crests about 300 m.y. ago, and significant deep-sea pelagic carbonate accumulation began concurrent with increased plate spreading about 150 m.y. thereafter. Continued biologic-eustatic control on cratonic-to-abyssal carbonate transfer suggests near cessation of platform carbonate accumulation in about the next 100 m.y. and eventual destruction of the cratonic carbonate reservoir via subduction.
30066254|A whole rock Rb-Sr isochron age of
30060384|The evidence of a recent negative shift of the strand line in the Fiji and Tonga Islands is indicated by the presence of shore benches and elevated sea caves and coral reefs. The amount of shift appears to have been from 8 to 15 feet.
30063960|Crystallization experiments under highly reducing conditions of synthetic material of mean Apollo 11 rock composition yielded: ilmenite in at 1,150 C; clinopyroxene in at 1,130 C, plagioclase in at 1,120 C. The same sequence of crystallization for the A pollo 11 vesicular ferrobasalts was interpreted from the mineral textures. The low liquidus temperature, narrow crystal-liquid interval, and delayed appearance of plagioclase are interpreted by crystallization from a magma formed by remelting of a mixture of accumulated pyroxene and ilmenite crystals in a liquid which has undergone advanced fractional crystallization. Under the Sea of Tranquillity, a residual ferrobasaltic liquid was formed by fractional crystallization of ultrabasic magma deeper in the moon. Heavy ilmenite and pyroxene crystals sank in the liquid, while light plagioclase floated to augment a crust. Meteorite impact blasted away the plagioclase-rich crust and released a ferro-basaltic magma formed by melting of ilmenite and pyroxene into the differentiated liquid. Fractional crystallization of a molten moon of modified chondritic composition yielded a small metallic core surrounded by pressure-stable, Mg-rich olivine and pyroxene. The fractionated liquid became Fe-and Ti-rich. Primitive ultrabasic crust in the highlands was augmented by dominant plagioclase-rich cumulates. The preferential occurrence of large irregular seas on the earth side of the moon is explained by differential tidal attraction of the late liquid fraction, and release by meteorite impact. The model can satisfy the density and moment of inertia of the moon if the olivine is Mg-rich. Early removal of radioactive material from the center by fractional crystallization, and enhancement of radiative heat transfer in volatile-free silicates would ease the problem of cooling the center of the moon. The low volatile content of A pollo 11 rocks may be a feature of the entire moon, permitting high rigidity and refractoriness. Incorporation of metal-seeking elements into a metal core, loss of volatiles from a hot surface, and crystal-liquid fractionation can explain some element concentrations of A pollo 11 rocks. Nevertheless the low density of the moon indicates a low Fe content of the primary material of the moon. Although there are no'meteorites which match the Apollo 11 rocks in all chemical and textural respects, several types have one or more features in common.
30063979|Relict algal nodules (rhodolites) have been found in abundance at one locality on the South African continental shelf. The nodules average about 5 cm in diameter and are dominated by the alga Archaeolithothamnium sp. Average nodule composition is about 79% high-Mg calcite and 21% aragonite. The large amount of aragonite is contained in the algal skeleton and is believed to be diagenetic in origin. Nodules dredged from 115 and 120 m have been dated as
30063419|Structures which resemble those previously described by glass technologists have recently been found on joint surfaces in Tasmania. The structures consist of concentric "ripples" (rib marks) crossed by arcuate, minor fractures (hackle marks); they are probably of tectonic origin but may have been formed by artificial impact.
30064696|Some rock series cannot be properly classified either as alkalic or as sub-alkalic. To meet this situation a simple extension of the present twofold classification is proposed; this takes the form of a fourfold division into alkalic, alkali-calcic, calc-alkalic, and calcic groups. It is shown, from a partial graphical representation of thirteen rock series, that the silica value at which the curves for total alkalis and for lime intersect (the alkali-lime index) is characteristic of a rock series and is of classificatory value. From a consideration of the curves of the thirteen rock series and their mineral assemblages, limits are suggested for the proposed four groups in terms of the alkali-lime index and of characteristic minerals. Other classifications of rock series are briefly noticed, and it is observed that they are dependent on a chemical and mineralogical classification. Since an ideal genetic classification is not in sight, it is concluded that a somewhat closely defined, descriptive fourfold grouping on a chemical and mineralogical basis may be more useful than the present rather vague twofold division.
30056300|A fine network of aplites, pegmatites, and veins, together with partially assimilated granitic xenoliths, reveals the progress of differentiation within a set of lamprophyric dikes. First, intratelluric augite and biotite were replaced by pargasite, with simultaneous precipitation of more pargasite and of intermediate plagioclase and saussurite. These were followed by albite as aplite, by microcline and muscovite as micropegmatite, and by epidote and calcite as veins. A quantitative analysis shows that the dike rock corresponds to Camptonose III.I.5.3.4, and suggests that the average amphibole is low in lime and perhaps high in potash.
30058564|Results of hundreds of new radioactivity determinations on rocks and minerals plotted on frequency-distribution curves lead to lower probable rates of heat production than were estimated previously. This may be due in part to nonrepresentative sampling, and the need for more abundant data is emphasized. For this purpose analyses for radium alone are not satisfactory. A rapid means of obtaining the rate of heat production from a single measurement of the rate of emission of -rays, developed in 1939, is described and applied. Owing to similarity in the rates of a-ray emission and in the rates of production of heat of the thorium and uranium series at their normal abundance ratios in rocks, the rate of heat production from disintegrations in these series may be calculated by means of the single equation, H1 = 2.15a calories per gram per million years (Th/UI assumed to be 3.5, and a the observed rate of a-ray emission in alphas per milligram per hour). It also appears to be satisfactory to assume that the percentage of K2O equals 2.5a, so that the total heat production, H, equals 2.25a cal/gm/My.
30062337|Two previously unmapped ultrabasic breccias-the Harris Bay and Ard Mheall breccias, in the Rhum layered complex-formed by upward intrusion of feldspathic peridotite magmas rather than by settling of cumulus crystals and fault-scree blocks into a faulted zone in the layers. The Harris Bay breccia was formed by forceful intrusion, the Ard Mheall breccia by comparatively gentle disruption. Olivine (
30068175|Approximately 18,000 feet of sediments, divisible into six members, and 27,000 feet of volcanics below and above these sediments make up the early pre-Cambrian geologic column in the Savant Lake area. These rocks have been folded, intensely faulted, and subjected to at least one period of granitic intrusion and two periods of basic dike intrusion. In the sediments, and especially in the lavas, primary structures were found to be of great value in working out the structure. Correlation was attempted only with the Sioux Lookout and Sturgeon Lake areas. The genesis of the two iron-bearing members is considered. Microscopic evidence suggests the possibility of formation through selective replacement by hydrothermal solutions. Other evidence points to a syngenetic origin.
30064964|Dikes of hornblende lamprophyre up to 10 m thick occur extensively southeast of Cape Harrison, on the coast of Labrador. Many exhibit well-marked layering parallel to their walls. Individual layers can be traced for more than 300 m in flat-lying dikes, but layering is absent in those dipping at more than 30. Some layers are isomodal, some show an increase in grain size upward, while others decrease upward. Other layering results from variations in the ratio of hornblende to plagioclase. Both normal and reverse-density grading occur. The habit of the hornblende crystals is equant in some layers and acicular in others. Both plagioclase and hornblende are often strongly zoned and partly altered. Some of the intrusions contain disturbed and net-veined layers adjacent to undisturbed layers. In the deformed layers, feldspathic material forms a matrix for fragments of hornblendic layers. Layering in igneous rocks has usually been attributed to crystal settling from a convecting magma. However, in these rather thin sheets, the vertical component of such a convective regime seems absent. Instead, a complex process of repeated injections of highly differentiated, volatile-rich magma, with subsequent crystal settling as it moved between horizontal walls, seems to have operated. Subsequent surges of magma acting on a largely consolidated crystal mush caused filter pressing and net veining of some previously layered intrusions.
10.1086/677177|New zircon trace-element concentration data and U-Pb geochronology on gneisses from Colombias Central Cordillera at 6N allow for the recognition of the distinct Anacona suspect terrane separate from the known Taham terrane. These blocks underwent disparate Paleozoic and Mesozoic evolutions involving anatexis, S-type granite crystallization, and metamorphism. Orthogneisses from the Taham terrane basement have yielded a 244  2 Ma mean age (
30065615|Magnetostratigraphy provides unparalleled chronologic precision for long terrestrial sedimentary records. The Siwaliks of the Potwar Plateau, northern Pakistan, present perhaps the best example of a sequence of well dated faunal horizons spanning most of the Neogene in a single terrestrial biogeographic province. Temporal control on fossil localities tied to multiple paleomagnetic sections is ca. 0.1 m.y., less given special conditions of short magnetozone duration or superpositional relationships. New correlations are presented for two long sections in the lower Siwaliks showing the power and the limitations of mag-netostratigraphic correlation within the Siwalik depositional setting. Correlation of Potwar fossil localities to those of an East African section, also dated paleomagnetically, are established with fossil localities from those two biogeographic provinces shown to be coeval on a scale of
10.1086/669248|The destruction of the North China Craton (NCC) mainly occurred in the Cretaceous and has been attributed to a top-down rapid delamination, bottom-up long-term thermal/chemical erosions, or hydration by subduction-released fluids. On the basis of the distribution of one Jurassic and two Early Cretaceous adakite belts and the drifting history of the paleo-Pacific Plate, we propose that three ridge subduction events dominated the large-scale decratonization in the NCC. Both physical erosion and magmatism induced by ridge subduction contributed to the destruction of the NCC; the last ridge subduction, at
30056066|Most of the alkali-rich, lime-poor porphyritic rocks of the Judith Mountains, Montana, contain phenocrysts of a single, optically homogeneous, alkali feldspar (cryptoperthite). A few rocks that are chemically similar to those contain two alkali feldspars; these feldspars are not the result of exsolution or replacement but are orthomagmatic. Textual relations suggest that in some magmas there was a reaction relation between the two feldspars and in others a eutectic relation. Vesicular and intrusive brecciated textures and alkali metasomatism of sedimentary inclusions indicate that the Judith Mountains rocks known to contain two alkali feldspars crystallized from wet magmas; a high pressure of water vapor and probably other volatiles is believed to have been the dominant factor in reducing the temperature of initial crystallization of the alkali feldspars to the reaction and eutectic points. Rocks containing plagioclase phenocrysts of two different compositions may possibly result either from fractionation by mantling or from the mixing of magmas.
30059357|Environmental reconstructions based upon the ecology of a modern species involve two assumptions: (1) evolutionary stability and (2) ecological uniformitarianism. The available evidence suggests that these assumptions are unwarranted. Paleoecological consequences are discussed in brief.
30061127|Dikes and lava flows that cut carbonate sediments have been examined for natural thermoluminescence. Attenuation of natural thermoluminescence is observed in wall rocks associated with Pleistocene or Recent volcanism. The heat gradient produced by lava intrusion evidently has caused a systematic thermal decay of pre-existing thermoluminescence. Since cooling of the lava, partial restoration of thermoluminescence in the immediate contact zone has been induced by natural radiations. The amount of restored thermoluminescence is calibrated in units of absorbed ionizing radiation (rads) while the intrinsic dose rate (rads/ time) is obtained from natural radioactivity measurements. The quotient of total dose and dose rate gives the irradiation time required to produce the recovery thermoluminescence. Ages of 40,000-50,000 years are calculated for Pleistocene dikes of the Uinkaret lava field, Arizona.
30070679|Evaluation and quantification of climate change require data on subseasonal to daily environmental extremes from those periods before instrumental records were available. This study employs a highresolution, multitaxon, multiproxy approach and analyzes how faithfully accretionary biogenic skeletons record environmental extremes. Six specimens of two bivalve mollusks (
10.1086/670730|JurassicCretaceous syn- and postrift successions from the central Apennines were backstripped to gain information on the Mesozoic evolution of the passive margin of the Adriatic Plate. Early Jurassic rifting led to the development of a horst-and-graben paleogeography (the Latium-Abruzzi Carbonate Platform and the Sabina-Umbria-Marche Pelagic Basin). Subsidence curves were built for both carbonate platform and pelagic-basin domains from original and literature stratigraphic data. The paleodepositional depths of the deepwater sediments were reconstructed from field geology data, including new paleontological data. It is proposed that after the deposition of lower Hettangian shallow-water carbonates, an abrupt increase in paleowater depth, to 6001000 m, occurred during the late HettangianSinemurian synrift stage. The postrift stage was characterized by basin filling, with decreasing paleowater depths during the Jurassic, and by a new deepening during the Cretaceous. Our backstripping curves show, for the Sabina-Umbria-Marche Basin, a short period (<5 m.yr.) of rapid tectonic subsidence at the beginning of the Jurassic, followed by very slow (likely thermally controlled) or absent tectonic subsidence until the Cretaceous. The slight increase in subsidence observed from Cenomanian time is linked to a renewal of extensional tectonics. The Latium-Abruzzi Carbonate Platform shows variable subsidence rates in both place and time. Fast subsidence occurred in the RhaetianHettangian, Toarcian, Berriasian, and Cenomanian and is linked with extensional or transtensional tectonic events. After the Early Jurassic rifting, subsidence rates (on average 3040 m/m.yr.) affecting the Latium-Abruzzi Carbonate Platform were faster than those recorded by the Sabina-Umbria-Marche Basin. Faster postrift subsidence in carbonate platform areas is a geological paradox that is here explained by the lateral flow of upper Triassic evaporites toward the deepwater domains, as a result of higher sedimentary loading in the carbonate platform areas and the onset of a pressure gradient toward the pelagic basin at the depth of the evaporites.
30063787|Two sets of conjugate strike slip faults of various sizes and displacements occur in a tightly deformed area in Sistan district, southeast Iran. The smalles angle between the smaller faults of the two sets, measured across the compressional direction, is 40, but between the larger faults of the two sets the angle is as wide as 145. This angular spread is explained by Cloos's suggestion that strike slip faults (like any other shear planes) rotate outward from their original position during the deformation.
30064986|Mantle-derived intrusions are potentially an important source of heat for melting in the crust, yet there are few studies of anatectic melts occurring at the contacts of such intrusions to provide natural analogs. This is a study of anatectic melts developed in a Cretaceous granite at the contact with a 12 Ma trachyan-desite plug in the Sierra Nevada batholith, California, where a detailed textural and geochemical study was possible because the melt is now represented as a glass that has undergone limited devitrification. A Rb-Sr isochron age of
30081268|A multithermochronometer study of basement rocks, using combined PbPb zircon, UThtotal Pb monazite, UPb SHRIMP titanite,
JG80230|The Qilian Orogen records early Paleozoic collisional suturing of the Qaidam Block and the Central Qilian Block to the North China Craton. The composition and U-Pb age of detrital zircons and the composition of Cr-spinels from the Early Silurian Lujiaogou and Angzanggou formations in the northern part of orogen indicate derivation from evolving oceanic and continental source terranes. Heavy-mineral chemistry indicates the incorporation of suprasubduction zonetype ophiolitic detritus in addition to continent-derived material. Integrating these chemical and age data with regional data on the duration of subduction-related magmatic activity, syn- and postcollisional granitic rocks, and high-pressure metamorphic rocks constrains the transformation from oceanic subduction to continental collision to 450440 Ma. The collision resulted in a flood of detritus into the northern part of the orogen from the Central Qilian Block, which masked input from the intervening magmatic arc, implying rapid exposure of the block.
30080191|Successions of paleosols bounded by erosional surfaces in fluvial sediments of the EoceneOligocene strata of Central Oregon can be interpreted as terrestrial equivalents of the unconformitybound units of sequence stratigraphy. In the upper part of the upper Eocene Clarno Formation and in the lower part of the lower Eocenelower Miocene John Day Formation, truncation surfaces separate otherwise conformable alluvial deposits and allow for stratigraphic subdivision into informal members (lower and upper Red Hill claystones in the Clarno Formation and lower, middle, and upper Big Basin Members and lower Turtle Cove Member in the John Day Formation). Paleosols in each member show a stepwise change in the degree of weathering of the most strongly developed paleosols: kaoliniterich, Ultisollike paleosols in lower Red Hill claystones (late Eocene, 4243 Ma), smectiterich Alfisollike paleosols in the upper Red Hill claystones (late Eocene, 4142 Ma), Alfisols and Ultisollike paleosols in the lower Big Basin Member (late Eocene, 3440 Ma), Alfisol and Inceptisollike paleosols in the middle and upper Big Basin Members (early Oligocene, 3034 Ma), and calcic Inceptisollike paleosols in the lower Turtle Cove Member (middle Oligocene, 2830 Ma). These changes across the EoceneOligocene transition are interpreted as representing global cooling and drying of the midlatitudes from Eocene subtropical, humid conditions to Oligocene temperate, subhumid conditions. In central Oregon, these changes appear to be stepwise with climatically stable periods, represented by packages of similar paleosols, of approximately 24 m.y. in duration. Our interpretation of these paleosol packages as nonmarine sequences is not based on correlation with sealevel changes but on correlation with global climate change events. Geomorphic processes influenced by climate and vegetation, and not baselevel change, basin subsidence, or volcanic supply are thought to have controlled sedimentation rates. Thus, the stepwise increase in sedimentation rates across the EoceneOligocene transition in the central Oregon alluvial strata reflect increased sediment yields due to drying climatic conditions. Highprecision
30081053|Metapelitic rocks in the eastern and southern Adirondack Highlands contain two feldspar-quartz leuco-somes that pre-date most deformational fabric as well as granulite facies recrystallization. Whole rock XRF-analyses of these leucosomes yield CIPW norms which correspond closely with experimental melts in the system
30055999|There are many lakes and lagoons in the sandy areas along the southeast coast of Massachusetts, which show a tendency to develop rounded shores of more or less oval outlines with their long axes in the direction of the greatest wind velocities. These forms are here regarded as results of normal shore processes, primarily of wave erosion, but they can fully develop only under especially favorable circumstances. Possible relationship to the supposed meteorite scars of South Carolina is discussed.
30058829|The distribution and concentration of secondary lime concretions and the abundance and state of preservation of fossil mollusks in loess may be utilized to distinguish units of relatively slow and fast deposition in seemingly uniform deposits.
30063034|With the aid of two triangular diagrams based on "as-received" ash-free proximate and ultimate coal analyses, a figure is drawn which shows in empirical fashion the relative losses of certain coal constituents during the coalification process. One of the triangular diagrams apparently offers a practical graphical scheme of coal classification.
30071519|In six out of seven cores investigated, a correlation was found between log per cent NaCl and depth in core. The relationship is probably due to compaction of the sediment, resulting in a decrease in the interstitial water content with depth. Use of a simple constant correction factor for transformation of core analyses to a salt-free basis will therefore lead to inaccuracies in the transformed data.
10.1086/682047|One century ago, in 1915, Harder and Chamberlin established the stratigraphy on which the geology of the Quadriltero Ferrfero of Minas Gerais is based. One of their key observations was the occurrence of metavolcanic rocks in spatial association with the Itabira iron formation, an observation that has been ignored by most authors. Crucial for the understanding of the geology of the Quadriltero Ferrfero, but equally ignored, is a 400-m-thick unit of amphibolite that rests immediately on the Itabira iron formation, also known as the Cau Itabirite. Here, we revitalize the Stio Largo amphibolite by indicating its basaltic affiliation. We present new results of U-Pb dating of zircon and rutile that show that the amphibolite protolith, which covered an erosional surface on the Cau Itabirite, is ca. 2.18 Ga old and underwent metamorphic overprint at ca. 500 Ma.
30080145|The Shawmere anorthosite occurs in the Kapuskasing belt of high-grade metamorphic rocks in northern Ontario. Reconnaissance mapping revealed that the
30065657|The McCullough Peaks section of the Willwood Formation in the northern Bighorn Basin, Wyoming, has produced a rich fossil record of early Eocene mammals spanning much of the Wasatchian land-mammal age. The Wasatchian is an especially significant period in mammalian evolution since it marks the first appearance of several modern orders of mammals including Perissodactyla, Artiodactyla, and true Primates. Magnetostratigraphic analysis of paleosol horizons in the McCullough Peaks region is used to correlate Wasatchian land-mammal zones to the geomagnetic polarity time scale. A total of 135 paleomagnetic samples were analyzed from 37 levels in a 1480 m section that ranges from Wasatchian zone Wa-0 (earliest Sandcouleean subage) to the base of zone Wa-7 (earliest Lostcabinian subage). Progressive thermal demagnetization of samples from red (B type) and mottled red/gray (AB type) soil horizons provides the most reliable results. The characteristic magnetization is carried by hematite with unblocking temperatures between 400C and 680C. Fine-grained hematite and magnetite are also present and carry a strong present-day overprint. Magnetostratigraphic correlation indicates that Wasatchian zone Wa-0 (earliest Sandcouleean subage) to middle zone Wa-5 (Bunophorus interval-zone) correlate with Chron C24r, middle zone Wa-5 to middle zone Wa-6 (Lysitean subage) correlate with Chron C24n.3n, late zone Wa-6 correlates with Chron C24n.2, and early zone Wa-7 (Lostcabinian subage) correlates with Chron C24n.lr. These results indicate that the last zone, Wa-7 (Lostcabinian subage), may represent as much as one-half of the Wasatchian land-mammal age, while earlier zones Wa-0 to Wa-6 (Sandcouleean-Lysitean subages) together span only 2.4 m.y. of early Eocene time.
30060529|North American igneous rocks are shown to be universally lighter in color (and therefore also in density) than European rocks of the same kind. Curves are given showing this color difference for granites, granodioritic-granites, rhyolites, gabbros, and basalts. Since an insufficient number of modal analyses is available, use was made of the ratios of light to dark minerals in the norm, for this ratio is practically the same as the ratio in the modes.
30058635|In northwestern Arkansas the Fayetteville shale, Middle Chester in age, consists largely of fissile, carbonaceous clay shale with limestone lentils restricted essentially to the lower part of the formation. The shale contains argillaceous, calcareous, limonitic, and gypsiferous concretions. The argillaceous concretions are small epigenetic nodules, and occur sporadically throughout the shale. The calcareous concretions are clay-ironstone, usually septaria, and have originated by replacement of the limestone lentils in the lower part of the shale. They are the most numerous and largest concretions in the Fayetteville shale. The limonite and gypsum concretions are restricted to the lower part of the shale and represent alteration of the clay-ironstone concretions. The limonite concretions are relatively common, but the gypsum concretions are rare.
30065710|Ion microprobe U-Pb dating of zircons from the Ltzow-Holm Complex (LHC) and the Yamato-Belgica Complex (YBC), East Antarctica indicate high-grade regional metamorphism and associated folding of LHC occurred between
30061937|As magmas rise toward the surface, they traverse regions of the mantle and crust with which they are not in equilibrium; to the extent that time and the intimacy of their physical contact permit, the melts and country rocks will interact chemically. We have modeled aspects of these chemical interactions in terms of ion-exchange processes similar to those operating in simple chromatographic columns. The implications for trace element systematics are straightforward: the composition of melt emerging from the top of the column evolves from close to that of the incipient melt of the column matrix toward that of the melt introduced into the base of the column. The rate of evolution is faster in the incompatible than the compatible elements and, as a result, the abundance ratios of elements of different compatibilities can vary considerably with time. If diffusion and other dispersive processes in the melt are negligible and if exchange between melt and solid rock is rapid, extreme fractionations may occur, and the change from initial to final concentration for each element can be through an abrupt concentration front. Integration and mixing of the column output in a magma chamber or dispersive processes within the column, in particular the incomplete equilibration between matrix and fluid due to the slow diffusion in the solid phases, may lead to diffuse fronts and smooth trace element abundance patterns in the column output. If the matrix material is not replenished, the chromatographic process is a transient phenomenon. In some geological situations (e.g., under island arcs and oceanic islands), fresh matrix may be fed continuously into the column, leading to the evolution of a steady state. Aspects of the geochemistry of ultramafic rocks, island arc lavas, and comagmatic alkaline and tholeiitic magmas may be explained by the operation of chromatographic columns.
30080865|A thin-section analysis provides an unbiased estimate of the areal composition of the surface measured. A randomly chosen area provides an unbiased estimate of composition by volume. Orientation of the rock or of the thin section with regard to some structure element of the rock may improve or reduce the efficiency of the sampling but will not in itself bias the result. The tradition that only unoriented or weakly oriented rocks are suitable for modal analysis is unfounded.
30080207|The thermal impact of magmatic underplating at various crustal levels is studied along a traverse through the IvreaVerbano Zone and StronaCeneri Zone in northern Italy. Geochronological and petrologic data are compared to a twodimensional thermalkinematic model. Field data and numerical simulation show the strong disturbance of the temperature field in the lower and intermediate crust in relation to magmatic underplating leading to granulite to amphibolitefacies metamorphism as well as reequilibration of mineral chemical and isotopic systems. Magmatic underplating leaves a crust with an apparently heterogeneous tectonometamorphic evolution, as information on the earlier history is preserved only at upper crustal levels.
JG80008|Two prominent, Ordovician, altered volcanic layers, the Deicke and the Millbrig K-bentonites, crop out over a wide area of North America. These beds have been correlated over selected portions of North America but have not been successfully correlated throughout the entire Mississippi Valley, southern Appalachians, and New YorkOntario region. A dual approach that used trace element compositions and Sr isotopes in apatite phenocrysts was applied to Deicke and Millbrig candidates from this large region. Major (Ca, P, F) and minor (Mg, Mn, Cl, Fe, Sr, Si) concentrations within apatite phenocrysts were determined by electron microprobe analysis. Mg, Mn, and Cl proved to be the most diagnostic elements to distinguish apatite between the Deicke and Millbrig K-bentonites. These three elements have a restricted range in concentration within Deicke apatite whereas they vary significantly within Millbrig apatite and define three major clusters. Two of the Millbrig clusters appear to be mostly limited to the middle portions of the bentonite, whereas the third cluster appears to be largely restricted to apatite from the upper portion of the bentonite, based on analyses from a vertical profile within a thick bed from Hagan, Virginia. It is thus suggested that the Millbrig K-bentonite is composed of multiple eruptions or was derived from a chemically zoned magma chamber. Sr isotopic data are consistent with these scenarios (decreasing
30079519|Rocks of the Belt series in Glacier National Park present evidence of repeated sedimentary cycles closely associated with changes in level, sedimentation apparently being marine. Conforming to stages in these cycles several new formations are described and others are redefined. At several horizons beds of fossil algae occur, containing both new and previously described species of Collenia, and species of Newlandia, Weedia, and Beltina. Algal life-forms are closely correlated with sedimentary types, remaining uniform over wide areas.
30079616|A review of current definitions of proper names is presented and a new definition is suggested. Examples of irrational, vernacular, and international nomenclature are constructively criticized. Nomenclature is shown to be intimately tied to the definition, the classification, and symbolic logic and logistic. Rules for progressive nomenclature are presented.
30070729|The modern concepts of the physical constitution of coal involve megascopic recognition of four primary-type coalsvitrain, clarain, durain, and fusainand subtypes due to variations of a microscopic order in the physical constitution of the primarytype coals. Most coal beds consist of composite associations of the primary-type coals. The technique of coal description has, in general, not kept pace with the technique of type differentiation. The validity of type classification has not been fully established by chemical evidence, which evidence, however, is strongly suggestive that the differences are real. The practical significance of type variations in coal lies in the fields of coal classification, coal preparation, and coal processing, including hydrogenation.
30062269|Crescentic, repetitive, and rhythmic cusps found along the Ganges River are essentially similar in form and presumed mode of formation to beach cusps, with two exceptions that are attributed to alongshore river currents: the cusps are asymmetrical and they have migrated downstream. They are called riverine beach cusps to emphasize that beach cusps can form elsewhere than on marine and lacustrine beaches.
30056855|Dolomite concentrates from sedimentary rocks ranging in age from Eocene to Ordovician have been examined by powder and single-crystal X-ray methods. They not infrequently contain about 5 mol per cent excess
30064714|Six separate K-bentonite beds in Middle Ordovician rocks of southwestern Ohio and northern Kentucky have been analyzed for three major and 22 trace elements and the data used as a basis for stratigraphie correlation. Samples from eight cores distributed over a distance of 140 km were analyzed for Dy, Eu, Mn, Na, K, Sm, La, As, Ga, Lu, Sb, Fe, Yb, Cr, Tb, Se, Rb, Co, Ce, Ta, Th, Hf, Cs, Zn, and Zr by instrumental neutron activation analysis and X-ray fluorescence, and the results subjected to stepwise discriminant analysis. Within-layer and between-layer variations in composition were assessed, and a ranking of elements established on the basis of their ability to characterize individual layers. Eighteen elements are sufficient to establish 100% classification in a group matrix of the six beds with the principle assignment contributions coming from Th, Ta, Rb, Cr, Fe, Ga, Yb, and K. To test the stratigraphie usefulness of chemical fingerprinting over more extended distances, seven samples of K-bentonites equivalent to layers 2, 3, and 4 were taken from localities in central and southern Kentucky and northern Tennessee, a maximum separation distance of about 300 km. Layers 2 and 3, also called the Mud Cave (or T-4) and Pencil Cave (or T-3) K-bentonites respectively, appear to be constant in composition with respect to the principle discriminating variables and can be clearly identified. Layer 4 appears to vary slightly but can be distinguished from the other two. It is concluded that trace element fingerprinting is a viable basis for K-bentonite correlation on a regional scale and that discriminant analysis provides a powerful tool for establishing layer identification.
30081072|New U/Pb zircon ages from the Ray Mountains of central Alaska clarify the plutonic history of the Ruby geanticline and support earlier suggestions that the Ruby geanticline and southern Brooks Range were once parts of the same tectonostratigraphic terrane. U/Pb zircon ages of 109 to 112 Ma from the Ray Mountains pluton confirm previously reported mid-Cretaceous K/Ar ages and rule out the possibility that the earliest intrusive phase of the pluton is older than mid-Cretaceous. New U/Pb zircon ages from four granite gneiss samples in the Ray Mountains indicate a Devonian protolith age of 390  12 Ma and suggest that the Ruby geanticline, like the southern Brooks Range, underwent a major plutonic event in mid-Paleozoic time.
30061028|There appear to be five serious weaknesses in Lucke's criticism of the writer's "Revised Classification of Marine Shorelines." (I) He fails to show how the older classification can still be applicable in view of the recent changes in sea-level. (2) He greatly exaggerates the difficulty of applying the new classification largely because of failure to appreciate the assistance which new information in submarine geology gives to this work. (3) He makes various accusations against the writer which are neither supported in his discussion nor from the references which he cites. (4) He classifies shorelines of submergence and emergence on a descriptive rather than on a genetic basis. (5) He fails to give examples or field evidence to back up his opinions, relying instead on tradition and authority.
30081300|The controversy with regard to Minnesota Man is briefly reviewed: in the present state of knowledge the physical characteristics of the skeleton and the cultural objects are not critical evidence of antiquity, which is a geological problem. The arguments that the skeleton is intrusive into the Late Glacial silts of Lake Pelican are expanded and analyzed. Landsliding as a method of intrusion appears to be improbable and, if it occurred, must have been periglacial and hence of almost the same antiquity as the lake. There is no valid evidence of an ancient filled gully by which intrusion might have occurred. The authors conclude that there is a prima facie case for contemporaneous deposition of the skeleton and the Late Glacial silts. Other hypotheses involve acceptance of unreasonable contingencies.
30058238|Under certain conditions of near-shore slope and wave activity, the major seaward drainage of water which has been moved toward the beach in waves and breakers is in the form of rip currents. These currents are particularly well developed along the coast of New South Wales, where they exhibit a systematic form. Each beach has a complete rip-current system which is controlled by the particular features of the beach and which is varied by such factors as the size and regularity of the waves, the tide, and the wave-source direction. Although strict principles cannot be applied to the variations of these systems, it is possible to evaluate the major factors involved and to analyze and predict the forms of each system under variable conditions.
30085056|Major element, trace element, and isotopic composition data for lava samples have been collected from a Holocene stratovolcano in southeastern Alaska. Results indicate that a wide variation in chemical compositions exist (
30066292|A phenomenological constitutive equation can serve as a basis for modeling and classifying mass-movement processes. The equation is derived using the principles of continuum mechanics and several simplifying assumptions about mass-movement behavior. These assumptions represent idealizations of field behavior, but they appear highly justifiable in light of the geomorphological insight that can be gained through modeling application of a mathematically tractable constitutive equation. The equation represents coupled pressure-dependent plastic yield and nonlinear viscous flow deformation components. The plastic yield component is a generalization of the Coulomb criterion to three-dimensional stress states, and the effect of pore-water pressures is accounted for by treating normal stresses as effective stresses. The nonlinear viscous flow component is a dimensionally homogeneous form of a three-dimensional power-law equation. Straightforward laboratory and field experiments can be used to estimate all plastic and viscous parameters in the constitutive equation. Reduction of the three-dimensional constitutive equation to two-and one-dimensional forms shows that it embodies, as special cases, many other constitutive models for mass movement. These include models of creeping, slumping, sliding, and flowing types of deformation. The equation may, therefore, serve as a conceptual basis for rheological classification of diverse mass-movement phenomena.
30063045|The mountains which form the granite batholith of north-central Idaho are of pre-Miocene age, while the Blue Mountains and Wallowa Range of Oregon and the Seven Devils and Cuddy Mountain system of western Idaho are post-Miocene. The latter have been formed by uplift along two post-Miocene faults, which intersect at right angles in the vicinity of Snake River, and the development of the drainage pattern of the region, including the canyon of Snake River, has been controlled almost entirely by these faults.
30068869|To predict erosion rates throughout the Andes, we conducted a multiple regression analysis of the sediment discharge from 47 drainage basins in the Bolivian Andes and various topographic, climatologic, and geologic parameters. These mountainous basins are typically large (1781,000 km
30057865|This paper lists the localities in Hawaii at which nephelite and melilite basalts have been obtained, and includes first records of melilite basalt from Niihau and of nephelite basalt from Kauai. General petrographic descriptions of the nephelite and melilite basalts from Kauai and Niihau are given. On each island, most of these lavas belong to the. main eruptive complex. This controverts the hypothesis that the highly-specialized magmas of the lava domes were developed during minor eruptive episodes which were initiated at subordinate centers during and after the close of the main volcanic period. On Kauai and Niihau, conditions of differentiation appear to have been more or less similar throughout the entire volcanic history, and probably like conditions prevailed on the other domes of the group. The reaction principle, outlined by Bowen, seems to afford the best explanation of the origin of the highly specialized rocks in the lava domes.
30062076|Detailed paleomagnetic and rock-magnetic analyses have been performed on samples from multiple sections through the Cretaceous/Tertiary (K/T) boundary and throughout a 750 m thick sequence of late Cretaceous through middle Paleocene continental deposits in the San Juan Basin, New Mexico. Curie temperatures have been determined for magnetic separates from 52 levels and, with only two exceptions, they range from 180 to 300C. Along with microprobe and X-ray analyses these data indicate that the detrital ferrimagnetic mineral is titanohematite with composition 0.45 < x < 0.60. This magnetic mineralogy indicates derivation of the continental San Juan Basin sediments from a volcanic (probably dacitic or andesitic) source. These mineralogical data, along with other geological data and the pattern of magnetic polarity zonation in multiple sections across the basin, argue strongly for deposition of the late Cretaceous and Paleocene continental deposits in the San Juan Basin as a clastic wedge derived from a source to the north or northwest. Demagnetization experiments, coupled with the mineralogy of the magnetic minerals, indicate that revision of our previous correlation of the San Juan Basin stratigraphic sequence with the magnetic polarity time scale is required. This revision indicates that the K/T boundary (recognized above the highest stratigraphic occurrence of dinosaur fossils) occurs within a reversed polarity zone correlative with magnetic polarity chron 29R. This correlation is consistent with the K/T boundary in the marine sedimentary sequence at Gubbio, Italy. Puercan (early Paleocene) fossil mammals occur within a normal polarity zone correlative with chron 29N and Torrejonian (middle Paleocene) fossil mammals occur within polarity zones correlative with chrons 27N, 27R, and 28N. With this revision, consistent and sequential placements within the magnetic polarity time scale have been accomplished for all North American land mammal ages in the Paleocene through early Eocene interval.
30062451|The northern part of the Shoo Fly Formation, exposed in the northern Sierra Nevada, California, contains a thick and extensive deposit of pre-Upper Devonian age characterized by interbedded graded sandstone and phyllite. The sandstones have mature compositions with more than 90% quartz, rarely more than 10% feldspar, and 5% or less lithic grains. An analysis of quartz types in the sandstones indicates a source in a predominantly plutonic/metamorphic terrane. The quartzose sandstones and interbedded phyllites appear to have been deposited on oceanic crust and the sandstones probably were derived from a Precambrian basement in a nearby continental block. The depositional setting of the quartzose sandstones most likely was a passive continental margin. Lower Paleozoic quartzose sandstones in the eastern Klamath Mountains have essentially the same composition as those in the northern Sierra Nevada suggesting that the passive margin deposit extended northward at least as far as the Klamath Mountains. The lower to mid Paleozoic sandstones in the allocthonous terranes to the east in central Nevada, however, have compositions that are, for the most part, unlike those in the northern Sierra Nevada. The ages and petrology of the Mississippian and older rocks in the northern Sierra Nevada suggest that the tectonic history of the Sierra Nevada block is broadly correlative to lower and middle Paleozoic tectonic events along the edge of the Cordilleran miogeocline to the east. A North American cratonic source for the pre-Upper Devonian quartzose sandstones of the northern Sierra Nevada-eastern Klamath belt is not readily apparent, however, and the origin, relation, and time of accretion of the Sierra Nevada block to the North American continent remains unclear.
30069339|A description is given of the skull and such postcranial material as is known of Edops craigi, a large labyrinthodont amphibian from the Wichita Permo-Carboniferous beds of Texas. The structure of the Edops skull shows this form to be a very primitive member of the Rhachitomi, approaching the embolomerous stage in many structural features.
30067286|Evidence is presented to show that, in the Cranbrook district, the Rocky Mountain trench and the lower reaches of its tributary valleys were not heavily eroded by the ice of the Wisconsin stage and that the ice sheet disappeared from the trench by stagnation and melting instead of by normal retreat. Both of these phenomena are commonly seen along the southern margin of the ice sheet in the United States but are in such marked contrast to what is observed over most of British Columbia, particularly near the coast, that they have so far escaped the attention they deserve in that province. The preservation of the rich Tertiary placers of the Cariboo and Cranbrook districts is due to limited erosion by the ice, so that the recognition of this condition elsewhere in the province may result in the discovery of other equally rich fields.
30056096|The Devonian ammonoid genus Sporadoceras, though widespread and abundant in the Eastern Hemisphere, has not been recognized previously in the Western Hemisphere. A typical representative of it from the Upper Devonian Conewango group of northwestern Pennsylvania is described and illustrated in this paper; the distribution of the genus is discussed; and it is concluded that the Conewango group is probably, in part at least, correlative with the Prolobites-Platyclymenia-Stuie (Oberdevonstufe III) of Germany.
30079919|The estimation of stratigraphic completeness is an essential step in stratigraphic analysis. Stratigraphic successions should therefore always be sampled in the field in ways that make completeness estimation feasible. The use of conventional measured sections is liable to lead to estimation problems, because data from measured sections are prone to distortion by what is here termed spatiotemporal masking: an effect by which variation that is primarily spatial in its nature masks variation that is primarily temporal. This paper describes the origin and significance of spatiotemporal masking and then uses a simulation of stratigraphic spacetime diagrams to investigate the degree to which spatiotemporal masking distorts completeness estimates. The simulation shows that a succession's completeness can only be estimated successfully from measured sections that have appropriately sized field sampling areas; the simulation also shows how to determine the appropriate sizes of sampling area for different types of successions. This paper uses a more general definition of completeness than is customary: the completeness of a succession is defined as the proportion of that succession's spacetime diagram that is not made up of erosion. This definition lets completeness estimation be treated as a standard problem in stereology and lets existing completeness estimation techniques be modified to give practical solutions to this problem.
30068113|The Bighorn Mountain uplift is thought to be a deformed wedge. This is suggested by the overturned strata, with the associated eastward-dipping thrust fault, along parts of the western flank and the previously recognized steep dips, with the associated westward-dipping thrust faults, of the eastern flank. The joints in the pre-Cambrian granite exposed along Five Springs Creek may be grouped into ten sets of original pre-Cambrian joints and two secondary sets that were formed by the Laramide orogeny. Using the data obtainable from the original structures in the granite, it is possible to determine the direction of the compressive stresses that governed the intrusion. This information permits the study of the origin and interpretation of the original joints in relation to these stresses. It is believed that the following systems of original joints were formed during different stages of the intrusion: (1) System A, stage of initial intrusion, but overlapping the following two later stages; (2) System B, stage of predominant lateral spread; and (3) System C, stage of predominate vertical bulging that took place as the granite approached its maximum limits of lateral spread. The two secondary sets were formed during the Laramide orogeny by differential movement between joint blocks bounded b y pre-Cambrian original joints.
30057026|The coast in the vicinity of San Diego is bordered by a shelf only 5-10 miles wide. Near the southern limit of the area, several small islands rise from the outer part of the shelf. These islands have a submarine extension to the north as a low ridge that is cut by a transverse canyon. North of the canyon the ridge forms an isolated, flattened bank that continues as a narrow ridge northward into deep water. Separating the bank and deep ridge from the shelf is a submarine valley having a "drainage" divide in the southern end. North of the divide the valley floor slopes northwestward into San Diego Trough. South of the divide the valley slopes southward, meeting the transverse canyon at a point east of the ridge. An escarpment just west of the islands and the bank forms one side of a deep graben-like depression known as San Diego Trough. A delta-like feature at the mouth of the canyon extends from the foot of the escarpment partway across the floor of San Diego Trough. The relationship of the transverse and longitudinal valleys and of the flat-topped "delta" may provide new information on the origin of submarine canyons. On the inner part of the shelf south of Point Loma is an area of outcropping Cretaceous shale and sandstone only partially covered with unconsolidated sediment. The bank top has another large tract of bedrock that consists of sandstone and shale of late Pliocene to late Pleistocene age, overlain in part by nodules of phosphorite which are Pleistocene to Recent in age. Rock cropping out on the shelf around the islands is lithologically similar to the Miocene rocks of the islands. Gravels are abundant in the various areas of bedrock outcrops and also are present in some areas where no bedrock is known. One tract of boulders and cobbles with only interstitial sand occurs a mile off the mouth of the Tia Juana River; similar gravels, but with much more sand, form an elongate area south of Point Loma. Most of the gravels are covered by delicate growths, showing that they are not being moved at the present time. Possibly they are residual deposits formed during times of glacially lowered sea-level. The finer sediments that partially blanket the sea floor have a distribution that is much more complex than the usual concept of marginal marine sediments. The chief factors that control the distribution are: (1) earlier deposition of coarse sediments at depths now below the effective reach of wave action, (2) present-day currents that by-pass fine detrital sediments and allow accumulation only of coarse calcareous organic sediments, and (3) present-day deposition of fine sands in areas adjoining beaches and of silts in deeper water. The mineralogy of the inner shelf and bank sediments is similar to that of the Pliocene-Pleistocene rocks that crop out on land and on the sea floor; hence they are considered as having been derived from Pliocene-Pleistocene rocks or from the same sources that supplied the Pliocene-Pleistocene sediments. Clastic sediments in the vicinity of Los Coronados Islands appear to be locally derived from the Miocene rocks of the islands.
30063771|U-Pb dating on zircon and monazite from different varieties of leucogranites in the Karakoram Batholith reveals two distinct pulses of plutonism at 25.5 +0.3/-0.8 and 21.4 +0.3/-0.6 Ma. In both granites, these minerals contain inherited components, documenting the presence of Precambrian material in the magma source. A crustal origin of the granites, and long crustal residence times of the source rocks are confirmed by highly negative
30057943|Pedestal rocks of granite, commonly associated with residual boulders, occur at many places in the southern Appalachian Piedmont. The rocks are essentially homogeneous in composition but exhibit marked contrasts in weathering of the cap and the shaft. They have previously been thought to have originated from joint blocks through frost action, rain wash, and decomposition. It is here shown that granular disintegration initiated by expansion through hydration is the dominant process involved. Hydra-tion is at a maximum on the lower slopes where there is some protection from the direct rays of the sun and where evaporation is at a minimum. The pedestal rocks are restricted to peneplains of Tertiary? age.
30063695|A new method for determining the depth of origin of earthquakes is a simplification of the Dutton method, by which it is made more generally applicable. The result of the application of this method to the Italian record is reviewed and compared with that obtained from long-distance records. A comparison of these two sets of figures leads to important conclusions regarding the distinctness and connection of the earthquake which can be felt and the disturbance which gives rise to the long-distance records.
30061080|The anorthosite-norite-syenite complex is interpreted as possible refractory residues from partial melting of various metasediments metamorphosed under granulite facies conditions. Deformation of the crystalline residue is correlated with the extensive crushing granulation and brecciation in the residual plagioclase crystals in the anorthosite. The associated younger granitic gneisses of the Sherman Granite complex in contact with the anorthosite and syenite masses could be formed, in part, from the partial melts extracted from the anorthosite-syenite complex. The large volumes of the Sherman Granite require additional sources for the melt. The proposed partial melting of the anorthosite-syenite system may represent only a portion of widespread regional anatexis 1.35 b.y. ago
30062068|The non-synchroneity of Uppermost Precambrian glaciation in Africa, though it is possible, cannot be deduced from Krner's (1977) arguments.
30060835|Blue-green algal mats have accumulated for over 1,000 years in Kleberg Point Lagoon on the margin of Baffin Bay, Texas. Organic carbon produced within the mats is isotopically heavier than the carbon associated with bay sediments. The difference between bay and mat organic carbon is preserved in the older, buried sediments, and seems to be increased by fractionation associated with anaerobic bacterial decomposition of algal mat organic matter.
30070621|Archeria victori, sp. nov., is an amphibian from the Wellington (Lower Permian) collected near Eddy, Oklahoma. That the specimen represents an animal new to science is borne out by the character of the teeth and the absence of small secondary teeth on the lingual wall of the jaw.
30066087|Manganese nodules made of radiating rods of well crystallized birnessite were sampled at 8 481.2'N, 103 53.8'W, 1875 m below sea level by a dredge that also collected hyaloclastite and basaltic talus. The nodule field is on the floor of a caldera within a young tholeiitic seamount and was discovered and photographed during a deep-two survey. It is interpreted as a brecciated hydrothermal deposit, crystallized from an amorphous manganese oxide precipitate that formed when seawater-based hydrothermal fluids mixed with oxidized seawater. The nodules and surrounding igneous rocks have subsequently been encrusted with hydrogenous ferromanganese oxides.
30062006|Within the Nain anorthositic complex Fe-rich dioritic magma has mixed with and commonly been chilled by granitic magma in several different structural settings. The dioritic magma was residual from associated anorthositic plutons and was essentially anhydrous; most of the granite was hydrous with a composition near the "granite minimum" and probably originated by partial melting of crustal rocks. The commingling of these granitic and dioritic magmas indicates that the massive granitic plutons were emplaced during the solidification of some of the anorthositic bodies. The lower temperature behavior and hydrous composition of the granite magmas argue against comagmatic relations between granite and the anorthosite-diorite association either by fractional crystallization or liquid immiscibility. The generation of large volumes of granite may reflect increased heating of the lower crust related to the emplacement of the anorthosites. Granite magmas appear to have risen through pockets of relatively dense ferrodioritic magma, creating hybrid zones of mixed diorite and granite. Similar relations between granitic and dioritic rocks occur in other anorthositic massifs of the world, indicating that commingling of granitic and dioritic magmas may have been a widespread and important process in the development of Proterozoic anorthosite massifs. These hybrid zones preserve compositions of dioritic liquids residual from the anorthosites. Their recognition and study are therefore extremely important to understanding the evolution of anorthosite massifs.
30071552|A series of structural models, representing portions of the earth's "crust" approximately 10 km. thick and 100 or more km. wide, have been designed, constructed, and operated. Three basic assumptions have been made: (1) stresses are generated and propagated at depth, rather than through the deformed rocks which we see at the surface; (2) most of the displacement in the deep, active zone is horizontal rather than vertical; (3) the deep, active zone can be treated as a set of more-or-less regular "blocks" separated by-faults. These assumptions predetermine, to a certain extent, the structural patterns obtained. The results indicate that a much wider variety of effects can be produced by strike-slip faulting in the basement than might have been thought. These results include considerable sharp vertical motion, relatively little horizontal surface offset of key horizons, difficulty in locating complementary shears, and a number of regional structural patterns of obvious character. It is thought that these patterns can be used in the interpretation of field examples.
30065639|The Kibaran tectonothermal event in East Africa (1400-1200 Ma) peaked at 1300 Ma and was followed by the emplacement of a linear belt of mafic/ultramafic and felsic plutons between 1275-1220 Ma. A series of the mafic/ ultramafic plutons in Burundi from the Congo craton carry a stable paleomagnetic remanence with a mean direction of
30061313|Evidences are cited which indicate a hydrothermal ancestry for the mineralizing solutions. Some of the primary mineral species which suggest such an interpretation are: bornite, enargite, famatinite (?), isometric chalcocite, and primary covellite. Lack of alteration of the wall indicates very moderate temperatures. Several unusual types of structures and textures suggest ore deposition from colloidal solutions. A deep-seated, magmatic source is postulated for these solutions. The proximity of the mines to a major fault belt indicates that these faults may have facilitated the rise of mineralizing solutions from the postulated deep-seated source. The presence, a few miles to the southwest, of igneous intrusives may have significant bearing on the genesis of the ores.
30068751|The 2.7 Ga old high-grade metamorphic rocks of the Jequi Complex of Bahia include charnockites, enderbites, and late pink potassic granites. Mineralogic P-T determinations for the granite terrain yield 4-5 kb/750-850C for the peak of metamorphism. Microthermometry of fluid inclusions in quartz was performed on different rock types. Early
30079640|The apparent increase in complexity of the heavy-mineral suites of arenaceous sediments with decrease in age of the deposit is confirmed by compilation from published records. Such increase in number of mineral species in the younger deposits is due to (a) greater complexity of terrane from which the younger sediments were derived or (b) disappearance by solution of the less stable species in the older deposits. The latter alternative is shown to be the correct explanation, since the order of persistence of the common rock-making heavy minerals worked out from the tabulation is identical with Goldich's "stability series," which is the order of survival of minerals subject to weathering. The stability series is expanded to twenty-five common constituents of sediments.
30061237|The sediment and geochemical data collected by the M/V Gill on the southeastern Atlantic shelf display both single station and areal variability that can be resolved through multiple non-linear regression to obtain meaningful regional and local relationships. The shelf sediments are composed chiefly of sand-sized quartz and mollusk shell debris with minor phosphorite and quartz gravel. From Georgia to Cape Hatteras quartz predominates almost to the shelf-slope break, while to the south shell debris dominates the shelf except for a narrow coastal belt of reworked quartz sand. The outer shelf, slope, and rise are floored with contemporary foraminiferal oozes with glauconite, pteropod tests, bryozoan and coraline algal fragments, and terrestrial silt and clay. The regression surfaces show the following: (1) the mean grain size of both the terrestrial and carbonate fractions decreases seaward with the larger decrease occurring in the former; (2) the sorting of the carbonate fraction decreases seaward while the terrestrial fraction becomes less well sorted to the south; (3) the percentage of carbonate increases linearly to the southeast with the aragonite content decreasing as it is replaced by magnesian calcite; (4) the organic content increases linearly seaward and maintains an almost constant C/N ratio of 15 to the base of the slope; (5) the heavy mineral content decreases linearly southeasterly, with igneous hornblende increasing seaward, and metamorphic minerals increasing southerly. The data support an ineffective southerly longshore drift since Pleistocene low sea level stands. The regional sedimentary geochemical relationships of Ca, Sr, K, P, Al, Mg, Fe are quadratic; Mn is cubic. The regression surfaces increase seaward following the orientation of the shelf and shore. The geometry of the structure and geomorphology of the shelf and shore appear to be controlling the regional textural, mineralogical, and geochemical relationships. Similar controls should be expected from other areas.
30065700|Differential compaction of oolites in the limestones around and lack of compression of the same within most of the chert nodules in the upper part of the Bhander Limestone point to emplacement of silica at early stages of dewatering-compaction. As precipitated, silica was possibly a plastic material and its time of hardening varied within and between the nodules. The degree of deformation of the oolites varied according to the stage of hardening of the silica within the nodules at the time of compaction. Replacement of carbonate sediments took place due to addition of carbon dioxide derived from decomposition of organic matter, preferentially concentrated in the burrows formed by deposit feeders. Silica, on the other hand, was immobilized initially in the burrows by adsorption on organic matter. In all probability, silica was derived by post-mortem dissolution of siliceous organisms trapped in the sediment. Contemporaneous with silicification, dissolved carbonates released from areas enriched in organic matter were reprecipitated in zones lacking organic matter as calcito veinlets, that were subsequently deformed during compaction. Circumstantial evidences are, therefore, consistent with the hypothesis postulated by Siever for the origin of early diagenetic chert nodules in limestones.
30060524|This paper begins with a summary statement of the features of scabland and of the writer's explanation of their origin. In the body of the paper, various criticisms and suggestions are considered in the light of significant field data. Revision of some of the writer's ideas is indicated. The second half of the paper deals with the question of simultaneous development of all channels of the scabland pattern and with proposed tests of the writer's hypothesis.
30060525|Along the south margin of the San Gabriel (California) mountain block alluvial fans have accumulated to a thickness of a thousand feet and more. The whole series of sediments is a unit, still growing, but chiefly of Pleistocene or earlier age. The fans are being dissected, with the formation of fanhead trenches and midfan mesas. The trenching of the fanheads is chiefly a normal, somewhat late feature of the fan development, though recent uplift, indicated by well-preserved fault scarps, has been a factor, and climatic changes may have contributed to the result. The midfan mesas may be the indirect result of faulting now obscured.
30081035|The subglacial genesis of five volcanoes in British Columbia has been confirmed by field and laboratory studies and by comparison with the stapar (table mountains) of Iceland. Two of the Canadian "tuyas" are flat-topped piles of hyaloclastite overlain by basalt flows. These mountains are almost identical in form to their Icelandic counterparts. Three other tuyas are large conical piles of unconsolidated lapilli, two of which overlie vitric tuff and pillow basalt layers, and may be analogous to relatively rare Icelandic subglacial scoria cones. All five volcanoes can be accounted for by eruption into englacial meltwater lakes. The differences in gross morphology and physical composition can be accounted for by minor variations in the relative importance of magmatic versus phreatomagmatic eruption.
30064033|Igneous compositions that require the presence of a phase more aluminous than biotite are here designated as strongly peraluminous (Ps). Such compositions are common but subordinate in felsic rocks and exceedingly rare in more mafic rocks. The term S-type has been applied to many igneous rocks based largely or even solely upon their Ps compositions, neglecting or placing less emphasis on other criteria for sedimentary parentage in Chappell and White's I- and S-type classification system. The S-type designation was in fact initially restricted to granites which were thought to have been derived from a chemically mature (strongly weathered-pelitic, shaly) source. Application of Chappell's and White's criteria, together with others based upon isotopic and phase equilibria considerations, leads to the following conclusions about Ps igneous rocks worldwide: (1) very few Ps rocks are derived entirely from pelitic sources; (2) a majority are derived largely from intermediate to felsic crustal sources, including both immature sedimentary rocks (e.g., metagraywackes) and metaigneous rocks; and (3) some are the products of partial melting of metaluminous mafic (crustal or subcrustal) sources-Ps compositions of such magmas may be a primary feature or a result of fractional crystallization.
30079638|The concept of the river at grade assumes the attainment of a balance between power and load. A critical review of the original sources responsible for this notion of balance in stream work, particularly A. Surell and G. K. Gilbert, reveals that this equilibrium is only a postulate which remains unsupported by observations and that the attributes commonly associated with a graded river, like absence of downward corrasion and efficiency in lateral erosion, are incompatible with the postulate of balance between power and load. Consideration of the common variations in volume of flow and of the importance of turbulence in transportation of debris suggests impossibility of maintenance and even of acquisition of a full load. The customary notion of a graded river as a stream in which equilibrium between power and load is maintained must be discarded, and the term restricted to mean a river without waterfalls and rapids. Discard of this idea of balance in stream work should lead to a better understanding of the role of corrasion, alluviation, and weathering of slopes in valley sculpture.
30080004|Ultrahightemperature (UHT) metamorphism in the Madurai Block of the southern Indian granulite terrain has been verified using the calcitegraphite isotope exchange thermometer. Carbon isotope thermometry has been applied to marbles from a locality near the reported occurrence of sapphirine granulites that have yielded temperature estimates of around 1000C. The 
30070554|Two marginal moraines, the Albion and the Oswego, lying near Lake Ontario and belonging to the recessional series of western New York, were traced with substantial continuity from previously determined points near Rochester to the vicinity of Watertown, and to points farther northeast, where they were lost in the Adirondack forest. Four later moraines of the same series, passing near Watertown, Philadelphia, Gouverneur, and Dekalb, respectively, were followed with some few breaks from the region of Watertown northeast toward the Champlain-St. Lawrence watershed, which passes close to the village of Churubusco. Three of them were followed across the divide and southward along the Lake Champlain slope to the hills northwest of Plattsburg. Part of a still later moraine was found on the Champlain slope. These moraines mark successive re-advance positions of the ice front as it retreated from the basin of Lake Ontario and down the St. Lawrence Valley. They cover the entire duration of Glacial Lake Iroquois and a considerable part of the duration of Niagara Falls. Thus, five new moraines are added to the previously known list which was already significantly long.
30055663|Theoretical and experimental data are herein presented which afford a means of determining to within a quadrant of arc, or less, the direction of the stress which has caused a given deformation, and whether the strain has been rotational or non-rotational.
30059268|The effects of temperature to 300 C, confining pressure to 1 kilobar, stress difference to 138 bars, and increased grain size on the creep behavior of rock salt were investigated. The creep tests were carried out on artificial polycrystalline rock-salt specimens and on one single crystal. An increase in either temperature or stress difference increases the creep rate considerably. An increase in confining pressure or grain size decreases the creep rate somewhat. The activation energy for creep in rock salt was found to range from 125,000 cal/mol at 29 C. to 30,000 cal/mol at 300 C. The creep curves of this work are well defined by the equation
30068022|Exploratory experiments have been conducted to determine the stability range of grossularite garnet,
10.1086/678279|The Heart Mountain slide is the largest terrestrial landslide deposit as yet recognized on Earth. The slide covers an area of at least 3400 km
30079708|Plastic deformation of quartz, as evidenced by undulatory extinction, deformation bands, and deformation lamellae, was obtained in sand, quartzite, and single crystals deformed experimentally in several types of apparatus. Extensive syntectonic recrystallization of flint and quartzite was also produced in experiments at high temperatures. Undulatory extinction commonly occurs in zones subparallel to the c-axis and, rarely, in zones with other orientations. Deformation bands vary considerably in orientation, but most of the bands are oriented subparallel to the c-axis. The lamellae form in three more or less distinct orientations: the most common lamellae are inclined at small angles to the base; a weaker concentration is inclined at 20-60 to the base; and the weakest concentration is subparallel to the c-axis. Deformation lamellae subparallel to the base and zones of undulatory extinction and deformation bands subparallel to the c-axis originate by slip on (0001), accompanied by bending or kinking of the slip planes. Lamellae, bands, and undulatory extinction inclined at moderate angles (20-60) to the base are present only in grains in which the shear stress on (0001) is low. They must be produced by another slip mechanism (or mechanisms) not yet identified. Lamellae oriented subparallel to the c-axis and bands and undulatory extinction subparallel to the base are considered to have formed by slip parallel to the c-axis. The poles of lamellae in polycrystalline aggregates with nearly random orientation form small-circle girdle patterns about the axis of greatest compressive stress. The deformation lamellae and bands originate in planes of high shear stress, and it is shown that the orientation of lamellae in rocks may be used to determine the orientation of the stress when the lamellae were formed. In short-term tests flint recrystallizes at 900 C. and above and quartzite at 1,000 C. and above. The products are similar, texturally, to quartzites recrystallized in nature, and the recrystallized grains show strong preferred orientations. The amount of
30062311|Trend-surface analysis is used to study geologic structure and structural development of two areas in south-central and northwestern Kansas. Trend surfaces, simulating regional structure, are fitted to structure at different stratigraphic horizons and the gross structural patterns visually compared. Dissimilar patterns between surfaces suggest major structural "breaks." Isopachous data reveal information on structural development during the interval, and, by adding each interval one increment at a time, deformation can be seen by a series of time-sequence patterns. Trend-surface residuals generally correspond with local structural features. Residual maps are compared by noting the coincidence of like areas of structure and determining their coefficient of association. It was found that adjacent maps were most closely related and that the similarity decreases in older beds, probably reflecting increased structural complexity. The rate of change in magnitude of the residuals also gives information on the direction of the basin margins.
30068697|Amak Island is a young, small volcano near the western tip of the Alaska Peninsula, 50 km north of the otherwise sharp Aleutian volcanic front. Here a geologic map of the island, chemical analyses of its lavas and their constituents, and some melting experiments are presented. Amak's lavas are andesitic, chemically identical to the nearest ones on the front in all ways except in their potash content; they are consistently richer in potash, and possibly also in soda and in light REE, than the lavas of the front. They are also more alkalic and silicic than the lavas of Bogoslof, the only other arc volcano that occurs a significant distance north of the Aleutian front. The great overall chemical similarity of Amak's lavas to those of the front, however, suggests a similar mode of generation, and suggests that the magma source may be quite wide in this area of the Aleutian arc.
30065016|A system of grain-size nomenclature of terrigenous sediments and sedimentary rocks is introduced wherein fifteen major textural groups are defined on the ratios of gravel, sand, silt, and clay. Further subdivision of each class is based on the median diameter of each size fraction present. Next, the mineral composition of terrigenous sedimentary rocks is considered. A triangular diagram is used to define eight rock types (orthoquartzite, arkose, graywacke, and five transitional types) based on the mineralogy of the silt-sand-gravel fraction and ignoring clay content. The writer contends that the current practice of calling all clayey sandstones "graywackes" is not valid, inasmuch as it represents a confusion of texture with composition. It is suggested that sedimentary rocks may be best defined by the use of a tripartite name, based on the following pattern-(grain size): (textural maturity) (mineral composition).
30065754|Specimens of Dover Plains dolomite, Knox dolomite, and Solenhofen limestone were recrystallized under stress and by annealing (after previous cold working) to find the preferred orientations of c-axes in recrystallized grains. The experiments were performed in a constant strain-rate apparatus. The recrystallization took place at a temperature of 1,000 C and a confining pressure of 15 kbar. The preferred orientations of c-axes in a marble and a dolomite naturally deformed under similar conditions were also measured and compared. In dolomite specimens recrystallized under stress, the new grains have their c-axes at small angles to the maximum principal compressive stress axis, the same as that previously found in calcite. The information about preferred orientation of c-axes in specimens recrystallized by annealing is inconclusive. In specimens of Dover Plains dolomite recrystallized under stress, a weak tendency was also observed for the c-axes of new grains to be inclined at angles of 30-60 to the c-axes of the grains in which they grow. The textures of the deformed specimens show that the mechanism of recrystallization involves nucleation of new grains and their growth at the expense of old grains. The similarity between the preferred orientations of c-axes in experimentally and naturally recrystallized calcite and dolomite suggests that slip and twinning mechanisms do not contribute to the development of the preferred orientations and that the mechanism of development of preferred orientatation in nature is similar to that operative in the experiments.
30058660|Studies of shoreline physiography in the vicinity of Ventura, California, demonstrate a need for recognition of an erosion cycle for steeply sloping shorelines of emergence. No offshore bars have developed on this or many other emerged portions of the California coast. Their existence depends on a sea floor of gentle gradient. A steeply sloping emergent shoreline progresses through a distinct cycle which conforms to, but differs from, those previously described for submerged and gently sloping emerged shorelines.
30060260|The intensive use of vertical aerial photographs to aid geological exploration during the last two decades has revealed serious weakness in some of the traditional concepts of American geomorphology. A new realization is now widely held, not by geomorphologists but by "photogeologists," namely, that tectonic elements of the crust (such as dipping strata, faults, joints, fold axes, flexures) can be found with aerial photographs in almost every square mile of the continental surfaces through their geomorphic expression. This has long been known of the deformed "mountain regions"; it is nearly as true of the so-called "plains" and "plateaus," even where tectonic elements are deeply buried by relatively undeformed, homoclinal strata. The writer attempts to present a usable revision of geomorphic concepts mainly through two basic principles: (1) the concept of essentially universal superposition of drainage in "flatland" regions, as well as in most tectonic systems, and (2) the concept of an almost universal tectonic influence on most continental drainage. Exceptions to the control of principles 1 and 2 are some, but not all, of the streams on deltas, volcanoes, lava flows, dune plains, and elsewhere. Elevated dissected bedrock benches of erosional origin are employed in explaining the usual process of stream adjustment to tectonic anomalies. The Pawhuska peneplain of central and southwestern central United States is briefly described. A distinction is made between tectonically influenced and tectonically adjusted drainage.
30068095|UPb zircon dating indicates that the Balugaon Anorthosite Massif of the Chilka Lake Domain, Eastern Ghats Belt, India, crystallized at
30071099|Zircon and K-feldspar have been concentrated from four composite samples of river and beach sands, representing the east and west coasts of North America, the northern Mississippi River, and the total drainage of the Mississippi River. First order approximation of the frequency distributions of ages in the zircon concentrates were obtained; that is, each zircon concentrate was resolved into a mixture of an old and a young component whose proportions and approximate ages were determined. In each of the four samples, the ratio of old to young zircon was compared to the age and relative proportions of triclinic and monoclinic K-feldspar. In this way several aspects of the differential response of zircon and K-feldspar to weathering and metamorphism were clarified in quantitative form without considering the absolute abundances of these minerals in the sands. West-coast beach sands were found to represent the expected case of round K-feldspar associated with some old zircon: 90 per cent of the K-feldspar (which was monoclinic) and 80 per cent of the zircon in these sands (generally non-rounded and colorless) were derived from rocks similar to those in existing igneous highlands-the Cretaceous batholiths; about 10 per cent of the K-feldspar (which was triclinic) may be derived from metamorphics of Cretaceous age; 20 per cent of the zircon has undergone much recycling and was ultimately derived from plutons with an average age of 1,600 m.y. Upper Mississippi River sand was derived largely from metamorphic rocks: 90 per cent of the K-feldspar is triclinic, which, uniquely among the four samples, is remarkably fresh and well rounded; the average K-feldspar age is 1,900 m.y.; the zircon is badly worn and highly colored. Its average age is 2,100 m.y., but about half the zircon is much older, with an average age of 3,000 m.y. East-coast beach sands are the only ones studied that contain substantial amounts of zircon much older than K-feldspar. The latter is about 80 per cent triclinic and the average age of the total is 400 m.y. The mean age of the zircon is 900 m.y., but about half is much older with an average age of 1,500 m.y. Sand from the mouth of the Mississippi River appears to be about a one-to-one mixture of two components represented by west-coast beach sands and Upper Mississippi River sands. Two thirds of the K-feldspar is triclinic and the average age of the total is 950 m.y. The average age of the zircon is 1,000 m.y. In general, the small difference between the ages of zircon and feldspar is surprising, since only on the west coast of North America is there a difference of some consequence.
30064987|Sea-level trends deduced from tide gauges show considerable variation along strike both on the convergent (western) and divergent (eastern) edges of the North American plate. That portion of the variation unrelated to Quaternary glaciation and deglaciation may reflect the differential reaction to extension and sediment loading in the east, and in the west subduction and translation of terranes welded onto the North American craton. These autonomous blocks appear to impart distinct signatures on records of relative sea levels, suggesting promise in deducing complex terrane topography of other margins using tide-gauge data. Uncertainties in these deductions can be reduced only with expanded tide gauge coverage or by application of new geodetic techniques (Very Long Baseline Interferometry or differential Global Positioning System).
30062228|Directional mapping of 2,709 maximum dip directions of cross-stratification in the Fundy Group (Upper Triassic) of the Canadian Maritime Provinces was undertaken to determine the Triassic drainage pattern in that area. These data disclosed that the sedimentation pattern was one of basin filling of a northeast-trending fault trough from both the fault margin to the north and west and the unconformity margin to the south and southeast. Petrologic data confirmed the inferred sedimentation pattern. Comparison with the Triassic fault troughs in New Jersey, Pennsylvania, North Carolina, and possibly Connecticut showed that such a pattern of sedimentation existed in those areas during the Triassic period also. Such a drainage pattern in combination with other data suggest that the opposite-dipping Connecticut and New Jersey Triassic rocks were deposited in two separate basins rather than one as previously supposed.
30062623|Major, minor, and dissolved volatile element concentrations were measured in tholeiitic glasses from the submarine portion (Puna Ridge) of the east rift zone of Kilauea Volcano, Hawaii. Dissolved
30055938|A highly altered pipe of femic rock which occurs intrusively in Cambrian sediments and contains inclusions bearing Devonian fossils has been exposed near Farmington, Missouri. The dating of the intrusion as being at least as late as Upper Devonian is significant. Additional possible bearing of the igneous activity in southeast Missouri to the ore deposits of that area is introduced. This intrusive is unique in that it has picked up roughly an equal amount of sedimentary rock materials (carbonate and sand) during its transgression. The locations of several other nearby post-Cambrian intrusions are given.
30055673|Three formations of the coastal plain of New Jersey, the Hornerstown marl, the Vincentown sand, and the Manasquan marl, which have heretofore been referred to the Upper Cretaceous series, are, on the basis of a new analysis of their contained fauna and the transgressive overlap of the Hornerstown marl on formations of undoubted Upper Cretaceous age, now correlated with the Eocene. The three formations and the overlying Shark River marl, the Eocene age of which has not been questioned, are, on the evidence of common fossil species, correlated approximately with the Pamunkey group(Eocene) of Maryland.
30056451|This paper presents a summary of the petrology and petrography of an igneous complex of Algomian age. Comprehensively considered, it is a stock, but closer study shows that it is a stock comprising a sequence of several distinguishable phases intruded! in one eruptive period. A peculiar spotted rock which is poikilitic shonkinite (Basswood type), a quartz diorite with 13 per cent magnetite, a nordmarkite, and an aegirite-augite allanite syenite are local phases of the largest mass (syenite). This stock is thought to be magmatically related to the Vermilion granite batholith (and probably to the Giants Range batholith), the Kekequabic granite stock, the Linden syenite stock, and the Pooh Bah malignite stock.
30068543|Normal fault systems bounding extensional basins are typically adjoined by a series of subbasins separated by intrabasin highs. The strata within these basins form syndepositional anticlines and synclines whose axes are transverse to the strike of the main bounding fault. One possible explanation for these intrabasin highs is that they result from persistent along-strike deficits in fault displacement. Such deficits are incompatible with scaling relationships observed between fault displacement and length based on large populations of faults. We present data from active normal faults within the Basin and Range province and from inactive normal faults of the Newark basin of eastern North America demonstrating a clear correlation between the along-strike position of overlapping splay faults and the location of intrabasin highs as well as syndepositional transverse folds. Summed displacements for all faults within an intrabasin high are comparable to the displacements on faults bounding flanking subbasins. Older synextensional deposits exhibit localized tilt maxima within subbasins flanking an intrabasin high whereas younger units exhibit uniform tilt patterns across the entire region. Footwall elevation profiles, used as a proxy for fault displacement, define uniform arcuate patterns independent of along-strike position of intrabasin highs. These characteristics of hanging walls and footwalls suggest that intrabasin highs do not represent locations of long-term fault-displacement deficits, but rather are the location of anastomosing fault segments, which upon linking together, rapidly compensate for initial displacement deficits by increased displacement distributed over several splay faults.
30060422|After making a careful study of the Great Salt Lake oolites, the author concludes that the oolites of the zonal type originate at the water's edge, are washed upon the mud flats, and grow as they are driven inland by the wind. The laminae correspond to the seasonal changes of the area, and are the result of direct precipitation of amorphous aragonite from the evaporation of capillary water. The growth occurs during the early summer months when the temperature rise is greatest.
30068752|For three-dimensional directional data consisting of a sample of axes (
30055937|Along the Arkansas River in central Colorado, "high terraces" and "low terraces" are each divisible into two distinct levels. The uppermost terrace passes into rock-floored shoulders of the Mosquito and Sawatch ranges. It is not definitely assignable to glacial outwash and may represent the remnants of a stage of preglacial piedmont allu-viation. The next lower terrace is outwash from early glaciers. The third is clearly the outwash from late (Wisconsin?) glaciers, and the lowest is outwash related to late recessional moraines. Lower alluvial terraces flanking the Arkansas from Hayden south are still later. While the highest terrace material was being deposited in the Arkansas Valley, monoclinal shifting took place in the Eagle River valley, followed by down-cutting probably antedating glaciation. The best-marked stage of earlier preglacial topography is recorded by isolated nearly flat rock floors at altitudes of about 12,000 feet. Physiographic development consisted of: (1) uplift and mature dissection (Oligo-cene?); (2) uplift with rapid erosion (Terrace No. 1) (late Pliocene?); (3) glaciation with outwash (Terrace No. 2); (4) interglacial erosion; (5) renewed glaciation (Wisconsin?) with outwash (Terrace No. 3); (6) retreatal stage with outwash (Terrace No. 4); (7) postglacial processes. Stage 1 may represent the montane equivalent of the Rocky Mountain peneplain. The earlier Flattop erosion level of northern Colorado may be represented by the accordant summits of the Sawatch and Mosquito ranges.
30069100|The study of melting reactions in the system
30056607|Microscopic examination of oriented thin sections made from specimens of calcareous shales with well-developed cleavage reveals many thin seams of argillaceous material parallel to the direction of cleavage. Evidence is advanced to prove that these clay seams are insoluble residues formed by solution under pressure along pre-existing planes of microscopic shearing.
30075166|Calcite crystals within the walls of a naturally deformed gastropod shell exhibit in thin section a systematic development of e{
30058680|Southern California is a mosaic of fault blocks traversed by the great San Andreas strikeslip fault. Most of the more important faults and their trends are described in this paper. Steep-dipping faults are by far most numerous. Some (and possibly many) of these have proved to be thrust, rather than normal, faults. Horizontal components of faulting are common, ranging from less than an inch to many miles, showing the importance of horizontal stresses particularly in the case of the San Andreas fault. Vertical components of faulting range through all amounts to fully 4 miles, those of several thousand feet being very common. Various minor faults, extending out at high angles to the main ones, strongly suggest effects of torsional stresses. There are some large-scale examples of pivotal faulting. Deformation of fault blocks is common. The problem of the "Transverse Ranges" is discussed. Important fault movements occurred throughout Cenozoic time with probably the greatest activity during the later Miocene and the Quaternary. Many faults are still active. A theory has been set forth at some length in an attempt to explain the nature, magnitude, and direction of application of the forces involved in the production of the fault pattern of southern California.
30070683|It has been widely accepted that an active continental margin existed along the coast of Southeast China during the Mesozoic time that produced extensive magmatism in the region. However, there is little constraint as to when this active margin was first initiated. Here we present new SHRIMP UPb zircon ages and geochemical and SrNd isotopic data for syntectonic granites on Hainan Island. Our data demonstrate that these rocks, dated at 267262 Ma, are typical of calcalkaline Itype granites formed in continental arc environments. The age of this magmatic arc coincides with a sudden change in sedimentary environments in South China during the Permian time, suggesting that the South China Indosinian Orogeny was likely contemporaneous with the onset of continental arc magmatism.
30081024|Sediments in the Austerdalsisen basin, Norway are re-worked annually during the short snowmelt period. In the last 10-15 years, several fans have been constructed, largely by sediment flows-sediment-water mixtures which move downslope under the influence of gravity. The viscosity of the flows varies considerably and a single flow may change as a result of water or sediment loss. Fan characteristics reflect the nature of the sediments, the mechanics of flow, modes of deposition, and the annual periodicity of activity.
30062150|In the Archean Dharwar craton of southern India N-S trending belts of metabasic rocks are exposed which underwent regional metamorphism at about 2.5 Ga ago. The progressive changes in the assemblages and mineral chemistry of metabasites was studied in a N-S traverse covering the Chitradurga and Nagaman-gala belts, the Sargur area, and the Nilgiri Hills. Towards the south with increasing metamorphic grade greenschists (
30060941|The longterm sustainability of Californias beaches depends on periodic deliveries of sand and gravel from coastal rivers and streams. To assess the longterm health of Californias beaches, this study characterized the current state of fluvial sediment delivery and quantified, on a littoral cell basis, the cumulative impacts of dams in decreasing annual discharge. Presently, more than 500 dams impound more than 42,000 km
30056621|An extensive thick sheet of generally calcareous, fossiliferous loess occurs at or near the surface in northern, central, and southwestern Kansas. This loess, the Peoria silt member of the Sanborn formation in Kansas classification, lies above the Sangamon (Loveland) buried soil and includes at the top the Brady buried soil, hitherto of uncertain age. The history of the term "Peorian loess" is reviewed, and the age of the Peoria loess is considered in the light of published reports. Three zones are recognized in the Peoria loess in Kansas: (1) a basal zone, devoid of molluscan fossils; (2) a lower molluscan faunal zone; and (3) an upper molluscan faunal zone. On stratigraphic and faunal evidence the basal zone is correlated with the Farmdale loess of Illinois, the lower zone with Iowa loess, and the upper zone with Tazewell loess. The Brady soil is shown to have been formed in post-Tazewellian-pre-Caryan (or pre-Mankatoan) time, designated the "Bradyan interglacial interval."
10.1086/665797|The Beln flora, in north coastal Peru, is the most diverse fruit and seed assemblage yet known from the Paleogene of South America. Little original paleobotanical work has been performed on this assemblage since the pioneering treatments published by E. W. Berry in the 1920s, and the precise age has not been determined. Nevertheless, the flora has been regarded as a focal point in understanding the vegetational, orogenic, and climatic history of northern South America, and in recent literature it has been assumed to be early Eocene. In order to tighten this age assignment, which has varied from early Eocene to early Oligocene in the opinions of different authors, we revisited the Beln site, measured the stratigraphic section, and processed the fruit- and seed-containing sediment for age-diagnostic microfossils. Although pollen and foraminifera were not recovered, the sediment is rich in diatoms. The diatom assemblage includes
30079800|The 2.672.69Ga Peltier Formation of the Point Lake volcanic belt, central Slave Province, Canada, is a maficdominated succession that erupted in a backarc basin overlying sialic crust. The formation overlies the 3.22Ga Augustus Granite, is interstratified with the >2.65Ga turbiditic Contwoyto Formation, and is associated with 2.68Ga felsic and intermediate volcaniclastic rocks of the Samandre and Beauparlant Formations. Mafic rocks in the Peltier Formation range from NMORB (midocean ridge basalt) with flat to slightly LREE (light rare earth element) enriched patterns, to tholeiitic LREEenriched EMORB with Nb and Ti depletions, and finally to strongly LREEenriched calcalkaline compositions with marked Nb and Ti depletions. The 
30068043|Nd and Sr isotopic data are reported from samples of most of the major lithologic units of the Wrangellia terrane exposed on Vancouver Island and the Queen Charlotte Islands. Initial
30068858|Geochemical and NdSrO whole rock isotope data and Pb isotope data from leached feldspars for a suite of synorogenic (ca. 540 Ma) syenites and granites from the northern part of the Proterozoic Damara orogen (Namibia) constrain their sources and petrogenesis. Major rock types are mildly potassic nepheline syenites and quartz syenites that were primarily generated by fractional crystallization from a mantlederived alkaline magma. Even the most primitive samples show pronounced depletion in Nb, Ti, Sr, and P on a primitive mantlenormalized diagram, indicating the involvement of a recycled crustal component in the source. Extrapolation of the SrNdPbO isotope composition of the syenites back to a hypothetical parental melt with 8 wt%10 wt% MgO suggests derivation from a moderately enriched lithospheric upper mantle (
30075220|Nd isotopic data are presented for rocks of the terrane assembly that lies inboard of the Stikine terrane in the Canadian Cordillera of British Columbia and Yukon. These are, from most inboard outward: Cassiar, Kootenay, Slide Mountain, Quesnel, and Cache Creek terranes. They are regarded as documenting a transition from terranes whose evolution was closely tied to that of the North American continental margin out to fartraveled oceanic terranes. The results emphasize sedimentary rocks as indicators of tectonic position of the crustal fragments. Sedimentary rocks of the Cassiar and Kootenay terranes show a strong connection to miogeoclinal sediment sources. Argillites of PennsylvanianPermian age from a paleontologically controlled section in the Slide Mountain terrane are also consistent with sediment sources in the North American miogeocline. Igneous rocks of the Slide Mountain, Quesnel, and Cache Creek terranes show juvenile oceanic or arc origins based on 
30068133|The results of a detailed field study of East Bay, Minnitaki Lake, District of Kenora, Ontario, are here given. A sequence of lavas and pyroclastics together with sediments, over 10,000 feet thick, is described. An analysis of the complex of folds and faults in which these beds are involved is presented. As a result of a better understanding of structure the "Keewatin" period was found to consist of two periods of volcanism separated in time by two periods of diastrophism and an intervening period of sedimentation. A similar sequence is known from other areas in the northern sub-province, of the Lake Superior pre-Cambrian. The East Bay section is compared with the sections of Vermilion Township, Savant Lake, and Mosher Bay of Manitou Lake.
10.1086/679468|Sensitive high-resolution ion microprobe (SHRIMP) U-Pb zircon age dating was applied to several types of cordierite-bearing gneisses and orthopyroxene-bearing gneiss from the basement rocks in central Dronning Maud Land, East Antarctica, to clarify the timing of tectonothermal events during the amalgamation of East and West Gondwana. The zircon ages of ca. 522525 and 598599 Ma were obtained in Filchnerfjella and Hochlinfjellet, respectively, and the cathodoluminescence images of analyzed zircons suggest that these were formed during high-temperature metamorphism. These two sets of ages are interpreted to represent periods that immediately followed the peak metamorphism. The dating results reveal an age gap of 80 Myr between the two areas, indicating different collisional events. In the cordierite-bearing samples in Filchnerfjella, zircon cores with oscillatory zoning have concordia ages that range from 1800 to 650 Ma. These are considered to represent the ages of detrital zircons derived over a long time from different source materials. In Hochlinfjellet, the inherited detrital zircons with oscillatory zoning have concordia ages of ca. 930, 780, and 730 Ma, indicating sedimentary protoliths derived from differently aged igneous source rocks, possibly formed in a subduction zone as an accretionary prism before the collision. According to previous age results, previously documented shear zones are now interpreted as representing a major tectonic boundary. The obtained age results imply that different allochthonous metamorphic terranes were assembled along the collisional zone of the East AfricanAntarctica Orogen during the period from 650 to 500 Ma.
30057893|This paper summarizes some of the results of a geologic investigation of parts of Culpeper, Fairfax, Fauquier, Orange, Prince William, Spotsylvania, and Stafford counties in the northeastern Piedmont of Virginia. During the course of the investigation evidence was found which is believed to indicate that certain of the igneous rocks of the district are younger than Cincinnatian. The presentation of this evidence is the purpose of the present paper.
30080839|Technique for measuring grain perimeters and surfaces in crystalline rocks is outlined. A tabulation of values for the range of crystalline limestones is included as an illustration of measurements. Application of results to determining width of inter-granular space and adsorptive capacity is indicated.
30079642|Granites intrusive into basic volcanic rocks in the Red Lake area are commonly surrounded by a zone of rocks intermediate in composition between the granite and the volcanic rocks. Inclusions of varying color contrast are abundant in the granite. Study of a specific example, by means of variation diagrams and petrographic observations, leads to the conclusion that the intermediate rocks are the product of contamination of the granite magma by numerous fragments of country rocks. The contamination resulted in final-stage activity of potash-rich solutions.
30068037|Overprinting mineral relationships in amphibolites from the Franciscan Complex, California suggest metamorphic evolution from high-temperature amphibolite facies to the blueschist facies with increasing P/T ratio, a counterclockwise P-T-t path. Early formed pargasitic amphiboles are both crosscut and rimmed by subcalcic hornblendes that are, in turn, cut or rimmed by sodic amphiboles. Some amphibolites are overprinted successively by eclogite and blueschist facies assemblages. Clinopyroxenes are zoned with increasing jadeite component from core to rim. Multiple generations of phengites are present in the same sample and are more Si-rich with each successive generation of growth. Garnets in eclogite-overprinted amphibolites are zoned with an initial MgO increase away from the core to a maximum MgO zone followed by MgO decrease toward the rim. Garnets in other amphibolites show continually increasing MgO from core to rim. Several samples, representative of the variety of Franciscan amphibolites, are described in detail. The best-constrained sample exhibits a calculated P-T trajectory from 626-664C at 9.2-10 kb for early amphibolite metamorphism to 496-537C at 11.2-11.8 kb eclogite metamorphism to 300-350C at >6.5-7 kb for final blueschist overprint. Overprinting mineral assemblages in other samples, as well as most Franciscan amphibolites described by other workers, are qualitatively, and in some cases quantitatively, suggestive of the same type of P-T trajectory. Geochronologic, textural, and petrologic data indicate that the overprinted amphibolites are probably the product of a single metamorphic event rather than a consequence of separate metamorphic episodes, but additional age dating is desirable for better confirmation. Amphibolite to blueschist facies metamorphic evolution may have taken place within 5 Ma. The following model is presented for the evolution of Franciscan amphibolites: (1) The amphibolites were metamorphosed as a dynamothermal aureole underneath the hanging wall of a subduction zone at the inception of subduction. (2) The amphibolites were then accreted to the upper plate. (3) Subsequent subduction and underplating of cold material insulated the hanging wall and allowed the upper plate and amphibolite to cool at depth, with the development of metamorphic assemblages of increasing P/T ratio. (4) Subduction beneath the accreted amphibolite may have broken up the amphibolite sheet, dragging blocks deeper down the subduction zone, leading to the pressure increase with cooling that is recorded by some of the samples. Deeper burial by thrusting within the upper plate after amphibolite metamorphism may also explain the pressure increase. The P-T trajectory of these rocks is consistent with P-T paths derived from published thermal models for similar tectonic settings.
30064103|Fold structures in the Glen Cannich area of northern Scotland have been studied. The folds occur in the Moine Series, a thick sequence of metamorphosed impure sandstones and shales which have been subjected to repeated folding and metamorphism. Five successive phases of folding have been recognized; major folds of the first three phases account for the over-all structural pattern shown by the lithologic units, while the last two phases occur mostly as minor folds. Three periods of metamorphism are also recognized: progressive metamorphism, a subsequent retrogressive metamorphism, and a second progressive metamorphism. A study of the fourth-phase folds reveals that they range in style from open to tight, and in most of the area are modified concentric folds formed by a combination of deformation by flexure and flattening. Along the northwestern border of the area, however, they have axial-plane schistosity and are essentially similar folds. The change from modified concentric to similar fold geometry is related to an increase in ductility of the rocks as a result of increased metamorphic grade in the area where the similar folds occur. The general strike of the axes and axial planes of the fourth-phase folds is northeast in the western part of the area and in adjacent areas to the north. In the eastern part of the area, however, the axes and axial planes swing to a southeast orientation. The axes of earlier folds in this part of the area also have a southeast orientation, and it is suggested that the southeast trend of the fourth-phase folds has resulted from reactivation of the older folds, such that they controlled the orientation of the later set.
30063805|The fluid dynamic processes affecting the mechanism and amount of assimilation of the roof of a magma chamber have been studied in a series of analogue laboratory experiments. An aqueous solution of
30064037|Sr, Pb, and REE data from samples from igneous rocks, metasedimentary inclusions, and intruded metasedimentary country rocks of the northeastern portion of the Idaho batholith indicate a significant contribution from a lower crustal source region to the intrusive rocks. Rb-Sr and U-Pb data indicate that the source region was depleted in Rb and U and that it was heterogeneous. Zircons separated from a sample collected from the interior of the batholith were found to have rounded cores and euhedral overgrowths. U-Pb isotopic analysis of these zircons and monazite yields a lower intercept age of 60 Ma and an upper intercept age of ~1710 Ma. This is interpreted to be a mixing line between the crystallization age of the granitic rocks (60 Ma old overgrowths) and the average age of the source (1710 Ma old cores). The zircon cores are most likely inherited from the source region of the granite, and not assimilated from the intruded country rocks.
30057082|In an attempt to evaluate the concept of hydraulic equivalence for wave-deposited material, the long axes of approximately 4,500 grains of quartz, garnet, clino-pyroxene, hornblende, and hypersthene were measured; these grains represent 150 samples disposed on a 4 X 9-foot grid from three layers in the upper foreshore of the beach at Lorraine, Ontario. Nine of the 15 layer grain-size distributions were essentially normal. Analyses of variance of these size distributions, using a two-crossed classification, indicated that the within-layer grain-size distribution patterns in the upper two layers were not consistent with one another. This was due to variations in hydraulic equivalence for some of the minerals which followed upon their reworking. Theoretical and empirical hydraulic equivalent sizes were computed and compared, using both quartz and garnet as bases. The theoretical differences between means of the grain-size distributions were found by means of a hydraulic equivalence formula developed from Rubey's fall-velocity equation. This formula was
30082321|Metamorphic rocks west of the Coast Mountains batholith in central southeastern Alaska are divided into the Gravina belt, Taku terrane, and newly defined Ruth assemblage. The Ruth assemblage comprises metapelite, quartzose metaclastic strata, quartzite, marble, felsic metatuff, mafic metavolcanic rocks, and orthogneiss. Depositional and emplacement ages of
30056975|The Stewartville formation comprises the Madurina zone of the "Galena group" of the upper Mississippi Valley; the Upper Receptaculites zone persists in its base. The formation is composed of heavy-ledged dolomite and limestone, the latter predominating northward. The Dubuque formation succeeding it contrasts lithologically in having thinner ledges with shaly partings. The Dubuque dolomite in northwestern Illinois becomes white limestone in northern Clayton County, Iowa; it is the Oxoplecia ("Triplecia") zone of Minnesota. Throughout its extent, it is overlain by the Depauperate zone of the Maquoketa formation of Richmond age. Stratigraphic and faunal evidence supports the correlation of the Stewartville with the Upper Cobourg, and the Dubuque with the Collingwood of the standard section. The essential conformity of Collingwood equivalents on the Stewartville and unconformity below Richmond beds in both the Upper Mississippi Valley and northern Michigan favors the classification of the Collingwood in the Mohawkian series and Trenton group. The presence of Halysites, Charactoceras, and other fossils in the Stewartville gives it greater faunal similarity to the Red River formation of Manitoba and the Bighorn dolomite of the West than has been appreciated.
30084987|A sequence of alternating siltstone-claystone couplets in the Pennsylvanian Haymond formation was studied in order to determine which parameters might be useful in correlating turbidite strata. Analyses of thickness, composition, and paleocurrent direction in 768 couplets showed no significant variations with time, although it was found that the pattern of thickness variation could be used for correlation. Using thickness variations, two outcrops of siltstone-claystone couplets, separated by 10.5 km., were correlated in the field. This field correlation was then illustrated by a sliding correlation coefficient and correlation diagrams. A comparison of the two series revealed a 46 per cent decrease in the number of couplets in a basinward direction with only the thicker siltstone layers present in both outcrops. Siltstone thickness decreased 46 per cent and claystone thickness decreased 26 per cent in a direction away from the source.
30056597|North-south projected profiles of eighteen quadrangles in north-central Ohio were constructed with sufficient vertical exaggeration to show the end moraines. From a study of these profiles and of supplementary east-west and northwest-southeast profiles of parts of the area and from field work the positions of the end moraines were mapped. The Powell moraine in the area trends northward from Delaware County through Morrow County and dies out in southwestern Richland County. The Broadway moraine is traced from northeastern Logan County eastward to Morrow County where it turns north across Morrow County to join the Wabash moraine in eastern Crawford County. In much of Morrow County it lies very close to the Powell moraine but does not join it. The St. Johns moraine is traced eastward across Hardin County to central Marion County, thence north through Marion to join the Wabash moraine in southwestern Crawford County. The Wabash moraine extends across Hardin, Marion, southeastern Wyandot, and Crawford counties, joining the Fort Wayne moraine in the eastern part of the latter county and continuing eastward across northern Richland County. The Fort Wayne moraine is traced in a general easterly direction across the area. The Defiance moraine is strongly developed across the whole area.
30084968|An initial study has been made on the abundance and mutual behavior of copper, zinc, and lead in a certain type of sulfide concentration. Fourteen sample deposits, some from each of Australia, Canada, and Eire, have been found to show, in addition to similarities in environment and mineralogy, several chemical affinities. Among these are a persistently low copper content, a poor correlation between copper and zinc, on the one hand, and quite a good correlation between lead and zinc, on the other; a similarity of mean lead: zinc ratios throughout the group; and, lastly, a marked consistency, throughout the group of deposits, in the behavior of the ternary group copper-zinc-lead. Although no definite conclusions concerning genesis are drawn, the possible significances of some of the compositional features are discussed. In addition, the mutual behavior of the copper, zinc, and lead in the deposits is compared with that noted by E. B. Sandell and S. S. Goldich in some North American igneous rocks The mutual behavior of the three metals is remarkably similar in both classes of material.
30068287|Fluvial erosion acting on a series of plunging synclines and anticlines has etched out a subsequent topography the details of which correspond intimately with structural, lithologic, and soil variations. A fine-textured erosional pattern on the dip slopes as contrasted with a coarse-textured pattern on the scarp slopes of the strike valleys is explained on the basis of soil-erosibility differences, which in turn are due to lithologic and structural differences. Structural lines of weakness such as faults and fractures in the crests of anticlines have localized valley development. Tributaries to these anticlinal valleys have developed along minor faults, fractures, and soft shale beds. The synclinal interfluves which are composed of alternate beds of hard and soft shale have been eroded to a strike-vale-and-ridge topography the details of which are attributed to structural, lithologic, and soil-erosibility differences. This strike-vale-and-ridge topography is post-Kansan and pre-Wisconsin in age.
30060856|Syngenetic sanidine beds are described from three localities in Wisconsin and three localities are recognized from the literature. Other localities in the Upper Mississippi Valley region appear likely. Some beds are composed of as much as 90% sanidine. The assemblage sanidine-illite-quartz appears to be a common equilibrium assemblage precipitated from Middle Ordovician seawater when high concentration of amorphous silica resulted from high agitation in near-beach zones. Precipitation was rapid producing beds up to 8 inches thick. Rapid precipitation may explain the high structural state of the K-feldspar. Chemical precipitation of the type described fits well recent experimental and theoretical data which pertain to seawater-alkali equilibria.
30062399|The erosion of low temperature, high pressure blueschist facies metamorphic rocks presents a number of problems. If their rate of erosion is not sufficiently rapid, then the rise in temperature caused by thermal relaxation and radioactive self heating is great enough to obliterate the original low temperature mineral assemblages. The problem has been investigated using a one dimensional, two layer model to mimic an accretionary prism overlying oceanic lithosphere. The results suggest that, if no erosion takes place, the maximum time that blueschist conditions may exist is about 26 m.y. if levels of radioactive self heating are high, and approximately 100 m.y. if levels are very low. If erosion takes place, the maximum temperature reached by an element of rock is at a higher level in the earth's crust than its initial depth of burial. Rocks may re-equilibrate at this temperature or be overprinted by incomplete reactions depending on the temperature rise and rocks involved. This could result in the geothermal profile of metamorphic rocks being concave to the temperature axis, in contrast to the convex shape of the original profile. The minimum erosion rate which would produce no overprint on original assemblages is estimated by us to be about 0.04 cm/year when radioactive self heating is negligible and rises to 0.14 cm/year for higher levels of self heating. Variations of erosion rates during unloading result in different thermal histories. An initial rapid rate of erosion which then slows is less likely to result in an overprint than the converse. Examination of estimates of erosion rates for the present suggests that normal fluvio-glacial erosion rates may be inadequate to successfully exhume blueschist assemblages without overprinting. Unloading may thus be tectonic or quasi-tectonic. This may explain the common association of blueschist blocks within olistostrome and melange like bodies.
30080152|The continental crust of NE Africa and Arabia was formed or modified during the late Precambrian (ca. 900-550 Ma) Pan-African orogenic cycle. The relationship between juvenile crust of the Arabian-Nubian shield (formed by accretion of ensimatic terranes) and older rocks of the Nile craton to the west (thermally reworked at the same time), is poorly understood. A regional geochronologic and isotopic study, including U-Pb zircon and Rb-Sr ages and Sm-Nd, Rb-Sr, and feldspar Pb isotopic studies indicates that the crust of NE Sudan formed between about 810 and 580 Ma, with an apparent peak in the volume of crust generated at about 700 Ma. Isotopie data indicate that the sources for these melts were juvenile, with initial
30070669|The Jurassic and Cretaceous are considered to have been warmer than today on the basis of various climate data and model studies. Here, we use the available global record of climatesensitive sediments, plants, and dinosaurs to infer broadscale geographic patterns for the Late Jurassic. These provide a context for our more detailed accounts of the Morrison and Tendaguru Formations in North America and East Africa. At the global scale, evaporites predominated in low latitudes and coals in mid to high latitudes. We ascribe these variations to a transition from drier to wetter conditions between the equator and poles. Plant diversity was lowest in equatorial regions, increasing to a maximum in midlatitudes and then decreasing toward the poles. Most dinosaur remains are known from lowlatitude to marginally midlatitude regions where plant fossils are generally sparse and evaporites common. Conversely, few dinosaur remains are known from mid to high latitudes, which have higher floral diversities and abundant coals. Hence, there is an obvious geographic mismatch between known dinosaur distributions and their primary food source. This may be due to taphonomic bias, indicating that most dinosaur discoveries provide only a small window on the diversity and lifestyles of this group. On the basis of our global and localscale studies, we suggest that dinosaur preservation was favored in environments toward the drier end of the climate spectrum, where savannas rather than forests predominated. A holistic approach, incorporating climate and vegetation as well as geography, is required to better understand patterns of dinosaur ecology and evolution.
30065521|In this article, we examine aeromagnetic data from a part of the western margin of the PanAfrican East Antarctic Orogen. The East Antarctic Orogen represents the southern continuation of the East African Orogen that together formed during the collision of East and West Gondwana during late Neoproterozoic/Early Paleozoic times (at ca. 580515 Ma). The western margin of the East Antarctic Orogen is exposed in Heimefrontfjella, western Dronning Maud Land, where the western front of this orogen crops out as the Heimefront Shear Zone. Crust west of the Heimefront Shear Zone has typical Mesoproterozoic to early Neoproterozoic (Grenvilleage) KAr and ArAr mineral cooling ages, and magnetic anomalies are broad, of high amplitude, elongate, and craton parallel with long wavelengths. East of the Heimefront Shear Zone, KAr and ArAr mineral cooling ages range at between ca. 570 and 470 Ma, and the magnetic anomaly pattern is entirely different. Here, a large magnetic low persists, which is overprinted by smallscale anomalies that are oriented parallel to the regional PanAfrican structural trends at a high angle to the Mesoproterozoic anomalies. Thus, the PanAfrican tectonothermal overprint has caused a fundamental redistribution of magnetic minerals. The data show that the combination of aeromagnetic mapping along with detailed fieldwork is a powerful method to delineate the extent of the East Antarctic Orogen in poorly exposed Antarctica.
30068717|A sequence of processes is offered by which a rock that is initially almost homogeneous could become stylolitic. The host rock is assumed to contain initially a not-quite-uniform distribution of clay particles that have two properties: when dispersed, they are sites where dissolution of host rock is enhanced, but when concentrated and compacted they can form a low-permeability obstacle to migrating fluids. Initially, compression is isotropic; then extra compression is imposed along some single direction. The first property of the clay causes initial small fluctuations in clay abundance to be self-accentuating, and also leads to development of contrasted layers normal to the extra compression. Flow of solvent parallel to these layers ultimately bifurcates because of the clay's second property. Thereafter, to an increasing extent, flow of solvent takes advantage of those portions of the clay-rich seam that form the sides of stylolitic columns and are not compressed by the extra compression.
30061976|Bar formation and sediment distribution patterns were examined in a 4-mile braided reach of the upper Kicking Horse River at Field, British Columbia, which is mainly supplied by meltwater from icefields straddling the continental divide at the British Columbia-Alberta boundary in the southeastern Canadian Cordillera. Marked diurnal variations in discharge, suspended sediment concentration, and water temperature occur during peak summer melting periods when rates of sediment transport and bar formation are greatest. Bed material is mostly limestone and dolomite gravel which undergoes rapid fining in the downstream direction. Gravel bars occurring in a wide variety of shapes and sizes comprise the dominant bed forms. Most exposed braid bars have undergone complex depositional and erosional histories and rarely show simple or consistent patterns of grain size or structures, either internal or superficial. Active bars with simple histories and predominantly depositional morphologies are termed "unit bars." Four general unit bar forms are recognized in the Kicking Horse, with a variety of intermediate forms existing among them: longitudinal, transverse, point, and diagonal. The first three generally form parallel to channel flow; they tend to fine downstream, fine upward, and consist of finer-grained material than adjacent channels. Growth may be downstream or sideways, depending on characteristics of local flow and channel morphology. Diagonal bars form with long axes oblique to flow and appear to lack the grain-size trends of the other unit bar forms. Gravels comprise over 90% of the sediment exposed in shallow trenches. Stratification is mostly massive or horizontal, with subordinate low- and high-angle cross-stratification resulting from migration of bar margins ranging from low-angle riffles to high-angle slip faces. Minor but persistent facies include fine to very coarse cross-stratified sand, very fine to medium rippled sand, horizontally laminated mud and silt, and root-mottled mud, silt, and sand in local overbank areas.
30062384|Talus cones in Spitsbergen are commonly modified in their lower part into lobate rock glaciers. Meteoric and melt waters apparently refreeze as interstitial ice in the lower portion of the talus cones during summer months when air temperatures fluctuate near 0C. At a critical thickness of rock and ice, the mass flows outward as lobate rock glaciers which, in places, override raised beach ridges. Along straight scarps, lobate rock glaciers from closely juxtaposed talus cones coalesce into apron-like terraces 20-40 m high. These have been confused with raised beaches, lateral moraines, kame terraces and protalus ramparts. Several lines of evidence discredit these interpretations for the origin of the terraces. Ice filling of the interstices effectively occludes the permeability of the rock glaciers as indicated by ponding on the surface. Interstitial ice and active movement create a steeper angle of repose of 38-40 on the advancing rock glacier front while the ice-free talus behind the rock glaciers stabilizes at 30-35. Ice wedging may be responsible for linear crevasse-like depressions on the upper surfaces of the rock glaciers. Evidence indicates that these rock glaciers are currently active.
30079426|In paleobiology and stratigraphy, there is a growing need to develop highresolution chronostratigraphic frameworks at regional scales, which would permit unprecedented assessments of spatiotemporal variation in preserved biotas. Here, we present an intraregional correlation for the Kope and lower Fairview Formations of the type Cincinnatian, on the basis of detrended correspondence analysis (DCA) of faunal census data; we believe that the method also holds promise as a tool of correlation in other fossiliferous venues. The data were collected directly in the field at closely spaced stratigraphic intervals but with relatively coarse taxonomic and quantitative data resolution. This approach is independent of lithologic assessments and does not require the delineation of sequence stratigraphic architecture in the study area. Faunal curves were constructed for each locality on the basis of stratigraphic changes in sample scores for DCA axis 1; the curves were smoothed to reveal a longterm signal of paleoenvironmental change recognizable at all localities. Several inflections on the curves provided lines of correlation from locality to locality. Moreover, comparisons of sample scores among three of the localities suggested notable changes through time in the relative paleoenvironmental attributes of locations arrayed across the Cincinnatian paleoramp, indicating that the sea floor was spatiotemporally dynamic.
30079761|This study compares Morrowan conglomeratic sandstones from three basins in the central North American craton: Central Appalachian Basin (eastern Kentucky), Eastern Interior Basin (Illinois, Indiana, western Kentucky, and lateral extensions in Arkansas), and Hugoton Embayment (Kansas and Colorado) to develop realistic analogues for Morrowan fluvial systems and to compare the relative effects of tectonic subsidence, eustacy, and paleoclimate on sedimentation. Based on paleogeographic reconstruction, the paleodrainage for the Central Appalachian Basin is estimated to have ranged from
JG117102|For regional kinematic compatibility to be a valid boundary condition for continental tectonic reconstructions, there must be tests that validate or invalidate kinematic model predictions. In several reconstructions of western North America, the displacement history of the Mojave block continues to be unresolved. The magnitude of displacement along the Bristol-Granite mountains fault zone (BGMFZ), which is the eastern margin of the Eastern California Shear Zone (ECSZ) in the Mojave block, is a key example of a long-standing kinematic prediction that has defied a positive field test until now. The ECSZ is a network of late Neogene and Quaternary right-lateral strike-slip faults that extend from the Gulf of California north through the Mojave Desert, linking PacificNorth America plate motion with Basin and Range extension. This network of faults accounts for
30068478|Observations of high-pressure metamorphic rocks occurring as blocks (knockers) and as thrust sheets intercalated into non-metamorphosed rocks in subduction complexes have led to models of material transport within accretionary prisms having large-scale differential vertical transport. Many field geologists favor the rise of deep-seated material to the surface on the trench slope, followed by gravitational transport back to the zone where non-metamorphosed sediments are being incorporated into the accretionary prism. Unfortunately this scenario is not observed in contemporary examples of the type of arc systems assumed in these models. In active arcs, deformation is concentrated near the base of the trench slope, whereas blueschist formation occurs deep beneath the trench slope break and forearc basin. A cover of slope sediment, moderately deformed at best, increases in thickness away from the trench and effectively isolates the accreted material from shallow-level gravitational transport. The mixing of incompatible lithologies in subduction complexes might better be explained by processes associated with non-typical convergent boundaries. One geological agent that may play an important role is strike-slip faulting along trends sub-parallel to the arc. This process could tectonically mix lithologies along the fault zones in several ways. It could also expose high-pressure metamorphics on the trench slope by removal of that part of the accretionary prism closer to the trench. Sedimentary transport of this material to the base of the slope where continuing or renewed subduction occurred could cause the incorporation of blueschist facies blocks into non-metamorphosed melange.
30064650|Given suitable correction factors, the use of pure oxides and binary oxide phases as standards would make electron microanalysis independent of chemical analyses and problems of sample inhomogeneity. Ziebold and Ogilvie (1964) have shown that the calibration curve in a binary metal alloy system can, within the variance of data points, be described by the linear expression
30061966|An easily constructed till-fabric rack that is a more effective, quicker method for one or more men in making fabric analyses.
30068191|Nd isotopes in clastic 600-75 Ma sedimentary rocks from the miogeocline of Alberta and British Columbia are used to (1) constrain the importance of proximal and distal North-American basement and juvenile Cordilleran sedimentary sources; (2) document large-scale changes in provenance; and (3) develop a North American miogeoclinal reference for Nd isotopes as a baseline for continental input to Cordilleran terranes. Initial
30070721|Five unconformities occur within Ordovician formations exposed in the vicinity of Draper, Virginia. They are readily accessible from adjacent highways, U.S. Route n and State Routes 100 and 101, and the field relationships of the involved strata are revealed with unusual clarity. Their bearing upon the interpretation of unconformities is discussed.
30067387|Allochthonous upper Paleozoic volcanic island-arc suites of the U.S. Cordillera have previously been interpreted as parts of a single island arc. New lithologic, age, structural, biogeographic, and geochemical data indicate the presence at least of two arcs, one built on a basement with continental crustal affinities including that of the Northern Sierra terrane, and the other built on an oceanic basement including that of the Eastern Klamath terrane. In the Garfield Hills, western Nevada, the Lower Permian Black Dike Formation appears to be a remnant of the Northern Sierra Paleozoic island arc. It consists of calc-alkaline rocks with low-to-negative
30080861|Statistical analysis plays an essential part in quantitative geomorphic investigations using numerical data obtained by random sampling. The sample is represented graphically by a histogram and is described in terms of the arithmetic mean, standard deviation, variance, and form of distribution curve-whether normal, log-normal, or other. From the sample it is possible to estimate the standard deviation of the population and the standard deviation of the sample means. A difference between two sample means may be tested by deriving the statistic t, which will indicate the probability of obtaining the observed difference by chance alone if no real difference in population exists. Differences in sample variances can be tested, using the statistic F, which is the ratio of the larger to the smaller variance. Where three or more sample means are to be compared, analysis of variance using the statistic F affords a means of testing the hypothesis that no significant difference exists. The interrelationship between two sets of variables may be determined by regression analysis, in which equations of both linear and nonlinear types are fitted to the data and tested by a t-test under the hypothesis that no significant departure from a zero trend actually exists. Where no functional relationship is to be established, the degree of correlation between two sets of data is determined in terms of a correlation coefficient which can be tested by a t-test under the hypothesis that no correlation actually exists. Examples of applications of each of the above methods in current geomorphic research show that statistical analysis is a powerful tool in investigation of fundamental problems of land-form development.
30080867|The paper presents a model which is intended to serve as an organizational framework for quantitative analysis of environments of sedimentation. The parameters of sediments are treated as a special case. An example is given in which several proposed environments of sedimentation are tested statistically in terms of sediment size parameters. In the example, multivariate analysis is used as a tool. Although it is realized that multivariate analysis is not familiar to most geologists, no attempt is made to explain the method, since the example is intended only to illustrate the model.
30060424|In southwestern Idaho there is strong evidence pointing to a pre-Columbia River basalt peneplain which may be equivalent to Anderson's Eocene surface. A post-basalt erosion surface of late Miocene or early Pliocene age, which at some places was not a true peneplain, is also indicated. Two Pleistocene erosion surfaces are well preserved in the Snake River Basin. All four erosion surfaces have been considerably warped from their original positions. Evidence in northern Idaho confirms Anderson's previous interpretation of pre-Columbia River lava erosion surfaces.
30059410|A comparison of the anorthosites of the Adirondacks with those of Minnesota indicates that the difference lies largely in the intense deformation of the Adirondack rocks, during or after crystallization, by which the relations of rock are obscured. At Duluth, and probably in most anorthosite districts, the granitic phases of magma seem to have evolved from gabbro magma some time after the anorthosite was evolved. Both are related to gabbro but not differentiated directly from each other. Gradations from granite to anorthosite originate by inclusion and reaction.
30057347|To facilitate analysis of quantitative data obtained by measurements of many elements in nature, variables are mapped onto plane sets of points to form variable systems, within which (1) each variable is fairly highly correlated with every other, (2) the direction of causality, if any, is given, and (3) one or more variables is correlated with a variable not contained in the system. Variable systems are classified by the presence and direction of feedback among the variables. Variable systems may be infinite, and constitute hypotheses about the contained variables. Fifteen variables of geomorphic, surficial, and climatic elements are arranged into two related variable systems on the basis of correlation coefficients for every possible pair in the study. One system contains variables that measure and determine scale of topography; the other contains variables that measure and determine scale-free elements of topography, i.e., the appearance of the landscape. On the basis of the feedback that possibly exists in nature, there is some tendency for geomorphic elements to control the processes of erosion that shape them, but the control does not extend to the external elements of climate, geology, etc., and therefore the condition of maturity (which is perhaps a shifting equilibrium) is not stable but depends on constancy of climate and other governing factors. A change in some governing factor results in changes in the topography that neither return the governing factor to its original condition nor affect the processes of erosion in the particular way necessary to restore the original form of the land. Drainage density and valley-side slope angle, in particular, are by-products of the rates of energy expenditure on the land surface by running water and the rates of restoration of soil and vegetal cover in relation to the resistance of the surface to erosion. Valley-side slope, however, may exert control over internal erosive and depositional processes to maintain a steady angle consistent with external controlling factors.
30070613|Great accumulations of coarse bouldery gravel along the east base of the central Big Horn Mountains are composed almost wholly of debris derived from the pre-Cambrian core of the range. The name "Moncrief gravel" is proposed for this deposit. It has previously been described as Pleistocene glacial material, late Tertiary to earliest Quaternary bench gravels, or the coarse phase of an early Tertiary basin fill. The gravel was found to be gradational into fine-grained early Tertiary beds and to be separated from the pre-Tertiary rocks of the mountains by thrust faults. For these reasons the Moncrief gravel is identified as an early Tertiary, probably Eocene, fan deposit, formed as the Big Horn Mountains were progressively uplifted and thrust eastward during the Laramide Revolution. Early Tertiary glaciation may have played a part, but this is largely speculation.
30068857|Mafic volcaniclastic deposits are increasingly recognized as important components of continental flood basalt provinces, but the mode of origin of these deposits and the possible environmental influence of the eruptions that formed them remain poorly constrained. The Mawson Formation (Ferrar large igneous province, Jurassic) contains the bestknown examples of largescale, mafic, primary pyroclastic deposits from any flood basalt province worldwide. At southern Allan Hills, in contrast with other sites, the Mawson Formation consists predominantly of subhorizontal, laterally continuous, meterthick layers that fall into four facies: (1) poorly sorted, coarse lapillituff or tuffbreccia beds; (2) tuff or fine lapillituff beds; (3) blockrich layers; and (4) accretionary lapillibearing beds. We interpret the first facies as deposits of highconcentration pyroclastic density currents (PDCs) resulting from the collapse of phreatomagmatic eruption plumes, some from a source probably several kilometers away in Coombs Hills. The finergrained layers were probably deposited by dilute PDCs, whereas blockrich layers originated from local sources predominantly by lateral ejection and ballistic fall. Dilute, moist turbulent currents were also likely responsible for the generation and deposition of large (up to 4.5 cm) rimtype accretionary lapilli. Emplacement of metersthick basaltic PDC deposits over areas of at least 100200 km
30065816|In the system
30061125|Sedimentary structures of two modern point bars on a meandering portion of the Red River near Shreveport, Louisiana, were investigated by trenching. On one of them, the Beene point bar, twelve sets of trenches, 2-8 feet deep, were dug with a tractor-powered shovel. The trenches ranged from 25 to 250 feet long, and were dug in T-shaped and X-shaped patterns. The point bars consist mainly of fine-grained, well-sorted sands, commonly interbedded with and overlain by thin silt layers. Gravelly sands occur in the deeper parts of some of the trenches. The types of stratification observed include trough-shaped and tabular sets of cross-strata, and horizontal lamination. The most abundant type is trough-shaped cross-stratification. The trough-shaped sets are present on two different scales: the large sets have approximate, average thickness: width: length dimensions of 1:5:15 + (feet); and the small sets ("rib and furrow") have dimensions of 2:10:20 + (cm.). The surface expressions of the small sets appear to be cuspate ripples. The axes of large and small trough-shaped sets have a strong preferred orientation parallel to the local stream-flow direction. The resultant vectors obtained by summing observations on individual cross-stratification planes within large sets also point downstream, but have much weaker magnitudes because of the variability associated with the diverse orientations of cross-strata within any individual set. Spoon-shaped depressions on the surface of the bars, oriented with the tips of the "spoons" pointing downstream, may represent scours incompletely filled with large trough-shaped sets of cross-laminae. At the upstream end of one of these scours, cross-laminae in the upper part of the sand that partially fills the scours are "overturned" downstream. The deformation occurred before deposition of any overlying strata and probably during subsidence of river level.
30067280|Near Garnett, east-central Kansas, a thin shale that belongs near the top of the Lansing group, approximately in the middle part of the Kansas Pennsylvanian section, contains a remarkably well-preserved assemblage of land plants, terrestrial and aquatic vertebrates, and marine and terrestrial invertebrates. The flora is so strongly Permian in aspect that some paleobotanists conclude the containing beds must be of Permian age. Occurrence of a disconformity below the fossiliferous shale suggests to some students unfamiliar with the regional setting that the Garnett beds may actually be Permian, and that the apparent stratigraphic position in the Middle Pennsylvanian is due to overlap. An equally untenable hypothesis holds that the upper part of the section now classed as Pennsylvanian might be assigned to the Permian as customarily defined. This paper shows that the fossil-bearing shale is correctly placed in the Lansing group and does not represent a Permian overlap or local channel-filling. The characters of the biota are briefly described, and peculiarities of the flora are interpreted as due to environment factors. The flora is undeniably of "Permian" type, but lived in Pennsylvanian time.
30068648|After a world-wide correlation of Middle Cambrian biostratigraphic units the epoch is divided into three periods of time that may be approximately equal and perhaps be of 10 m.y. duration. Trilobite occurrences for each of these periods for different parts of the world have been recorded. The smallest faunally homogeneous areas with a sufficiently large list of generic occurrences are compared both at the family and generic levels. This comparison, based on Simpson's coefficient, employs cluster, principal component and discriminative analyses. The groups so produced are interpreted as indicating provinciality. Three provinces-Columban (Americas), Viking (Europe, northwestern Africa, and maritime North America), and Tollchuticook (Asia, Australia, and Antarctica)-are denned as being distinct through the Middle Cambrian. It is stressed that although the data analysis provides fairly concrete evidence for faunal similarity the planetary reconstructions are an attempt to express these results within the context of the most reliable palaeomagnetic data available. As the number and reliability of Cambrian palaeomagnetic determinations increases and as more geotectonic data from critical areas become available these reconstructions may be confirmed or modified.
30081214|The Quaternary deposits of the Lamone River Valley in the Northern Apennines are mainly composed of marine clays and sands. Micropaleontological investigations allow the reconstruction of the paleoenvironmental evolution of that succession by recognition of 13 foraminifer and ostracod biofacies diagnostic of upper slope to deltaic environments.
30060034|Principal components analysis of biostratigraphic data provides a composite section useful in regional correlation and studies of organic evolution. Sections are treated as variables and taxon range limits as observations in the principal components model. The method offers the advantages that: all sections are considered simultaneously in the calculations rather than sequentially; and the procedure computes the result from a correlation matrix dimensioned according to the number of sections instead of a similarity matrix dimensioned according to the number of range limits or samples. After initial calculation of the first principal component, missing data entries are estimated by projection of known coordinates on this component. The effects of missing data were evaluated through a Monte Carlo study: composite sections were calculated from data sets generated by randomly eliminating entries from an initial data array. Correlation between the composites thus created and that obtained from the unaltered data remained high after withdrawal of a third of the data entries. Goodness of fit remained reasonable and the ranking of the species roughly unchanged. The correlation method becomes more reliable with removal of rare species and poorly-sampled sections.
30060110|Petrogenesis of detrital sediments is built into a model in which the measured properties of sediments are ideally related to the factors or causes which lead to variation in the properties. Variation in measured properties of detrital sediments is then analyzed using factor analysis and petrogenesis is interpreted through the model. By incorporating several different objectives and the analytical procedures into a single algorithmic program, the analysis is more efficient and systematic and may largely be automated. A number of examples illustrate that variation in the properties of detrital sediments, measured in thin section, contains much redundant information; the most obvious features which emerge are related to variation in size and size sorting, indicating effects of the process of selective sorting, and variation in proportion of the cementitious constituents which reflect diagenetic processes. It is suggested that new properties should only be added if they supply additional information and contain little redundancy. To specify variation in source area, it will be necessary either to find a new property that is not affected by subsequent processes or to extract factor roots beyond the seventh; the latter alternative will require sample sizes of the order of 100-200 specimens per rock type.
30068132|Granites representing three distinct periods of pre-Cambrian intrusion are recognized in the Southern Complex of the Upper Peninsula of Michigan. Two of these are believed to be Archean, and one post-Huronian. Descriptions of the granites and the methods employed for dating them are presented. The Southern Complex is made up dominantly of Archean rocks, and is not, as some investigators have stated, composed for the most part of post-Huronian granite.
30060681|A comparative
30063917|The partitioning of sodium between pairs of coexisting potassium and plagioclase feldspars extracted from metamorphic rocks is examined to test its suitability for use as a geothermometer. Rocks from eight different areas were studied in detail, most areas including two zones of metamorphism; in this way a range of metamorphic grade from middle amphibolite facies to various grades of granulite facies was investigated. Data from the metamorphic areas indicate that the distribution of sodium between coexisting feldspar phases cannot give any indications of relative metamorphic grades. Some factors are suggested to account for the different behavior of sodium partitioning between natural and experimental systems. The results for sodium distribution contrast with the temperature-dependent distribution of trace quantities of strontium between the same feldspar pairs.
30081299|This article gives the findings and interpretations resulting from a field review of the "Minnesota Man" site, for which purposes the Minnesota Highway Department removed a portion of the pavement. The authors are convinced that the geological evidence has been properly interpreted by Thiel, Stauffer, Jenks, and Bryan. Two new points are discussed relating to the position of the skeleton lying in accordance with the slight tilt of the beds, and the lack of any vegetable material in the varves that were sampled close to the immediate site of the skeleton.
30079568|Mount Johnson, unlike most of the Monteregian Hills, shows few dikes, but those found are of considerable interest. A tinguaite porphyry, a dike rock rich in magnetite and ilmenite, and one rich in alkaline amphibole occupy radial joints that traverse the plutonic core of the mountain. Dikes of camptonite occupy in-dipping joints. In places the camptonite has been chilled to a glass which is believed to be a sample of the magma of the non-porphyritic camptonites of the Monteregian province.
30081310|Carbonisotope analyses of fossil wood from the Middle Jurassic Ravenscar Group, Yorkshire, NE England, reveal a significant excursion toward light isotopic values (
30055902|Between the compressional structures of the Green Mountains of Vermont and the dome-like Adirondack mass lie the Lake Champlain lowlands characterized by normal faults, moderate dips, and a scarcity of folds. The normal faults belong mainly to two systems, one having a northeast-southwest strike and one a north-south strike. It appears that both systems were formed simultaneously, and structural evidence seems to show that the normal faulting occurred in Ordovician time, before the Green Mountain overthrusting. These faults cause the pre-Cambrian surface at the base of the Paleozoic series to descend to the east by steps. A study of the stretching involved in the faulting shows that there were tensional forces acting downward toward the east. The distribution and pattern of the faults indicate a primary relation to the Green Mountains and a secondary relation to the Adirondacks, as though due to shear strains between the sinking geosyncline and the up-standing Adirondacks. The normal faults appear to have been formed during the geosynclinal stage, and although conceivably due to unknown magmatic movements, appear to have been formed by the sagging of the geosyncline under the weight of accumulating sediments or to tensional forces which cause the geosynclines.
30058997|A dense pattern of faults cuts a flight of raised coral terraces in New Guinea. Analysis of fault displacement, estimated from terrace offsets, enable partial identification of regional stress trajectories. The uppermost crust is approximated as a slab model, within which internal stress is computed for various boundary loads. The model calculation yielding a stress field most similar to that interpreted from the fault pattern is given by compressional forces oriented approximately northeast-southwest, that is, at right angles to the line of the Benioff zone in the region.
30064017|A comparative study of well mapped active and ancient pull-apart basins suggests a qualitative model for their continuous development. Pull-aparts evolve from incipient to extremely developed basins through a sequence of closely related states. New and compiled map data from several areas, including the northern Caribbean and Turkey, suggests the following stages in pull-apart development: (1) in rigid, intracontinental strike-slip plate boundary zones, larger pull-aparts nucleate at releasing fault bends along segments of the principal displacement strike-slip fault zone which are oblique to the theoretical interplate slip lines; (2) initial opening across releasing fault bends produces spindle-shaped basins defined and often bisected by oblique-slip faults connecting the discontinuous ends of the strike-slip faults; (3) increased strike-slip offset produces basin shapes which we colloquially call "lazy S"-shape for basins between sinistral faults and "lazy Z"-shape for basins between dextral faults; (4) rhomboidal pull-aparts or "rhomb grabens" result from lengthening of an S or Z-shaped basin with increased strike-slip offset and characteristically contain two or more sub-circular deeps within the basin floor; and (5) prolonged strike-slip over tens of millions of years can produce long narrow troughs floored by oceanic crust created at an orthogonal short spreading ridge; basin width does not increase significantly and remains fixed by the width of the releasing bend. Most pull-aparts have low length to width ratios, and this is a consequence of their short lives in rapidly changing strike-slip zones.
30079920|Ferric illite (Feillite) developed extensively in a siliciclastic submarine fan sequence within a limemud succession in the Proterozoic Penganga Group at Adilabad, South India. The minerals formed as
30066165|The calcium carbonate sediments mantling the Great Bahama Bank have attracted the attention of a number of geologists seeking answers to problems of limestone genesis. This region has been the subject of several carbonate deposition studies, but many problems remain concerning the distribution, origin, and diagenesis of the carbonate grain types. The present study was initiated to quantitatively delineate calcium carbonate facies on the northwestern part of the Great Bahama Bank and to delineate the factors contributing to the origin and distribution of the various sedimentary constituents. Representative subsamples of 218 sediment samples collected on the northwestern part of the bank were impregnated in a polyester resin and then thin-sectioned. A point-count analysis of each thin section was made to determine the constituent composition of the sample fraction coarser than 1/8 mm. The weight percentage of the fraction smaller than 1/8 mm. was used as a measure of grain size. Statistical analysis of the accumulated data with a high speed digital computer resulted in the delineation of reaction groups that are defined as groups of sedimentary constituents that tend to react similarly to environmental changes.
30058242|Two Recent alluvial terraces are well developed along Rio Tesuque downstream from the limits of the Sangre de Cristo Range. The high terrace, which stands 18-20 feet above the present stream, is a prominent surface - mile wide. The low terrace, which stands 8-10 feet above the stream, occupies a narrow strip adjacent to the channel. Charcoal from a depth of 13 feet in the high-terrace alluvium yielded a radiocarbon date of 2,230  250 years. Deposition of high-terrace alluvium had ceased by A.D. 1200-1250, as indicated by the presence of datable pottery in the upper portion of the alluvium and by the dates of Pueblo sites built on the high terrace. Computations based on this chronologic information suggest that rates of sediment production during the period of high-terrace deposition were similar in magnitude to modern rates in this area.
30075193|The errors involved in field measurements of plunge, dip, strike, trend, and pitch (rake) are discussed. Potentially high errors arise with the last three of these parameters. The error magnitudes are estimated theoretically and from practical tests. Potential errors in most measurements are rather low, even when using a compass/clinometer without a spirit level facility.
30058010|Mount Shasta is a typical strato-volcano, principally composed of andesitic and basaltic lavas with only minor flows of dacite. It had almost attained its present elevation when a north-south fissure opened on its flanks. Eruptions from this fissure built up a line of cinder cones and steep-sided plug domes. At about the same time, an east-west fissure opened, the two intersecting at the summit of Shasta. On this second fissure rose the large parasitic lava cone of Shastina, the later activity of which was marked by the explosion of nues ardentes and the rise of a plug into the crater, and was culminated by extensive lava flows from fissures far down the flanks. Possibly the plug dome of Black Butte, at the west base of Shastina, rose during this period of activity. The final explosions from the vent of Shasta itself, which cannot have occurred more than a few centuries ago, left a thin mantle of pumice over the entire mountain. Now only a single, feebly flowing, hot acid spring remains of the formerly large solfataric region about the summit.
10.1086/603528|Observations from nine measured sections through the lower Helderberg Group across upstate New York suggest that component rock units within the Manlius Formation extend laterally over 150 km across upstate New York, the most notable being a meterthick zone of microbial bioherms at the base of the formation. Overlying this zone of microbial bioherms is a 510mthick zone of wavy and lenticularbedded ribbon rocks that grade up into microbiallaminated mudstones that are, in turn, overlain by disrupted dolomitic mudstones deposited in playalike supratidal flats. The upper 1015 m of the Manlius Formation comprises meterthick cycles of nodularbedded, stromatoporoidbearing thin sets that grade up into microbiallaminated mudstones. Much of this succession of rock types is traceable across nearly the entire basin and strongly suggests that lower beds of the Manlius Formation do not pass laterally westward into, nor are they coeval with, the underlying Rondout Formation. This, in turn, necessitates that the timetransgressive model of Manlius and Coeymans limestone deposition proposed by Rickard is incorrect and that the Helderberg succession of ManliusCoeymansKalkbergNew Scotland formations instead comprises one thirdorder stratigraphic sequence. The lower sequence boundary may comprise the disrupted dolomitic mudstones overlying the microbiallaminated mudstones in the middle of the Manlius Formation, an interval that appears to correlate with a disconformity between the top of the Manlius Formation and the Coeymans Formation in the section exposed at Schoharie, New York. This interpretation of stratigraphic relations within the Manlius Formation necessitates reevaluation of possible correlations among meterthick shallowingupward successions in the formation.
30067400|Garnetclinopyroxenequartz granulites of the central Highland Complex of Sri Lanka preserve textural and compositional features indicative of highpressure, ultrahightemperature (HPUHT) crustal metamorphism and multistage retrogression. Grains of the peak metamorphic assemblage, garnetclinopyroxenequartz, are commonly separated and embayed by late orthopyroxeneplagioclase symplectites; however, in some domains, rare graintograin associations of the peak assemblages are still preserved. Thermodynamic modeling in the CaONa
30067310|The source of Jasper conglomerate erratics of the central Great Lakes region is shown to be a small area of outcrops lying about 30 to 40 miles east southeast of Sault Ste Marie. The limits of distribution as determined by the available data are outlined for both the Wisconsin and the Illinoian drift. The greater part of these erratics were transported through the Saginaw ice lobe, although the eastern half of the Lake Michigan lobe deposited many of them, especially during the Illinoian ice movement.
30084985|The size-frequency distributions of living and dead populations of Lucina pensylvanica, Divaricella quadrisulcata, Codakia orbicularis, Glycymeris sp., and a dead population of Tellina radiata are examined. It is shown that the form of the size-frequency distribution of in situ populations depends on the interplay between the growth rate of the shell and the mortality rate. Codakia orbicularis has a relatively low mortality rate and T. radiata are relatively high mortality rate: the size-frequency distribution of both living and dead populations of Glycymeris sp. is similar, and it is concluded that this species has a constant mortality rate. Reworked populations of Chione cancellata and Anodontia alba collected on the beach tend to have a normal size-frequency distribution with absence of small shells. Left-right sorting occurs on the exposed outer beach but not on the sheltered inner beach. Analysis of growth-ring size-frequency distributions does not show the peaking that is apparent in species from temperate waters.
30057344|The isotopic composition of oxygen and carbon in the Leadville limestone and in the hydrothermal dolomites and contact metamorphic marbles that replace the limestone is related to the geologic occurrence of these rocks. The Leadville formation includes widespread uniform beds of limestone, dolomite, and chert that show no obvious secondary alteration. The oxygen isotope composition of these beds approximates that of other apparently "unaltered" carbonate sediments of pre-Mesozoic age. Moreover, isotopic fraction-ation measured between calcite and quartz also suggests that the beds crystallized at near-surface temperatures. In contrast, Leadville quartz and carbonates in the great halo of hydrothermal dolomite that is spatially and temporally related to sulfide ore at Gilman, Colorado, yield a range of oxygen isotope values, all lower in O18, that are indicative of much higher temperatures. Differences in oxygen isotopes in quartz, dolomite, and occasional calcite within the halo in the Gilman area are fairly systematic with respect to ore and obvious conduits. Highest temperatures are indicated at ore and at conduits. Successively lower temperatures of formation seem indicated toward the perimeter of the dolomite halo, 2-15 miles away. Consequently, the measured variations in the isotopic composition of oxygen may prove to be a useful guide to ore. They clearly contribute to an understanding of the origin and emplacement of these deposits. The oxygen isotope compositions of quartz, calcite, and dolomite in the Yule marble, a contact-meta-morphic phase of the Leadville formation, and in the Leadville calcite adjacent to quartz-latite sills are intermediate values consistent with the geological evidence that these types of metamorphism were relatively dry.
30058937|In the Jerome quadrangle are a series of greenstones varying in composition from andesites to rhyolites, principally the former, which are pre-Cambrian in age. Heretofore these greenstones have been included with the Yavapai schist series, but detailed mapping shows them to rest unconformably on the upturned and eroded edges of the schist. The greenstones are therefore younger than the typical Yavapai schists and are believed to be older than the Grand Canyon series. The structural features of this complex and the contact action of the pre-Cambrian granitic masses are also described in this article.
30080221|The Bikou terrane of central China is located within the southwest Qinling Mountains along the northwest margin of the Yangtze Plate. The terrane consists of a volcanic assemblage, the Bikou Group, and a correlative volcaniclastic turbidite sequence, the Hengdan Group. UPb SHRIMP detrital zircon dating of 181 grains collected from the Hengdan Group indicates ages from ca. 850 to 700 Ma, with a peak near 770 Ma. Given the predominance of volcanic, singlecycle zircons within the Hengdan Group and the thick succession of coarseningupward volcaniclastic marine sediments, the sequence is best interpreted as a forearc basin. This interpretation is supported by previous UPb SHRIMP and conventional UPb zircon dating performed within the Bikou Group that indicates subductionrelated magmatism persisted from at least ca. 850 to as recently as 700 Ma. Together, these data indicate that the Bikou terrane is a fragment of a Neoproterozoic continental arc system and that the Yangtze Plate was bordered by a convergent oceanic margin. The South China Block must therefore occupy an outboard position with respect to Rodinia reconstruction models.
30065152|Southern California and adjacent areas contain two suspect or exotic terranes comprised largely of ancient continental crust, namely the Tujunga (San Gabriel) and Joshua Tree terranes, that have been considered part of a larger displaced terrane, the Santa Lucia-Orocopia allochthon. Paleomagnetic data for the allochthon indicate northward transport in excess of 2000 km and, thus, an origin extraneous to North America. However, Early Proterozoic plutons of the Mojave crustal block and the Joshua Tree and Tujunga terranes have strikingly comparable features, including: (1) crystallization ages of 1.63 to 1.68 Ga; (2) biotite + sphene + magnetite
30060027|Commonly used statistical treatments of grain size distributions are inappropriate if the sediment in question is polymodal. 190 sediment samples from a river-lake system were analyzed by one or more sizing methods. Cumulative probability plots revealed most samples to be polymodal with inflection points at approximately 2 , 5 , and 8.5 . Partitioning of representative curves into overlapping lognormal populations was accomplished by utilizing a standard graphical technique. Samples from the river consisted of two populations: medium sand (population A) with a mean of 1.25  and fine sand (population B) with a mean of 3.8 . Shear velocities calculated from velocity-depth data suggest that the coarse population would be transported as bedload and the finer one as suspension. Samples from the lake lack the medium sand population, but could be partitioned into 3 overlapping populations: fine sand (population B) with a mean of 3.8 , silt (population C) with a mean of 5.8 , and clay (population D) with a mean of 10.3 . Population B apparently moves as suspension in the river but represents traction transport in the lower energy lake environment. Population C and D are interpreted as suspension populations. This technique of partitioning polymodal grain size curves should prove an important tool in the understanding of sedimentary processes and interpreting environments of deposition.
30063364|Belief that ice at the base of thick glaciers is too plastic and likely to contain too much intergranular melt-water for effective plucking of underlying rock leads to the hypothesis that pressure-controlled freezing of small amounts of meltwater in joints immediately beneath the glacier has been a significant factor in the vast amount of subglacial block removal that has evidently occurred. Outward flow of glacier-derived ground water is believed adequate locally to remove geothermal heat which otherwise would prevent freezing below the floor level. The floor rock serves to store and to release heat as the pressure-melting-point shifts. Any freezing beneath a joint-bounded block tends to lift it and to permit ice and debris to wedge around and beneath it. Roches moutonnes are a logical consequence of extensive operation of the process, and numerous recorded instances of other types are believed also to illustrate the principle.
30059099|Forty core samples of feldspathic sandstones from wells in central and southern California contain the following secondary (authigenic) minerals deposited in the open pores or formed within the detrital clay matrix: quartz, albite, orthoclase, microcline, dolomite, calcite, anatase, kaolinite (?), glauconite, barite, and pyrite. These minerals, together with the primary clay matrix prominent in some samples, are the cementing substances. Secondary quartz occurs as crystallographically continuous outgrowths*on detrital grains. The secondary feldspars are both outgrowths on detrital feldspars and idiomorphicauthigenic crystals in cavities. Dolomite takes the form of small rhombs and is most abundant in the clay matrix, whereas calcite is typically an anhedral cement filling open pores. Kaolinite (?) occurs as radial fibrous or granular aggregates in the detrital clay matrix. Dolomite and secondary feldspars have idiomorphic outlines in contact with secondary quartz and calcite, and in many cases calcite has grown on top of secondary idiomorphic quartz. Intricately penetrating contacts between detrital grains of quartz and feldspar may be the result of grain-on-grain pressure and consequent solution at points of contact between grains. The crystallization of secondary quartz and feldspar may be complementary to such local solution.
30061991|The pre-Illinoian lake clays of the Cincinnati region represent remnant stream-valley fills formed when the northward-flowing, preglacial Teays-age drainage was blocked and ponded by the first glacier to enter the region. The age of the clays is not definitely known, but the depositional history and origin of the clays can be inferred to a large extent with the aid of clay-mineral stratigraphy. The two most complete lake-clay deposits in the region were analyzed for clay-mineral composition using standard x-ray diffraction techniques. The vertical succession of clay-mineral compositions is very similar for the two localities analyzed, indicating nearly identical depositional histories. This similar succession of clay-mineral compositions enabled division of each clay deposit into zones, or vertical sequences of lake-clay strata characterized by a distinctive clay-mineral composition and an inferred depositional history. The depositional history of the two clay deposits as interpreted from clay-mineral stratigraphy includes three phases of deposition, each with a different source: (1) initiation of ponding accompanied by reworking of underlying stream alluvium (zone of alluvial contribution), (2) a longer period of ponding in which the northward-flowing drainage was the major source of clay (zone of southern fluvial contribution), and (3) diversion of the northward-flowing drainage and a stage of ponding in which the advancing ice sheet became the major source of clay (zone of till contribution). Eventually, the lakes were breached and overridden by the advancing ice sheet reflected by the presence of till overlying lake clays.
30070660|The margins of the Caribbean plate are marked by Cretaceous islandarc basalts associated with accreted fragments of the Cretaceous Colombian Caribbean oceanic plateau. In Cuba, the Cretaceous volcanic islandarc rocks are in fault contact with the Mabujina complex, interpreted as an oceanic Jurassic to Early Cretaceous arc basement with local islandarc rocks. The Cuban Cretaceous island arc consists of Early to Late Cretaceous volcanic series associated with limestones. While the preAlbian arc rocks consist of tholeiitic basalts and rhyolites, the postAlbian volcanic series is characterized by calcalkaline andesites. The Cretaceous lavas have Sr and Nd isotopic compositions similar to the intraoceanic arcs, and the Pb isotopic initial ratios are close to the East Pacific Rise midocean ridge basalt field. According to our data, the Mabujina arc rocks are tholeiites and calcalkaline basalts, developed in a Jurassic and/or Early Cretaceous intraoceanic island arc. Their Nd, Sr, and Pb isotopic compositions indicate that they derive from a depleted mantle source contaminated by sediments. This subduction magmatism is not related to the classic Early Cretaceous Caribbean tholeiitic series but is similar to the Late Jurassic to Early Cretaceous Guerrero arc terrane from Mexico and may represent its southernmost extension. Thus, the different tectonic units of central Cuba cannot be easily correlated with those of Hispaniola. Our data also indicate that two different island arcs were tectonically juxtaposed in central Cuba: the classical Lower and Upper Cretaceous suites of the Greater Antilles arc and a Jurassic to Early Cretaceous islandarc suite with a Pacific provenance.
30068847|The supracrustal Kerala Khondalite Belt (KKB; southern India) constitutes an important but little understood terrain in the evolution of East Gondwana. Here we report SHRIMP UPb zircon and titanite ages for a suite of metasedimentary rocks from the KKB. Metamorphic ages at
30056159|A fossil resin recently discovered in the Eocene strata of California has been determined as true amber. This is the first recorded occurrence of this material in California. Associated with it are various plant remains, including some fossil wood, which, however, does not seem to have been the source of the amber.
JG116605|Detailed mapping and new structural observations on Kythera demonstrate that there is a major detachment fault, here termed the Potamos detachment fault (PDF), exposed on the northern part of the island and bordering the domed structure of a metamorphic core complex. The detachment forms the contact of contrasting metamorphic and nonmetamorphic units, and both ductile and brittle structures are found, related to its extensional development. The earliest Potamos mylonites, as well as some other early ductile structures near the mapped detachment fault, indicate initiation of the PDF under NE-trending extension, in mid- to late Miocene time. Later ductile, ductile-brittle, and some brittle structures in the metamorphic unit near the detachment indicate (in contrast) a significant NW-SE extension along the forearc ridge. The younger brittle structures indicate return to NE-SW extension. Late MiocenePliocene strata cover the detachment unconformably and are affected only by the late faults. Trench rollback and slab retreat of the subducting African lithosphere in the late Miocene requires expansion and increased curvature of the Hellenic (Crete-Peloponnese) forearc ridge. Differential movement between and vertical axis rotation of segments of the forearc ridge may have localized along-arc stretching. Cross-ridge strike-slip faults may be linked to the later parts of this process. Evidence of young E-W dextral faulting is seen in northern Kythera outcrops, related to a significant submarine fault of this type located between Kythera and the Peloponnese.
30057120|Grain size analyses of three sets of sedimentary rocks totaling thirty-two samples were performed by thin-section and sieving techniques. The total distributions and the statistics derived from these distributions are compared for the two techniques; distributions of average samples are similarly compared. Conversion factors which will make the results directly comparable are empirically determined and are found to vary within samples, between samples, and between rock types. Analytically derived correction factors for sectioning and for weight-to-number frequency fail to bring the results of the two techniques into agreement. Based on experimental results it is concluded that, at present, there is no generally applicable correction factor but that empirically derived conversions with statistically determined confidence limits may be used within a single study.
30081003|Thirteen peridotite xenoliths from Bultfontein, S. Africa, are characterized by recrystallization zones and both grain-boundary and coarser veins with abundant mica, amphibole, and diopside, and minor Ba-Sr-Ca-Zr-Cr-titanate (crichtonite structure; enriched in light rare earths), Cr-spinel, and Mg-ilmenite. Although a genetic relationship to the MARID-suite (mica-amphibole-rutile-ilmenite-diopside) is suggested by the overall mineralogy and high concentrations of trace elements, some details must be considered if the peridotites are to represent veined and metasomatized wall-rock to a magma body which formed MARID "pegmatites." The micas and amphiboles of the two suites do not overlap in composition, and two peridotites show at least two veining events. Perhaps the peridotites were invaded by several Ti-rich liquids, one of which evolved to yield MARID pegmatites. One distinct peridotite has linear veinlets of mica, Zr-Nb-rutile, and serpentine, which cut the rock fabric. The micas are richer in Ti than those from primary-metasomatic veins at Matsoku.
30059102|Because many elements can occur in two or more oxidation states, reactions involving oxidation and reduction are important in geochemical processes. The energy change per equivalent of a reaction involving oxidation and reduction can be quantitatively expressed by its oxidation potential. For many inorganic reactions taking place in aqueous solution oxidation potentials are known and can be used to obtain a better understanding of geochemical processes. Conditions within the earth's crust may vary from highly oxidizing to highly reducing, and the oxidation potential of a natural environment determines what minerals may or may not be formed in that environment. The solution, transportation, and deposition of many elements in the earth's crust are strongly influenced by the oxidation potential of the environment. Separation of closely related elements, such as iron, cobalt, and nickel, may result. The significance of oxidation potentials in geochemistry is particularly marked in the frequent concentration and enrichment of rare elements in deposits formed under extreme oxidizing or reducing conditions.
30064030|If plotted on mass (volume, area, tonnage) vs. time diagrams, geologic entities-for example, continental and oceanic crust, sediments, and mineral resources-display an exponential (power law) relationship, with entity per unit time increasing toward the present. This relationship is consistent with the concept of recycling and can be simulated mathematically. The authors' approach is based on the plate tectonic theory and considers area-age or mass-age distributions of crystalline basement and sediments for major global tectonic realms. Each tectonic realm is characterized by a specific lifespan, which is an inverse function of its recycling rate (b). The estimated average half-area or half-mass ages (
30062606|An early chapter in the evolution of the Snake River is recorded by intracanyon lavas in and near the Lewiston Basin of Washington and Idaho. Dissection, attendant upon the beginning of late Cenozoic deformation of the Columbia River lavas, produced canyons which reached a maximum known depth of more than 1,200 feet before they were nearly filled with two thick lava flows. This stage of dissection, which is termed the "Asotin" stage, and the volcanism which terminated it are probably of early Pleistocene age. The Snake River canyon of the Asotin stage was 900 feet deep south of the axis of the Lewiston downwarp and more than 1,200 feet deep on the north, or downstream, side of the axis, thus suggesting an early stage in the folding of the Lewiston downwarp. Continued regional deformation has brought the bottom of Asotin Canyon about 300 feet below present river-level at the axis of the downwarp and elevated it nearly 1,000 feet above river-level on the margins of the downwarp. The Snake River, during post-Asotin time, followed on and near its former course and carved a new canyon that is deeper than the Asotin Canyon except in the center of the Lewiston downwarp. Much of the intracanyon lava was removed during the later stage of canyon-cutting, but a number of remnants remain in a known distance of 22 miles.
30075219|The composition, chronology, and structural relations of the Saskatchewan Craton and enveloping mylonitic rocks exposed in basement windows of the Glennie Domain, TransHudson Orogen, have been determined by geochemical, geochronologic, and structural studies accompanying detailed field mapping. Basement windows lie along the hinge zone of a regional crustal culmination and consist mostly of 2.42.5 Ga felsic plutonic rocks enveloped by the Nistowiak Thrust. The Nistowiak Thrust is a folded, 12 km thick, upper amphibolite facies mylonite zone formed during emplacement of the Flin FlonGlennie Complex across the Saskatchewan Craton. It is likely correlative to the Pelican Thrust, which envelops basement windows in the Hanson Lake Block 100 km to the east. An internal high strain zone within the overlying nappe pile, the Guncoat Thrust, is composed primarily of mylonitized porphyroclastic pelitic and psammitic migmatites. UPb geochronological results suggest calcalkaline plutonism from 18891837 Ma, thrust stacking, peak metamorphism and associated anatexis between 1837 and 1809 Ma, isotopic closure of titanite at 17901772 Ma, and intrusion of late granitic rocks at 17701762 Ma. This is in agreement with ages from the Hanson Lake Block, and La Ronge, Kisseynew, and FlinFlon domains in Saskatchewan and Manitoba, and from the UngavaBaffin portion of TransHudson Orogen, suggesting broadly synchronous thermotectonic processes along a strike length of 2000 km. We speculate that the Saskatchewan Craton, rather than representing an exotic continental fragment, rifted from the Superior and/or Hearne Provinces at ca. 2.1 Ga and that the TransHudson Orogen is an internal orogen. In this scenario the Maniwekan Ocean, developed between the RaeHearne and Superior cratons, opened and closed about similar pole(s) of plate motion.
30062091|The Green Beds of the Scottish Dalradian Series are greenschists and amphibolites of metasedimentary origin. Field relations, petrography, and chemical data are used to demonstrate that these rocks, approximately of basaltic composition, were derived by metamorphism of basic tuffs deposited in an area of pelite sedimentation. The Dalradian Epidiprites, a series of orthoamphibolites associated with the Green Beds are less siliceous and less magnesian, in general, than the metasediments. Pelitic material is more abundant in the Green Beds of the Southwest Highlands than to the northeast. Amphibole occurrence and abundance are related to calcium content of the rocks. Fifty-eight metasediments and three Epidiorites were analyzed for thirty elements each, by X-ray fluorescence methods.
30078342|The degree to which elongate features are uniformly oriented can be estimated in the field by comparison with pseudo-random sets of line segments of known strength of preferred orientation. Nine such sets are presented.
30078526|Oman and the United Arab Emirates host the largest ophiolites on Earth and are characterized by arid tropical climate and desert conditions. They thus provide an unexcelled natural laboratory in which to study sediments derived from allochthonous oceanic lithosphere and to define an actualistic petrogenetic model for obductionorogen provenance. Spectacularly exposed in SE Arabia are two distinct obducted ophiolite sequencesSamail and Masirahthat contrast widely in formation setting, spreading rate, detachment level, thermal state during emplacement, and relief. Masirah beach sand chiefly consists of basaltic, diabase to metadiabase, plagioclase, gabbroic, and dunite grains from progressively deeperseated levels of the multilayered oceanic crust. Dense minerals include diopsidic clinopyroxene and hornblende from gabbros, epidote and tremolite/actinolite from altered dikes, and augite from basaltic lavas. In contrast, sand from the Samail ophiolite includes cellular serpentinite grains and enstatite from residual mantle harzburgites, with subordinate olivine and minor chrome spinel. Diopside, hornblende, and hypersthene are provided by gabbroic rocks. Supply from uppercrustal levels is subordinate. Mafic to ultramafic detritus shed by obduction orogens virtually lacks quartz, Kfeldspar, and metasedimentary rock fragments, thus contrasting radically with detritus from continentalcollision orogens. Only when and where erosion bites beneath the oceanic nappe may polycrystalline quartz to metapelite and metafelsite grains be supplied by the metamorphic sole (developed at the base of young ophiolites) or by subducted continentalmargin rocks. Outer to innercontinentalmargin successions exposed in tectonic windows provide additional chert, shale to slate, limestone, dolostone, and quartzose sandstone grains. Subducted ophiolites or blueschist mlange along the suture zone of Alpinetype collision orogens also shed ultramafic grains, but their pervasively foliated, interpenetrating to interlocking textures are readily distinguished from the dominantly pseudomorphic mesh textures that characterize the serpentinite grains derived from obducted mantle slabs.
30070732|The petrographic investigations of coal of the last two decades have stimulated applied research in the field of preparation and utilization. Definition of the different types and varieties of coal was followed by the accumulation of a body of information on the specific physical characteristics. Differences in specific gravity, conductivity, and friability have been utilized in commercial and laboratory preparation to separate coals into their component parts. The availability of quantities of the different types in concentrated form has made largescale combustion research possible. Laboratory tests for ignition temperature, agglutinating value, and swelling index are being perfected and, when correlated with coking, briquetting, and combustion practice, will facilitate the solution of problems arising in these fields.
30067915|Previous interpretations of palaeowind directions during the formation of the Sand Hills are at variance with interpretations based on other evidence. Wilson's model of bedforms is used to interpret the steep-face orientations, dune volume distribution patterns and dune hypsometry of the megadunes together with their sand grain-size characteristics and observations of their dune bedding. It is concluded that northwesterly winds predominated but that there were also important southwesterly winds at the time of megadune growth, and that these encouraged the growth of the lengthy linear megadunes.
30055714|The geographic and hypsometric relations of Rush Valley and Tooele Valley, Utah, are described. The forms of the valley floor and peculiar features of Rush Lake and of the alluvial fans of Rush Valley are interpreted as evidences of the probable integration of the drainage of this valley with that of Tooele Valley, the first stage leading toward the coalescence of the basins. Two examples of capture, in the restricted sense, in other parts of the Basin and Range province are cited. The conclusion seems justified that this stage of the arid cycle can now be established inductively and need rest no longer on a purely deductive basis.
30065144|Mantle xenoliths from the Hanaus and the Anis Kubub pipes in the Gibeon Kimberlite Province of southern Namibia show evidence for intensive heating in lower as well as intermediate lithospheric levels. The investigated samples are garnet- and spinel-bearing peridotites (as well as one orthopyroxenite) with granular, partly sheared, and sheared textures. While granular and partly sheared xenoliths reveal distinct zonation patterns, most of the sheared xenoliths display perfect mineral equilibria. Thermobarometric estimates for the primary mineral assemblages of these samples plot in the graphite stability field with maximum P-T conditions of about 1320C at 44 kbar in garnet harzburgites and a minimum of about 630C at 19 kbar in spinel lherzolites. The initial steady-state geotherm of
30056780|The structurally controlled meanders of Coy Glen were modified in 1935 by a flood of short duration but unusual volume and force. Little change had taken place in the gorge since the original study in 1929, but after the flood it was found that the meander spurs had been truncated and other significant changes had occurred. As slow incision, structually controlled, formed the spurs, their modification in a single flood is definite evidence that such erosion is extraordinary.
30058566|Excellent examples of bird's-eye coal from the Tertiary bituminous coal measures of Greymouth, New Zealand, are described. The "eyes" consist of concentric rings, each ring a miniature ridge with slopes directed radially in opposite directions from the crest line of the ridge. They are believed to be the product of conoidal shearing induced in material of suitable physical character by tectonic stresses.
30064005|The Bitterroot dome contains plutons of the northeastern Idaho batholith and their regionally metamorphosed country rocks. Several mesozonal to katazonal intrusions in the core of the dome have zircon U-Pb ages (lower intercept on concordia) which range from
30056107|Andesitic glowing avalanches discharged from the Soufriere of St. Vincent on May 7, 1902, deposited ash which is noted for its fine-grained texture and richness in crystals. The largest avalanche deposit of this eruption contains several per cent of blocks and bombs and 15-30 per cent of lapilli. The median diameter in a representative sample is 0.6 mm., and the sorting coefficient is 2.9. Crystals form 45 per cent of the bombs and have been concentrated to form almost 58 per cent of all juvenile material in the deposit and 73 per cent of the juvenile ash finer than 2 mm. The glowing avalanches were discharged from the outer part of a vertical ash column which carried a large volume of ash to considerable elevations. When the column became denser than the surrounding atmosphere, it discharged clouds of pyroclastic material laterally. The clouds quickly became stratified into a lower, denser fraction (the glowing avalanches) containing the coarse ejecta and bulk of the crystals, and an upper part lighter and richer in gas and fine particles of vitric ash. A third or more of the material discharged was dispersed in the light, gas-rich clouds which accompanied the avalanches during their descent. Glowing avalanches discharged by prehistoric eruptions which reached a climax 4,000 years ago deposited materials essentially similar to those of 1902. The prehistoric avalanche deposits, together with mudflows and stream-laid materials, filled valleys on the western side of the Soufrire and formed a large fan at its eastern foot. The St. Vincent glowing avalanche deposits are chemically, mineralogically, and textura Jly rather similar to a number of pumice- and scoria-flow deposits. Crystals have been concentrated in the ash fraction of pumice-flow deposits of Crater Lake and Asama beyond their proportion of the magma, probably by the same mechanism as they were concentrated on St. Vincent. A scarcity of bombs in the St. Vincent deposits is apparently the only major difference between these and the scoria- and pumice-flow deposits of other volcanoes.
30085008|The remarkable correlation between the Milankovitch climate curve and the climatic record as read from deep-sea core stage thicknesses obtained by Emiliani is shown to be invalid. The correlation of .997 was arrived at through a specious statistical procedure. When reanalyzed, the data yield a very weak or insignificant correlation which certainly leaves open the question of the Milankovitch effect being a direct cause of glacial-interglacial fluctuations and which casts considerable doubt on Emiliani's empirical climate curve back to 425,000 years. The constant sedimentation rate of 3.34 cm/1,000 years, for Globigerina ooze in the Caribbean and equatorial Atlantic computed by Emiliani is also shown to be inaccurate. A variable rate exists with a range of about 2 cm/1,000 years, and the single computed value of 2.92 cm/1,000 years gives a better statistical value for the data and assumptions involved.
30079898|New paleomagnetic and biostratigraphic data from the western Green River Basin of Wyoming provide a magnetobiostratigraphic framework to correlate the late Wasatchian through early Bridgerian North American Land Mammal Ages (NALMA) to the Geomagnetic Polarity Time Scale (GPTS). Threehundred and twelve paleomagnetic samples were collected from 73 sites within a 350m continuously exposed flatlying section. The section is characterized by alternating packages of welldeveloped paleosol mudstone horizons (Wasatch Formation) and lacustrine shale/limestone horizons (Green River Formation). Fossil mammal assemblages are known from various levels within the section and constrain the location of the Wasatchian/Bridgerian NALMA boundary to lie between 60 and 120 m. Paleomagnetic results of paleosol horizons are generally characterized by two components, a presentday field component with low unblocking temperatures up to 400C, and a characteristic component with unblocking temperatures up to 680C. Characteristic magnetizations have either NNW and steeply down directions or antipodal SSE and up directions. The characteristic component is interpreted as primary based on antipodal polarity directions and congruence with the expected Eocene direction for western Wyoming. Results indicate that the first 30 m of section are characterized by normal polarity, the next 230 m by dominantly reversed polarity, followed by a 70 m interval of alternating polarity. Given radiometric ages for the late Wasatchian (early Lostcabinian subage) and middle Bridgerian, as well as previous Wasatchian and Bridgerian magnetostratigraphic results, two potential correlations to the GPTS are possible. Correlation 1 places the Wasatchian/Bridgerian NALMA boundary within Chron C23r at about 52 Ma. Correlation 2 places the boundary within Chron C22r at about 50.5 Ma. Correlation 2 is tentatively preferred as it agrees most closely with previous estimates for the age of the boundary and assumes more uniform sediment accumulation rates.
30065727|Basalts of the mid-Jurassic Gran Canon Formation, Cedros Island, Mexico, were emplaced on a volcani-clastic apron in a deep marine backarc basin. Elongate pillows and lava tubes, as well as paleocurrent data from the volcaniclastic apron, indicate a southward regional paleoslope away from the island arc source. Basalts emplaced on relatively proximal parts of the apron are nearly entirely pillowed and have thick flow units with mega-pillows. Basalts on distal parts of the apron (about 15 to 20 km down paleo-current) are dominated by pillow fragment breccias (flow foot rubble), and individual lava flows are generally thin, with small pillows, suggesting that the distal ends of lava flows, erupted upslope, are represented. These distal flow fronts, however, are interstratified with features that typically form close to a vent, including thick massive to mega-pillowed lavas and lava tubes up to 8 m in diameter. It is inferred that a fissure (or system of fissures) extended from the arc into the backarc basin, erupting basalt lavas onto both proximal and distal parts of the volcaniclastic apron. Such intraplate volcanism may be common on the "hot" frontal arc side of backarc basins.
30063386|The craters and the crater springs are located approximately 8 miles, air line, northwest of the Jemez Indian Pueblo, which is some 45 miles northwest of Albuquerque, New Mexico. They lie on the eastern slope of the valley of the Rio Salado, a tributary of the Rio Jemez, which, in turn, flows into the Rio Grande. The springs rise through faults in the Permian, Triassic, Jurassic, and Cretaceous sediments, which dip steeply to the west from the Nacimiento uplift first described by Herrick (1904). The area is part of the "Ojo del Espiritu Santo" grant, and the springs here mentioned are referred to locally as the "Phillips springs."
30079998|We report UPb crystallization ages from four metavolcanic rocks and two granitic gneiss samples as well as wholerock chemical analyses and SmNd isotopic ratios from 25 metaigneous and metasedimentary rocks from the Chopawamsic and Milton terranes, southern Appalachian Orogen. A metarhyolite sample from the Chopawamsic Formation and a metabasalt sample from the Ta River Formation in the Chopawamsic terrane have indistinguishable UPb crystallization ages of
30070497|Magnetostratigraphic and
30060885|Selected Late Tertiary and Quaternary lavas from the Aleutian localities of Adak, Great Sitkin, Cold Bay, and Amak have been studied. Bulk rock analyses as well as electron probe analyses of the major phases are presented. The lavas, basaltic andesites, and andesites are characterized by high
30060419|The easternmost portion of the granite of the Mesabi Range, Minnesota, was regarded by C. K. Leith as intrusive in the Animikian iron formation, and mapped as Embarras granite. Obervations in the field, as well as microscopical and chemical examinations of the contact of both formations, convinced the writer that Leith's opinion accounts in a satisfactory way for the relation of granite and iron formation, but that the assumption of a pre-Animikian age of the granite is not supported by decisive facts and, besides, it leads to a very complicated explanation of the contact zone and its metamorphism. A detailed description of this contact zone is given in this paper. It is an unusual mineral association with some peculiar minerals, of which a blue-green amphibole has been discussed previously elsewhere.
30070505|A major submerged terrace whose seaward edge is at about 150 m depth was investigated in 1983 during 10 dives with the Hawaii Undersea Research Laboratory (HURL) submersible Makali'i off Kealakekua Bay, Hawaii. The seaward termination of the terrace is a steep wall of reef limestone that extends from 150 to 250 m below sea level. Three samples of limestone collected from the reef face at depths of 204-219 m yield a weighted average
30060950|Ar/Ar ages determined on rocks and minerals from the Camagey area in central Cuba provide age constraints on events that accompanied the northward migration of Cuba into the Caribbean region and its subsequent collision with the Bahamas Bank. Wholerock samples from the Camujiro and Piragua Formations, part of the Camagey volcanic sequence, yielded Ar/Ar ages of 7472 Ma, distinctly younger than the 10080Ma ages indicated by fossils in interlayered sedimentary rocks. Syenite and granodiorite in the Camagey batholith, which cut these volcanic rocks, yield generally similar Ar/Ar ages of 7572 Ma for hornblende, biotite, and feldspar. These ages are interpreted to reflect relatively rapid uplift and cooling of most of the volcanicintrusive arc. Additional constraints on the timing of this uplift are provided by Ar/Ar ages of 7175 Ma for rhyoliterhyodacite domes of the La Sierra Formation and 52 Ma for andesitic basalt of La Mulata Formation, which appear to have been emplaced onto erosion surfaces that resulted from this uplift. An average cooling rate of about 13C/Ma, which prevailed during formation of the arc between about 96 and 80 m.yr., increased to about 40C/Ma after 80 Ma and ended with formation of a paleosurface at about 75 Ma or slightly afterward. The rapid uplift and denudation arc necessary to form a Late Cretaceous paleosurface on the volcanicintrusive probably required an extensional tectonic environment, which could have been created during oblique convergence of the Greater Antilles arc with Yucatan as the arc migrated northward in Late Cretaceous time. Metamorphic rocks in the Escambray and Isle of Pines areas in western Cuba have ages similar to those indicated for uplift in the Camagey area, suggesting that extension and related Late Cretaceous paleosurfaces were widespread in the western Greater Antilles during its northward migration into the Caribbean region.
30058864|The Price formation, the oldest Mississippian formation in the Draper Mountain area, is approximately 1,250 feet thick and consists of sandstone, shale, and conglomerate. Three distinct beds of semi-anthracite coal occur about the middle of the formation. In this general region the Price has been considered by most geologists as continental, but new evidence suggests that in the Draper Mountain area, at least, all except the coal-bearing portion is marine. Fossils indicate that most, if not all, of the Price is of New Providence (Osage) age. The possible Kinderhook age of the lower part of the Price is discussed.
30058046|A fossil flora was found in sedimentary beds which are apparently conformable with the overlying Columbia River lavas in one of the side canyons of Moses Coulee, Washington. These beds are here designated as the Douglas Canyon formation. The flora indicates a late Miocene age. By comparison the Douglas Canyon formation seems to be equivalent to the Latah formation of Spokane, Washington. The late Miocene flora was mesophytic, whereas the present is xerophytic.
30059016|A method is presented for estimating the confidence region for the mean of a set of axes that are noncircularly distributed about the mean axis. The data (plotted on the upper hemisphere) are projected, through Lambert's equal-area projection, onto the plane that is tangent to the estimated mean. An elliptical confidence region is constructed around the projected mean using bivariate normal theory. The confidence region is then projected back to the sphere. The method is applied to the analysis of a set of joint orientations.
30059073|Structural features studied in lower Blue Glacier are the foliation pattern, an unusual longitudinal septum, ogives, crevasses, and related ice fabrics. A 300-meter icefall separating the major accumulation basins from the ice tongue plays a dominant role in the formation of the principal foliated structures. Three types of ice are involved; coarse-bubbly ice, coarse-clear ice, and fine ice. Most and perhaps all the fine ice represents partly recrystallized insets or infolds of firn. An angular unconformity between stratified firn and well-foliated glacier ice is attributed to a period of high firn limits prior to 1948 and lower firn limits since. Below the firn edge the glacier displays a foliation pattern of two sets of nested arcs, convex down-glacier. These are separated by a narrow zone of strongly foliated, structurally complex ice termed the longitudinal septum. The foliation pattern becomes more irregular toward the terminus because of intersecting folia and discontinuities in strike. The ogives of the Blue Glacier appear on the surface as alternating dark and white bands conformable with the arc-shaped foliation. The dark bands are underlain by well-foliated, heterogeneous material featuring unusually large proportions of fine and coarse-clear ice. The white bands are underlain by relatively massive, uniform coarse-bubbly ice. It is inferred that the transverse foliation pattern originates in a zone of strong compressive flow immediately below the icefall. Transverse inhomogeneities created within the fall may be an important initial factor. Once formed, the foliation passively undergoes deformation within the ice tongue as it flows down the valley. The arc-shaped pattern develops within a short distance below the fall owing to differential flow. A calculation based on borehole data shows that deformation within the glacier during flow is of the correct magnitude to account for the dip of the foliation as observed at the apexes of the nested arcs, assuming that the initial attitude at the base of the icefall is essentially vertical. Complications appearing in the foliation pattern in the lower reaches of the glacier are attributed chiefly to topographic irregularities on the glacier floor, near and below the base of the icefall. It is postulated that the longitudinal septum is formed at the base of the icefall where two ice streams, split by a large rock bastion, reunite. Differences in direction and velocity of flow at the junction result in strong compression and shear which produce the intense foliation of the septum. The .high content of fine ice is attributed to the insetting and infolding of firn within the icefall and in a fosse at its base. The ogives are inferred to be primarily features formed within the icefall but subsequently modified in the zone of compressive flow at its base. The ogive dark bands may represent greatly compressed and partly recrystallized ice breccias which accumulated within crevasses formed at the lip of the icefall. There is no compelling evidence that the Blue Glacier ogives are annual features.
30060582|A microscopic examination of the linings of a copper converter and of a lead blast furnace is described with a view to deducing criteria for the discrimination between the formation of sulphides by anhydrous melts and by hydrothermal agencies.
30071163|A Rb-Sr and Sm-Nd whole rock isotopic study on suites of samples of progressively deformed metagranites of Late Proterozoic Crossnore-type plutons in the Blue Ridge thrust complex of the southern Appalachians was undertaken to evaluate the effects of deformation and metamorphism on the isotopic systems. The Rb-Sr whole rock isotopic system was affected by Alleghanian greenschist facies metamorphism and ductile deformation: Sr loss involving the alteration of feldspars and biotites, plus the involvement of fluid(s), was the major cause of the disturbance of the Rb-Sr whole rock system. In contrast, the Sm-Nd whole rock isotopic system is relatively undisturbed even in a shear zone, except in the most deformed rocks. The Sm-Nd whole rock isochron ages are consistent with U-Pb zircon crystallization ages of
30060926|Very accurate bathymetric data for five guyots from the newly named Dutton Ridge are presented along with that of two associated nearby guyots. These new data are based on U.S. Naval Oceanographic Office swath mapping by the SASS multi-beam sonar system (Glenn 1970). The Dutton Ridge is a major east-west trending feature that intersects the junction of the Bonin and Mariana Trenches. Its trend parallels that of the Michelson Ridge, which lies further to the North at the intersection of the Izu and Bonin trenches. As of this writing no samples have yet been dredged from the Dutton guyots, but the new bathymetric data presented allows some interpretation of the geologic history of the ridge. I suggest that the Dutton Ridge formed as a volcanic plateau at the extinct triple junction of the Phoenix, Farallon, and Pacific Plates. This once-continuous plateau was then fractured and faulted to produce the present group of guyots and ridges. Later volcanism may have altered its morphology. Subsequently, the ridge passively rode along on the Pacific Plate to its present location where it may be jamming the trench juncture, as indicated by a lack of seismic activity at that spot. In addition, bathymetric evidence indicates that the Dutton Ridge may have been partly obducted onto the arc-trench slope.
30056677|Recognition of the forms present has been the basic difficulty in the interpretation of New England geo-morphic history. Joseph Barrell's recognition of broadly developed multiple terraces of marine origin is shown to be erroneous, since the existence of the terraces was concluded from incomplete evidence and questionable logic. Multiple facets, as recognized by Douglas Johnson, can be observed directly on suitable profiles and to some extent in the field. These real forms indicate that New England has undergone complex peneplanation. Such a history is entirely compatible with the hypothesis of regional superposition applied to adjacent Appalachian areas.
30080174|In the course of detailed geomorphic studies in the Ardennes massif of Belgium, the writer devised a method for recognition of partial planation surfaces. The method rests primarily on the study of flat benches and flat-topped summits. The many erosion levels (up to ten in a vertical range of 250 meters) in the Ardennes show a clear relationship to the drainage net, and their extent depends much on the resistance to erosion of the substratum. The levels are characterized by near-horizontality and are commonly separated by quite distinct scarps. Field work in the Appalachians, where multiplicity of levels has been reported, revealed surfaces quite similar to those of the Ardennes. These surfaces are commonly separated by small vertical intervals. A departure from the Ardennes conditions in the Ridge and Valley Province seems due mostly to differences in the range of resistance of the various formations. The several levels are believed to represent imperfect cycles of erosion, but they must have extended laterally from the alluvial plains of the rivers in the form of faint slopes due to mass-wasting agents. Recognition of many closely spaced and somewhat pediment-like erosion levels in widely distant regions with temperate humid climate suggests modifications of W. M. Davis' classic theory of erosion cycles.
30063921|Excellent exposures along the coast of Labrador for 150 km. reveal a consistent pattern of thick gabbro sheets overlying migmatic granite gneisses. The relationship between the two rocks is complex, and in many places each appears to have intruded the other. However, mineralogical, textural, and structural criteria may be interpreted as showing that the gabbros are younger than the gneisses. An exceptional example illustrating these relations is described from Spotted Island. It is suggested that the heat of the intruding gabbro magma caused widespread mobilization of the granitic basement rocks.
30080134|Natural correlation with climatic ages of Canadian postglacial forest types, deduced by Potzger and Courtemanche, confirms the well-suggested view that the ice border oscillations at Cochrane antedated the Altithermal which culminated ca. 6,000 years ago. The postglacial crustal rise of the James Bay country required 8,000-10,000 years according to Gutenberg. The Cochrane must be the correlative of the European Salpausselk stage and be some 10,000-11,000 years old. Since the ice retreat from Milwaukee to Cochrane comprised at least 7,000 years, the radiocarbon age of the Two Creeks forest bed of 11,400 years must be much too low.
30060520|In north-central Minas Gerais, large bodies of quartzite, up to 25 m long, are found in tillite of the Proterozoic Macabas Group. Although one body is intact, others are disrupted and intermixed with sheared siltstone and tillite. Two tillites separated by a thin conglomerate are found in the same area. Striations found on the top of the lower tillite display two directions of ice-movement, east-west and northeast-southeast. The orientation of the quartzite bodies, shear planes in the tillite, and the striations on the lower tillite combine to suggest that the ice was moving in an east to northeast direction.
30062238|In the west of northern Malekula, Pliocene sediments rest with angular unconformity on lower Miocene volcaniclastic rocks. Six tilted, reef-capped terraces overlie benches cut in the Pliocene succession. Facies analysis shows the Pliocene sequence to be transgressive, indicating a relative sea level rise of at least 400 feet. Analysis of the terrace deposits shows that they resulted from the cycle: transgression-slow regression-rapid regression, repeated at least six times. These cycles can most simply be explained by sea level oscillations combined with continuous tectonic uplift, and probably represent major Pleistocene eustatic oscillations. Correlation with similar reef-capped terraces elsewhere cannot be made on elevation alone. The number of terraces present depends partly on the rate of uplift. The ratio of the elevations of terraces which formed during the same eustatic oscillations in different areas will only be the same if uplift in all areas was at a steady rate.
30057086|Channel order, according to the Strahler system, is a simple mathematical concept that can be derived from the notion of a rooted tree without first postulating the existence of a single downstream direction on each channel segment. The Strahler system is probably unique in this respect.
30062060|Wolf Creek Crater is an essentially uneroded, 875 m (average) diameter meteorite impact crater that has been partly buried under windblown sand. There is a local - 2 milligal gravity anomaly centered on the crater due largely to the substantial thickness of sand under the present crater floor. The gravity signature shows a small reversal over the center, which correlates with a central "claypan," and a small positive anomaly near the base of the inner rim in the north northeastern sector. The size and shape of the gravity signature and the measured density contrast between sand and quartzite country rock were used to "remove" the sand cover in and around the crater. The assumptions made in this exercise are thought to minimize the calculated depth to the original crater floor. The "exhumed" crater has an approximate (minimum) depth of 140-150 m below the rim crest and 95-110 m below the gently undulating country rock surface. Relative to the immediately adjacent, outside terrain, the rim crest stands 40-45 m above the original surface. The crater's circularity index is 0.70, its rim height/diameter ratio is 0.05 and its rim height/depth ratio is 0.3. All these parameters are within the normal range for impact craters although the first two lie near the extremes of tabulated values. Additional work is necessary to establish the cause of the interior positive anomaly.
10.1086/678950|Three outstanding questions regarding Paleoproterozoic crustal growth and assembly in southwestern Laurentia are (1) the mechanisms of crustal growth (back-arc rifting and associated juvenile magmatism vs. accretion of juvenile arcs), (2) the nature and significance of pre-Yavapai orogeny (>1.70 Ga) deformation, and (3) how the isotopically mixed boundary zone between the Mojave and Yavapai Paleoproterozoic crustal provinces formed. Supracrustal successions associated with the Mojave-Yavapai boundary zone in northwestern Arizona are dominated by >1730 Ma bimodal metavolcanic sequences and compositionally siliciclastic metasedimentary rocks, with minor ultramafic rocks, chert, and carbonate. This lithologic assemblage requires juvenile mafic volcanism in a basin that also received abundant quartz-rich (i.e., continental) detritus. A pre-D
30060680|Petrographic study and modal and chemical analyses of samples collected along a traverse from the margin to the interior of the bulbous head at the north end of the Mount Givens Granodiorite show that it is compositionally zoned. Relatively mafic rock in the margin, composed of higher temperature mineral assemblages, passes inward, with only one identifiable internal contact, to more felsic rock composed of lower temperature mineral assemblages. Hornblende and biotite decrease in amount inward from the external contact, plagioclase is rather constant, and quartz and K-feldspar increase inward. The anorthite content of plagioclase and the MgO content of hornblende decrease from the cores to the margins of crystals and from the margin to the interior of the pluton. We interpret this pattern to have resulted from crystal fractionation during inward solidification with falling temperature. Fractionation occurred because residual solid material (restite) carried upward in the magma from the place of origin of the magma, together with crystals precipitating from the melt phase, was progressively cleared from the magma by settling downward and/or by accretion to the solidifying margins of the magma chamber. The kind, composition, and proportion of crystals precipitating changed with falling temperature and changing composition of the melt phase. The Mount Givens Granodiorite differs from the Tuolumne Intrusive Series in the following ways: (1) more abundant mafic inclusions and mottled cores in plagioclase suggest greater abundance of residual solid material from the source region of the magma; (2) more calcic rims of plagioclase crystals in the marginal rock indicate that the Mount Givens magma was at a higher temperature when the exposed rocks began to solidify; (3) the presence of quartz in tiny sub-equant crystals as well as in intergranular stringers in the marginal rock of the Mount Givens indicates that the Mount Givens magma was saturated in quartz as well as in plagioclase, hornblende, biotite, and magnetite when the first rocks began to solidify, whereas the Tuolumne magma was not initially saturated in quartz; (4) decreasing grain size of the mafic minerals inward precludes chilling and suggests that the wallrocks were preheated before solidification began; (5) the presence of ilmenite, absent in the Tuolumne Intrusive Series, and smaller amounts of magnetite and higher
30060515|Information on nucleation rates and processes in the solid-state transformation of aragonite to calcite is derived by fitting Avrami models of nucleation and growth to existing data on the overall rate of reaction, using recent measurements of calcite growth rates. Aragonite samples of diverse origins and morphologies exhibit extremely rapid nucleation at the onset of the transformation, with negligible subsequent nucleation. Preferential nucleation on surfaces of transforming domains produces systematic discrepancies between observed reaction rates and the kinetics calculated from standard Avrami theory; these discrepancies may be resolved in large part by reformulating the kinetic equations to encompass both surficial and internal nucleation in domains of idealized shape and finite size. When fitted to a model of this sort, the data require that surficial nucleation greatly dominates internal nucleation, in agreement with petrographic observations and theoretical expectations. These models demonstrate that transformation functions may display a first-or second-order time dependence, even though all grains are growing isotropically in three dimensions. Consequently, growth mechanisms or product morphologies may not be inferred solely from the order of time dependence of transformation.
30070733|Coal is a heterogeneous mass of several physically and chemically different classes of plant constituents that have accumulated in various proportions during the peat stage. Different blends of these constituents and the amount of biochemical changes in the peat stage result in the common types of coal known as "bright coal," "semisplint," "splint," "cannel," and "boghead." From the data obtained in the present work it is evident that the type, as well as the rank, of coal must be considered whenever differences in chemical, hydrogenation, and coking properties are to be explained.
30079441|The Caledonian nappes in Scandinavia record two main phases of early Paleozoic metamorphism, but their preCaledonian tectonothermal history and paleogeographic position are largely unknown. Here we present a UPb age of
30065818|A weathered zone defined by progressive changes in oxidation, texture, and clay mineral composition occurs at the Mississippian-Pennsylvanian contact in the Illinois Basin in Crittenden County, Kentucky. Geologic evidence indicates that this weathered zone most probably represents a truncated pre-Pennsylva-nian weathering profile. Texture and oxidation features are similar in vertical distribution to those of modern soil profiles. The upward increase in relative abundance in the profile of mixed-layer hydrated and non-hydrated illite is similar to that described from modern soil profiles developed in shale and in glacial till.
30058663|The basaltic lava flows of Mount Lassen and the Hawaiian Islands have three distinguishable surface textures. Aa lava has a texture resembling that of broken scoria, block lava has broken cleanly after congealing, and pahoehoe has a relatively smooth surface. Aa lava with channels is usually found on the steeper slopes, while pahoehoe lava with tunnels is usually found on the flatter slopes of Hawaii. The block lavas of Mount Lassen resemble shrinkage polyhedrons, with one or more aa or pahoehoe faces, violently disturbed while cooling. Flow units can be distinguished in recent flows and in the ancient flow lavas composing valley walls. Mixed contacts between aa and pahoehoe apparently show the effects of pressure in addition to the former fluidity. The first lava out of a vent is first to congeal and may be left exposed near by, at both sides of the flow. This effect should be considered in sampling; later lava appears near the front of the flow. Under certain conditions, successively later lavas might be found extending up the center of the flow to the vent. In Hawaii the vertically banded vesicular dike rocks found at slight depth, probably near former vents, closely resemble the horizontally banded vesicular rock of the flow lavas. Dikes found in deeply cut valleys rarely show banded arrangements of vesicles and are prevailingly columnar in their structure.
30060649|The numerous and widespread sillar deposits in the western Andes of southern Peru are rhyolitic tuff flows which are not welded. Two types may be easily distinguished by color in the field. One, a salmon-colored sillar, is composed largely of minute glass shards and pumice fragments and contains small amounts of oligoclase and biotite and, rarely, quartz. The other, a white sillar, is relatively free of hematite colorant, is hard, and consists largely of secondary axiolitic and spherulitic growths of potash feldspar and (rarely) tridymite with relatively little glass. The white sillar contains quartz, oligoclase, and biotite fragments. Both types of sillar contain foreign material, mostly andesite, probably from the vent walls. Five chemical analyses of sillars from the Arequipa region show remarkable uniformity, regardless of color or degree of recrystalliza-tion, and closely approach the composition of average rhyolite. Sr, Li, Rb, and Cs are present in amounts typical of rhyolitic and granitic rocks. In the upland valleys of Apurimac and Cusco departments single rhyolitic tuff flows have been traced for 20 miles. These sillar deposits are in remnants of mature valleys which are probably of early Pleistocene age. Youthful streams have cut canyons as much as 2,300 feet below the valleys which guided the course of the tuff flows. Similar relationships hold in the Arequipa region, where many deposits of both salmon and white sillar have accumulated in a broad basin between the Yura and Chili rivers. The sillar deposits all appear to be related to dominantly andesitic volcanic centers. Physiographic evidence suggests that eruption of these rhyolitic tuff flows is connected with relatively sudden epeirogenic movement. Andesitic volcanism both preceded and followed the principal early Pleistocene rhyolitic eruptions. The volume of rhyolitic sillar is small compared to that of andesite flows and pyroclastics.
30065627|The Pennsylvania reentrant, the most prominent deviation in the trend of the Appalachians, is the product of Late Proterozoic rifting. The Peters Creek Formation, Pennsylvania-Maryland Piedmont, contains rift-gene rated, deep-water turbidite deposits of Late Proterozoic-Cambrian(?) age. These rocks are an extension of the Westminster terrane and lie well to the northeast of the southern Appalachian Late Proterozoic-Cambrian rift basin (Lynchburg-Chilhowee Group basin). The basin into which the Peters Creek Formation was deposited may have connected the southern rift basin with one to the north. The preservation of the Peters Creek Formation and other age equivalent units within the Pennsylvania reentrant indicates that the New York promontory acted as a buttress to Paleozoic orogenic activity.
30063389|Surface tension is found to be a controlling factor in a number of processes of geological importance: precipitation and solution in small pores and cavities (metasomatism), incipient crystallization, recrystallization and formation of porphyroblasts, vapor tension of a magma, development of pressure by reheating of rocks containing adsorbed water, and possibly surficial aspects of lava flows.
30066154|The writers determined
30057179|Present knowledge of the Illinoian glaciation in Illinois supports the following interpretations: (1) the invading Illinoian glacier was one of great vigor; (2) its limit was determined by a change in its climatic controls which halted its advance and initiated the retreat of its margin, during which moderately thick submarginal drift was deposited but no continuous terminal moraine or recessional moraines were built; (3) northeast-southwest trending ridges of the Kaskaskia River basin are stagnation features, recording the fact that the glacial margin had retreated little more than 25 miles before the glacier became stagnant; (4) many crevasse fillings were made and after some crevasses, both longitudinal and frontal, had reached through the ice, eroding streams confined along them cut straight shallow depressions, some of them crossing divides and forming trellis drainage; (5) numerous beautiful conical and ellipsoidal moulin kames, some compound and mammoth in bulk, were made helter-skelter along and between crevasse fillings as the glacial ice became decadent; (6) the small Mendon recessional moraine on the higher Galesburg Plain north of Illinois River records a somewhat longer glacial activity for a brief time, but its construction was soon followed by stagnancy when crevasse traces were eroded on flat surfaces back of it, causing many of the present linear lines of drainage; (7) the Buffalo Hart Moraine, continuous north of Illinois River for but little more than 60 miles records a brief time of renewed snowfall and glacial activity; (8) the Illinoian Glacial Lobe at its maximum development had the full deployment suggested by Leverett as covering northwestern Illinois at the time that it reached southeastern Iowa and its maximum limit in southern Illinois; (9) the dominant dolo-mitic bedrock of the northern counties and the greater relief of the region provided conditions for different physical and geochemical weathering than those of the coal measures area to the south; (10) the glacier was as vigorous when it transgressed the northern area as it was elsewhere, and it became stagnant when the rest of the glacial lobe became stagnant; (11) during the Sangamon interglacial interval, weathering and erosion modiaed the Illinoian drift everywhere, the profiles of weathering assuming characteristics according to the physical and chemical conditions; (12) no loess was deposited anywhere on the Illinoian drift because there were no valley trains during the wasting-away of the glacier, the glacier melting down in place; (13) the only loess deposit genetically connected with the Illinoian glaciation is the pro-Illinoian Loveland loess that is found over wide areas beneath and beyond the Illinoian drift; (14) Farmdale loess and the superjacent Peorian loess (Iowan and Tazewell) form a widespread mantle over the weathered Illinoian and other deposits of much of the midwest.
30078394|We provide a bestfit curve to 1849 strontium isotope data for the period 0 to 206 Ma using the LOcallyWEighted regression Scatterplot Smoother (LOWESS) method. This is a robust, nonparametric modern regression technique. Since it does not yield an explicit mathematical equation relating
30057168|Hydrothermal alteration of rhyolite porphyry wall rock along a vertical fissure in the Broken Hills Range, Nevada, has produced a zoned deposit of sericite-talc-chlorite. Chemical analyses of a series of specimens show a progressive enrichment in MgO and a corresponding impoverishment in
30078287|Boisa Island is the tip of a Quaternary island-arc volcano. It consists of an older cone made up of porphyritic, amphibole-free, mafic rocks, and two younger cumulodomes of hornblende-bearing high-silica andesite. One of the cumulodomes contains coarse-grained igneous inclusions consisting of amphibole, plagioclase, clinopyroxene, orthopyroxene, olivine, and spinel. Some of these minerals in the andesites themselves have both cognate and xenocrystal components. Both the anhydrous phenocryst assemblage in the basalts and the amphibple-bearing assemblage of the inclusions provide low residuals in least-squares linear-mixing calculations, suggesting that fractionation of either assemblage in the basalts could have given rise to the andesites. However, this is not supported by the results of Rayleigh-fractionation calculations for several incompatible elements. Four possible interpretations are: (1) the Rayleigh-fractionation results are inappropriate and misleading; (2) the andesites were formed by crystal fractionation of a mafic parental magma not represented on Boisa Island; (3) mixing of a fractionated parental magma with an incompatible-element depleted mafic magma (also not represented on Boisa); (4) mixing of mafic crystals represented by the Boisa inclusions with a magma richer in
10.1086/664776|Three series of volcanic rocks accumulated during the Cambrian to Silurian in the metasediment-dominated Variscan basement of Sardinia. They provide a record of the changing geodynamic setting of the North Gondwana margin between Upper Cambrian and earliest Silurian. A continuous Upper CambrianLower Ordovician succession of felsic submarine and subaerial rocks, dominantly transitional alkaline in character (ca. 492480 Ma), is present throughout the Variscan nappes. Trace element data, together with Nd isotope data that point to a depleted mantle source, indicate an ensialic environment. A Middle Ordovician (ca. 465 Ma) calc-alkaline bimodal suite, restricted to the external Variscan nappes, overlies the Sardic Unconformity. Negative Nd
30079986|An internally consistent thermodynamic model for the subsolidus system CaOMgOAl
30062279|Two series of granitoids are present in the Finisterre region. One is formed mainly by syn-collision two-mica leucogranites. The other is composed of syn- and post-collision granodiorites and monzogranites of calc-alkaline affinity. The emplacement of these granitoids took place during and after the main phases of regional deformation. Petrographic and geochemical studies on the leucogranites suggests a common crustal origin with the surrounding metamorphic series, which includes metasediments and orthogneisses of medium to high grade amphibolite facies. The syn- and post-collision "calc-alkaline" series is associated with basic to intermediate rocks, suggesting a lower crustal origin. REE data have been used to characterize the two types of granitoids and to model the source areas of generation. There is no evidence for an origin of the granitoids by melting of mantle-type igneous rocks. Instead, the sequences of granitoids can be explained assuming different degrees of partial melting from a heterogeneous crustal source region. In some instances, however, in situ magmatic differentiation may also have occurred to account for variations in REE fractionation patterns observed in the Hercynian granitoids when compared with patterns in postulated source rocks. The source compositions were pelites and greywackes or mixtures of these rocks, although the leucogranites may possibly be better explained by partial melting of orthogneisses analogous to those outcropping in the region studied. The formation of two series of granitoids supposes an essentially intracontinental orogenesis (continent-continent collision) with the development of granitoids by recycling older continental crust. The coeval emplacement of mantle-derived magmas into the lower crust could enhance the melting process to form the biotite-rich calc-alkaline granitoids. By comparison with petrological and geochemical data from other granitoids of north Portugal and east Galicia, it is suggested that toward the west an increasingly younger crust was involved in partial melting processes in the northwestern part of the Iberian Massif.
30070498|Placers are found on many beaches of the Oregon coast. In the beach that is the focus of this study, the principal placer minerals are ilmenite (22.0%), epidote (20.0%), garnet (18.7%), augite (15.5%), hypersthene (8.1%), hornblende (5.8%) and zircon (2.0%), the "ilmenite" fraction actually being partly chromite. A series of beach-face sand samples was obtained along a profile when sand was being eroded from the upper beach and transported to offshore bars, since the processes of grain-selective sorting leading to placer formation were probably most active at such a time. The landward-most sample contained 96% heavy minerals, being part of the placer. This concentration systematically decreased offshore to a 6% heavy-mineral content in the seaward-most sample (54 m offshore). Determinations of individual heavy mineral concentrations revealed that, although they all tended to become concentrated within the placer with light quartz and feldspar dominating the offshore transport, the sorting processes were most effective in concentrating the ilmenite (concentration factor = 1403) and least efficient in concentrating the hornblende (factor = 5). All of the minerals form a pattern of increasing efficiency of concentration within the placer with an increase in grain density and decrease in mean grain size. Thus the sorting processes are most effective in concentrating the ilmenite, which is both the densest and finest-grained of the minerals present in the beach, least efficient for the hornblende, which has the lowest density and is the coarsest of the heavy minerals. Measurements of grain settling velocities indicate that this parameter cannot account for the observed selective grain sorting. Instead, evaluations of the selective entrainment and transport rates of the mineral grains yield trends which exactly parallel their observed concentration factors within the placer, indicating the probable dominance of these grain-sorting processes in placer formation. Shear sorting of the light and heavy minerals may also be an important process, but its role could not be determined in the present study.
30070524|The geological record is a threedimensional mosaic of gapbound rock bodies that, at any given scale of temporal resolution, were emplaced more or less continuously. At any geographic location, the irregular alternation of processes responsible for the formation and destruction of rock bodies results in the preservation of hiatusbound rock packages that have a distinct time of first occurrence (base, or oldest portion), a time of last occurrence (top, or youngest portion), and a suite of defining characters (e.g., lithologies, thickness, fossils, etc.). Many important aspects of the geologic record can be quantified by compiling the stratigraphic ranges of such gapbound rock packages. These include the quantity and spatial and temporal distribution of preserved rock, rates of rock formation, sequence stratigraphic architecture, and areaweighted rates of expansion and contraction/erosional truncation of rock emplacement settings. This approach to characterizing the rock record is scalable, permitting application to records encompassing entire continents and hundreds of millions of years as well as individual basins and geologically short time intervals. To illustrate the utility of this approach and to provide a new highresolution analysis of the temporal structure of the geologic record, gapbound rock packages in the continental United States and southern Alaska were compiled directly from the American Association of Petroleum Geologists Correlation of Stratigraphic Units of North America (COSUNA) charts. The COSUNA charts were assembled at a temporal resolution of approximately 13 million years (m.yr.) in the Phanerozoic and contain 4173 gapbound rock packages. Many important aspects of the North American geologic record are revealed by the temporal distribution of gapbound rock packages, including rock quantity, longterm rates of sediment accumulation, and basin turnover. The durations of gapbound sedimentary successions are approximately exponentially distributed, with a mean duration of 25.2 m.yr. and a median duration of 16.9 m.yr. The probability of initiation and truncation among sedimentary packages does not increase or decrease substantially during the Phanerozoic, but these parameters do vary on shorter timescales in response to tectonically and glacioeustatically driven changes in sea level. The largest increase in the rate of sediment truncation occurs at the endPermian, which marks a clear and fundamental temporal discontinuity in the sedimentary record of North America. Smaller discontinuities occur at the endOrdovician, the endTriassic, and the endCretaceous. Lithologically, CambrianMississippian sedimentary successions are dominated by carbonates, and postPaleozoic successions are dominated by terrigenous clastics. The quantity of preserved rock, the carbonate/siliciclastic ratio, and the dominant lithology comprising terrigenous clastics all vary substantially from interval to interval during the Phanerozoic, indicating that processes governing the formation and destruction of sedimentary rocks vary on timescales of <5 m.yr.
30058500|The available information concerning the structure of the Rocky Mountains is briefly reviewed, with special reference to those sections which show structures dipping in under the ranges from both sides. It is pointed out that the close-folding and over-thrusting entail a compressional origin for the system as a whole. In consequence of the observations and experiments of R. T. Chamberlin, it is suggested that the Rocky Mountains may have developed in a series of two-sided zones, in response to compressional stresses.
30070635|The Pretoria Salt Pan is a young circular craterform (3,400 feet diam.) of enigmatic origin. The currently prevalent view is that it is an impact crater or astrobleme, but-except for a superficial morphologic resemblance to known impact craters-there is no positive evidence to support this view. Gravity profiles reveal a strong residual negative anomaly across the floor of the crater which reaches a maximum of - 5 mgal relative to the surrounding terrain. The anomaly is asymmetrically placed with respect to the present crater rim and is most reasonably interpreted as an off-center basin, 2,200 feet in diameter, occupied by several hundred feet of low-density sediments. Both the size and the placement of the anomaly are difficult to reconcile with an impact origin. Rather the evidence favors the original explanation of Wagner (1922) that the crater is a true cryptovolcano, unusually situated-if not in place, certainly in time.
30068467|The phenomena and effects of new volcanic vents of the explosive type in the Goropu Mountains, Owen Stanley Ranges, Papua, are described on a basis of reports made by local observers. Petrological examination of lapilli from the vents indicates that an andesitic volcano has broken through ultrabasic rocks forming part of the Owen Stanley Ranges.
30058420|Geometrically systematic arrangements of uniform spheres are searchingly investigated in Part I. The relationships disclosed, important wherever orderly distribution of points or particles is involved, are here especially treated as the underlying principles of porosity and permeability. Besides packings denned respectively as "chaotic," "haphazard," and "chance," six cases of simple, systematic packing are recognized; two are orientation variants, but four are independent arrangements and include the two hitherto described: "loosest" and "tightest." Striking symmetries appear, and close analogies to crystal structure, including twinned and tripled arrangements. The unit void of each case is thoroughly explored and illustrated, since in it lies the key to porosity and permeability. The stability of the several cases and their probabilities of being formed indicate that Case 6, tightest or rhombohedral, is most favored, and this is abundantly confirmed by experiment. The commonest natural packing, however, comprises colonies of Case 6 packing strewn in a surrounding mesh of haphazard, the whole constituting chance packing; the practical consequences of such arrangement are discussed. Translation from one packing to another is treated, and its bearing on dilatation outlined. Part II considers permeability in all its relations to porosity, including the elements and degrees of dependence and independence. Geometry of the intersphere voids receives particular attention as affecting fluid flow through them; and plentiful graphs of the surprisingly complex void sections are shown, as well as of their integrated projections which somewhat influence rectilinear flow. Effect of assemblage orientation on flow is emphasized. Since permeability is of vectorial quality, every systematic assemblage of spheres is anisotropic with respect to permeability; therefore, if a single value is to be used for permeability, it must be the mean value.
30062292|New geologic mapping and geochronology show that marginparallel strikeslip faults on the western limb of the southern Alaska orocline have experienced multiple episodes of dextral motion since 100 Ma. These faults are on the upper plate of a subduction zone 350450 km inboard of the paleotrench. In southwestern Alaska, dextral displacement is 134 km on the Denali fault, at least 8894 km on the IditarodNixon Fork fault, and perhaps tens of kilometers on the Dishna River fault. The strikeslip regime coincided with Late Cretaceous sedimentation and then folding in the Kuskokwim basin, and with episodes of magmatism and mineralization at 70, 60, and 30 Ma. No single driving mechanism can explain all of the 95 millionyear history of strikeslip faulting. Since 40 Ma, the observed dextral sense of strike slip has run contrary to the sense of subduction obliquity. This may be explained by northward motion of the Pacific Plate driving continental margin slivers into and/or around the oroclinal bend. From 44 to 66 Ma, oroclinal rotation, perhaps involving largescale flexural slip, may have been accompanied by westward escape of crustal blocks along strikeslip faults. However, reconstructions of this period involve unproven assumptions about the identity of the subducting plate, the position of subducting ridges, and the exact timing of oroclinal bending, thus obscuring the driving mechanisms of strike slip. Prior to 66 Ma, oblique subduction is the most plausible driving mechanism for dextral strike slip. Cumulative displacement on all faults of the western limb of the orocline is at least 400 km, about half that on the eastern limb; this discrepancy might be explained by a combination of thrusting and unrecognized strikeslip faulting.
30071553|Sand-draped Cronese ("Cat") Mountain, in the Central and arid Mojave Desert, projects northeast in finger-like fashion to nearly join the northwest trending Soda Mountains, and to separate the adjacent Cronese Valley into east and west, but interconnecting, playas. Each playa contains a dry lake. The sand-filled Cronese Valley as a whole is an integrated part of the Mojave River system and has been since late Pleistocene (Tioga) time. Beach sand deposited during the high-water stand of old Lake Cronese (Little Lake Mojave) is source material for the climbing and falling dunes. Prevailing westerly winds, at times reaching a velocity of about 100 miles per hour, have driven available sand in the west Cronese playa upon the northwest slope of Cronese ("Cat") Mountain, over the ridge (locally as much as 900 feet above the playa), and down the southeast slope to form falling dunes. On both sides of the mountain, sand has sifted into talus cones and covers both bedrock and alluvial fan debris, but deposits are thicker on the windward slope than on the leeward slope. Many sand surfaces are rippled by winds of minor velocity. Prevailing wind direction was determined by a study of the "tails" of wind-shadow dunes on the lee side of vegetation. Locally, climbing or falling dunes have been worked into unusual postures. It is for a relatively large falling dune much resembling the outline of a cat that Cronese Mountain and Cronese Valley may have been named. Six sand dunes, three climbing and three falling, were studied in detail; all are on the northeast part of the mountain. Windward dune-covered slopes average about 9 and leeward dune covered slopes about 24. The sand is composed largely of frosted quartz grains, with a subordinate amount of feldspar and broken bivalve and gastropod shells. Minor amounts of heavy minerals, principally magnetite, along with igneous and metamorphic rock fragments, are also present. The climbing dunes, composed mostly of medium-grained sand, having sorting coefficients that range from 1.5 to 1.9, whereas the falling dunes, composed mostly of fine-grained sand, have sorting coefficients of 1.2 or 1.3. Also the median diameter of the climbing dunes becomes less coarse upslope, but the median diameter of the falling dunes generally remains constant throughout their downslope extent.
30068483|Trace metals and natural radioisotopes are measured in an unusually thick and presumed ancient desert varnish from the Colorado Plateau in Utah. Uranium and thorium concentrations in the sequence: varnish-altered rind-heartrock (Shinarump formation sandstone) indicate that uranium with little accompanying thorium is derived from external sources. The varnish forms a closed system for
30058335|Near east-dipping thrust faults in the Green Mountains and Berkshire Hills, New England, quartzites exhibit westward overturned folds with subhorizontal axes, and an axial-plane cleavage dips east. Close to a thrust fault the cleavage becomes so intense that it obscures the limbs of folds. Where the quartzite has been folded isoclinally, the cleavage is essentially parallel to the limbs but cuts across apices of folds. Intersections of gently folded beds and axial plane cleavage produce a b-lineation that coincides with the orientation of the fold axes. Close to thrust faults, however, an a-lineation becomes more prominent. On the eastward-dipping s-planes, the a-lineation agrees closely with the dip of the planes, although in places its bearing deviates slightly to the east-southeast. Folds with axes parallel to this a-lineation are rare and small. In mildly deformed quartzite, several hundred feet from thrust faults, quartz grains are slightly elongated parallel to the b-fabric axis, and the c-axes of the grains show one strong orientation maximum in a north-northeasterly direction, closely aligning themselves with the fold axes. Near thrust contacts, however, a bc-girdle of c-axes develops that retains a maximum close to b, although additional maxima may form. Deformation lamellae are virtually lacking, but planes of liquid inclusions are locally prominent and follow ac-planes. Even a few feet from thrust contacts, quartz grains remain slightly elongated parallel to b, but the megascopic a-lineation is marked by numerous discontinuous tracts of equant grains of feldspar, muscovite, tourmaline, and zircon. The quartz grains in these tracts differ in orientation from the surrounding quartz fabric. This textural feature has close analogies in rolled steel and glass. In conjunction with fc-girdles and a megascopic a-lineation, it may prove to be a useful criterion for the identification of rock fabric developed by thrusting.
30068193|The lower and middle Eocene Butano Sandstone, at least 1500 m and possibly as much as 3000 m thick, was deposited as a submarine fan in a narrow restricted continental-borderland setting. Its quartzofeldspathic composition suggests a local provenance from plutonic and metamorphic rocks of the Salinian terrane. It crops out in three belts, of which the middle belt in the central part of the basin was buried the deepest and underwent the most significant diagenetic changes. The central belt, made up of middle-fan deposits, contains higher amounts of quartz and lower amounts of feldspar than the more proximal southern inner-fan deposits and more distal northern outer-fan deposits. The presence of authigenic albite, laumontite, and pore-filling kaolinite and chlorite suggests that decreases of feldspars (mainly plagioclasej are related mainly to dissolution of plagioclase. It is possible that at least 20-25% of the plagioclase with respect to total feldspar has been diagenetically dissolved in the Butano Sandstone. Several mineralogical-textural changes influence the final composition of sandstone, including dissolution processes and replacement processes that need to take into account for provenance interpretations and for comparisons with other Eocene sandstones of the central California. A petrostratigraphic comparison of Eocene sandstone strata in central California may contribute to regional paleogeographic reconstructions of submarine fans offset along the San Andreas fault by Neogene right slip along the modern plate boundary.
30079969|The Central Anatolian segment of the AlpineHimalayan orogen contains interior basins, the largest of which is the Tuzgl (Salt Lake) basin (>20,000 km
JG80022|Directions of remanent magnetism in an
30069102|In central Nevada the mid-Paleozoic Roberts thrust telescopes very unlike facies of lower Paleozoic rocks, originally deposited many scores of kilometers apart. During early Cretaceous times this tectonic sequence was intricately reshuffled by gravity sliding. The slides moved as much as 15 km. radially outward from the crest of a structural high, probably raised by a still-hidden intrusive body, and carried away thick sections of strata from both the upper and lower plates of the Roberts thrust, jumbling and interleaving them in the process. Removal of the effects of these younger movements and complications permits the restoration of a simple geometry on the original Roberts thrust.
30075192|Alternating up- and downcanyon currents in the heads of submarine canyons have high-frequency reversals, and, in general, the time interval between alternations increases with depth of the canyon axis until it approximates the period of semidiurnal tides. The depth at which this semidiurnal relationship is found is apparently related to the tidal range. According to available information, with a tidal range of 1.5 and 2.5 m, the depth necessary to show the relationship between the current reversal period and the semidiurnal tide is usually between 250 and 350 m; whereas, if the range is of the order of 1 or less, the depth necessary to develop the tidal relationship is as great as 1,500 m. In three canyons with relatively large tidal range, records taken from depths of more than 1,400 m have alternation cycles shorter than the period of the semidiurnal tide and more irregular than the records from depths between 250 and 1,400 m. In the few available long-period records, the length of the current reversal cycle was found to be greater during spring tides than during neap tides. Cycles as long as the 25-hour diurnal tides were observed in portions of a few records where during large spring tides the heights of the two daily tides contrasted greatly.
30071175|Critical study of published information on the Mississippian system of the Appalachian region reveals long and continuing neglect of some of the thickest and most varied sections of the Mississippian in North America. Abundant faunas and floras in the Appalachian Mississippian have received surprisingly little systematic study and description. These assemblages offer exceptional opportunities for paleontological and bio-stratigraphical study. Only a beginning has been made toward understanding the local and regional relationships of numerous facies. In many sections of the Appalachian region, the determination of the position, stratigraphic character, and geologic significance of both systemic boundaries awaits detailed study. A large number of correlations and formation identifications, now current, are not only valueless but deceiving because they are based upon inadequate paleontology or in some instances upon no paleontology. The widespread persistence of certain lithologic types has been mistaken for evidence of contemporaneous deposition, with lamentable results. The keynote of this summary is a strong and urgent plea for renewed interest in Appalachian stratigraphy and for an early beginning to the systematic study of Mississippian fossils.
30059154|Boudinage and apparent stretching lineations result from extension parallel to layering in deformed rocks, and may be related to the states of finite and infinitesimal strain. Patterns of development of these extensional features are examined in relation to folding with the fold axis () parallel to the Y-axis of the strain ellipsoid, and it is shown that they can develop either normal or parallel to . Two examples of more general cases where  is oblique to Y are also considered. A new moolel for double boudinage is suggested based on the development of boudins in two different orientations during progressive deformation.
30067903|Upper Llandoverian shales from the Ross Brook Formation of Arisaig Beach, Nova Scotia, have yielded abundant acritarchs, chitinozoans, scolecodonts, and Tasmanites spp. The palynomorphs are well preserved, and the assemblages can be placed in the Domasia phytoplankton fades. The Arisaig assemblages are correlated with the approximately contemporaneous Rose Hill Formation of Pennsylvania and with the late Llandoverian of the Belgian Ardennes.
30066233|The size statistics of indurated sediments can be best estimated from the study of grain size in thin section. The present work attempts to relate thin section to sieve size statistics, and extends earlier empirical work for which the sieve size distribution was obtained by the disaggregation of sandstones. In the present work loose sands of known sieve size distribution were impregnated to give artificial sandstones that were sectioned for size analysis. A total of 72 sand samples were created, impregnated and measured in thin section. The mean size, sorting and skewness of the sand were varied in a controlled manner, grains of different shape were used, and two different types of grain orientation were studied. The work was extended to include 11 gravel samples measured in cut slabs and 8 grain mounts of the sands. The empirical results support theoretical argument that measures of mean size for similar samples are related by simple additive constants, if all measurements are made in phi units. However corrections are necessary to allow for different grain shapes and grain orientations, and these have been derived empirically. For randomly oriented grains of average shape (B/A axial ratio = 0.7) the sieve mean size may be estimated to within 0.3 phi at the 95% level by the addition of 0.34 phi to the mean grain long axis measured in thin section. The correlation coefficient relating sieve to thin section measures decreases from the mean (0.99) to standard deviation (0.96), skewness (0.54) and kurtosis (0.25), and indicates that skewness and kurtosis cannot be reliably estimated from thin section measurement. Sieve standard deviation may be estimated to within 0.24 phi at the 95% level by multiplying the thin section statistic by 0.81. Analytic argument indicates that sieve estimates can be calculated from thin section statistics by an appropriate equation, but that thin section size distributions cannot be converted in a simple way to equivalent sieve distributions.
30065760|Recent speculations by Simpson, Leopold and Langbein, and Krauskopf on the nature of geological science are shown to be erroneous. The interest of historical scientists in unique things and events does not mean that they cannot or should not derive laws for explanation and prediction; the usefulness of statistical generalizations does not mean that there is an element of uncertainty or chance in nature; nor does the principle of indeterminacy indicate that there is essential randomness at the base of natural processes. The correct nature of geology as a science is described.
30060679|The maps are intended as an attempt to assemble the Early Phanerozoic paleomagnetic results in map-form so that in which they can be compared with the geological evidence. Relative longitude is estimated by minimizing relative motions among the continents. This approach also provides a useful means of discussing the "polarity problem" in constructing polar wander curves. Six stages are tentatively recognized: (1) at the end of the Precambrian the continental crust is assembled into a supercontinent with the Siberian Shield in the southern hemisphere adjacent to eastern Gondwana; (2) the supercontinent is fragmented in the Early Cambrian; (3) it is reassembled in the Late Silurian (Caledonian Orogeny); (4) undergoes internal adjustments in the Devonian by the sinistral rotation of Laurasia relative to Gondwana (Acadian Orogeny); (5) it breaks-up again in the Late Devonian; and (6) is reassembled in the Middle Carboniferous (Hercynian-Appalachian Orogeny). These succession of stages is regarded as the surface global expression of the Wilson Cycle. Experimental maps for the Late Proterozoic indicate that during the Grenvillian Orogeny there was dextral shear between Gondwana and Laurentia. It is stressed that the maps are not unique and have many inadequacies; e.g., they show no expression of the Taconic Orogeny.
30062439|Geodetic leveling across the Cape Hatteras Arch between Norfolk, VA and New Bern, NC (240 km) suggests an unusually large northward tilting. New Bern appears to have risen relative to Norfolk as much as
10.1086/681918|Glendonites are pseudomorphs of the mineral ikaite (CaCO
30056997|Farmin has contended that the primary cause of natural exfoliation of rock surfaces is dilation due to relief of pressure. This conclusion is questioned, and evidence from a mine adit in Sonora is presented which indicates that some exfoliation results primarily from chemical disintegration without the aid of pre-existing surfaces of strain due to dilation.
30068837|The Nanxiong and Shanghu Formations of southeastern China span the KT boundary interval and preserve an important paleontological record. A 1285m section across the KT boundary was measured, and lithological units were documented and sampled. Strata were deposited in alluvial fan/playa mudflat environments in a highly seasonal, semiarid climate. Previous workers placed the KT boundary at the Nanxiong/Shanghu formational contact. The uppermost Nanxiong and lowermost Shanghu Formations contain an assemblage of dinosaur egg fragments and Tertiary fossils, which led to the notion that dinosaurs survived into the Paleocene. On the basis of our results, we argue that the mixed KT assemblage is a result of debris flows reworking Cretaceous fossils. Depositional environments and paleoclimate did not change significantly across the KT boundary.
30085013|The Salla Beds contain a rich assemblage of Deseadan mammals that traditionally has been considered of early Oligocene age. These deposits, located 90-100 km SE of La Paz, Bolivia, consist of more than 540 m of principally fluviatile clays and silts with numerous interbedded tuffs. Paieomagnetic samples were collected from 104 sites spaced at stratigraphic intervals of about 6 m. As a result of thermal demagnetization (at 400C or greater), unambiguous polarities were determined for 76 of the 104 originally sampled sites. The pattern of reversals, stage of evolution of the fossils, and preliminary isotopic dates (including a K/Ar age of
30070499|Early Proterozoic supracrustal rocks near Gunnison and Salida, Colorado include tholeiitic basalt, dacite to rhyolite, and intercalated sedimentary rocks. These were intruded by essentially synchronous gabbroic sheets, folded, and intruded by major plutons ranging from quartz diorite to granite. Preservation of primary volcanic and sedimentary features is good to excellent; sedimentary rocks in the Gunnison area are mostly turbidite wackes whereas near Salida they are mostly near-source volcaniclastic rocks. U-Pb age measurements on zircons indicate that the earliest bimodal volcanic rocks erupted between 1770 and 1760 m.y. ago and were intruded by granitic plutons between 1760 and 1750 m.y. ago. Renewed bimodal volcanism occurred between 1740 and 1730 m.y. ago and was followed by a period of deformation producing two fold sets before 1725 m.y. ago when the first of a series of younger plutons was emplaced. The compositions and features of the sedimentary rocks and their association with volcanics are consistent with accumulation in an island arc or immature back-arc basin. However, the trace element chemistry of basalts and the lack of abundant andesite may be inconsistent with an arc setting and the bimodality of the volcanic suite suggests the presence of at least somewhat older continental crust. The age span of the volcanism indicates the terrane is coeval with the older volcanogenic terrane of the southwestern United States and suggests that an active volcanotectonic zone extended at least as far northeast as central Colorado.
30061007|The cave systems commonly are reticulated patterns, faithful delineations of the joint system of the formation, with no integration toward a trellised subterranean drainage pattern. The distribution of the lead and zinc ores gives no indication of any former lower water table. Four levels are known in the Dubuque caves, the lower two full of water until pumped out during the mining operations. Only one of the caves described contains a stream today or shows evidence of ever having contained one. There is good evidence in this cave that before the stream entered there was only a reticulated three-dimensional network of solution-widened joints such as all the others described still are. It is concluded that each cave system has been made by solution below the water table and that only one of these has later been modified by a vadose cave stream.
30081034|Recent redetermination of the melting curve of albite, NaAlSiO, has raised questions about possible nonequilibrium states in viscous silicate liquids near their liquidus temperatures and about the thermodynamic description of albite melt at high P and T. Solid solubility of excess nepheline in albite, and of excess silica in anorthite and celsian (on the order of 1-4 wt %) has been reported in the literature. In analogy to similar cases in semiconductors, it is proposed that this homogeneity range of the feldspar phase (from approximately
30079620|The original crust of the McCartys flow, near McCartys in Valencia County, New Mexico, is, in restricted areas, broken up into blocks which are turned up on end and capsized like cakes of ice in an ice jam. Many of these blocks are deeply grooved and scratched. These grooves were formed when the bottoms of these blocks, still soft and plastic, were thrust across the irregular solid edges of other blocks. Pressure ridges are common on the McCartys flow. The medial cracks of many pressure ridges contain triangular wedges of lava whose thin edges point upward. The most striking feature about these wedges is their vertically grooved and fluted surfaces. The triangular wedges were formed when plastic lava was pushed up through a progressively widening medial crack. The irregularities of the wall rock at the bottom of the medial cracks, past which the plastic lava was pushed, produced the grooves and flutes.
30070618|If an element A has a radiogenic isotope,
30070474|The ratio
30068775|New Rb-Sr and whole rock and U-Pb zircon data are reported for deep-seated igneous rocks from Jebel Moya in east-central Sudan. This exposure is important because it may link the high-grade metamorphic and deep-seated igneous rocks of the Mozambique Belt with the greenschist-facies and ophiolitic assemblages of the Arabian-Nubian Shield, both of Pan-African (ca. 900-550 Ma) age. The rocks of Jebel Moya consist of pink granite, green charnockite, and dark enderbite. A twelve-point Rb-Sr whole rock isochron for all three lithologies yields an age of
30068626|Carbonaceous material in regionally metamorphosed coal, black slate, graphite schist, and mica schist shows the following continuous changes with increasing metamorphic grade: increase in particle size; loss of hydrogen, nitrogen, and oxygen ; increase in the carbon content; a decrease in the peak width of the (002) reflection; and a shift of the (002) reflection to a higher
30068526|The melting products of mantle plumes can place constraints on the geochemical structure of the mantle and show how it has varied through time. The highest-temperature melts (komatiites and picrites) derived from each plume are assumed to represent the best available sample of the thermal boundary layer from which the plume originates. A survey of the geochemistry of picrites and komatiites shows that they underwent a fundamental change at about the Archean-Proterozoic boundary. Archean komatiites have depleted or neutral geochemistry, whereas most Protero-zoic and younger picrites have originated from enriched (OIB-type) mantle, although rare depleted plumes persist to the Tertiary (e.g., Gorgona). If plumes originate from a thermal boundary layer near the core-mantle interface, the composition of this layer must have changed from a mixture of depleted and neutral mantle during the Archean to mainly enriched mantle in the Proterozoic. This change coincides with a drop in the maximum MgO content of the magmas from >30% in the Archean to <22% in younger magmas, indicating a decrease in plume source temperature. We suggest that the change in the temperature and composition of the hotspot sources reflects a fundamental change in the dominant form of the component of the earth's convection, driven by surface heat loss: from cold plumes or drips breaking away from beneath a stable lithosphere during the pre-Archean to lithospheric subduction in the Archean and post-Archean mantles. The absence of enriched or OIB-type plumes in the Archean is interpreted to reflect the length of time for oceanic crust to become unstable, sink to the core-mantle boundary, heat up, and return to the upper mantle in plumes. The fall in the maximum MgO content of plume-related magmas between the Archean and Proterozoic may be due to the accumulation of a compositional boundary layer above the core that lowers the temperature of the plume source region by partially insulating it from the core, or to the material in OIB-type plumes being slightly compositionally lighter than the rest of the mantle. Continental flood basalts and oceanic plateau basalts have less extreme geochemical characteristics than those of the associated komatiites or picrites. If these magmas form by melting in the head of a starting plume that is a mixture of mantle from the plume source and entrained lower mantle, the modern lower mantle must have geochemical and isotopie characteristics closer to chondritic than the depleted or enriched mantle reservoirs.
JG117201|Two hypotheses have been offered to account for the transport and accretion history of the Yakutat terrane in southern Alaska. To investigate these two options, we deconvolved fission-track (FT) and U/Pb ages of detrital zircons from stratigraphically coordinated samples collected in the northern Robinson Mountains into component populations. The strata of the Yakutat terrane include the Middle Eocene Kulthieth Formation, the Lower Oligocene to Lower Miocene Poul Creek Formation, and the Miocene-Pleistocene Yakataga Formation. The Kulthieth and Poul Creek formations record erosion of a simple, uniform, long-lived, nonvolcanic source terrain that crystallized from
30068784|Ovid bodies of white to very slightly red-stained saprolite occur in a matrix of more intensely stained saprolite developed on the Liberty Hill Granite, South Carolina. These bodies have the same size and shape as fresh core stones that are also embedded in the saprolite. They are presumably relict or "ghost" core stones that have been altered to saprolite. Their relative lack of iron oxide staining suggests either that core stone alteration or saprolite oxidation is not continuous but occurs in pulses. We postulate that "ghosts" form under anoxic conditions beneath the water Table and are subsequently oxidized when the water Table falls. If this is true, these features might be useful for inferring the history of water Table fluctuations.
30059706|Extrusion of viscous lava through vents and cracks in a solidifying flow produces squeeze-ups, which may be divided into bulbous and linear types. They are probably formed after the crust has attained a considerable thickness. Many of them are hollow owing to drainage of lava from the central part of the squeeze-up after its crust has hardened.
30080155|Seventeen
30079535|The anticlines and domes of the Mid-Continent area appear to constitute a distinct type of structure, with certain definite characteristics. None of the previously published theories regarding the mechanics of these folds offers an adequate explanation of these features. These characteristic features are presented by illustrations of typical folds. The characteristic features of these folds all suggest vertically acting forces rather than horizontal compression, and an analysis of the stresses developed in the overlying sediments by vertical displacement, due to movement along an old fault plane in the basement rocks, indicates that that hypothesis offers a satisfactory explanation of the type of folding developed, and of the normal faulting in connection with the folding.
30059255|The Saskatchewan gravels and sands are composed dominantly of quartzitic sandstones, chert, and arkosic sandstones, together with a few fragments of basic volcanic rock, limestones and bedrock of local derivation. They have been recognized widely throughout the plains of western Canada and northwestern United States, everywhere lying unconformably upon bedrock and invariably being covered by glacial drift. Ages from late Tertiary to early Pleistocene have been suggested for these gravels and sands. Near Edmonton, Alberta, temporary exposures in a gravel pit revealed structures in the Saskatchewan gravels and sands that are attributed to deformation by frost action. These structures are: (1) a zone of deranged pebbles, (2) involutions, and (3) fossil ice wedges, now full of sand. The conclusions drawn from this study are: (1) a periglacial climate existed in central Alberta before the arrival of the Keewatin ice that deposited the Wisconsin till; (2) the Saskatchewan gravels and sands discussed here were deposited in a periglacial environment; and (3) these gravels and sands are older than the "classical Wisconsin" but they are certainly of Pleistocene age.
30080849|Spectrochemical analyses of various minerals has shown that "alkali-metal" thallium and rubidium are found only in potassium minerals and the cesium mineral, pollucite, and that in these minerals the Tl: Rb association is very close. Altogether, 167 specimens have been analyzed quantitatively, the selection comprising lepidolite, amazonite, hydrothermal pegmatitic microcline, primary pegmatitic microcline, zinnwaldite, biotite, muscovite, phlogopite, pollucite, rhodizite, and cesium beryl. The mean weight percentage ratio of
30063919|U-Pb isotopic analyses of cogenetic zircon fractions from four granitic bodies in northeastern Wisconsin yielded the following concordia intercept ages: Amberg Granite and Newingham Granodiorite,
30063641|At several places in the Driftless Area there occur anomalous surface features not readily explicable on the basis of processes now active. In the Baraboo area, blocks of quartzite from the pre-Cambrian bedrock have accumulated in block streams, block fields, rubble zones, and talus, on slopes ranging from 50 to 360. Locally, small valleys have been choked by the rubble. In the Blue Mound area, block streams, block fields, and isolated rock masses, derived from the Niagara chert which caps the "mound," are found at distances of up to nearly 1 mile from the parent ledges and on slopes down to slightly less than 40. At both places the block accumulations are either surrounded or partially overgrown by vegetation and show the effects of long-continued weathering. Nowhere is there any indication of appreciable movement at the present time. The features in question are "fossil" forms, now in a state of stagnation and decay. They are best explained as products of periglacial frost weathering, solifluction, and frost heave during Wisconsin time.
30058169|An intensive study of fossil microspores, isospores, and prepollens isolated from Illinois coal beds has proved that numerous genera and species are present. The correlation of coal beds is possible because the geological range of many genera and species is proved, by this investigation, to be quite restricted. Preliminary experiments with specific interregional correlations have demonstrated a wide lateral distribution of plant microfossils necessary for the correlations of this type.
30065514|Bedrockcontrolled channel systems exhibit considerable morphological variation. Both bedrockinfluenced and alluvial morphological units coexist to form a system of changing channel patterns in response to changes in the relative influence of the controlling process variables. This article investigates the morphological composition of the bedrockinfluenced Sabie River, Mpumalanga Province, South Africa, mapping 25 km of river channel at the scale of individual morphological units. Cluster and discriminant analyses define objective reachscale channel type assemblages based on morphological unit composition. A number of robust clusters emerged that could be broadly classified into five channel types, namely, bedrock anastomosed, mixed anastomosed, poolrapid, braided, and alluvial singlethread. The cluster analysis revealed that these channel types fit on a continuum from bedrockdominated channels to fully alluvial systems. Each channel type could also be characterized by a certain set of dominant morphological units, which changed from bedrockinfluenced at one end of the continuum (bedrock anastomosed, poolrapid) to alluvial deposits at the other (braided, alluvial singlethread). An investigation of the role of controlling process variables in defining these channel types revealed a broad link between the degree of bedrock influence and the amount of available energy within the system as defined by indices such as the flow regime and watersurface slope variation. It is clear that the bedrockdominated channel types are characterized by energy levels in excess of those accepted for alluvial systems, and an extended river classification is presented for the Sabie River that includes these bedrock channels. The mixed anastomosing channel type on the Sabie River is characterized by higher available energy levels than braided or alluvial singlethread reaches. As such, it appears to be a higherenergy example of an anabranched system, probably formed as a result of sediment accumulation on top of a highenergy bedrock anastomosed channel template.
30061974|The potential application of modeling techniques to sedimentological studies of modern carbonate environments is demonstrated by a suggested conceptual model of the carbon system in a coral-reef ecosystem. A graphic model is employed to delineate the locations and characteristics of carbon flow patterns in the reef ecosystem. Modeling is thought to be a valid tool of geological research which should be considered a necessary first step in studies of systems such as the one described. The given model is intended to stimulate discussion about the usefulness of modeling in geological investigations of coral reefs, particularly in identifying the geological priorities in coral-reef research. This model will also form the basis for future simulation analyses.
30070777|Field mapping and structural analysis of Paleozoic rocks in the northern Roberts Mountains in central Nevada reveal that fine-grained siliciclastic strata deposited early in the history of the Antler foreland basin underthrust and underplated as two discrete fault-bound packets to the Roberts Mountains allochthon as it encroached upon the North American continental shelf. Underplating also resulted in the intercalation of North American outer shelf/ slope strata between the two foreland basin packets as the basal detachment of the Roberts Mountains allochthon stepped downward in the sedimentary section. Deformation of foreland basin and outer shelf/slope strata was in response to ESE in-layer shortening accompanied by top ESE layer-parallel shear within 10 m of fault surfaces along which underplating and underthrusting occurred. Stratal disruption, fold tightness and asymmetry, and cleavage development near the lower and upper-bounding faults are greater than in the center of underthrust packages, indicating higher strain along packet margins. Furthermore, maximum strains occurred at the base of packets as evidenced by greater fold asymmetry and cleavage intensity along the lower than along the upper bounding faults of packets. Strata in the basal 25 m of packets, therefore, continued to deform after underplating. Better and later cleavage development at the edges than in the centers of packets may have been facilitated by local rapid dewatering of sedimentary strata along faults during underthrusting, particularly the fault along the base of the overridden foreland basin and outer shelf/slope sequence. Faults within the indurated Roberts Mountains allochthon also may have provided fluid migration pathways, further aiding dewatering during underthrusting.
30059993|The Red Hill intrusive complex in the towns of Moultonboro and Sandwich, New Hampshire is a small elliptical stock of syenite, feldspathoidal syenite, and granite. It is divided into three distinct intrusive groups which are, from oldest to youngest, the Older Quartzose Group consisting of slightly oversaturated syenites occupying the crescent-shaped northwestern part of the intrusive, the Feldspathoidal Group consisting of undersaturated nepheline- and sodalite-bearing syenites which form a funnel-shaped intrusive body and a swarm of ring dikes or cone sheets, and the Younger Quartzose Group consisting of oversaturated syenites and granite occurring as crosscutting plugs. The compositions and textures of the Feldspathoidal Group rocks are believed to be the result of the intrusion of magma intermittently tapped from a subjacent body of fractionally crystallizing slightly undersaturated, chloride-rich syenitic magma. All the Feldspathoidal Group rocks cooled together under closed-system conditions, local equilibrium being maintained down to about 250 C. These rocks solidified at a depth of less than 6 or 7 km.
30056334|Identification of fossils preserved in chert pebbles in the "Pensauken gravel" at Princeton, New Jersey, demonstrates that these pebbles came from Paleozoic rocks of northwestern New Jersey and adjacent parts of New York. They were presumably transported to Princeton by the Delaware River when it flowed, as postulated by Campbell and Bascom, across northwestern New Jersey on its way to Trenton. The fossils do not, however, support Campbell and Bascom's assumption that the Hudson River once joined the Delaware River somewhere in central New Jersey.
30056998|By use of electrode potentials and free-energy changes the term "chemical affinity" may be placed on a quantitative basis. The significance and application of these two concepts to geology is briefly suggested. For example, one may explain more satisfactorily why certain elements occur most commonly in the free state, whereas others are found invariably in compounds.
30069352|Phase equilibria at high temperatures have been investigated experimentally in the system CaSiO-CaAlSiO-NaAlSiO. The results, presented in tables and equilibrium diagrams, enable a discussion of courses of crystallization in typical mixtures of these compounds and throw some light on the development and interrelations of the minerals nepheline, plagioclase, melilite, and wollastonite in rocks.
30069360|Shell mineralogy of the pelecypod species Mytilus californianus from the west coast of North America is affected by temperature and shell thickness. Small specimens (less than 15 mm. long) do not show a temperature effect in their mineralogy as indicated by the lack of regular variation in specimens collected during different seasons and at different latitudes. Larger specimens show a positive correlation between per cent aragonite in their shells and temperature. This is indicated by variation of mineralogy with latitude and season and by seasonal variation curves in growth series. A positive correlation can be demonstrated between shell thickness and per cent aragonite in shells from a given locality. The mineralogy of shells of the West Coast specimens of M. edulis is also affected by temperature as well as by salinity and shell size. The temperature effect is weaker in this species than in M. californianus. A negative correlation exists between salinity and per cent aragonite, as shown in specimens from the Puget Sound and San Francisco Bay areas. Intertidally exposed shells show a positive correlation between shell size and per cent aragonite. Shell mineralogy of fossil specimens of these two species can potentially be used as a method of determining paleotemperatures and paleosalinities.
30061985|The main stages of tectonic evolution of the Benue Trough are well documented in the stratigraphic succession, basically comprising three depositional sequences: an Albian-Cenomanian pyroclastic, paralic, shallow marine, and fluviatile sequence corresponding to the graben and transitional tectonic stages; a Turonian-Coniacian paralic, marine and fluviatile sequence that resulted from downwarping and a consequent widespread marine transgression; and a Campanian-Maastrichtian paralic, marine and fluviatile offlap sequence which followed the Santonian compressional deformation episode that displaced the depositional axis westward. Sedimentation in the trough was strongly influenced by the Late Cretaceous eustatic rise of sea level. The paleogeography of the Benue Trough in the Late Albian was similar to that of the Gulf of Tajura of the Afar triple junction. Thus, the equatorial and South Atlantic Oceans were open at that time and an embayment projected into the Benue Trough. Paleobiogeographic evidence and regional facies distribution in the Sahara and northeast Benue Trough do not support an open connection between the Late Cretaceous Saharan sea and the Benue Trough.
30065535|Weathering reactions mainly involve the transformation of feldspars, phyllosilicates, amphiboles, pyroxenes, and volcanic glass to the secondary mineral groups, kandites, illites, smectites, vermiculites, and/or chlorites. Although mineralogical changes are complex, bulk compositional changes to weathering profiles, resulting from chemical weathering, are simple and predictable from kinetic, thermodynamic, and mass balance considerations. Predicted bulk compositional changes are corroborated by studies of Recent weathering profiles developed on a variety of plutonic and volcanic rocks under different climatic regimes. Unlike the mineralogical compositions of profiles, the bulk compositional trends are not noticeably modified by climate; consequently, the simple, predictable bulk compositional trends observed in recent profiles provide a "norm" to which ancient weathering profiles can be compared. Early diagenetic reactions may occur prior to burial of the profile by reaction of groundwaters with secondary weathering products. These often result in abnormally high accumulations of Si,
10.1086/683664|The Turun Unit, which represents one of the tectonic slices within the Lycian Nappes in southwestern Anatolia, preserves the remnants derived from the northern branch of Neotethys. The unit includes basalts intercalated with pelagic limestones of middle Carnian age (early Late Triassic) based on the characteristic radiolarian assemblage of the
30060430|Detailed comparative studies of the structure of northeastern Oklahoma at the surface and underground have shown that beneath gently tilted and slightly folded rocks at the surface there are more complex structural features, largely more steeply folded and more or less truncated buried anticlines, which have permitted the accumulation and concentration of oil and gas. This folding is different from that in mountain chains and is called the "Plains type 9f folding." It is characterized by "buried hills."
30067343|The type sections of the St. Lawrence formation, the Jordan sandstone, the Shakopee dolomite, and the St. Peter sandstone occur in the Minnesota Valley. Additional information regarding these formations has been obtained from local well logs, and all four sections are redescribed, together with a mention of some of their more common fossils. The article does not present a redefinition and extension of the formations but merely a statement of their limits as applied by Winchell and others over a period of years. The limits are still regarded as valid.
30080217|U/Pb zircon/titanite geochronology, in situ monazite geochronology, and
30056940|This communication deals with an unusual form of relationship between granophyre and dolerite, found in the Tertiary igneous complex of Slieve Gullion, Northern Ireland. The rocks of Slieve Gullion (described by Richey, 1932; Reynolds, 1951; and Bailey and McCallien, 1956) form a pile of almost flat-lying sheets, dolerites alternating with granophyres. The layers are cut by veins of granophyre. In one of the dolerite sheets, which is a sill, granophyre also takes the form of narrow, vertical pipes. From the macroscopic evidence it is argued that the pipes, which connect downward with the vein system, must have formed by the rise of granophyre magma into dolerite magma. Such a "two-liquid" interpretation of relationships between granophyre and basic rock has already been proposed by Wager and Bailey (1953) for certain associations, in St. Kilda and Slieve Gullion, in which the basic rock shows pillow forms within the granophyre. Chilled edges of the basic rock against the granophyre constitute an important part of the evidence adduced by the authors cited. Many of the Slieve Gullion pipes also have fine-grained edges of dolerite at their contacts, at any rate near their lower ends. From various considerations this is interpreted as a chilling phenomenon; and such a conclusion is consistent with the two-liquid theory of pipe formation.
30064164|Detailed field, petrographic, and isotopic studies provide new constraints on the nature and timing of deformation in part of the Blue Ridge thrust complex in northwestern North Carolina. The Linville Falls, Stone Mountain, and Long Ridge faults, and other smaller-scale shear zones in the Beech Mountain thrust sheet show evidence of episodes of alternating ductile and brittle deformation. The resulting fault rocks include ultramylonite, ultracataclasite, and pseudotachylyte(?). Fluid phases were involved in the formation of the major shear zones and were responsible for Rb-Sr isotopic re-equilibration in strongly deformed tectonites. Our multidisciplinary study supports earlier suggestions that the latest major movement of the Blue Ridge thrust complex in the southern Appalachians occurred under mid- to upper-greenschist facies conditions during the Alleghanian orogeny around 300 Ma.
30070730|The paper is mainly a review of published data on the chemical nature of the banded contituents of coal seams. Consideration is given to ultimate and proximate composition and to the nature of the products obtained by oxidation, reduction, and thermal decomposition. In general, the petrographic components of a coal from a given seam differ in chemical composition, but the differences are not quantitatively or qualitatively constant when coals from various seams are compared. The inconsistencies in results reported are attributed, in part, to difficulty in obtaining "pure" petrographic components and in expressing the petrographic composition quantitatively. Essentially distinct types of chemical compounds peculiar to the ingredients of banded coal have not been found.
30057343|Analytical techniques for the extraction of oxygen for oxygen isotope analyses involving the high-temperature reduction of minerals with carbon are described. These techniques give reliable results for a few important minerals, including quartz and iron oxides, but give unreliable results for most silicates. Oxygen isotope analyses have been made on naturally occurring and genetically associated carbonates, quartz, and iron oxides. The relationships between the oxygen isotope compositions of the coexisting minerals are consistent with those reasonably expected from known thermodynamic considerations of isotopic fractionation. Relative temperatures inferred from the isotopic data are in excellent agreement with those estimated from other geological evidence. The implications of the oxygen isotope data on the problems of temperature measurements, on the presence or absence of chemical equilibrium between mineral phases, and on the study of isotopic compositions and relative amounts of hydrothermal waters in contact with the minerals are discussed.
10.1086/600866|Recent studies generally have inferred that the onset of convergence in the Delamerian Orogeny in southeastern Australia commenced at the end of the Early Cambrian (514 Ma) after the deposition of Kanmantoo Group sediments. Correlative sequences in Antarctica provide evidence that convergent deformation (Ross Orogeny) commenced between 580 and 540 Ma, leading to the interpretation that the locus of deformation migrated or jumped northward along the paleoPacific margin of Gondwana. However, the absence of upper Neoproterozoic sequences in the southern Adelaide Rift Complex requires either significant preKanmantoo erosion (for which there is no evidence) or a depositional hiatus due to uplift. New RbSr data from solution cleavage in Brachina Formation sedimentary rocks at Hallett Cove, South Australia, date deformation at
30055957|The stratigraphy of the Sweetgrass arch shows that the earliest known folding occurred between the Mississippian and Jurassic. From Jurassic to the end of Colorado time additional uplift occurred along an axis which corresponds to the position of the present axis, but the plunge of the arch at that time was south and not north as it is now. The Sweetgrass arch is considered to be a positive element, comparable to the Cincinnati arch with regard to its position and development. The major uplift of the Sweetgrass arch was produced at the close of the Cretaceous by an increase of folding to the south and a northward extension as a deformational wave, which wiped out the earlier south plunge. The initial folding of the arch was probably produced by vertical stresses. The final folding was controlled by stresses which were vertical in action, but which were the result of a progressive resolution of horizontal diastrophic stresses from the west. The resolution of these stresses produced tensional conditions on the east flank of the arch which is illustrated by normal faulting and the occurrence of igneous intrusions.
30062401|The metamorphic and igneous orogenic basement rocks of southeastern Israel and eastern Sinai evolved as part of the Arabian-Nubian Shield during latest Proterozoic time. Pelitic schist of the "Elat Association" from Wadi Nahal Shlomo south of Eilat (Israel) is dated at about 800 m.y., but the geologic significance of this date is not clear. In southeastern Sinai, metapelitic rocks of the Kid Group have a date of diagenesis or metamorphism of about 615 m.y. Syn-orogenic and post-orogenic plutons which intrude the layered metamorphic complex(s) are dated at ~600 m.y. near Eilat and ~590 m.y. at Wadi Kid. Other dated plutons include the Timna Granite at 592  7 m.y., in the area of Nevi'ot at 595 m.y., and in the vicinity of Dahab at 588  2 m.y. and 595  0.3 m.y. The radiometric dates and low initial
30079623|Great Salt Lake has precipitated sodium sulphate each winter and redissolved this salt during the early spring as long as observations have been made. But within the last four years summer precipitation of sodium chloride has also taken place as an accompaniment of the unprecedented low level of the lake. The sodium chloride returns into solution during the early winter, completing a spectacular annual cycle of salt precipitation and solution. Winter precipitation of sodium sulphate is caused by the cooling of the water; summer precipitation of the chloride is caused by the annual reduction in volume of the lake, a result of heavy summer evaporation and reduced inflow during this season. A large tabular deposit of almost pure sodium sulphate lies buried in the beach sands along the southeast shore of the lake and may be related in its formation to past winter precipitation of this salt similar to that now being observed.
30080836|The family Trematopsidae is expanded to include the genus Acheloma as well as Trematops. The former occurs in the Wichita and Putnam formations of Texas, while the latter is found in the Clear Fork formation. The revised and amended descriptions point out the many similarities between the two genera. Two new species of Acheloma are erected on the basis of new material. There is a rather wide variation of many characters within the species of these two genera, but certain constant features of the skull and postcranial skeleton separate them clearly. The family is more closely related to the family Dissorophidae than to any other known from the Texas red beds. The members of the genus Trematops were very active, terrestrial carnivores, while those of the genus Acheloma, also carnivores, seem to have spent much of their life in and close to water.
10.1086/677844|Although it is widely accepted that erosion and sediment transfer respond to millennial-scale climatic variability, these changes remain difficult to detect in marine sedimentary archives. In the Var sediment-routing system, northwestern Mediterranean Sea, the absence of a continental shelf results in a direct connection between the Var River mouth and the deep basin during both highstand and lowstand conditions. This makes the Var sediment-routing system an ideal target to test whether rivers can transmit climate-driven high-frequency changes in sediment flux to the ocean. On the basis of an unprecedented (centennial-to-millennial-scale) resolution in turbidite sequences, we reconstructed the activity of turbidity current overflows along the deep-sea Var Sedimentary Ridge over the past 75 kyr. The overflow activity is highest (one event every 1030 yr) during maximum glacial conditions (30 kyr16 kyr ago [ka]) and rapidly decreases (down to one event every 100500 yr) during the last glacial-interglacial transition (Termination 1). During marine isotope stage (MIS)4 and MIS3 (7530 ka), peaks in the overflow activity occurred synchronously with cold and arid Dansgaard-Oeschger stadials, while warmer and wetter interstadial conditions correspond to low overflow activity. We conclude that overflow activity on the Var Sedimentary Ridge mainly reflects changes in the magnitude of hyperpycnal currents flowing in the turbiditic channel-levee system in relation with variations in suspended-sediment concentration during Var River floods. We show that this signal is sensitive to changes in pure sediment flux induced by climatic perturbations occurring inland: (1) the decrease in glacier-derived sediment input after glacier retreat and (2) changes in erosion induced by shifts in the vegetation cover in response to Dansgaard-Oeschger climate swings.
30058824|The structural geometry of Dalradian metamorphic rocks in the west Highlands of Scotland is investigated by graphical statistical analysis of the preferred orientation of structural elements such as foliations, lineations, and fold axes. The investigation reveals the presence of large recumbent folds with axes plunging to the northwest, on which are superposed folds of different type with variable plunge and subvertical axial surfaces striking dominantly northeast. It is suggested that the recumbent folds are the earliest structures and were formed by the gliding of sheets of quartzite and schist on a gently dipping surface, possibly under the influence of gravity. The folds with steeply dipping axial surfaces are thought to have been superposed on the recumbent folds by a subhorizontaj squeezing without large-scale translation. Some general aspects of the geometry of superposed folds are briefly discussed.
30058194|A submarine scarp extends westward from Cape Mendocino, California, for at least 1,200 miles. Its height at 70 miles from shore is about 10,500 feet, and 1,000 miles from shore it is about 8,420 feet. The maximum average slope from top to bottom ranges from 7 to 10; but portions of the scarp 1,000 feet high have slopes as great as 18-24. The scarp lies on the south side of a ridge which has a gentler slope toward the north in most places. Similar, but smaller, ridges and scarps are found to the north and south of the Mendocino Scarp and are parallel to it. Regional bathymetry shows that the sea floor for hundreds of miles south of the scarp is about 1/2 mile deeper than the sea floor for hundreds of miles north. The scarp does not appear to be a seismically active submarine extension of the San Andreas fault, which passes out to sea at Cape Mendocino. Epicenters of submarine earthquakes trend northwest from Cape Mendocino rather than west along the Mendocino Scarp. The origin of the scarp is uncertain, but three hypotheses are considered. These suggest that it may be (1) a submerged "continental slope" between "continental" rocks to the north and oceanic rocks to the south, (2) a reverse fault, or (3) a strike-slip fault.
10.1086/651502|There are several Proterozoic sedimentary sequences in India, some of which are metamorphosed and deformed, whereas others, such as the Puranas, are not metamorphosed and are virtually undeformed. On the basis of UPb SHRIMP ages of zircons from the Sukhda tuff (in the Chhattisgarh basin), recently an age bracket of approximately 16501000 Ma has been assigned to nearly all Purana basins in India. Putting Purana sedimentation in an approximately Mesoproterozoic age bracket warrants a few explanations regarding metamorphosed and unmetamorphosed Proterozoic sedimentary successions and their chronostratigraphic relationship. Our drill hole data indicate that the stratigraphic position of the Sukhda tuff is in the Gunderdehi Formation, much lower than what has been proposed recently. If so, sedimentation in the Chhattisgarh basin continued well beyond 1000 Ma and into the Neoproterozoic. It is obvious that an unequivocal assignment of the stratigraphic position of the Sukhda tuff is vital for calibrating the chronostratigraphy of the Precambrians of the Central Indian Craton.
30069369|The thirteen gypsum solution caves in north central Texas here described occur within the Permian Blaine Formation. Four are of vadose origin, four were developed by solution in the phreatic zone, and five were not studied in sufficient detail to determine their origin. Diagnostic features and histories of two caves, one representative of those having a vadose origin and one representative of a phreatic origin, are discussed.
30060143|Five theoretical explanations of the marvelous deformation in the Vredefort region, all ascribing it to purely terrestrial forces, are summarized. Two of the hypotheses assume magmatic upthrust to have been the primary cause. A third finds it in tangential force, of the kind represented in orogeny of the ordinary type. The remaining two regard horizontally directed force and magmatic upthrust as both essential, though with differing emphasis on relative importance. These wide contrasts among the five interpretations of the unique "ring-structure" illustrate, of themselves, the difficulty of finding explanation in terms of orthodox geological dynamics. It seems, therefore, advisable to take seriously the published suggestion of Boon and Albritton that the structure may have been developed by the infall of a speedy meteorite of planetoid or asteroid dimensions, followed by readjustments of the scarred and shattered terrain that were induced by the earth's gravitation. The effort to compare reasonable deductions from that double premise with the known facts of the field is described in the second half of the paper.
30060648|Samples from forty localities were examined and include monoclinic potash feldspar, microcline, albite, and the first reported example of naturally occurring soda feldspar structurally intermediate between albite and analbite. Potash feldspar was observed in carbonates, sandstones, siltstones, and shales; soda feldspar was found only in carbonate rocks. All of the carbonate rocks that contain authigenic feldspars are partly or wholly recrystallized or dolomitized. Authigenic monoclinic potash feldspars crystallize as tiny rhombohedron-like crystals commonly referred to as the adularia habit. The authigenic microcline crystals have a distinctive triclinic morphology, which is almost certain evidence of primary crystallization in the triclinic system. The refractive indices and optic angle of authigenic potash and soda feldspars are similar to those of "non-authigenic" feldspars of equivalent composition. The authigenic microcline crystals are fourlings, twinned after the albite and pericline laws; some of the authigenic albites are Roc Tourn fourlings, twinned after the albite and carlsbad laws. Authigenic feldspars are nonperthitic and have chemical compositions harmonious with crystallization at low temperatures. Spectrographic analyses show that the
JG116503|During the Permian, the Southern Alps were affected by prominent igneous activity that produced voluminous basic to acidic volcanic and plutonic rocks. The magmatism originated during a period in which postorogenic extension and transtensional faulting controlled magma ascent and emplacement. Within this scenario, the Athesian Volcanic Group (AG), with lithologies ranging from basaltic andesites to rhyolites, constitutes a major part of the Permian magmatism in the central and eastern Southern Alps. We present an up-to-date stratigraphic reconstruction of the northwestern sector of the AG volcanic sequence combining detailed field mapping and new geochronological data. Single-zircon U-Pb age data suggest that the volcanism in the AG lasted ca. 10 m.yr., between 285 and 274 Ma, with a deposition rate that increased throughout the eruptive cycle. The processes of magma deposition and basin formation were strongly influenced by tectonic activity over the entire history of the AG. At least two major caldera margins have been identified. The age of the Tregiovo Basin, formerly based on palynostratigraphic constraints, is now bracketed between radioisotope ages of the underlying and overlying volcanics at
30075180|The orientations of axial planes of many minor folds can only be determined by construction. In general, the only lines that can be used for the construction are the fold axis and the trace of the axial plane in a section at right angles to the fold axis.
30065001|The Bard Island area (Bear Path Cove) presents a well exposed section of complex fold styles that crop out in central Notre Dame Bay, Newfoundland, which have previously been interpreted as a good example of wet-sediment deformation. A re-examination of this classic area shows that the deformation history was more complex than previously thought. The earliest phase of deformation in the Upper Ordovician Point Leamington Formation (deep-marine turbidites) may have occurred while the sediment was semi and/or unlithified. Whether this was a surficial product of slumping or (stratigraphically deeper) thrusting is not known. The majority of structures around Bard Island are demonstrably the result of "hard rock" tectonic deformation with the imposition of the late Silurian regional Acadian (
30062376|The northern part of the Bogota peninsula belonging to the ultramafic nappe of New Caledonia shows peculiar features drastically contrasting with those in the surrounding peridotites. Within 10-15 km the foliations rotate in azimuth and become vertical. In the center of the peninsula highly sheared peridotites extend over 3 km. From structural and petrological studies, the peninsula is interpreted as a dextral shear zone, exhibiting syntectonic injection of magmatic dikes and hydrothermal alteration. The shear motion occurred in the oceanic upper mantle at temperatures between 500C and 900C. The overall geometry strongly supports the interpretation of a transform fault environment.
30065724|In the system
30057944|From the maze of geophysical data little concrete evidence emerges to permit widely acceptable views on the strength of rocks at different depths in the earth's interior. Seismologists have established the existence of a high degree of rigidity down to great depths, but the commonly held view that earthquakes are of shallow origin has lent support to the opinion that correspondingly shallow rocks alone can permit the slow accumulation of elastic stresses. This opinion must change with the growing evidence that earthquakes probably originate in all levels down to depths of 700 or more kilometers. The same evidence is disturbing to the assumptions of isostasy and to those hypotheses which rest on the concept of a shell of weakness.
30060478|Postanorthosite gabbro dikes have more than local significance in the eastern Adirondack. Three such dikes, two of which are discordant, cut the Marcy anorthosite 40 miles southwest of those described by Bud-dington and more recently by Balk. Avalanche dike, the largest of the three, is described in detail. This dike displays a sinuous textural pattern that is ascribed to turbulent magmatic flow. Garnet is abundant and may comprise as much as 16 per cent of certain portions of the dike. This mineral appears to have developed as a consequence of the instability of hypersthene and magnetite in contact with anorthite. Field and laboratory evidence suggest that this reaction took place under conditions of thermal metamorphism. Objections to other modes of origin are stated.
30068136|The leveling net which has been extended over the country to serve many engineering purposes is used also to detect vertical movements in the earth's crust by re-running, at intervals, the lines in the net and comparing the results of the different runnings. In certain critical areas in California a number of the lines have been re-run, but so far the only area in which large changes have been found is in San Jose and vicinity.
30064003|The volcano Kerimasi lies on the Eastern Rift Zone of Africa and is built up of tuffs, agglomerates, and flows which range in composition from nephelinites to carbonatites. Many of the surface rocks are tuffs which contain lapilli with microphenocrysts of melilite and calcite. A coarse-grained apatite-svite containing monticellite and periclase overgrowths on magnesioferrite outcrops within the crater. A flow near the crater rim contains calcite phenocrysts which are single crystals and show complex zoning with cathodoluminescence. These crystals are often aligned giving a trachyitic texture and are thought to represent primary magmatic crystallization of calcite.
30057597|The upland surface of the Guadalupe Range and three younger erosion surfaces in the Pecos lowland record progressively lowered base levels during the Pliocene and Pleistocene. Structurally, transverse consequent drainage in the range is attributed to superposition from a Pliocene (Ogallala) cover uplifted by block-faulting. Carlsbad and other caverns antedate the present topography and are believed to be related to a pre-Ogallala cycle of erosion.
30059061|Carbon and oxygen isotope ratios of fossil horse tooth enamel from Nebraska and Texas show evidence for late Neogene environmental changes in the Great Plains. The earliest unambiguous C
30060252|A steeply plunging asymmetric fold system in the Ben Ohau Range of the Torlesse terrane, New Zealand, has a wavelength of up to 10 km and a length along the transverse axis (A axis) of at least 36 km. We interpret it as an originally recumbent structure that was strongly tilted "sideways" when the Torlesse sediment body collided with the eastern margin of Gondwanaland. The initial recumbent folding may have occurred on a strike-slip portion of the same margin.
30065732|The traditional portrayal of geologists pitted against physical scientists in the nineteenth-century controversy involving the age of the earth is somewhat oversimplified. Presented here is a brief glimpse of the diversity of opinions and resulting estimations of the earth's age found among scientists of the period.
30056347|Careful work with the universal stage on twinned plagioclases has shown that certain optical properties are dependent upon the thermal history of the feldspar. The generally accepted determinative curves for the plagioclases were drawn from feldspars in plutonic rocks and crystalline schists; the volcanic rock plagioclases do not fit these curves. New curves, for high-temperature plagioclases, have been constructed, but are not published here. A discussion of the relation of crystal habit and optical properties of potash feldspars to their genesis is also presented.
30079430|Ongoing disruption of ancient, varnished desert pavement surfaces near Death Valley National Park is inferred to be the result of unusually intense animal foraging activity. Increased levels of bioturbation are associated with enhanced vegetation growth stimulated by recent El Nio precipitation. The occurrence of abundant, recently overturned, varnished clasts suggests that the pavement disturbances reported here are rare on the millennial time scale of desert varnish formation. These observations suggest the possibility that changes in desert pavement surfaces may provide early hints of future changes in desert ecology and environment.
30066390|The Tensleep-Beaver Creek fault is a high angle transcurrent fault, 32 miles long, trending E.-W. across the Bighorn Mountains. The north side has moved up a maximum of 1,350 feet in the axial portion of the range. Precambrian rocks are exposed along the eastern 12-mile portion of the fault. Several exposures up to 300 feet wide of pervasive foliation are present along the north side of the fault. This foliation strikes N. 80 E.-N. 80 W. and dips 50-70 N. The foliation is less well developed north of the fault, although local zones a few inches to 5 feet in width occur. These rocks are completely recrystallized except for occasional relict deformed plagioclase augen, and are cut by pegmatites. The foliated rocks and sedimentary rocks are brecciated and crushed in a 50-foot zone along the fault. Quartz veins and minor chlorite, speculante, malachite, and gold are present in the broken rock. North of the fault a second foliation predominates which trends N. 50-65 W. and dips 60-70 NE. A cataclastic zone paralleling this trend is followed by a straight segment of the valley of the north fork of Powder River. This same zone continues southeast into the fault and is probably responsible for the northwesterly deflection of the fault in this area. Differences in structure and gross lithologic aspect between the Precambrian rocks on either side of the fault (infracrustal on the north, supracrustal on the south) suggest that the pervasive E.-W. foliation represents recrystallization of a deep shear zone developed along a Precambrian fault. During the Laramide the fault was reactivated. The later deformation took place at shallow depth and was of a brittle nature.
30058738|The Vermilion iron district of northeastern Minnesota affords a valuable comparison of the contact effect of acid and basic rocks. The Ely greenstone consists of a body of hydrothermally altered and weathered basic flows and tuffs which show ellipsoidal, spherulitic, schistose, or massive structure. A compilation of the results of a study of many thin sections shows that the normal greenstone contains feldspar, chlorite, uralitic hornblende, magnetite, calcite, sericite, quartz, and many other minerals. Chlorite is the characteristic mineral. Four granite masses intrude the greenstone, and at the contact a hornblende rock is developed. There is a gradation from normal greenstone to the hornblende rock, which is usually a schist. Compilation of the constituents of thin sections of the contact rock show that the important minerals are hornblende, plagioclase, magnetite, quartz, and titanite. The Duluth gabbro intrudes the greenstone along the southeastern border of the Vermilion range. The greenstone at this contact has been recrystallized to a mosaic of rounded mineral grains. The abundant minerals are plagioclase, augite, hornblende, magnetite and lesser amounts of others. Augite is the characteristic mineral. Plagioclase has been entirely recrystallized forming fresh euhedral grains with clear twinning. This is in marked contrast with the feldspar of the granite contact rock which is clouded with alteration products. Chemical analyses show little evidence of contribution from either the granite or gabbro. It is believed that the high temperature and relative dryness of basic as compared with granitic magmas is responsible for the marked difference in contact effects.
30056139|In a study of the Pleistocene of Newfoundland in this Journal (April-May, 1926) it was shown that the island had undergone two glaciations, a severe one in the early Pleistocene, separated by a long interglacial period from a late Pleistocene ice invasion of less intensity. As eastern Canada lies between Newfoundland, with its two glaciations, and the Toronto region, likewise showing two glaciations and an important interglacial period, it seemed very probable that it also must have been glaciated twice. Field work in Quebec and eastern Ontario has proved that this was the case, and it has been shown that deposits containing marine shells lie between two bowlder clays at a number of points between Gasp and Brockville along the St. Lawrence and its tributaries. The interglacial time was long enough to permit profound weathering of the early glacial materials, so that comparatively little of the Kansan or Jerseyan till remains, accounting for the fact that the first glaciation has usually been overlooked. There were more extensive changes of level in the interglacial time than in the postglacial history of the regions; but the two sets of marine beds have not been separated in previous studies of the Pleistocene of eastern Canada, thus causing much confusion. The new point of view solves many difficulties in the interpretation of the drift deposits of the St. Lawrence and Gulf region, and harmonizes conflicting points of view.
30058714|Fragments of weathered granite have been found in eastern Pope County, Illinois, in an area of widespread basic igneous intrusives. The origin of the fragments is a matter for conjecture. No parent granitic intrusive has been discovered, but neither has conclusive evidence of glacial origin been found.
30082317|This paper reports major, trace, and rare-earth-element data for selected samples from the Elba, Giglio, and Monte-cristo plutons, which lie in the Tuscan Archipelago (Italy). On the basis of field and petrologic constraints, all the rocks can be divided into five facies and range in composition from granodioritic to alkali-granitic, with a strong predominance of monzogranites. Tuscan Archipelago granitoids are clearly collision-related rocks, and they straddle the I and S types of Chappell and White. However, mineralogical and chemical characteristics indicate that the more basic rocks are broadly I type, while the high-silica rocks are S type. Genetic models that relate these magmas through the segregation of their major and accessory mineral phases are inconsistent with major, trace, and REE element abundant data. Geological, petrographical, and geochemical constraints show that the microgranular mafic enclaves found within the rocks are blobs of mafic, high-temperature magma chilled within a cooler, more silicic host, but a simple two-end-member mixing process fails to explain the geochemical characteristics of the plutons, either as a group or singly. A two-stage petrogenetic model explains all the geological, petrographical, and geochemical features shown by these intrusive rocks: first, a Mixing plus Crystal Fractionation (MFC) process involving a crustal peralumi-nous magma and a basic magma of probable subcrustal origin, and second, a simple mixing process between the same crustal peraluminous magma and different evolved magmas derived from the basic magma during the first stage. The second stage can be complicated by possible superimposed processes. The acid end-member could be the Leucocratic Facies found in the Giglio pluton, while the basic end-member should be similar to the Capraia rocks on the basis of age and geochemical characteristics. The model proposed is also able to explain the dichotomy between S and I granite characteristics. Trace element data support aplites genesis by a crystal fractionation process starting from the most evolved monzogranites and crystallizing an assemblage consisting of plagioclase, K-feldspar, quartz, monazite, and zircon.
30063356|The thermal-equilibrium relationships in the system NaAlSiO-CaSiO-NaSiO have been investigated by the quenching method. The thermal data are tabulated, and the results are presented in equilibrium diagrams. The bearing of the results of the present study on related systems of the soda-lime-alumina-silica tetrahedron and the petrologic significance are discussed.
30070672|The extent to which the leaves of woody dicots encode in their physiognomy the climatic conditions that exist during dormancy was tested by sampling 20 sites along an approximately westeast transect across European Russia, the Crimean Peninsula, Western Siberia, and central Eastern Siberia. This transect encompassed the most extreme mean annual temperature range recorded in the modern world where vegetation exists. Climate Leaf Analysis Multivariate Program (CLAMP) revealed little change in calibration of the warm month mean temperature compared with the PHYSG3AR data set derived from less extreme sites primarily in North America and Japan, but significant change with respect to the cold month mean temperature (CMMT) calibration. Although CLAMP underestimated the CMMT by up to 9C in the coldest sites, the addition of the transect sites improved CLAMPs performance at low temperatures. This suggests that winter cold is encoded in foliar physiognomy even though the leaves are functional only during the late spring and summer months. This increase in performance was, however, at the cost of decreasing precision. Precipitation predictive capabilities were only slightly affected, but calibration of key climatic variables such as enthalpy, used in determining palaeoaltitude, remained more or less unchanged after the inclusion of the cold transect samples.
30067385|Dating of single zircons from low-grade metamorphosed rhyolites in the Rosh Pinah Formation of the Gariep Belt in southwestern Namibia, using the Pb evaporation technique, yielded a primary crystallization age of
30065527|The Mings Bight Group of northwestern Newfoundland, an outlier of Humber Zone continental margin rocks, is entirely surrounded by ophiolitic rocks of the Dunnage Zone. Structures in the Mings Bight Group and adjacent units record three main phases of deformation. The earliest structures relate to Silurian sinistral transpression previously documented in the region. Two later phases of extensional deformation produced a series of dextral obliquenormal shear zones and faults that now separate the Mings Bight Group in the footwall from ophiolitic and granitoid rocks in the hangingwall.
30070565|Sir Charles Lyell, when he visited the United States in 1846, published a description and a woodcut of a gully which he observed near Milledgeville, Georgia. Several photographs and statements give subsequent information on the gully since 1846. Similar gullies are widespread in the Piedmont area, many of which have been studied by the writer. An accurate survey and detailed study of the gully using physiographic evidence, the age of old pine trees in the gully, and the details of Lyell's description make it possible to reconstruct the conditions of 1846 and to interpret the changes since that date. As the gully was 20 years old when Lyell saw it, there is thus a documented history of over no years of erosion.
30058669|Evidence is presented to show that two fundamental rock types, (a) diabase and (b) granite, are present on Pigeon Point and that so-called "intermediate" rocks associated with them are not true transitional products of magmatic differentiation but are diabases metamorphosed by thermal solutions after complete solidification. Other rocks of unusual appearance are sediments of the Rove formation contact metamorphosed by the granite and later hydro thermally metamorphosed.
30062058|Petrographic, field, and geochemical evidence from the Rogue and Galice formations in the Klamath Mountains of Oregon indicate that the rocks formed in a calc-alkaline volcanic arc of Jurassic age. The volcanic rocks range from basalt to rhyolite and are predominantly (> 95 %) fragmental in character. They are interlayered with a sequence of volcaniclastic rocks 5-8 km thick. The Rogue and Galice formations are part of a Late Jurassic-Early Cretaceous complex that includes a paired metamorphic belt of lawsonite-bearing schists along the Oregon coast and garnet-bearing amphibolite to the east, faulted against the Rogue and Galice formations. Major-element analyses, plotted on AFM, FeO*/MgO, and alkalis versus silica diagrams, yield ambiguous results when used to infer the magmatic affinities of these weakly metamorphosed rocks. However, abundances of Ti, Cr, Zr, and REE, and clinopyroxene phenocryst compositions in volcanic rocks from the Rogue and Galice Formations are identical to those in volcanic rocks from Holocene calc-alkaline volcanic arcs.
30079886|Dikes in which two different liquids flowed simultaneously, usually called composite dikes, naturally fall into two classes depending on which lithology forms the contact with the country rock, and hence, which liquid was the first to enter the fracture. In these two kinds of dikes, the structures formed by the mingling of the two liquids differ. Dikes in which the more basic liquid entered first have contacts between the two lithologies that are nearly planar, and parallel to the dike walls, whereas the more basic lithology forms discrete pillows in those dikes in which the more silicic liquid entered first. Experiments indicate that these pillows probably form from a flow-front instability that develops when a liquid invades another of higher viscosity between two parallel rigid walls. We provide scalings for the critical flow rate for the onset of this instability, the time required for the instability to develop, and the wavelength that is selected. These scalings are consistent with field observations.
30061949|Three Devonian formations have been recognized in New Mexico-the Canutillo, Sly Gap, and the Percha. New studies now make necessary a revision of, and several additions to, the Devonian system of New Mexico. The sediments below the Sly Gap formation in the Sacramento and San Andres mountains, hitherto called the "Canutillo formation," from supposed correlation with the Canutillo formation in the Franklin Mountains of Texas, are here considered to comprise the Onate formation. Time equivalency of the Sly Gap to a portion of the Devonian of Iowa is suggested by new paleonto-logical evidence, the Sly Gap being younger than the Independence shale and slightly older than the Hack-berry group. Contadero" is a new formational name proposed for a series of carbonaceous shales and gray limestones above the Sly Gap formation near the geographic center of the San Andres Mountains. The Percha shale consists of two readily divisible members, although no disconformity exists between them. The name "Ready Pay member" is proposed for the "lower Percha," which is composed of black, fissile, nonfossiliferous shale and in most sections involves two-thirds of the total thickness of the formation. "Box member" is proposed for the "upper Percha," which is commonly composed of gray to green calcareous shales with intercalated lenses of limestone. The Box member is confined to the Mimbres Mountains, whereas the Ready Pay member is believed to occur throughout southern New Mexico and probably in the Franklin Mountains of Texas. The Contadero may be a facies of the Ready Pay member.
30060115|Principal components provide an effective method for reducing the number of variables in large-scale correlation studies. With fewer variables, patterns that may exist in the data are more readily detected. Such knowledge is of value in making correlations or in formulating classifications. A program to carry out a principal component analysis has been written for an IBM 7094 computer. The program treats up to fifty variables for an unlimited number of samples. Made up of subroutines, it offers the user a wide range of options from which to choose for a particular set of data. A special feature is the minimum entropy rotation, a new method for reducing components to simple structure. This rotation serves to define more clearly the variables contributing to each component. With this program the principal components of a system of data collected on eight crude oil samples which involved twenty-two variables were calculated. The first principal component accounted for 88 per cent of the total variance and was a measure of the paraffinicity of the oils. It effectively classified the eight samples into three groups. Another example involved frequency data on forty-eight species of foraminifera collected from over 2,500 samples taken as part of a ten-well study. The first seven principal components accounted for 69 per cent of the total variance. Following a minimum entropy rotation, the second component, made up largely of five species, defined a biostratigraphic zone which could then be traced over most of the wells.
30060118|Multiyariate observations in a series may be related to each other by a transition matrix. In this way, systematic variations of the multivariate system with distance or time can be described. From the transition matrix, a trend factor may be extracted which denotes the linear combination of the variates which shows most trend. The method is applied to two series of major oxide data from the basaltic rocks of Yellowknife, Canada. The trend factor describes a periodical curve suggesting some long-period fluctuations in chemical composition of the basaltic magma.
30071107|Since the area of the bays is almost the entire area of the coastal plain in the two Carolinas, Johnson's complex theory of origin of the Carolina "bays" would violate the laws of conservation of energy, inasmuch as the area of assumed outflow of ground water would have to be the same as the area of intake. Johnson assumed implicitly that the coastal-plain bedrock (chiefly Cretaceous) dips down the slope of the coastal plain toward the southeast in the manner of a textbook illustration of coastal plains, whereas the dip is actually toward the south or slightly southwestward. Therefore, his assumed "spring vents" should have moved northward under his theory, instead of northwestward, as the shape of the bays would require. Other errors of fact and examples of illogical theory in Johnson's spring-vent hypothesis are pointed out. Through a revision of the meteoritic theory it is shown that the supposed impact could have occurred at any one of several times in the geologic past.
30062441|In 1964 A. B. Shaw presented a method of correlating fossiliferous sedimentary rocks based on interpretation of graphic plots of first- and last-occurrences of taxa. Because there is no way to determine the true total ranges of fossil taxa, it is instructive to test the accuracy of the method using hypothetical datasets. The dataset used here consists of 16 taxa in six sections with differing known rates of rock accumulation. In all graphs, a single straight-line correlation was a reasonable interpretation. The resulting ranges after the first and third rounds of compositing reproduce the "true" ranges but with small errors. Slight errors in the positioning of individual correlation lines are more likely to lengthen ranges artificially than to shorten them. Shaw's method works well because, whereas actually sampled ranges will be shorter than true ranges, errors in correlation will be likely to extend some ranges. This or any exercise using simulated data is useful only if the hypothetical situation resembles real geologic situations and if insights derived from the hypothetical dataset provide insights into real situations. The method is only as good as the available data.
30070525|Geomorphological evidence for Pleistocene glaciation has been mapped in the Pindus Mountains of northwest Greece, and the chronology of glaciation in this area has been established through soil profile analysis and Useries dating of secondary carbonates (calcite) formed within glacial deposits. Three glacial stages are evident in the sedimentological and geomorphological records. The earliest and most extensive recorded glaciation predates 350,000 yr B.P. and was characterized by extensive valley glaciers and ice fields. A more recent glaciation occurred before the last interglacial and was characterized by glaciers that reached midvalley positions. The last phase of glaciation in Greece is recorded by small cirque glacier moraines and relict periglacial rock glaciers. The glacial and periglacial sequence on Mount Tymphi has been used in conjunction with a reference parastratotype, the long lacustrine sequence at Ioannina, to provide a chronostratigraphical framework for coldstage deposits in Greece. The three glacial stages are formally defined: the Skamnellian Stage, equivalent to the Elsterian Stage of northern Europe and marine isotope stage (MIS) 12; the Vlasian Stage, equivalent to the late Saalian Stage of northern Europe and MIS 6; and the Tymphian Stage, which is equivalent to the Weichselian/Wrmian stages of northern Europe and the Alps, respectively, and MIS 5d2. This is the first formalized chronostratigraphical framework based on the glacial record to be established for cold stages in the Mediterranean and provides a new platform for paleoclimatological investigations in the region.
30081176|Prominent zones of large globular, finegrained, felsic enclaves occur at the highest exposed levels of the Gouldsboro granite along the coast of Maine. The physical characteristics of these enclaves and their chemical relations to the host granite indicate that they represent globules of resident magma that were trapped, probably during eruption, in the crystal mush at the top of the magma chamber. These zones can appropriately be termed eruption trails. Enclave compositions provide a record of magma compositions within the chamber at the time of eruption. They fall into two groups (highK and lowK with similar wt % SiO
30069363|Pillow breccias consist of whole or disaggregated volcanic pillows in an abundant matrix of cogenetic basic tuff. They form in water and are thought to be common rocks, confused at times with other volcanic breccias. On Quadra Island, British Columbia, the breccias usually overlie ordinary pillow lava which rests in turn upon basalt flows or upon pelagic limestone. In the transition to isolated-pillow breccia the matrix increases gradationally upward to as much as 80 per cent; the pillows become isolated, diversiform, and ill-sorted. Some pillows were broken after settling but before compaction. The matrix, consisting of cogenetic globules, granules, shards, and basaltic fragments produced beneath water, is an aquagene tuff. Subaqueous shard formation is discussed. Broken-pillow breccia forming the top of the successions consists of unsorted pillow fragments set in similar aquagene tuff which is irregularly flow-laminated and somewhat resembles an ignim-brite. Laminated aquagene tuff beds with load casts in their upper surfaces occur within broken-pillow breccia. Ordinary pillow lava accumulated in relatively clear water, isolated pillows in increasingly turbid, vapor-charged water. Increasing thicknesses of incoherent, steam-laden pillows and tuff led to instability, subaqueous slumping, and fragmentation.
30084932|The most extensive outcrops of Pennsylvanian rocks in Michigan occur in the vicinity of Grand Ledge. Mapping and correlation of the exposed strata, which have an estimated thickness of about 150 feet, are facilitated if the section is subdivided into cyclical formations of the type suggested by Weller. At least eight such formations are represented, each of which has an interrupted distribution as the result of interformational erosion. These formations are described, their relations discussed, and conclusions are drawn concerning Pennsylvanian environments.
30081263|Steinbruch Schmidt (Kellerwald, Germany) is probably the worlds most famous locality that exposes the late Frasnian anoxic events (Kellwasser Crisis). A 3cmthick bentonite layer (Bed 36) is intercalated between the two Kellwasser horizons and can be precisely assigned to the Upper
30059152|The variation of external and internal metric characters of Pellatispira glabra, a rotaliid foraminifer, has been statistically analyzed. The study reveals that the megalospheric generation of this species is dimorphic. After considering ecologic and other factors, it is concluded that the above generation is schizo-gamont and owes its dimorphism to a growth differential arising in course of a biannual schizogonic cycle. A model explaining the life cycle of the species is proposed.
30068617|The phase relationships of five analyzed granodiorites and tonalites from the zoned Needle Point Pluton of the Wallowa Batholith, Oregon, supplied by W. H. Taubeneck, have been determined in the presence of 15-25 weight per cent
30085501|Sandstone dikes occur along the northeastern contact zone of the Pikes Peak batholith in the South Platte area, Colorado. The dikes range in width from a few inches to more than 10 feet and in length from a few feet to more than 8 miles. They are closely associated with faults occurring in the crystalline rocks of the area. It is proposed that these dikes were formed by injection of clastic material from above along submarine faults during Cambrian times.
30079571|A gabbro, containing both olivine and quartz, is described from the Sudbury District, Ontario.
30062252|A wide sampling of eighty-two modern marine and freshwater muds was analyzed for B, Cr, Ga, Ni, V, clay in amounts less than
JG80136|The Nyingtri Group of the Lhasa terrane in southern Tibet consists dominantly of metasedimentary rocks and orthogneiss. These rocks have a similar mineral paragenesis of plagioclase + K-feldspar + biotite + quartz  sillimanite  garnet  staurolite  muscovite  amphibole, indicating amphibolite-facies metamorphic conditions. Inherited detrital zircons from the metasedimentary rocks show magmatic features and yield widely variable
30068294|This is a study of glacial crescentic markings, attempting to establish a correlation between the orientation of these features and the direction of ice movement. The principal crescentic marks are reviewed. It is observed that the fracture of these features dips forward in the direction of the ice movement and hence may be a usable criterion in determining the direction of ice movement. The term "friction crack" is suggested for glacial crescentic markings which possess this feature.
30056487|The characteristics of numerous segregations of almandite garnet occurring in a biotite-granite gneiss are described. The segregations are thought to be the result of convection currents in the magma and were broken and offset by tangential forces acting on the mass before final consolidation was effected.
30078304|Ultramafic and mafic inclusions from Itinome-gata in Japan were studied systematically from a viewpoint of earth element (REE) and barium abundances. Mineral separates from lherzolites and their host basalt as well as andesite from an adjacent volcano were also analyzed for REE and Ba. Garnet lherzolites, which are believed to have formed at a depth of 50 to 70 km, have a convex-upwards chondrite-normalized REE patterns, similar to those of alpine-type lherzolites. Spinel lherzolites, which are believed to be derived from shallower depths than garnet lherzolites, have various REE patterns and negative Eu anomalies. Spinel lherzolites that are high in basaltic components have convex-upwards REE patterns, as do garnet lherzolites, whereas Mg-rich, strongly basalt-depleted, spinel lherzolites have V-shaped REE patterns. The REE variation among spinel lherzolites reflects the differing degrees of liquid phase extraction of basaltic components in times past. The REE pattern of the liquid phase extracted from these lherzolites, deduced from the variations of the lherzolite REE patterns, is convex-upwards and quite different from one which might be expected from our current knowledge of trace element partitioning between liquid and minerals. This liquid phase REE pattern also differs from the REE pattern of the host basalt bearing the inclusions and resembles that of the island-arc, low alkali tholeiites from the Pacific Ocean side of Japan. Geochemical features of the mafic inclusions also resemble those of island-arc tholeiites. Mafic and ultramafic inclusions may be a product of ancient island-arc volcanism which through geologic time became depressed to greater depths.
30078491|The Pongola Supergroup is a thick succession of Archean (2.9 Ga) supracrustal rocks in the eastern part of the Kaapvaal craton of southern Africa. Its upper part, the Mozaan Group (5000 mthick) includes diamictites with a highly varied suite of clasts, some of which are striated and faceted. Clasts in associated stratified siltstones are interpreted as icerafted debris. A glacial origin is also supported by geochemical investigation of diamictite matrix materials and associated mudstones. Plots of SiO
30058422|The purpose of this study is threefold: to experimentally evaluate the factors controlling the porosity and permeability of ideal clastic materials; to determine the modifications produced in natural deposits by variations from the ideal; to apply the principles of permeability to the problem of the distribution and localization of mineral deposits in clastic sediments. The effect on porosity of absolute grain-size, variable grain-size, shape of grain, method of deposition, and compaction are experimentally determined for ideal materials and compared with those of river and beach sands and other clastic sediments. Various equations for permeability are discussed; and the controlling factors of temperature, hydraulic gradient, size and shape of grain, uniformity of grain-size, porosity, and stratification are experimentally evaluated for ideal materials, and the modifications caused by natural materials are delimited and discussed. Field observations on the effects of wave and river depositional processes on porosity and permeability are presented. Comparisons are made of the relative permeability of gravel, sand, clay, loess, till, and unsorted alluvium. Changes produced in the original porosity and permeability of clastic sediments by the metamorphic processes of compaction, cementation, and recrystallization are outlined. Finally, the principles governing the flow of fluids through unconsolidated clastic materials are applied to the flow of hydrothermal solutions through rocks of clastic origin in an attempt to use the principles of permeability to explain and predict the distribution and localization therein of hydrothermal mineral deposits.
30058835|The Iberian structural axis strikes approximately northwest-southeast through Morgan City and Lafayette, and presumably extends northwesterly past Pine Prairie to connect with the north Louisiana geosyncline. The existence of the structural axis is indicated by the plan of the depth to the top of the salt domes. Certain physiographic data suggest arching of the surface along the Iberian structural axis. The axis is assumed to represent a geosyncline trough. The arching is presumed to be the effect of less compaction and greater uplift of the salt in the area of shallow domes than in areas of deep domes, and may be partially responsible for the form of the land area of the Mississippi Delta in the Terrebonne Parish area and for the eastward deflection of the Mississippi River. There is a suggestion that the axis may bend northeastward, possibly to connect with the Appalachian geosyncline.
30060480|Submarine fresh-water springs along the shore of the Stansbury Peninsula, Great Salt Lake, are described. Their geologic, biotic, and cultural significance is discussed. Similar occurrences in other areas are mentioned.
30070463|The Lower Carboniferous rocks of northern England show two main facies, the distribution of which is related to the behavior of the floor on which the system rests. Certain areas were relatively stable, and on these the clear-water massif facies was deposited. In other areas the floor subsided more rapidly, and muddy-water basin facies resulted. The reef facies is found at the margins of the massifs in narrow tracts between the two main types and at certain places within the basins. A twofold division is therefore made into basinal reefs and marginal reefs. The problems connected with the reef limestones include distribution, conditions of deposition, lithology and fauna, tectonics, and erosional history. The classic theories are summarized, and brief accounts are given of typical areas. The basinal reefs seem to have been formed as moundlike accumulations of organic debris, but marginal reefs have several origins. Their tectonic and erosional histories are examined. A feature common to all types is their fauna, which is unlike the normal facies. The difficult problem of correlation between the goniatite zones of the reef limestones and the coral-brachiopod zones of the normal limestones is also considered.
30066413|The Taconic Frontal Thrust System, associated with the later stages of the medial Ordovician Taconic orogeny, a continental margin-volcanic arc collision, defines the present western boundary of the Taconic Allochthon in eastern New York and west-central Vermont. The Frontal Thrust emplaces regionally folded and foliated Taconic rocks over deformed, but essentially unmetamorphosed, flysch. The Frontal Thrust is temporally and kinematically related to the Champlain and Orwell faults to the north, that emplace variably deformed sections of Early Paleozoic shelf rocks over partially coeval sections of the Early Paleozoic platform. Major movement on these faults occurred after initial obduction of the Allochthon onto the Early Paleozoic North American continental shelf and prior to being unconformably overlapped by the Early Devonian. This fault system is considered to be part of the final phase of a continuum of thrusts that evolved during the Taconic Orogeny, and therefore records only the final emplacement geometry of the Allochthon. Detailed mapping has revealed a complex, fine-scale imbricate structure at and near the front of the Allochthon. The imbricate structure in front of the Allochthon is defined by slivers and small thrust sheets of Lower and Middle Ordovician shelf carbonate and overlying Middle Ordovician shales, flysch and wildflysch (debris flow deposits), and melange. These imbricates have dimensions of hundreds of meters to kilometers parallel with strike and a few to several hundred meters structural thickness across strike. Ramps and tear faults within the imbricate stack control the final geometry of the otherwise gently east-dipping Frontal Thrust surface. Complex superposed fold patterns occur locally within the overlying regionally folded Taconic sequence at these frontal structures. At Bald Mtn. and other localities to the north, the carbonate slivers have an internal duplex structure, with the Frontal Thrust forming the roof fault to the duplex. In some areas the Frontal Thrust appears to follow the earlier, pre-cleavage thrusts (e.g., Basal Taconic Thrust) along which initial obduction occurred. Microscopic and mesoscopic fault-related deformation associated with the Frontal Thrust appear to have developed in fully lithified sedimentary sequences. Deformation involving partially lithified rock is limited to the local incorporation of olistostromes into tectonic melange at the leading edge of the Allochthon. The pattern of essentially coeval thrusting, lithification, cleavage development, low-grade metamorphism deduced here may be generally representative of the final stages of continental margin-island arc collision.
30060067|Deformed rocks developed in zones where transcurrent movements took place during a late stage of the Ubendian orogeny are described from Kungwe Bay, western Tanganyika Territory. In areas where the regional metamorphism was still continuing, the mineral assemblages developed in the movement zones are the same as those developing regionally. Cataclastic textures characterize such movement zones. In other parts of the district, where the regional metamorphism had apparently come to an end, the zones of concentrated movement contain both mylonites and certain fine-grained deformed rocks which show no obvious cataclastic features. Some of the latter have textures recalling those of hornfelses and contain minerals such as garnet and hornblende which have remained stable during the deformation and have grown porphyroblastically. It is considered that these rocks result from deformation of the crust at depth, resulting in a local high-grade dislocation metamorphism to which heat released during the movements may have contributed. The significance of the deformed rocks and of the transcurrent movement system in which they occur is discussed, and a possible analogy with active seismic belts of the present day is mentioned.
30061979|Schopf (1974) suggests that the decrease in number of families of marine invertebrates during the Permian and subsequent increase in the Lower Triassic are due to changes in the area of the shallow marine seas. Shallow marine sea coverage fell by two-thirds, then more than doubled, and the number of families appears roughly to have tracked areal change. Since a change in area cannot be followed immediately by extinction or origination of families, the Permo-Triassic situation may have been a short-term nonequilibrium one, with number of families constantly changing but lagging behind the instantaneous equilibrium number. In the Recent, the widely studied and experimentally observed increase in species number with area, even in the absence of increased habitat diversity, implies a monotonic relationship between area and equilibrium number of families. Increase in number of species with area appears usually to be linear in a log-log plot, and this leads inductively to a nearly linear relationship between log area and log number of families as well. From such an area-family number relationship, I show that the rough correspondence between shallow marine sea coverage and number of marine invertebrate families can indeed be construed as the result of a causal connection between area and biotic diversity, and that Schopf's hypothesis that the Permo -Triassic extinctions were a consequence of changing sea level is biologically plausible.
30055958|The extreme diversity of opinion as regards the position of the boundary between the Carboniferous and Permian has led to a review of the stratigraphy in the type areas of those systems, together with a survey of some of the more important works on the critical areas of "Upper Carboniferous" and "Lower Permian" marine deposits throughout the world. A graphic comparison of various delimitations shows that the boundary has oscillated throughout the Moscovian, Uralian, and Artinskian stages; that is, in the most prevalent of American terminologies, from the base of the "Pennsylvanian" to well within the "Permian." Confusion would be eliminated, and greater precision in correlating strata and events would be attained by a more extended use of the European stage designations than by continuing to employ terms of such variable and ambiguous sonnotation as "Carboniferous" and "Permian."
30065538|The St. Lucie Metamorphic Complex comprises part of the non-Laurentian, Paleozoic Suwannee terrane beneath the Gulf and Atlantic Coastal Plains of the southeastern United States. Hornblende concentrates prepared from cuttings from two deep test wells penetrating the complex display internally concordant
30069341|Botanical science contributes to the knowledge of postglacial climates through inference from fossils and from the distribution of existing vegetation. In the first field the materials include complete plant communities of the past preserved intact and individual plants and plant parts. The bogs of the glaciated region furnish as evidence successive layers of peat of differing character and pollen grains of plants which grew at successive periods. Analysis of the pollen content of the stratified bog deposits is yielding a wealth of evidence concerning post-Pleistocene forest history and therefore as to the concomitant climatic sequence. In inference from present distribution of vegetation, relic colonies of plants are considered as indicators of earlier dominance of types different from those of today and therefore of climatic change. There is almost universal agreement among students of these phenomena that the evidence from fossils and from present distribution indicates a postglacial climatic sequence as follows: from glacial through boreal to a warm and probably dry middle period, followed by a return to the cooler and probably moister conditions of the present. Several nonbotanical lines of investigation provide evidence supporting or consistent with this sequence.
30068547|A >5 km thick, north-dipping shear zone in the Pinal Peak map area, near Globe, Arizona, reveals contact metamorphism of the Pinal Schist through intrusion of the Proterozoic Madera Diorite. In Pinal Schist, sillimanite and rare andalusite occur in the metamorphic aureole around the diorite, but not elsewhere in this or adjoining map areas, where metamorphic grade is interpreted to be low greenschist facies. Deformation was synchronous in the schist and the diorite and is recorded by a well-developed, generally N- and NW-trending elongation lineation. Field interpretations of ductile deformation fabrics generally indicate top-to-the-south or reverse (present day coordinates) displacement. Microstructures in the Pinal Schist, the Madera Diorite, and the Pinal-Madera contact zone include S-C fabrics, mica "fish," asymmetric -type tails on porphyroclasts, and grain-shape and lattice-preferred mineral orientation, most of which indicate top-to-the-south (locally SE to SW) displacement, consistent with field interpretations. Some microstructures indicate top-to-the-north, or normal dip-slip, shear. Sillimanite is deformed into parallelism with other microstructures, indicating that it was involved in the deformation. Asymmetric double girdle quartz c-axis fabrics record dominantly top-to-the-south displacement, although top-to-the-north and sinistral fabrics are preserved locally. Symmetric girdles indicate deformation within the flattening (k < 1) field. The spatial distribution of symmetric and asymmetric girdles defines several structural domains within the shear zone. We interpret these domains to reflect large-scale strain partitioning. Equal area stereo plots of quartz c-axis data display clustering of maxima toward the center of the plots, suggesting activation of high-temperature slip systems. Coexistence of low-temperature deformation fabrics indicates continued deformation at progressively lower temperatures during pluton cooling. From this structural analysis we conclude that the Madera Diorite was pre-tectonic and that Pinal Schist and Madera Diorite were deformed synchronously, at relatively shallow crustal levels, in a contractional shear zone. The overall character of the shear zone reflects strain partitioning at a crustal scale.
30060156|In the Gaviota Quadrangle, along the west-trending portion of the southern California coast, at least seventeen former marine shore lines are recognized. Below an altitude of 200 feet they are indicated by characteristic erosional and depositional features. Shore-line altitudes are at approximately 5, 25, 42(?), 60, 90, 125, and 180-200 feet. They are not noticeably deformed. Formation of the 25-foot and possibly the 90-foot shore line was preceded by a period of stream downcutting, possibly induced by temporarily lowered sea-level. Marine shells from deposits on the platform associated with the 60-foot and 90-foot shore lines, identified by W. P. Woodring, are consistent with a late Pleistocene age. Above 200 feet, benches, flattish ridge crests, and hill summits at a series of accordant elevations are considered to be remnants of marine terraces. The corresponding shore lines, not closely determined, are at roughly 275, about 350, possibly 470, probably 510, possibly 560, about 620, 723, 810, 860, possibly 1,000, about 1,060, 1,200, possibly 1,260, and 1,320, 1,660 feet, and possibly higher above present sea-level. The altitudes of shore lines below 200 feet seem to correspond to those described for the southeastern Atlantic Coast and certain Pacific islands. Thus they suggest world-wide positions of sea-level presumably glacially controlled, although inferred episodes of lowered sea-level do not entirely coincide. However, the remaining dozen or more shore lines above 200 feet were formed during and after the supposed mid-Pleistocene deformation in southern California. If the shore lines below 200 feet can be correlated with those at similar altitudes elsewhere in the world, the conflicting evidence of this paper suggests either that the shore lines do not represent the full glacial time scale or that the Pleistocene of southern California as represented by marine sediments extends back considerably further than the glacial period.
30063378|The emergence of the coastal features and ranges of southern California and the events of their subsequent history cannot be fitted into postglacial time. It is suggested that the Coast Range orogeny took place in the Yarmouth age.
30058336|Monoclinic K-feldspars and triclinic Na-feldspars at high temperatures form a "continuous" series of mix crystals. The apparent lack of a discontinuity in the monoclinic-triclinic solid-solution series has been puzzling. A transition from monoclinic to triclinic symmetry was found to exist and is here described. The composition at which the transition occurs was found to be a function of temperature: $Or_{40}Ab_{60}$ at ~0 C; $Or_{5}Ab_{95}$ at ~1,000 C. (extrapolated). The transition considered at a fixed composition as a function of temperature has the characteristics of a displacive transformation. The investigation was carried out with natural crystals homogenized at high temperature and quenched. Winchell's term "analbite" is redefined and used for the high-temperature modification of $NaAlSi_{3}O_{8}$. Besides the displacive transformation, another type, or diffusive transformation, is considered. A detailed discussion of available data led to the conclusion that the series $KAlSi_{3}O_{8}-NaAlSi_{3}O_{8}$, stable at high temperature (as a sanidine-barbierite, analbite series), differs from those members stable at low temperature (micro-cline-albite) by a different distribution of the Al and Si ions-disordered at high and ordered at low temperature. A slow and (at least on the potash side) continuous process of ordering in crystals originally disordered is considered to be responsible for the variable appearance of intermediate states (orthoclase, adularia). Besides the displacive transformation, another type, or diffusive transformation, is considered. A detailed discussion of available data led to the conclusion that the series $KAlSi_{3}O_{8}-NaAlSi_{3}O_{8}$, stable at high temperature (as a sanidine-barbierite, analbite series), differs from those members stable at low temperature (micro-cline-albite) by a different distribution of the Al and Si ions-disordered at high and ordered at low temperature. A slow and (at least on the potash side) continuous process of ordering in crystals originally disordered is considered to be responsible for the variable appearance of intermediate states (orthoclase, adularia). The process of K/Na exchange is also discussed in connection with an investigation of different types of perthites, such as those with exsolved albite and those with exsolved analbite. The meaning of the mineral name "anorthoclase" is considered in connection with some remarks on nomenclature of the alkali feldspars. The extension of this nomenclature to ternary feldspars is illustrated, with some results of an investigation of feldspars from rhombporphyries.
30061082|Shallow seas covered approximately 35% of the continents during the Middle Permian, and less than 15% at the end of the Permian. A similar change in the area of modern shallow seas would result from a 210-m drop in sea level. If the rate of sea-floor spreading were reduced by 5 cm a year for 8 m.y., the average depth of the ocean would increase by about 200 m. During a period of slower spreading, cooling sea floor would sink closer to ridges, and increase the volume of the ocean basins. Changes in the rate of sea-floor spreading are considered a reasonable mechanism causing the eustatic change in sea level associated with the Permo-Triassic faunal crisis. "During much of Paleozoic and Mesozoic time ... land surfaces were much lower than they are today. An appreciable rise in sea level was sufficient to flood large areas; a drop of a few feet caused equally large areas to emerge ...." (Newell 1963, p. 92).
30065646|Determining the origin of extension parallel folds in metamorphic core complexes is fundamental to understanding the development of detachment faults. An excellent example of such a feature occurs in the Death Valley region of California where a major, undulatory, detachment fault is exposed along the well-known turtleback (antiformal) surfaces of the Black Mountains. In the hanging wall of this detachment fault are deformed strata of the Copper Canyon Formation. New age constraints indicate that the Copper Canyon Formation was deposited from ~6 to 3 Ma. The formation was folded during deposition into a SE-plunging syncline with an axial surface coplanar with that of a synform in the underlying detachment. This relation suggests the turtlebacks are a folded detachment surface formed during large-scale extension in an overall constrictional strain field. The present, more planar, Black Mountains frontal fault system may be the result of out-stepping of a normal fault system away from an older detachment fault that was deactivated by folding.
30078270|A flight of Quaternary coral reef terraces in New Guinea well dated by
30068067|Igneous rocks formed by the accumulation of crystals from a cooling magma body compose a significant fraction of both the terrestrial oceanic crust and the lunar crust and mantle. Here we report the results of numerical simulations of compaction of accumulating crystals for which the bulk density is not constant. The simulations are designed to provide insight into the behavior of interstitial liquid during compaction when a sharp drop in the density of the cumulus minerals is encountered (e.g., at the ultramafic-mafic boundary in a layered intrusion). The simulations provide an explanation for trapped-liquid distributions associated with sharp mineral density transitions. Density transition in the mineral assemblage is a feature common to many layered intrusions and the oceanic crust. This process does not require external mechanisms, such as injections of new and different magmas, and has important implications for the formation of Pt-ores found at ultramafic-mafic transitions. The model also has implications for the redistribution of liquid in the intrusive portions of the oceanic crust.
30065526|We report zircon PbPb evaporation and UPb SHRIMP ages on highgrade gneisses from the Mozambique belt of eastern Tanzania in an attempt to understand the Neoproterozoic evolution of this belt. Several orthogneisses of granitoid composition have igneous emplacement ages between 2740 and 2608 Ma and document the presence of Late Archean crust of unknown dimension that is either part of the Tanzania craton farther west or constitutes a separate ancient crustal domain, perhaps related to Archean rocks in Madagascar. Paleo and Mesoproterozoic ages, ranging from 1880 to 1095 Ma, are documented for granitoid gneisses in the eastern Usambara Mountains of northeast Tanzania, and the significance of these rocks in the geodynamic evolution of the Mozambique belt is equally uncertain. Ages between 843 and 665 Ma document a period of magmatic and depositional activity in the Neoproterozoic that is comparable to other parts of the Mozambique belt, notably Madagascar. Metamorphic zircons extracted from high pressure/high temperature granulitefacies ortho and paragneisses yielded ages of ca. 640 Ma that we interpret to reflect the peak of regional granulitefacies metamorphism.
30060265|An intergrowth between galena and gratonite is described, which can be accounted for by the structural relationship of these two minerals. The body diagonal of the galena cube is nearly parallel to the c-axis of gratonite; the deviation from parallelism is a result of the structural distortion of gratonite from cubic symmetry.
30079423|Stream incision, faulting, thermochronologic, and geobarometric data suggest that Sierra Nevada topography is a consequence of two periods of uplift. Stream incision of up to 1 km has occurred since 5 Ma. Maximum EoceneMiocene incision was 150 m. Uplift of the Sierra Nevada, westward tilting, stream incision, and eastdown normal and dextral faulting along the present eastern escarpment of the range began at 5 Ma. Estimates of Late Cenozoic crestal rock uplift for different areas in the Sierra Nevada range from 1440 to 2150 m. Low summit erosion rates suggest that the rock uplift approximates the surface uplift of crestal summits. Tertiary stream gradients were lower than modern ones, suggesting that the bottoms of the canyons have been uplifted in the Late Cenozoic and that the mean elevation of the Sierra Nevada has increased. The elevation of preCenozoic basement rocks above the base of Tertiary paleochannels ranges from <200 m in the northern part of the range to >1000 m in the south, and shows that significant relief predates Late Cenozoic incision. Elevations at 5 Ma (before Late Cenozoic uplift) may have been <900 m in the northern Sierra and >2500 m in the southern Sierra. Minimal EoceneMiocene stream incision suggests that paleorelief and paleoelevations are relics of preEocene uplift. Reduction of elevation and relief following preEocene uplift may have coincided with eclogitic recrystallization of the mafic root of Sierran batholith. This eclogitic keel may have foundered in the Late Cenozoic, triggering uplift.
30079442|1.88 Ga Atype granites in the Archean Rio Maria granitegreenstone terrane of eastern Amazonian craton, Brazil, have much in common with the oxidized 1.4 Ga anorogenic granites of the western United States. Nd isotopic data on these granites and their Archean country rocks show that (1) the Rio Maria crust was differentiated from depleted mantle at 3.0 Ga, (2) the Paleoproterozoic granites were derived from deep parts of this crust, and (3) the Paleoproterozoic granites postdate their protolith by at least 1 Ga. No convergent processes are known to have affected the eastern Amazonian craton at 1.9 Ga and, therefore, there is little doubt as to the anorogenic origin of the oxidized Atype granites of Rio Maria. Recognition of this genuinely anorogenic Proterozoic granite suite in Amazonia adds cymatogenic flavor to the current debate on the origin of the midProterozoic anorogenic granites of the western United States.
30059237|The Scottish Lower Carboniferous Oil-Shale Group consists predominantly of shallow water non-marine sediments (limestones, sandstones, and shales mainly) laid down rhythmically in intradistributary lagoonal tracts and channels at the western margin of a major delta system. A revised rhythmic unit incorporating limestone and commencing with sandstone at the base is proposed and described. There are three common partial units. The pattern of sedimentation is related to the activity of the distributaries and the physical state of the lagoonal waters. The comparative rarity of oil shales is probably due to the generally agitated nature of those waters.
30059266|A radiometrically dated sequence of interbedded marine and non-marine Quaternary sediments in the Kotzebue Sound area records marine transgressions of Yarmouth and Sangamon age, glaciations of Illinoian and Wisconsin age, and two periods (Sangamon and late Wisconsin to early Recent) when the climate was warmer than at present. Non-marine molluscan faunas from beds of late Illinoian to Recent age show little significant change.
30057145|The Coulomb law of the Mohr theory of failure predicts a constant dihedral angle between conjugate failure planes regardless of the magnitude of the stress difference required for failure. The maximum principal stress bisects this angle. Experimental studies show that this angle actually becomes smaller as confining pressure is decreased. For low pressures, Nadai, enlarging on a suggestion by Leon, proposed a curved Mohr envelope which would intersect the normal stress axis at a right angle. If so, there could then be a critical stress circle tangent to the envelope only at the apex. The single plane of failure, lying parallel to the maximum principal stress, is a tension joint in the usual terminology (extension fracture). A slight increase in stress difference will move the critical circle off the apex, and it will then intersect the envelope at two points; the resulting conjugate fractures will enclose a small dihedral angle. Within a small range of increasing stress differences, the angle will increase to the usual angles for shear failure (about 60). At least two field examples indicate that Nadai's proposals are correct. Parker's joint study in New York demonstrated a conjugate shear set with angles ranging from 0 to 20. These joints have plumose surfaces that may be indicative of extension fractures. Similar jointing has been observed in western Pennsylvania and eastern Ohio, as studies by Nickelsen and Hough, and by Ver Steeg indicate. Duschatko's studies along the Lucero uplift, New Mexico, show a single joint set being replaced along strike by a conjugate joint set with dihedral angle increasing up to 65. This type of fracturing appears to be present in the Bighorn and Bear-tooth Mountains as well.
30062251|Shreve's concept of infinite topologically random channel networks focuses attention on exterior and interior channel links, which are the basic elements of the network. The population distribution of link lengths has importance in its relation to the statistical properties of entire networks, and it plays a basic role in computer simulation models for generating stream patterns. Published data on link lengths are sparse, and earlier workers have inclined toward a lognormal model for the length distribution of exterior links (Strahler first-order streams). More recently, Smart has proposed an exponential model for interior links, on the basis of a postulated link-generating mechanism. The model agrees with observed interior link lengths except for a deficiency of short links as required by his theory. Analysis of interior links in a magnitude 1311 basin shows that the probability of successive tributaries entering main channels from the same side is only about two-thirds the probability of opposite-side entry. These higher-order structures in the data (i.e., the spatial arrangement of successive tributaries) display a first-order Markovian property in sequences of link type. These structures are examined in their substantive context, and a composite gammalike population density for interior link lengths is developed theoretically. This density contains the higher-order structures and agrees, at least approximately, with observed relations in main channels of magnitude 10 or greater.
30056852|The Windrow formation consists of deposits of iron oxide and siliceous gravel with associated grit, sand, and clay occurring on the uplands of the Driftless Area of Wisconsin and adjacent glaciated portions of Minnesota and Iowa. The formation may be conveniently divided into two members: the older, or Iron Hill, member consisting of iron oxide replacement deposits, and the younger, or East Bluff, member representing the clastic facies. The stratigraphic relations of the Windrow formation indicate a post-Devonian, pre-Pleistocene age, but precise dating is difficult because of the almost total absence of contemporaneous faunal and floral remains. Lithologic and mineralogic studies, however, indicate that the formation is correlative to certain basal Cretaceous deposits in south-central Minnesota and western Iowa. It seems probable that the Iron Hill member was deposited as a result of reaction of iron-charged waters with carbonate bedrock. The East Bluff member shows a number of unique lithologic features, including restricted pebble size, an abundance of granules and coarse sand, and highly polished chert and quartz pebbles. These features appear to be the result, at least in part, of transportation by streams of limited competence. The simple mineralogy of the East Bluff member and the presence of a heavy mineral suite dominated by stable titanium minerals suggest mature weathering of the sediments. The elastics of this member were apparently derived from a mixed pre-Cambrian and Paleozoic terrane, probably located in northern and central Wisconsin.
30062147|Texturally mature, quartz-rich sandstones, texturally mature, mafic-rich sandstones, and texturally immature graywackes are abundant in the late Archean Chitradurga Group of the Dharwar craton in South India. When compared to graywackes of Paleozoic age from northeastern North America, the Chitradurga graywackes have slightly higher average concentrations of Na and ferromagnesian elements, indicating the existence of a more tonalitic and mafic-rich provenance during the late Archean in Karnataka. The regional tonalitic gneiss (Peninsular Gneiss) is the predominant source of these sediments, although mafic/ultramafic volcanic debris from unidentified sources is also important. Neither intermediate nor felsic volcanics nor an extensive metasedimentary terrane were prominent in the provenance. Although the composition of the craton was dominantly sialic, the presence of abundant ferromagnesian debris in some of the texturally mature sandstones that probably formed in shallow water, intracratonic, or platformal environments suggests that mafic rock was also situated on or near the craton during the late Archean.
30056598|Palmer, by assuming that the Alika flow of Hawaii when liquid was turbulent, found that its viscosity was 15 times that of water. Becker, who also assumed turbulent motion, found that the viscosty of the 1840 flow of Hawaii was 60 times that of water. Dimensional analysis, however, proves that these flows moved with laminar motion and therefore the viscosities computed by Becker and Palmer are in error. By using the Jeffreys formula, the viscosity of the Alika flow is found to have been about 287,000 times the value calculated by Palmer. The specific gravity, the thickness, and the gradient of the last 6 miles of the Mc-Cartys flow are known. If it is assumed that the viscosity was similar to that of the 1887 flow of Hawaii, the velocity in this area, calculated by the Jeffreys formula, is 4.8 miles per hour. This figure, together with a consideration of the flow mechanism of the flow, indicates that it covered the last 6 miles in about 12 hours. The volume of the last 6 miles of the flow is known, and, as the time necessary to cover this distance has been calculated, the rate of extrusion of lava can also be calculated. It is found to be approximately 178,320,000 cubic feet per hour.
30068710|Unsteady, nonuniform landslide motion is caused by temporal and spatial variations in driving and resisting forces. Common sources of these variations include stream undercutting of landslide toes, episodic headscarp slumping, and ground-water potentiometric fluctuations. A linear theory for the kinematics of unsteady, nonuniform landslide motion is developed here by analyzing the behavior of small perturbations about a datum state of steady landslide shear flow. The analysis indicates that local perturbations in landslide sediment flux exhibit advective-diffusive behavior that is controlled largely by a single dimensionless parameter, here called the landslide Peclet number. Explication of the physical meaning of this parameter shows that motion of landslide sediment-flux perturbations is dominated by slow advection if the landslide material behavior is primarily viscous and by rapid diffusion if the behavior is more rigidly plastic. Landslides that deform along thin plastic slip zones are thus inferred to respond relatively rapidly and globally to transient perturbations. Landslides that deform in thick zones of creeping flow, in contrast, are inferred to respond over periods as long as many tens of years, with zones of perturbed sediment flux that translate downslope as weakly diffusive kinematic waves. Many landslides probably fall between these two extremes in their style of response. The measured response of a large California landslide to transient toe undercutting by an adjacent stream helps corroborate the theoretical results.
30062146|The 3200 to 3000 Ma Bababudan Group, locally as thick as 1800 m, consists of a variety of rocks indicating deposition on a stable platform. U- and Au-bearing pyritiferous quartz-pebble conglomerate a few meters thick overlies a regolith at the basal unconformity with a gneissic basement. The bulk of the column consists of mafic volcanics, including subaerial flows, lahars, and sills. Ultramafic and felsic rocks, iron-formation, and pelites are minor lithologies in most of the sequence, but iron-formation forms a major unit at the top of the group. Quartzite units, intercalated with the volcanics, are generally less than 40 m thick and make up 25 to 50% of the column. They are mineralogically mature and texturally submature. Recrystallization generally obscures original textures, but units that were originally clayey quartz arenites have survived total recrystallization. Rounded zircons dominate the nonopaque detrital heavy mineral suite, verifying a history of extensive abrasion. Paleocurrent patterns based on 197 cross-beds and 145 trough axes show general current directions to the S, SE, and E. Variance calculations from outcrops and combinations of outcrops range from 1815 to 8696; the average is 4451. The suggested depositional environment is a dominant braided fluvial plain on a peneplaned granitic craton, perhaps passing into shallow marine. The source rocks appear to have been gneissic and/or granitic rocks, probably portions of the Peninsular Gneiss complex situated to the west, northwest, and north of the outcrop belts. The source terrane was probably a low-lying, deeply weathered surface upon which wind abrasion of the quartz sand was an important process. The stable platform upon which the sediment was accumulating was repeatedly rifted, as indicated by the dominantly mafic lavas; a rifted continental margin or an intracratonic basin are possible tectonic settings. This Archean sequence of continental flows and quartz arenites is one of the oldest extensive examples of rocks deposited on a stable cratonal platform.
30068877|The steeply tilted Tottabetsu plutonic complex (TPC) provides an exceptional crosssectional view of a frozen felsic magma chamber. The entire pluton is apparently cylindrical in shape, but the active magma chamber at any one time was much thinner, tabular in shape. The pluton is stratified, with a topmost granitic unit (zone III), an underlying dioritic unit (zone II), and a lowermost gabbroic unit (zone I). Field, petrographic, and geochemical data suggest that zones I and II developed at the aggrading floor of a felsic magma chamber. Only part of zone III appears to have crystallized from the roof. Successive stoping events, recorded as included countryrock blocks in zones I and II, apparently prohibited growth of the roof solidification zone. The complex record of hotter replenishments and fractional crystallization is preserved in the stratigraphy of zones I and II as either alternating comagmatic sheets and cumulate layers or an upward fractionation trend with a major compositional reversal exhibited by the cumulates. The magmas injected during the development of zone I were basalts to basaltic andesites, while those injected during the development of zone II were andesites to dacites. The overall compositional difference between zones I and II is essentially attributed to the compositional difference of the injected magmas. By contrast, zone III comprises monotonous granites whose geochemical variation suggests that they represent mixtures of fractionates complementary to the cumulates formed from both the resident felsic magma and the recharged intermediate magma. Buoyant fractionates released from the crystallizing recharge magma presumably rose as plumes and mixed with the resident magma. Thus, the TPC reveals the protracted history of pluton construction from a longlasting, meltrich magma chamber.
30059236|Asymmetrical stream patterns and topography in the Bitterroot Range of western Montana are discussed. It is concluded that microclimatic differences associated with varying slope exposures have been responsible for the evolution of the gross features of the contemporary landscape. Especially during periods of active glaciation have gradational processes operated more effectively on the north-facing slopes of the area. The lack of symmetry of stream patterns, interfluvial ridges, and valley shapes in cross-section is thus believed to be primarily an effect of climatic controls, rather than the result of structural or lithologic characteristics of the range.
30065142|Bedrock-sculpturing resulting in s-forms is associated with catastrophic flooding in near- and subglacial environments produced by flow velocities approximating
30059222|A mathematical theory of erosion is developed along similar lines to the classical Fourier theory of heat flow in solids. The general theory is considered in some detail, and a few representative examples of its application to stream profiles and valley slopes are suggested in outline.
30067044|The Soufrire Hills and South Soufrire Hills volcanoes are morphologically distinct but petrologically similar. The history of the complex is subdivided into seven episodes. The Soufrire Hills subunit I (175 ka) has deposits of Pelean style with ignimbrites of Plinian style abundant near its top. This is followed by deposits from the South Soufrire Hills (130 ka) that represent opencrater St. Vincentstyle activity. Soufrire Hills subunits IIV (112,000400 BP) return to more characteristic Pelean activity; at 22,000 BP, blockandash flow deposits containing abundant clasts of vesicular andesite dominate. Age dating shows that renewed activity began just before European settlement in 1632 CE. This activity, including the ongoing eruption, is typical of the dominant eruptive style of this volcano for the last 175 ka.
30061076|Most previously proposed tests for preferred orientation in fabric diagrams, including all tests based on contouring, are unsatisfactory, as we indicate in a critical review. We present tests for maxima and girdles, with a simple "Schnitteffekt" correction procedure for applications to inequant grains such as mica flakes or to planar elements such as rock joints. Previous corrections were not intended (and not convenient or even valid) for statistical use. Valid rotationally invariant tests involve lengthy computation. We have preferred a method convenient for hand use. We divide the hemisphere or disk into 16 cells and find the largest and smallest numbers of points per cell. Our tables and formulas evaluate the significance of the results for any number of grain points. Use of one standard cell pattern avoids the "retrospective fallacy."
30061942|A disrupted ophiolitic complex of Cretaceous age from the Romeral fault zone in the southwestern Colombian Andes occurs in the La Tetilla area near Popayan. It represents a peculiar association of low-Ti and high-Ti tholeiitic basalts among the ophiolitic complexes from the Romeral Zone. It includes: (1) A main sequence (with incipient metamorphism under prehnite-pumpellyite to greenschist facies conditions) consisting in ascending order of cumulus wehrlite and gabbro, massive gabbro, and basaltic and doleritic lavas and breccias. The basalts are characterized by the crystallization of clinopyroxene prior to plagioclase (cpx-phyric basalt group) and have a primitive low-Ti tholeiite composition (Mg numbers between 70.6 and 65.4). The clinopyroxene chemistry is consistent with this magmatic affinity. The plutonic rocks can be related to a similar low-Ti tholeiitic magma. (2) A sequence of pervasively metamorphosed basalts (with greenschist facies metamorphism of oceanic type) structurally underlies the main sequence. Basalts are characterized by the order of crystallization: ol-plag-cpx (plag-phyric basalt group) and high-Ti tholeiitic chemistry. (3) A sequence of foliated metabasalts (with greenschist to amphibolite transition metamorphism) including low-Ti picritic and high-Ti tholeiitic basalts. Different tectonic settings can be inferred from the petrological features of the recognized magmatic sequences, but constraints by the regional setting are still insufficient to permit a unique interpretation. The one proposed tentatively is that the low-Ti basalts and the plutonics, which are probably cogenetic, formed in an intraoceanic arc at an early stage of development, similar to many supra-subduction zone ophiolites. The high-Ti basalts could have been associated with the former sequence prior to the tectonic emplacement, and could represent remnants of an ocean island volcanism.
30079516|Numerous depressions occur near the inner margin of the Coastal Plain of South Carolina. They are not due to wind action or to any of the other common causes of depressions. Evidence is presented to show that they are a result of solution of iron and aluminum from sandy sediments by ground water. The solution is effected by organic acids resulting from decay of vegetation. Once started, solution is accelerated by increased dampness, and increased growth of vegetation.
30065518|Major Cretaceous Large Igneous Provinces (LIPs, e.g., Kerguelen and Ontong Java) show Aptian magmatic peaks and are linked to global mantle overturning and anomalous surface conditions. Widespread Cretaceous igneous activity in the High Arctic has recently been identified as a LIP. Exposed components on Svalbard, Franz Josef Island, adjacent shelf areas, Axel Heiberg and Ellesmere Islands, and perhaps North Greenland, cover several hundred thousand square kilometers and were peripheral to a LIP center at the Alpha Ridge. Manifestations of LIP development on Svalbard include (1) extensive sills, rare dikes, and extrusives in the east, (2) slow regression within the upper part of thick, black shales punctuated by locally abrupt uplift, with overlying coastal plain sandstones, (3) development of a regional, Late Cretaceous, lowangle unconformity associated with a second regression, and (4) a widespread Early Aptian transition from quartz arenites to lithic arenites and feldspathic sandstones reflecting new northern volcanic source terranes. The unconformity likely reflects LIP thermal doming with >1 km of erosion. The sedimentologic record provides important insight into this LIP since much of it is inaccessible or eroded. Analysis of published geochronology indicates magmatism within a 13590 Ma window, with more detailed interpretations being problematic. Two regressions suggest two pulses of igneous activity (Barremian and Albian). Multiple pulses have been documented for other LIPs and may result from a deep and large plume. Present evidence that magmatism was coeval in Svalbard and Franz Josef Land is inconsistent with a hotspot track hypothesis and suggestive of a large initial plume head.
30053570|A 500 km wide early Proterozoic orogenic belt in Arizona and adjacent areas is divided into lithotectonic blocks by northeast- and north-trending shear zones. Structural and U-Pb zircon studies suggest that these blocks may have experienced different tectonic histories prior to their juxtaposition by thrust and strike-slip movements on shear zones. A northwestern province, here called the Yavapai Province, is composed of at least five tectonic blocks and was assembled at about 1700 Ma. A southeastern province, here called the Mazatzal Province, is composed of at least three blocks and was assembled and juxtaposed with the northwestern province during the Mazatzal orogeny, between 1695 and 1630 Ma. The diversity of seemingly incompatible 1700 Ma tectonic regimes now in close proximity to each other, and the absence of systematic cross-strike changes in age and character of deformation, plutonism, and metamorphism, suggest a model whereby the orogenic belt developed, and North America grew, by assembly of diverse tectonostrati-graphic terranes. Such a model provides an alternate working hypothesis to previous models of progressive southward growth of North America. This model provides a better explanation for the rapid development of the orogenic belt (1700-1630), the accretion of large volumes of juvenile crust, and the complexity in timing and styles of Early Proterozoic tectonism in southwestern North America.
30061248|Mineralogical differences between the quartz and feldspars of extrusive and plutonic acidic rocks are noted. The differences are believed to represent changes brought about in the minerals of plutonic rocks by inversion, unmixing, and recrystallization from an initial character similar to the quartz and feldspars of the corresponding extrusive rocks. Equilibrium studies in the system orthoclase-albite-water provide quantitative information on the stability relations of the alkali feldspars. A single alkali feldspar is stable at high temperatures, but this phase becomes unstable at low temperatures and breaks up into a potash-rich and a soda-rich phase (perthite). Such an unmixing is common in the perthite-quartz granites. Granites of orthoclase-plagioclase-quartz (no perthite) may have the same chemical composition as the perthite-quartz granites, and it is suggested that the unmixing process may continue beyond the perthite stage to give nearly potash-free plagioclase and soda-free orthoclase. Such a process of unmixing and recrystallization may explain conflicting evidence for the order of crystallization in granitic rocks. It is believed that these processes-the result of changing stability relations at low temperatures-have produced significant changes in the mineralogy and textural relationships of the plutonic acidic rocks.
30062009|The basic plutons within the southern California portion of the Peninsular Ranges batholith are multiple intrusive complexes that formed as a result of differentiation of a parental high-alumina basaltic melt at pressures less than 5 kb. The earliest rocks contain abundant plagioclase and lesser amounts of olivine and clinopyroxene as cumulate minerals with interstitial amphibole, orthopyroxene, and opaque minerals. Amphibole-bearing norite and amphibole gabbro represent the middle- and late-stage differentiates, respectively. Small amounts of quartz norite associated with several plutons do not fit compositionally or texturally into the differentiation scheme and may represent a contaminated phase of the parental gabbroic melt. Average values of
30066253|Field and petrographic relations indicate that the commonly accepted theory that the native iron of Disko formed by reduction of basalt or sulphides by inclusions of coal or carbonaceous sediments during eruption of basalt is not valid. Current models for basalt generation indicate that basalts are erupted through lithosphere. Xenoliths of iron in Disko Island basalt were, most likely, carried with the erupting basalt. Therefore, the iron xenoliths may be from the sub-lithosphere mantle, from regions deep enough for iron to have remained unoxidized.
30062219|Data accumulated in Pleistocene studies since 1955, including pollen analyses and radiocarbon dates, provide a basis for the geologic-climate and time-stratigraphic subdivision and classification of the Illinoian and Wisconsin drift in southeastern Indiana and adjacent areas. Interpretations presented here are based mainly on data from fourteen stratigraphic sections, four of which are described in detail. Type sections are designated and described for newly named stades and interstades in the following classification of the drift of the area: I. Wisconsin Stage A. Tazewell Stade 1. Bloomington drift 2. Champaign loess 3. Champaign drift 4. Shelbyville loess 5. Shelbyville drift B. Connersville Interstade C. Fayette Stade D. New Paris Interstade E. Whitewater Stade II. Sangamon Stage III. Illinoian Stage A. Richmond Stade B. Abington Interstade C. Centerville Stade
10.1086/662033|SHRIMP and conventional zircon dating place temporal constraints on the evolution of the Cretaceous Volcanic Arc system in central Cuba. The arc has a consistent stratigraphy across strike, with the oldest and deepest rocks in the south (in tectonic contact with the 510-km-wide Mabujina Amphibolite Complex [MAC]) and younger rocks in the north. The MAC is thought to represent the deepest exposed section of the Cretaceous Volcanic Arc and its oceanic basement in Cuba. We undertook a single zircon geochronological study of five gneisses and two amphibolites from the MAC and seven rocks from the Manicaragua Batholith, which intrudes both the MAC and the Cretaceous Volcanic Arc. A SHRIMP zircon age of
30075139|The Brown Noddy Tern (Anoiis stolidus) lines its nest with marine shells and debris. The weight of shells in ten nests on Perez Island, Alacran Reef, Campeche Bank, totaled 12,435 gms. The shell accumulations in nests contain species common to shell deposits on nearby beaches. The shells are mostly from burrowing pelecypods inaccessible to birds when alive and are not used as food. Bird deposits may be distinguished from beach deposits by the scarcity of coral fragments which are abundant on the beaches.
30078364|A horizontal buckle model is proposed for the geodynamics of Neogene clockwise rotation of the SW Japan arc and the back arc spreading of the Japan Sea. The model explains the dynamics and kinematics of the formation of megakink bands developed extensively in the Shimanto belt of the Outer Zone of SW Japan (Yanai 1986a, 1986b). Using the megakink bands as indicators of stress orientation and shortening magnitude, the regional
30056333|A late-glacial and postglacial chronology on Adak Island in the Aleutian chain is represented by a series of three wind-blown sands, each terminated by a soil zone, and all three overlying a slightly weathered late-glacial till and marine terrace. Evidence of human occupation is present in the soil zones of the two upper sands. The younger culture is recent Aleut, the older is unidentified. It is suspected that the chronology results from variations in climate obtaining over a large portion of the North Pacific.
30060668|This article describes a hitherto unreported find of Neocalamites from the Upper Triassic of western Colorado. The find is of unusual interest because of the large size of the trees and their geologic mode of occurrence. Moreover, the large number of plants exposed indicates the presence of an Upper Triassic forest of considerable size.
30059329|Morphological attributes of the shoreface and inner shelf profiles are determined statistically using principal component analysis. Both the shoreface and inner shelf exhibit two major modes of variation (steepness and curvature); the combined profile (shoreface and inner shelf) is characterized by four modes: (1) steepness, (2) overall curvature, (3) shoreface curvature, and (4) an offshore shoal-inshore bar covariation. The relative importance of each of the four modes of covariation varies regionally along the Atlantic and Gulf coasts. Differences in wave climates, tidal ranges and sediment characteristics account for the observed differences in equilibrium profiles from region to region. Equilibrium slopes of the inner portion of the shelf and the shoreface are in part statistically independent. This independence might have resulted from differences in the history of equilibrium slope evolution. The inner part of the shelf reached equilibrium during mid-Holocene times while the shoreface equilibrium is of more recent (late-Holocene) origin.
30070738|The southern part of the Caledonian fold belt in East Greenland comprises a complex of pre-Caledonian rock units as demonstrated by numerous age determinations and interpretation of field work. U-Pb isotopic age determinations on zircons, Rb-Sr analyses of whole-rock and mineral samples and one K-Ar mineral age are presented. They date some of the key rock units fundamental to the unravelling of the development of this part of the fold belt, and support the polyorogenic nature of the Caledonian fold belt. Three main groups and two orogenic events with related migmatizations are observed: (1) Archean basement: early intrusive granites and basic dikes imply a minimum age of 2500 m.y. for the basement; (2) Proterozoic intrusions: bodies and sheets of augen granites were emplaced about 1000 m.y. before present. The intrusions coincide with the first (i.e. Proterozoic) orogenic event as well as the first migmatization recognized in the area; (3) Caledonian intrusives: a massive hypersthene monzonite sheet representing an early phase of the second (i.e. Caledonian) orogeny, was emplaced about 475 m.y. ago. Younger granitic stocks as well as sheets of granite associated with the second migmatization were formed in the period between 425 and 400 m.y. ago.
30063862|A modification of the theory of mountain-building due to convection currents in the mantle is offered. The hypothesis accounts for a two-phase orogenic cycle, first tensional and then compressional: the two-phase cycle results from the rock-back of the convection cell. Rock-back follows as a consequence of certain reasonable assumptions made about the mantle. The two-phase orogenic cycle is in harmony with and is demanded by geological observations.
30078314|Single crystals of olivine change to polycrystalline aggregates through dynamic recrystallization during creep at temperatures of 1550-1650C and stresses of 40-120 MPa. The deformation of the dynamically recrystallized specimens displays nearly plane strain, and the maximum elongation of samples is perpendicular to original c- (for 110c) or b-axis (for 101c). The preferred orientation development associated with dynamic recrystallization begins with the rotation of subgrains as a result of accumulation of dislocations due to crystalline slip. With increase of strain, new grains are formed at high angle subboundaries and at grain boundaries. The b-axis fabrics at this stage show two maxima: one near the original direction, and the other near parallel to the maximum compression (shortening) axis. In the final stage, where recrystallization is complete, recrystallized grains also undergo significant plastic strain, and strong a- and b-axis concentrations parallel to, respectively, the maximum elongation and maximum shortening (compression) axes were found. Thus two processes of preferred orientation development in syntectonically (dynamically) recrystallized olivine occur under our experimental conditions: lattice rotation due to dislocation glide, and nucleation and growth of new grains. Strong correlations of final preferred orientation with strain indicates that the former process dominates. Applying these results to deformation in the earth, it is suggested that the preferred orientation is kinematically controlled by crystalline slip even when dynamic recrystallization occurs, indicating that the seismic anisotropy in the deep upper mantle corresponds directly to flow pattern rather than to stress orientation.
30057038|The problem of defining and analyzing contemporary environments of sedimentation is approached from the point of view of mapping "trend surfaces." In this way an objective, continuous pattern which avoids unrealistic definite boundaries can be established for each measurable property of an environment of sedimentation. A second, closely related, problem also considered is to examine measurable properties which will pass through the time-diagenetic zone unchanged in a statistical sense, in order to ascertain how much can be inferred about strictly contemporary properties. Application is made to the near-shore area off La Jolla, California, and good agreement is found between local wave-and-current systems and sorting. An appendix describes the method in detail.
30061088|Along the western margin of the Taconic orogen in New York and Vermont, undeformed quartzcalcite veins commonly occur in the belt of melange that formed beneath the westwardadvancing Taconic Allochthon during the MiddleLate Ordovician Taconic orogeny. The veins have mineral slickenfibers recording either reverse or normal slip. In New York, the reversemotion veins recording the latest phase of shortening are crosscut by the normalmotion veins and faults. The shortening indicated by the reversemotion veins is correlated with the convergence along the Champlain thrust in Vermont, which is also crosscut by a significant, strikeparallel normal fault. Fluid inclusion data from the veins, complemented by stable isotope data, lead to a reconstruction of the sequence of events in the context of a cooling of the fluids, which is consistent with crosscutting relationships among the veins. Following cessation of the convergence, there was regional extension of the western margin of the Taconic orogen, analogous to modern arccontinent collisional orogens. Extension progressed to normal faulting without vein precipitation, and the normal faulting significantly modified the Allochthonmelange contact. The timing of extension is constrained to follow the late Taconic thrusting and predate the latest Silurian, based on the similar fluid temperature/salinity of the reverse and the normalmotion veins, and contrast with veins nearby in Devonian rocks. Extensional, partial collapse of the orogen was accompanied or followed by rebound of the foreland basin, perhaps due to reduction of the thrust load and/or subducted slab breakoff. The systematic gradient of homogenization temperatures exhibited by the reversemotion veins along the orogen margin is interpreted to be caused by real differences in temperature of the veinforming fluids.
30068630|Measurements of light scattering and bottom photographs indicate the presence of bottom turbid layers on the Oregon continental shelf. These turbid layers are confined to valleys or swales, flowing around topographic highs. They are probably initiated by water currents associated with surface and internal tides, wind-driven currents, and by sediment stirring due to surface wave activity. Measurements of the velocity profile at the bottom commonly show a velocity maximum within 2 m of the bottom, the velocity decreasing both toward the bottom due to bottom drag and upward in the water column. We conclude that this near-bottom velocity maximum is produced by the flow of a turbid layer whose highest density core is within approximately 2 m of the bottom. The maximum velocity is approximately 20 cm/sec, but application of the equation deduced by Bagnold for suspension currents shows that unreasonably high sediment concentrations would be required to generate this velocity. Alternatively, the velocity maximum could be produced by a density flow of 3-5 cm/sec superimposed on a normal water current of about 15 cm/sec. Turbid layer concentrations of
30075149|Statistical analysis of the constituent composition and grain-size data accumulated for 218 Bahamian sediment samples resulted in the delineation of the following five facies: (1) coralgal facies-characterized by a relative abundance of skeletal grains, particularly coral and calcareous algae fragments; (2) olitic facies-characterized by an abundance of olitically coated grains; (3) grapestone facies-typified by an abundance of grapestone and cryptocrystalline grains; (4) pellet-mud facies-characterized by an abundance of fecal pellets and particles smaller than 1/8 mm.; and (5) mud facies-typified by an abundance of particles smaller than 1/8 mm. and a relative paucity of indurated fecal pellets. The coralgal facies owes its distinctiveness to a relative lack of non-skeletal calcium carbonate precipitation and to the large areas of rock bottom that characterize this depositional environment. In contrast, differences among three of the other four facies are considered to be primarily the product of differential current strength, with current velocities progressively decreasing in intensity from the olitic to the pellet-mud facies. The contrast between pellet-mud and mud deposits appears to be due largely to a decreased rate of formation and/or induration of fecal pellets in the mud environment. Ideally one might expect Bahamian facies to be distributed in a series of five concentric bands parallel to the bank's margin. The karst surface of the submerged Pleistocene basement rock, however, creates local current conditions that cause the development of a somewhat patchlike facies pattern.
30061009|The Tensleep fault, with downthrow on the south, is a major transcurrent fracture separating the central and the southern segments of the Bighorn Mountains, which have, respectively, an overthrust eastern front and gently sloping western flank and a steeply dipping or overthrust western front and gently dipping eastern limb. The abrupt replacement of this fault by the Horn fault near the eastern mountain front indicates that the Tensleep fault and the Bighorn Range were of contemporary origin. That the fault movement had an early, tensional phase, followed by one of compression is indicated by the belt of strongly dipping beds dragged up on the downthrow side (south); the local reversal of down-dragged beds on the upthrow side (north) resulting in drag away from the fault plane on that side; the local rotation of the fault plane causing it to dip to the north; and the extremely sheared condition of beds near the fault.
JG80139|Multiple models (steady state, episodic, and early growth followed by crustal reworking) have been postulated to explain the evolution of Earths continental crust. An independent assessment of these models is now possible as a result of the massive numbers of detrital zircon grains that have been dated individually over recent years using U-Pb and Hf isotopes. A compilation of 200,000 published zircon dates reveals a global age distribution (U-Pb) with six prominent, statistically significant peaks: 3.23.0, 2.72.5, 2.01.7, 1.21.0, 0.70.5, and 0.30.1 Ga. In most cases, these peaks are recorded on all seven continents. Most of the peaks are detectable also in modern sediments. A comparison of grains with both U-Pb ages and Hf isotope model ages, available for 5100 detrital zircons, suggests that the age frequency distribution of detrital grains reflects predominantly episodic crustal recycling rather than crustal growth. The zircon age distributions and associated data provide consistent evidence for the episodic nature of the Earths plate tectonics.
30068623|Geology is a historical science primarily concerned with the derivation and test of singular descriptive statements. These statements are derived within the context of inferences which invoke general statements methodologically equivalent to the laws of other natural sciences. Geologists suppose that these general statements are consistent with contemporary physical theory and in some cases set out to demonstrate this consistency. Because he presupposes physical theory, the geologist is severely limited in the amount of new theoretical knowledge he can acquire. Previously unsuspected spatial and temporal configurations of events may emerge in the course of historical investigation, but these are already deeply imbued with theoretical significance and are invariably regarded by the geologist as reducible to physical theory.
30071138|Plant molds are common in the basaltic lavas of Hawaii, and this study quantitatively documents their distribution in terms of the number of molds per unit length of section. The number varies with lava structural type, being lower in distal-type aa than in pahoehoe or proximal-type aa. This study defines the expectation of finding plant molds among the lava flows of Oahu given a climatic and volcanic regime like today's in Hawaii. Plant molds prove to be very scarce on Oahu, only 2% of the expected number being found. The exposed parts of the volcanoes on Oahu are smaller, causing lava flows to be superposed at shorter intervals, but this can account for only a small part of the discrepancy. Oahu was evidently a near-desert 3.9 to 1.8 m.y. ago when its Waianae and Koolau shield volcanoes were active. This conclusion is supported by the virtual absence of earthy soils among, and the negligible contemporaneous chemical weathering of the shield-building flows. It is proposed that when it formed, Oahu stood 2000 m or more higher than today. It projected above the Trade Winds and hence was arid, just as the upper parts of Mauna Kea, Mauna Loa, and Heleakala are arid today.
30070619|Small ice specimens, including thin sections and delicate ice crystals, were brought back intact from the Antarctic. The samples were kept in airtight containers and were stored in a cold-storage room aboard ship during the journey home. Thin sections were housed in slide boxes in which the sections rested horizontally. Immersion of the sections in kerosene to prevent evaporation was not entirely satisfactory because of the tendency of the kerosene to penetrate the section. However, such penetration can be prevented. The use of cover glasses with a seal of vaseline around the edges was found by European glaciologists to prevent evaporation. Specimens other than thin sections were packed in snow. The snow prevented jostling and served as an insulating medium. The feasibility of transporting small specimens of ice over distances of thousands of miles in journeys involving months should encourage more comprehensive sampling of ice terrains. Furthermore, if detailed ice studies are impracticable in the field because of insufficient time, lack of necessary equipment, or lack of specialized personnel, specimens can be returned home for study.
30068833|The Sverdrup Basin of the Canadian Arctic Islands contains a sedimentary record, with only short breaks, from Early Carboniferous to Late Cretaceous time and can be used to document the nature of sediments delivered from northern Canada and Greenland. SmNd isotopic analysis of 72 sedimentary rock samples from the Sverdrup Basin, coupled with trace element characterization, shows that for most of Carboniferous to Late Cretaceous time, the sediment supply in the northern part of North America was dominated by a single broad provenance; 56 of the 72 samples lie squarely within the Nd isotopic evolution of a clastic sedimentary cover delivered to the region following 450350 Ma Caledonian and Franklinian mountain building in Greenland and the Canadian Arctic Islands. Cratonic Shield sources in Greenland and Canada are hardly evident in the record, and significant contributions to the sediment budget from any source other than the postmidPaleozoic orogenic cover occurred only during four relatively short periods. First, during Carboniferous time, preLate Ordovician rocks of the Franklinian orogen contributed to alluvial clastic rocks in small rift basins in northern Ellesmere Island. Second, during Early Cretaceous time, Shield basement contributed to more widespread deltaic deposits in central and southern Ellesmere Island. Third, minor volcanic contributions to much of the basin occurred during Late Triassicearliest Jurassic time and also, fourth, during Late Cretaceous time. Sedimentary materials from Caledonian and Franklinian mountains dominated the provenance of the continental and continentmargin sedimentary system for at least 370 m.yr., a period of time extending far beyond the existence of the mountains themselves. This dominance was achieved by recycling of widespread Middle and Upper Devonian strata into Mesozoic units in the Canadian Arctic and Cordillera. We assess the extent to which the results call for cover of the GreenlandCanadian Shield from 450 to 80 Ma and conclude that while much of the Shield was probably covered by Ordovician to Middle Devonian carbonate units, the northerly derived Upper Devonian clastic sedimentary rocks probably covered about onehalf of the Shield in its western and northern portions. This cover was progressively removed through Mesozoic time.
30084815|Faint to distinct dark-colored bands occur in fresh roadcuts throughout a widespread area of thick loess in western Iowa. The bands resemble very weak A-horizons of buried soils, and parallel the underlying geomorphic surfaces. In the western part of the area two dark bands are present, but in their extreme eastern distribution the upper band rises in the section and fades into the upper leached zone of the Wisconsin loess. Chemical studies show a consistent increase of about 0.08 per cent in manganese and less consistent increases of about 0.2 per cent in free iron and 0.03 per cent in organic matter in the bands compared to the overlying and underlying loess. The dark color of the bands is mainly due to the higher manganese content. Some leaching of carbonates has occurred in the loess immediately below the basal band. From the physical and chemical properties of the bands and the relationship to underlying geomorphic surfaces, the bands are believed to represent surfaces of slow or temporary non-deposition of loess. Because of the weak expression, it is questionable whether they represent true interstadial breaks in loess deposition.
30060157|In 1935 Krumbein published a method for correcting the moments of a thin-section size distribution to obtain those of the loose-grain size distribution. His method is limited in two respects: (1) it does not give the total distribution, and (2) it can be applied only if the measurements are grouped into equal arithmetic class intervals. It is often desirable to know the total size-frequency distribution as well as the moments of this distribution. Moreover, it is customary to plot the analyses on a logarithmic, rather than an arithmetic, scale, so that for comparative purposes it is necessary to have a set of correction factors that can be used with logarithmically grouped data. In this paper Krumbein's theory is extended to achieve these objectives. In the first section a method for reconstructing the total arithmetic distribution is presented. The second and third sections are devoted to the logarithmic case; in the former section the logarithmic bias corrections are derived, and in the latter the method of reconstructing the total logarithmic distribution is given.
30079889|Eleven samples of metapicrites, metaankaramites, diabases, and cumulates of the lower Duarte Complex in central Hispaniola were analyzed for major, trace element, and Nd-Sr isotopic compositions. The picrites are plagioclase-free and rich in phenocrysts of clinopyroxene and olivine pseudomorphs. The ankaramites differ from the picrites by the presence of abundant and large clinopyroxene phenocrysts. The diabases consist of plagioclase laths embedded with clinopyroxene. These rocks show E-MORB affinities. Relative to N-MORB, they exhibit high concentrations in Nb, Ta, Th, Ti, light and medium rare earth elements, and low Y contents. They are associated with olivine-clinopyroxene cumulates and gabbros. The olivine-clinopyroxene cumulates differ from the lavas by lower trace element contents and a lesser LREE enrichment. The gabbros exhibit flat REE patterns. All these clinopyroxene-rich rocks show homogeneous
30079550|The subaqueous distention of the surface of ellipsoidal masses of basalt is shown to have resulted in crustal displacement and, therefor, in the formation of remarkably regular angular corrugations. Banded joint cracks are explained by their periodic advance owing to the surface contraction of the pillow during rapid solidification.
30062144|High-grade and low-grade supracrustal belts (Sargur and Dharwar) set in a matrix of gneisses dotted with granitic plutons of different ages make up the Dharwar craton. The overall structural pattern is one of subparallel linear belts and stringers whose regional trend changes from NW-SE in the northern part to N-S in the south. Both the high-grade and low-grade belts show three principal episodes of folding. However, the correlation between the deformation episodes in the Sargur and the Dharwar rocks is controversial, and the structural relations between them are not unequivocally established: parallelism of the first phase structures in the Sargur and the Dharwar rocks can be interpreted either as synchronous development or rotation of the earlier Sargur structures into parallelism with the younger Dharwar structures during later deformation. The extension of the supracrustal belts is parallel to the
10.1086/600862|Ore deposits spatially and temporally related to highK calcalkaline intrusions or domes are widespread in the central Peruvian Cordillera Occidental. Geochronology and petrochemistry of intrusive rocks associated with mineralization reveal that most ore deposits (1) were emplaced in the late Middle to early late Miocene and (2) are related to calcalkaline igneous rocks of granodioritic composition with
30056452|The results of an, investigation of thermal stratification in two of the Great Lakes are compared with the thermal stratification which characterizes small lakes in the Ottawa Valley. It is shown that the warm zone or surface water commonly found in the Great Lakes during the summer has several times the thickness (five times in one comparison) of the similar surface zone of a small, relatively shallow lake. While the bottom temperatures of the large, deep lake and small, shallow lake may be essentially the same, the surface or epilimnion zone in the large lake is a few degrees lower than in the small lake, elevation and latitude being about the same. With increasing elevation in a mountain region thermal zoning becomes less distinct and may disappear entirely at the end of a valley glacier. The relatively low temperature of the epilimnion zone in the Great Lakes and in high mountain lakes prevents by producing conditions unfavorable to marl formation the development of marl beds in lakes of great size, or in small lakes above 5,000 feet in Southern Canada. Latitude, by controlling the temperature of lakes, sets a northern limit to the formation of marl beds, which is probably not far from the northern limit of forests in North America.
30080889|Rock analyses should be recalculated into cation percentages plus the associated anions. In this way the mode is easily calculated, and various kinds of norms are easily constructed, for instance, catanorm, mesonorm, and epinorm for metamorphic rocks of the catazone, mesozone, and epizone, respectively. In most rock-making minerals the volume per oxygen atom has a rather constant value around
30068762|A significant change in the composition of turbidites deposited at active tectonic settings is seen at the Archean/post-Archean transition. In comparison to post-Archean active margin turbidites, Archean greenstone turbidites exhibit more uniform Th/Sc ratios (but with a similar average), greater HREE-depletion (
30061961|Each element of an echinoderm skeleton is a single crystal of calcite. The universal stage method is used to determine orientations of crystals in coronal plates of fossil and Recent regular echinoids. Stereographic diagrams are presented which relate crystallographic orientation to the symmetry of the echinoid skeleton. Most species exhibit one of two preferred orientations and show little variation within a single individual. In one of the preferred orientations, c-axes are perpendicular to the test surface; in the other, they are tangent to the test surface and are aligned longitudinally. In the present sample, crystallographic orientation shows no variation within single genera, and most echinoid families studied have but one orientation. The two preferred orientations appear to have evolved independently several times during echinoid history. Preferred orientation, as an adaptation to the environment, may be related to the organisms' sensitivity to light.
30084967|During periods of several successive years when lake levels are several feet below the mean level, sand is blown from the wide beach into a new foredune ridge. But much of it may be eroded by waves during ensuing years of unusually high mean lake level, aggravated by storms. When the level again falls and the beach widens, the beginning of a new ridge may cut off the sand supply from the ridge behind it. This "shore-dune cycle" may be repeated several times in a few decades. Protracted lowering of the lake may also help underwater sand bars emerge as barriers; these may be permanently colonized by vegetation if net longshore deposition of sand is sufficient to prevent their destruction during later episodes of high lake level. The connections between beach and dune forms and lake level and between lake level and precipitation and temperature account for many details of shore-line history around Lake Michigan for the past century and possibly for earlier episodes of the late postglacial climatic history.
30058996|During the last full-glacial on the Southern High Plains of West Texas, the combined amount of precipitation and runoff into the small closed lake basins probably exceeded the present amount by at least 50%: minimum Pleistocene precipitation, based on the present local runoff of 3 inches, was approximately 29 inches; thus, West Texas was subjected to a pluvial climate in the classical sense during the last full-glacial. Pleistocene precipitation could have been less than the present rate and yet sustained the permanent Pleistocene pluvial lakes only if runoff averaged 35% of the precipitation rate. Such a high runoff-to-precipitation ratio occurs only with frequent intense storm activity.
30056624|A study has been made of phase equilibria in the system
30058033|Fragments ranging in size up to a maximum of 135 feet in greater dimension, imbedded in an arkosic or greywacke matrix, and derived from a rock succession about 10,000 feet in thickness, are found in several horizons of the Middle Pennsylvanian Haymond formation in the Marathon Basin, Trans-Pecos, Texas. Truly exotic boulders of metamorphic and plutonic rocks and of a mid-Pennsylvanian marine limestone occur with fragments of rocks indigenous to the area. Important folding had occurred by the time the boulder-arkoses were formed; subsequently the Haymond strata were greatly deformed by folding and thrusting. It is thought to be demonstrated that the boulders and their matrix are not thrust mylonites attributable to any of the visible faulting, but that they are really sediments. Possible modes of origin are considered to be either that they were derived as a consequence of possible diastrophic events not now definitely ascertainable or that they are ice-transported.
30056306|The layered structure of much of the rhyolite of Yellowstone National Park consists of either a wavy lamination or a coarse stratification. Iddings attributed the layering to spreading of heterogeneous lava. Evidence is herein presented in favor of that hypothesis. Brouwer has suggested that the development of some of the coarser stratification was influenced by crystallization along planes developed by shear when the lava was in a highly viscous state and no longer able to spread. The writer suggests an additional possibility-that the crystallization of some of the layers may have been induced by vapors not originally included within the lava, but which invaded pervious bands originally determined by flowage.
30058165|Recurring similar sequences of strata characterize the Pennsylvanian in most regions in the United States. The Illinois type of sequence has been called the "cyclothem" and the Kansas type the "mega-cyclothem." There are many variations in the pattern of these rhythmic successions, and within the Pennsylvanian areas of the United States they include representatives of nearly all kinds of sedimentary rocks. Thirty-six representative Pennsylvanian successions, two from the Mississippian, and one from the Lower Permian are graphically represented. The rhythmic successions may record diastrophic or climatic fluctuations of continent-wide extent, and the varied type of successions composing them may result from locally variable features of environment, topography, climate, or the configuration of land and sea. Data sheets to record quantitative lithologic variations in the Pennsylvanian and its principal subdivisions have been devised. From these sheets, prepared on the basis of one for each county, various types of lithologic-variation maps and isopach maps can be prepared.
30057010|Chemical sediments of marine origin are divided into three main classes, representing deposition in normal marine open-circulation environments, restricted humid (euxinic) environments, and restricted arid (evaporite) environments. The characteristics of these environments are briefly reviewed, and the position is taken that the hydrogen-ion concentration, pH, and the oxidation-reduction potential, Eh, afford two basic controls which largely determine the kinds of chemical end-members produced by both inorganic and biochemical reactions. Within the framework of these controls, the depositions of calcium carbonate, iron minerals, manganese minerals, phosphates, evaporites, and organic matter are shown in their relation to variations in pH and Eh of the environment. Certain of the end-members depend mainly upon one or the other of the two controls, and some depend upon both. A classification of chemical sediments is proposed which shows their relation to pH and Eh and serves to indicate genetic relations among the chemical end-members. Occurrences of chemical end-members are summarized on a pH-Eh graph, which shows the range of these values which normally occurs in the environments discussed. Observed mineral associations in typical chemical sediments are listed in support of the theoretical treatment. The influence of postdepositional changes on the original mineral associations is also pointed out. The writers conclude that the environment of deposition of many ancient chemical sediments can be reconstructed in terms of its essential physicochemical characteristics from study of the mineral assemblages among the chemical end-members present in the sediment.
30060832|The magnesian portion of the join
30055662|A series of vents in the Columbia River basalt are exposed along the Snake River at the Washington-Idaho boundary. These furnish proof of explosive origin. Evidence is offered to prove that this activity has been due to the contact at depth of basaltic fissure eruptions with water-saturated gravels. With the explosions, the dissolved steam resulted in the local formation of an artificial pumice, which appears to have been accompanied by a partial volatilization of the iron content.
30079551|Strand sediments containing what appeared to be the fossil impressions of ice crystals were found by the writer in sediments of Upper Bonneville age in western Utah. A series of experiments were conducted to ascertain the conditions under which such impressions are formed. Criteria for the differentiation of such markings from other strand markings are briefly discussed.
30068695|The temperature below the zone of melt formation (here given at 100 km) has decreased from about 1630C at 2.7 B.Y.B.P. for komatiite studied by Arndt (1977) and 1780C at 3.3 B.Y.B.P. for komatiite studied by Green et al. (1975) to 1400C at present. As this komatiite probably formed from a small additional amount of melting of a depleted residuum after basalt formation, the difference between eruption and source temperatures is similar to that of primitive basalts. Cooling of the earth by about 300C over the last 3 B.Y. would supply 1 heat flow unit of surface heat flux compared with the present heat loss of 1.5 heat flow units from the mantle. An analytical formulation was obtained relating the cooling rate of the earth, the amount of radioactive heat generation in the mantle, and the global rate of sea-floor spreading. The release of
30079504|The conclusion drawn by Professor E. B. Branson in a recent paper on the "Red Beds" of the Rocky Mountain region that parts of these beds are marine is considered likely. The conclusion that there exists no basis for subdivision of the beds is not accepted, and a division of the Mesozoic part into Lower Triassic, Upper Triassic, and Jurassic units is advocated. The conclusion that no eolian deposits are present likewise is not accepted, and the interpretation of important parts of the Jurassic unit as eolian is advocated. Disagreement is expressed with much of Professor Branson's correlation table, and a substitute is offered. His paleographic map is considered invalid because based on erroneous correlations and interpretations of conditions.
30056512|Limestones previously mapped as "Lowville" in Lee County, Virginia, between the cherty "Lenoir" and "Trenton" have lithologic and faunal zones that correlate with units to the east in Virginia and north in Kentucky. The lower 250-300 feet of "Lowville" is stratigraphically similar to the "Ottosee" of Rye Cove, Virginia. The succeeding 550 feet has a thin Siromatocerturn zone 65 feet above the base, one of Hesperorthis 10 feet higher; the base of a 100-foot zone with Cryptophragmus and Camarocladia is 55 feet above. The Crypto-phgramus zone is lower "Moccasin" at Rye Cove, Virginia, and upper Camp Nelson in Kentucky. The upper 150 feet (Eggleston mud-rock facies) is the equivalent of the Tyrone of Kentucky; the two thick metaben-tonites in the Eggleston are like those in the Tyrone. The Eggleston is overlain conformably by 40 feet of crystalline limestone carrying a Curdsville fauna. The succeeding 60-70 feet of alternating shale and limestone grading upward into yellow-brown, calcareous shale has the fauna of the Logana ("Hermitage") of Kentucky. The overlying "Catheys-Cannon" seems to correspond to middle and upper Trenton of Kentucky. Lower Trenton age of the Eggleston and Tyrone is indicated by their conformability with the overlying Curdsville, which is homotaxial with the Kirkfield (Hull). Correlation of the Oregon is uncertain. The Cryptophragmus beds correspond to the Benner of Pennsylvania, classed as Black River Pamelia and Lowville.
30062062|Petrographic, geochemical, and structural characteristics of the Target Range pluton, southern California, indicate that it is part of the system of gabbroic plutons that occupy the western margin of the Peninsular Ranges batholith. Modal variations within the pluton range from olivine-orthopyroxene gabbronorite to amphibole-biotite quartz diorite. Field evidence combined with Rayleigh fractionation models for the distribution of Sr, Ba, K, and Rb indicate that assimilation of prebatholithic granitic rocks is the main factor in producing the observed assemblages. Other reported dioritic plutons within the Peninsular Ranges batholith have petrographic and trace element characteristics similar to the study area and may also represent contaminated gabbroic melts. The trace element distributions appear to preclude the origin of the granitic components of the batholith by fractional crystallization of a parental gabbroic melt.
30056503|The Elk River beds of the Cape Blanco region, as currently referred to, include terrace deposits of late to post-Pleistocene age and beds of Middle Pliocene age which unconformably underlie them. The writer proposes to restrict the name "Elk River beds" to the terrace deposits in accordance with Diller's original definition and further proposes the name "Port Orford formation" for the beds of Middle Pliocene age, as yet bearing no formational name. The name "Coquille formation" is proposed for estuarine deposits which unconformably underlie the Elk River beds (restricted) just north of the Coquille River mouth. The Coquille formation is tentatively correlated with a part of the Taholah formation of Washington. Two stages of marked elevation above sea-level were recognized, the latter followed by submergence of the coast line to its present position. The formation of the late to post-Pleistocene terrace was accompanied and followed by gentle warping.
30067029|To determine carriers affecting the rare earth element (REE) composition of pelagic sediment, Pacific sediments were analyzed for major elements and REEs. The P and Ca concentrations correlate positively, and the Ca/P ratio is consistent with that of carbonate fluorapatite (CFA). In addition, P concentration correlates strongly with REE concentration, except for Ce, suggesting the significant influence of CFA on the bulk REE abundance of sediments. Many researchers have reported the important contribution of Asian source eolian dust (ASED) to Pacific sediments. On the basis of REE compositions of CFA and ASED, another carrierfactor 3that controls the REE composition of sediments was estimated by the factor analysis. The North American Shale Compositenormalized REE pattern of the calculated additional carrier exhibits a convex shape with a peak around the middle REE. The REE composition of the additional carrier is similar to the composition of leachates from sediments by reductant and the composition of diagenetic Mn nodule, suggesting that the additional carrier is Mn oxide deposited during diagenesis. The contributions of ASED, CFA, and diagenetic Mn oxide to the REE compositions of sediments were estimated by multiple regression analysis. The ASED and CFA contribute mainly to sediments in the Pacific area north of 20N and the equatorial Pacific region, respectively. The contribution of factor 3 is slightly high in the northern Pacific region, the vicinity of the Hawaiian Islands, and the equatorial Pacific region.
10.1086/597363|We describe the first American stegosaur track of the ichnospecies
30059270|Geologic cross sections are either general or specific. A general cross section is an abstract view of an area drawn along an imaginary line, and a specific section shows part of an area along a definite line. Restored sections show an area at a specified earlier time; outcrop sections show the rocks that are exposed; surface sections are continuous reconstructed sections down to any level of exposure; and deep sections go down to an arbitrary depth. Pictorial sections include landscape features in three dimensions. To interpret cross sections, it is helpful to examine the initial observations and assumptions used for their construction, and to examine the steps in reasoning used for reconstruction of the sequence of events in a series of restored sections.
30081132|The Tasiusarsuaq terrane in the Fiskensset-Nuuk region of southern West Greenland is interpreted as a late Archean tilted crustal section modified by deformation. The northern part of the terrane was affected by granulite-facies metamorphism at about 2810 Ma, but large areas were subsequently retrogressed to amphibolite facies. In the prograde amphibolite- to granulite-facies transition in inner Bjrnesund a relatively sharp, but highly irregular front that crosses structures and lithological boundaries on outcrop scale separates orthopyroxene-free from orthopyroxene-bearing rocks. Outcrop relations resemble in some ways examples of "arrested charnockite formation" described from high-grade regions in southern India and Sri Lanka. Relations in the transition zone in Bjornesund appear to be the result of late, local influx of a fluid, presumably rich in
30075167|The susceptibility tensors of certain rocks define magnetic lineations and foliations. In one group of slates the orientation of the susceptibility ellipsoid was found to coincide with that of the strain ellipsoid. In several deformed rocks the orientation of the principal susceptibility directions appears to be related to local structural patterns. Specimens from the Welsh Lower Paleozoic geosyncline, the Internal Carboniferous of the Alps, and the Swiss Molasse all exhibit b-type settings of the magnetic lineation.
30075152|The "Red Stratum" in the upper part of the Silurian Arisaig Series of Nova Scotia is comparable lithologically with the red marls with concretionary limestones of the European Old Red Sandstone and the local Knoydart Formation (Lower Devonian). In each case the beds are regarded as non-marine; they contain acanthodians. The "Red Stratum" may represent a short-lived alluvial or lagoonal phase.
30070671|The regional geology of southern Inner Mongolia records relationships between an upper Silurian coastline and a small island on what was formerly the continental shelf of the SinoKorean Plate (North China Block). In both cases, rocky shorelines are defined by unconformities between strata of Ludlow age in the Xibiehe Formation and underlying igneous rocks of Ordovician age. The paleoisland occurs near Bater Obo about 50 km south of the ChineseMongolian border. The diorite core of this geological inlier is oriented on an axis N 55 E. A simple dichotomy of exposed windward versus sheltered leeward environments accounts for contrasting carbonate facies on the flanks of the paleoisland. Wider corroboration of a prevailing Silurian wind field is supported by evidence from other unconformities about 30 km to the southwest, where a linear paleoshore extends for 15 km on an average bearing of N 60 E. Siliciclastic sandstone derived from a granodiorite source in the Gushan area now sits in close proximity to basaltic bedrock in the Baoerhantu area. Local transport of sand is the result of alongshore currents driven by winds that were consistent in direction with the facies pattern around the paleoisland. Globalscale interpretations of Silurian paleogeography typically place the SinoKorean Plate in low latitudes north of the paleoequator, where it would receive trade winds out of the northeast. In terms of present geography, however, the Silurian winds of Inner Mongolia are aligned with a source out of the northwest. None of the published scenarios of SinoKorean paleogeography accommodates the physical data from the Bater Obo, Baoerhantu, and Gushan areas of Inner Mongolia. Based on these relationships, the SinoKorean Plate must be rotated 90 clockwise from its present orientation in order to approximate its original Silurian orientation under a prevailing atmospheric system associated with northeasterly trade winds.
30065542|Ion probe U-Pb zircon analyses yield a crystallization age of
30069399|Seismic reflection data collected during COCORP's traverse of the southern Appalachians reveal that the Triassic Riddleville basin is a half-graben defined by strong, north-dipping basal reflections truncated on the north by a major south-dipping normal fault. Lithologies observed in similar basins suggest that these high amplitude, continuous reflections may be from lacustrine sediments or basaltic layers. The high-angle border fault soles into the Augusta fault, a major south-dipping, low-angle Paleozoic thrust. Geometric relations suggest that formation of the Riddleville basin reactivated this older Appalachian fault.
30058851|Zonal profiles and field observations indicate that one peneplain, two erosion surfaces, and a minor surface or strath are present in the southern Appalachians, not considering present or recent valley floors. These surfaces are correlated with the well-recognized erosion surfaces of the northern Appalachians. The effect of structure upon the development of the erosion surfaces of the southern Appalachians is considered.
JG117104|Amphibolite bodies with eclogite relics are interlayered at different levels in the Ojen nappe (Alpujarride Complex) below the Ronda peridotites of the Betic Cordilleras in southern Spain. We present an integrated structural, petrological, and geochemical study of such amphibolites, from which it is possible to deduce a gabbroic origin for the amphibolite protoliths, and we propose that their intrusion into the continental crust took place in a rift setting of Jurassic to lower Cretaceous age. The geochemical data are consistent with basaltic magmas produced by partial melting of an enriched or transitional mantle source (E- or T-MORB [mid-ocean ridge basalt]) and reflect plagioclase accumulation and weak crustal contamination processes. The structures associated with the rifting stages are obliterated by deformation and metamorphism related to subduction at depths of 60 km and later exhumation of the amphibolite bodies during the complex convergence of the Iberian and African plates from upper Cretaceous onward. The recognition of this Mesozoic rift is of great interest in studies of the tectonic evolution of the Betic Cordilleras and places new constraints on paleogeographic reconstructions of the western Mediterranean. We suggest that such a Mesozoic rift would correspond to the transform seaway linking the Neo-Tethys realm with the Atlantic Ocean.
30058162|Middle and Upper Pennsylvanian beds of Texas are well known and are subdivided into a series of formations on the basis of lithology and fossils. The Lower Pennsylvanian, however, which outcrops in central Texas is more complex. Recent field work has distinguished three formations, one of which is subdivided into four members. These are briefly described and lists of characteristic fossils are presented.
30065617|The existing literature on the correlation of the magnetic polarity timescale to vertebrate mammalian chronology for the Cenozoic is reviewed for all continents except the Soviet Union. The magnetostratigraphic data from North America is the most complete, followed by the Indian sub-continent. Ten criteria for rating magnetostratigraphic studies are established, and the papers reviewed are rated from 1-10, with 10 being the maximum score. The timing of mammalian dispersal is examined against the background of information from magnetostratigraphic studies allied with radiometric dating. North American Land Mammal ages are partly defined on immigrant taxa and the boundaries of the NALMA are based on dispersal events. It has been suggested that dispersal and evolutionary episodes observed in Siwalik sediments were correlative to sea level change deduced from
JG80123|The mineralogy and chemical compositions of shale and sandstone alternations of Cretaceous age of the Monte Soro Unit, Sicily, have been determined. The clay minerals in the shales are mostly illite and I-rich mixed-layer I/S reflected by enrichment in Al
30055659|In an endeavor to decide between viscous flow and crystalline yielding as the basic phenomenon in glacier motion, measurements of the internal shearing in glaciers were made with a self-recording clockwork apparatus. These automatic records show that slipping takes place along definite shearing planes, at times gradually and at other times by distinct jumps. The capacity to withstand a certain amount of growing stress before yielding is indicated. The results speak definitely for the solidity and elastic rigidity of moving glacier ice, and decisively against liquid or viscous flow as the main type of adjustment under stress. Four manifestations of glacier movement are recognized: (1) solid flow by idio-molecular exchange between ice crystals, (2) solid shearing of aggregates of granules, (3) intermittent slip along well-developed thrust-fault planes, and (4) sliding of the whole body of ice over the rock beneath.
30079454|Pictures in three dimensions have great advantages over flat ones for teaching geology and other sciences. Not only do they give a very much clearer and more detailed view, but the stereoscopic effect is so fascinating that a photograph viewed in this form imprints itself more deeply on the mind. The technique is simple.
30055920|A consideration of sources of local heat in crust and subcxust and a recognition of the significance of horizontal variations in geothermal gradients, and consequent irregularities of shallow geoisotherms, together lead directly to the interpretations that the levels of magma formation are relatively shallow, and that in the levels of smoothly concentric geoisotherms (beneath the influence of shallow sources of heat), temperatures are so low that other factors decree a strength too great to permit a continuous zone of weakness for isostatic adjustment. The conception of the asthenosphere is criticized on other grounds and a mechanism is provided for disturbing, as well as for correcting, the isostatic balance.
30057345|The sieving methods presently in use for loosely consolidated rocks are inadequate for the determination of grain-size distribution in cemented and indurated sedimentary rocks. Thin-section study represents an alternative method of obtaining the particle size distribution for such rocks. The purpose of this study is to establish a correlation between sieve and thin-section grain-size analyses. Grain-size analyses were made on thirty-eight rock samples by both sieving and thin-section methods. The cumulative frequency curve determined from the apparent long diameter measured in thin-section lies toward the coarser size range with respect to the sieve-size distribution curve, but the discrepancy between the cumulative frequency curves for the two techniques is small. A plot of thin-section quartile parameters against sieving quartile parameters indicates a linear correlation between the two techniques. For all practical purposes, the same linear function expresses the relationship between quartile parameters as determined by the two methods, so that all three quartile measures (Ql, Md, Q3) can be combined into one plot. A graph based on 114 quartile measures for sieve and thin-section analyses forms the basis for the derivation of sieve-size dis tribution from thin-section data. A new graph paper has been developed which permits the construction of a cumulative frequency curve for sieving from thin-section data without mathematical conversions. Moreover, the graph paper allows the direct determination of sieving parameters. The usefulness of the new method is illustrated by comparing it with conversion techniques developed from mathematical analysis.
30057167|Fossil remains from alluvial deposits of the central Texas rivers and Coastal Plain constitute a single faunal unit, indicating that current concepts regarding development of paired rock-cut river-terrace sequences require revision. Tectonic and/or eustatic changes cannot account for paired river terraces because of the local nature of tectonic activity and remoteness from the sea. The cause must be found in a mechanism widely applicable. Evidence recounted here indicates that this mechanism is climatic control exercised through intervention of plant cover. With increased humidity, plant cover is increased, direct runoff and soil wash are greatly decreased, and streams are perennial and entrench themselves. Under arid conditions plant cover is sparse, runoff and soil wash are vastly increased, streams are intermittent, entrenchment is nil, and valley walls retreat laterally, forming paired terrace surfaces by processes of pedimentation. With multiple terrace steps, a terrace surface formed by escarpment retreat above will be consumed by escarpment retreat below. Extreme aridity shrinks streams and causes deposition of their loads on the land, filling valleys and perhaps spreading materials across interstream divides. This cannot occur simultaneously with terrace-cutting because the fill prevents erosion of escarpments; therefore "terrace" gravel is emplaced after terraces are cut. Two rock-cut terraces on the Texas rivers appear to represent Aftonian and Yarmouthian time; the gravel was emplaced in Sangamon time and incompletely removed in Wisconsin time. The physical evidence is as follows: valley cross-profiles are rudely symmetrical, indicating that the stream remained in the middle of the valley and that terraces were cut by lateral retreat of valley walls; filling could not have taken place simultaneously, so must have followed the terrace-cutting. Paleontological evidence supports the concept that gravel in the stream bottoms, on the terrace levels, and on the interstream divides is of Sangamon age. Remains of horses recovered from many places and many levels belong to forms not found elsewhere in deposits of earlier than late Illinoian-Sangamon age. Horses otherwise found in older Pleistocene deposits do not appear anywhere in the terrace or Coastal Plain deposits. Bison, whose remains are found in the terrace-Coastal Plain deposits, seem not to have appeared in North America before Illinoian time.
30067288|There is a close parallelism between the behavior of ice in a glacier and the behavior of rocks under stress in the earth. The resulting structures have much in common. Glacier movement is but rock deformation in progress. Solid-rock flow and the displacement of large masses of ice by shearing both take place in the same part of a glacier and are not mutually exclusive. The concept of a zone of fracture and a zone of flow, whether in the earth or in a glacier, is thought to be more harmful than helpful.
30068730|Data on more than 200 mesoscale sedimentary cycles indicate that Phanerozoic cycle periods are randomly distributed with respect to the four major Milankovitch orbital parameters, except Late Mississippian through Late Pennsylvanian cycles which show positive clustering about the 413,000 yr eccentricity period. Cycle periods, calculated from average thicknesses and accumulation rates, are strongly dependent on the former (correlation coefficient = 0.802), but relatively independent of the latter (correlation coefficient = -0.360). Hence, calculated period is largely a function of average cycle thickness, and Milankovitch-range periods will be preferentially calculated for cycles with average thicknesses between 1 m and 20 m, regardless of actual causes of cyclicity. For individual cyclic sequences, arguments for Milankovitch control based solely on average period are unfounded. Comparison of short-term Holocene sedimentation rates and long-term Phanerozoic accumulation rates for cyclic peritidal and deltaic facies suggests that average cycle deposition occurs in about 1/30 of the time represented by average cycle period. Thus, long, unconstrained intervals of non-deposition predominate in most cratonic and continent-margin cyclic sequences.
30058339|Natural levees fringe subaerial streams of low gradient which periodically experience overbank floods onto wide floodplains. Submarine features, resembling these natural levees, have been found in several places off the West Coast of the United States. A study of occurrences at ten localities at depths of from 600 to 3,600 feet shows (1) that transverse profiles may be symmetrical or asymmetrical, with one "levee" higher in the latter case; (2) that the channel between the "levees" may be U- or V-shaped; (3) that the tops of "levees" may be 24-408 feet above the adjoining channel bottom, and (4) that these tops may be 12-204 feet above the immediately adjacent sea floor. It is believed that these features may be the products of turbidity currents or submarine mudflows.
30068880|The Zambezi supracrustal sequence (ZSC) of southern Zambia comprises a metasedimentary package of clastics and carbonates, with a thick sequence of basal volcanics and lavas. The sequence has traditionally been interpreted as a Neoproterozoic continental rift succession, but the lack of reliable age constraints hinders any tectonic interpretation. In this article, we date magmatic and detrital zircons using the UPb SHRIMP method in order to better constrain the timing of rifting, volcanism, and basin deposition. The basal volcanoclastic Kafue Rhyolite and Nazingwe formations were erupted at ca. 880 Ma, and the sequence was intruded by the Lusaka Granite at ca. 820 Ma, providing lower and upper limits on the age of sedimentation. Wholerock Nd isotopic signatures of these volcanics indicate that they formed as a result of assimilation and recycling of basement gneisses, probably during crustal thinning and extension. We uphold the correlation between the ZSC and the Roan Group in the Zambian Copperbelt and suggest that both successions formed in discrete rift basins along the southern margin of the CongoTanzaniaBangweulu (CTB) Craton; however, extension at this time probably did not result in complete continental separation. If the CTB Craton were an integral part of Rodinia, then rifting at ca. 880 Ma would represent one of the first known records of attempted breakup of the supercontinent.
30068848|Small rotational landslides developed on the Quaternary glacial till coast of West Runton, north Norfolk (eastern England), show smallscale thrust structures that formed in front of the landslide toe. The thrust sheets (a few tens of centimeters in breadth) developed in unconsolidated beach sand in the upper intertidal zone and may be laterally discontinuous, overlapping, and vertically stacked. Formation of these toethrust sheets, rarely described in the literature, likely occurs during low tide when a high pore water pressure gradient exists between the landslide toe and subbeach water table.
30057124|The
30062309|The stability field of the iron-magnesium mixed crystal of actinolite has been investigated under hydro-thermal conditions (
30060098|Using a space-time transformation, hillslope development was examined along a segment of the Mississippi River bluff at Port Hudson, Louisiana. The entire bluff segment was being undercut by a meander of the Mississippi River in 1722. Since that time, the meander has migrated downstream progressively, abandoning the river bluff. A space-time calibration of the hillslopes along the bluff was done by determining the position of the river along the bluff base from historic maps and aerial photographs. In plan, the bluff was divided into three segments: high, intermediate, and low intensity according to processes acting along the base of the bluff. The high-intensity zone represents a zone of active undercutting by the river, while the intermediate zone is characterized by basal scour and the low-intensity zone by basal aggradation. The present rate of retreat for each segment was calculated to be 75, 1.0, and 0.63 feet/year, respectively. The slope profiles within the three zones represent a sequential change reflecting the change in basal conditions. Hillslopes grade from the high-intensity zone, where profiles have a mean slope angle of 44 and a well-developed cliff face, to the concave profiles of the low-intensity zone. The latter profiles lack the cliff face and have a mean slope angle of 19.5. Processes which cause these changes in slope profile are discussed. It is concluded that slope profiles in each of the zones reach a steady-state condition. It is estimated that a steady-state condition for slopes subjected to subaerial processes can be achieved in slightly more than 90 years.
30062588|On the Iowan drift wind work is recorded in the etching of the pebbles and boulders, in the development of peculiar ridges known as "paha," and in the deposition of loess that exhibits considerable diversity in texture, color, and degree of ferrugination.
30064015|The Eagle Peak pluton is zoned with an equigranular granodiorite margin and porphyritic granitic core; in contrast, the nearby, and coeval Red Lake granodiorite pluton is relatively unzoned. Major element abundance variations in both plutons can be explained by segregation of the early phases, plagioclase and hornblende. However, the preferential decrease of heavy rare-earth elements (HREE) from margin to core in the Eagle Peak pluton cannot be explained by fractional crystallization of a melt composition similar to the marginal rocks. The HREE decrease is best explained by segregation of hornblende from a mixture of melt and minerals equivalent in composition to the marginal rocks. Both plutons contain aplites that crystallized from highly evolved melts formed by segregation of mafic minerals, feldspars, and an accessory phase rich in light REE. Mafic inclusions are related to their host granitoids, and they may be remnants of restite or early accumulates. The small negative Eu anomalies in both plutons are consistent with significant amounts of residual hornblende and plagioclase. Geochemical differences between these plutons mimic those between the sodic and main series plutons in the Boulder batholith; e.g., the Eagle Peak pluton and the adjacent older Mount Givens pluton have lower Na/K, higher Rb, Ta, Th, and U contents but lower Sr and Ba contents than the Red Lake pluton. These differences are not easily explained by models relating these magmas to a common source. However, depletions in K, Rb, Cs, Th and U relative to Sr and Ba are common in high-grade metamorphic rocks. Therefore, these inter-pluton compositional differences may reflect differences in source composition developed in the lower crust during earlier magmatism and metamorphism. The compositional heterogeneity inferred for the source in this localized region is a significant fraction of the source heterogeneity inferred from transects across the Sierra Nevada batholith.
30056485|In this area there is evidence for three successive Pleistocene glaciations, each of which was less extensive than the preceding one. The first two glaciations were separated by a long interval. The third is fairly well established as a distinct event but may possibly represent a phase of the preceding stage. In any case the third glaciation is undoubtedly equivalent to all or to part of the Wisconsin stage.
30056857|The criticisms and views expressed in the recently circulated preliminary report of the Pleistocene committee of the American Commission on Stratigraphic Nomenclature on the present stratigraphic system of classification of the Quaternary suggest some lack of familiarity with the classic area of the Middle West. The multiple classification that the committee recommends, excellent as it may be for the older rocks, is not compatible with the nature of the glacial Pleistocene. The classification for the older rocks is the natural result of acquiring an understanding of them, just as the present classification of the glacial Pleistocene has evolved from decades of investigation. The classic area of the glacial Pleistocene comprises all of the type areas for the known glacial and interglacial stages of North America. So influential were the climates on most geologic processes, even in the depths of the ocean, that correlations with the glacial and interglacial stages of the Pleistocene are sought from all quarters. It is therefore important that the system of stratigraphic classification for the glacial Pleistocene shall be one that is naturally adapted to it rather than one that applies to marine strata. The non-glacial Pleistocene, however, may well be susceptible to the latter.
10.1086/667813|The formation of the western Alps topography is the result of continental collision between the Apulian and European plates. In this study, we trace the Early Oligocene to Early Miocene development of topography and the position of the drainage divide in the southern western Alps by analyzing the erosion products preserved in the pro-side (Montmaur and Barrme) and retro-side (Torino hills) foreland basins of this orogen. Using petrologic and geochemical analyses of basalt pebbles and Raman spectroscopy of serpentine sand grains and pebbles, we identify source lithologies, which are not easily detected with more commonly used detrital thermochronology. Lower Oligocene sediments of the pro-side foreland basin contain numerous basalt pebbles that share strong geochemical similarities with the Chenaillet obducted ophiolite (Montgenvre massif). Other ophiolite-suite derived clasts, e.g., radiolarite or serpentinite appear widely in pro- and retro-side foreland sediments since about 30 Ma. This suggests a wider distribution of Chenaillet-type obducted ophiolite rocks in the western Alps during the Oligocene, but the exact locations, except for the Chenaillet, are unknown. Raman analysis on serpentine grains and pebbles from the retro-side foreland basin deposits documents a systematic trend from antigorite (high-grade metamorphic source rocks) to lizardite (low-grade metamorphic source rock) from the Early Oligocene to the Early Miocene. This trend is attributed to a westward growth of the paleo-Dora Riparia drainage basin in the southern western Alps. Ophiolite erosion and drainage divide shift were caused by the topographic evolution of the western Alps, which we suggest to be linked to the shift in convergence direction between the Apulian and Eurasian plates from NS to EW and the presence of the so-called Ivrea body mantle splinter acting as a vertical indenter beneath the western Alps at that time. The drainage patterns of the paleo-Durance and paleo-Doria Riparia Rivers seem to have remained stable since the Early Miocene. In comparison to the central Alps, the drainage divide shift in the southern western Alps occurred earlier than in the central Alps, but in both locations the trend from an internal to a more external position is the same.
30061391|In paleobiometrical studies regression analysis is a useful tool, but sometimes choosing an expression for this poses a problem. In the first place, it is necessary to find whether the curve fitted to a set of data is a growth curve or not. In many cases it will be found that it is a mass curve and differs from the actual mean growth curve considerably. So an a priori choice of an expression (allometric or logistic) is not justified. The allometric equation is no doubt useful, but indiscriminate use of it may lead to erroneous conclusions. This should be used only when it can be shown by proper statistical tests that the regression is nonlinear. In certain cases sigmoids will be found to be more suitable to represent relative growth. Regression method is generally useful in many situations and particularly so when we want to get information about one variable from the other. To find the structural relationship (i.e., interdependence between two characters), the reduced major axis (RMA) method, or the "two group" or the "three group" method, may be followed. Indiscriminate use of the RMA method is not advisable as its usefulness is limited by a weakening of the correlation.
30062173|The Pennsylvanian sediments of the Narragansett Basin, Rhode Island, were deformed during the Al-leghanian orogeny and record the effects of Alleghanian deformation in southeast New England without the complication of earlier structures. During this deformation the basin was intruded at its southwestern corner by the Narragansett Pier Granite, which has a crystallization age of 273 Ma. Mapping of basin metasediments along the Narragansett Bay shore in the southwestern portion of the basin reveals features formed by several episodes of deformation. Two generations of isoclinal folds along north-trending axes, F1a and F1b, are the earliest structures in the area followed by a set of small closed folds, F2, also on north-trending axes. The Fla, F1b, and F2 folds are the result of east-west closure of the basin. Minor sinistral and more significant dextral motion on faults within the Beaverhead Shear Zone produced local east-trending crenulations, S3, and open folds with north-trending axes, F4, in the study area. Correlation of these structures with structures described elsewhere in the basin allows the integration of the deformation history in the study area into that of the entire basin. Cross-cutting relationships indicate that the Narragansett Pier Granite began intrusion into the southwestern corner of the basin during the initial, sinistral shearing. Thus the crystallization age of the granite gives an approximate date for the transition from east-west shortening during basin closure to shearing along the Beaverhead Shear Zone. The date for correlative transitions in several other areas in southeastern New England and the accompanying reorientation of the regional stress field is likewise established. A model involving convergence of Africa with North America followed by counter-clockwise rotation of southeastern New England can reconcile most of the current data for the Alleghanian orogeny in this area.
JG80173|The temporally and geographically scattered Phanerozoic record of methane-seep deposits hampers reconstruction of the evolution of life in chemosynthesis-based ecosystems. Unlike modern, Cenozoic, and late Mesozoic seeps, many of the known older seep deposits are typified by assemblages with profuse rhynchonellide brachiopods. Late Triassic (Norian) limestone bodies in eastern Oregon are enclosed in deep-water strata, extend laterally for up to a few hundred meters, and contain the dimerelloid rhynchonellide
30056414|An end member of the "rock-slide" group is described and named from an assigned type locality in the Hopi Indian Reservation of northeastern Arizona. A Toreva-block consists essentially of an unbroken tilted mass of stratified material which in numerous instances measures over 1,000 feet along the strike. Attempt is made to relate the slides to pediment remnants at the type locality. Distribution and character of Toreva-blpcks elsewhere in the Colorado Plateau Province are briefly discussed. Available data suggest the late Pleistocene formation of the larger slides.
30069331|The Snoqualmie-Cedar area is a typical part of the border zone between the Cascade Range and the Puget lowland. The question at issue is the relation between Pleistocene alpine glaciers of the Cascades and the Puget lowland glacier. Evidence shows that the local Cascade glaciers were small and did not contribute to the Puget Glacier at any time during the last glacial stage. At its maximum the Puget Glacier pushed up into the Cascades, impounding long "Glen Roy" lakes in mountain valleys, some of which had been occupied shortly before by alpine glaciers.
30062177|The Cannibal Creek granite in northern Queensland, Australia previously has been interpreted to be a post-tectonic pluton which underwent solid-state deformation during in situ ballooning. A reinterpretation of structures in and around the pluton indicates that this pluton is more appropriately viewed as a pierce-ment diapir emplaced by magmatic flow. Significant deformation took place after pluton emplacement. In fact, the Cannibal Creek granite has some characteristics similar to pre-tectonic granites examined elsewhere. Therefore, it is somewhat misleading to view the granite as a post-tectonic pluton.
30059991|The K-Ar dating of more than one mineral from a single rock sample has often revealed widely discordant ages. Where these minerals are mutual contaminants in mineral separates, as in the system biotite-horn-blende, mixed ages will result, and these will always tend toward apparent concordance. The "true" ages of the pure end-members of such mixtures may be very different from the mixed ages. It is not uncommon to find situations where purity levels of 95% or more do not suffice to give geologically meaningful ages. The effects of sample purity on discordant mineral ages can be evaluated and limits determined for the ages of the theoretical mineral components.
30080885|Reef limestone in which primary textures have not been markedly altered by diagenetic changes is characterized by a distinctive fabric of both inorganic and organic constituents, and the more salient elements of the fabric are not primarily dependent on the particular kinds of organisms that make up reefs. The complex of reef-forming organisms has evolved markedly during geologic time, first one, then another group coming into prominence. For example, scleractinian corals and coralline algae, principal reef-formers today, were not responsible for formation of the Paleozoic reefs. In spite of this qualitative diversity among reefs of different geologic ages, all reefs are characterized by a common growth mode which is reflected in the fabric. Reference to the work on the Funafuti reef rock by Cullis (1904), the most complete study of its kind published to date, shows that there are many parallels betwen certain modern and Permian reef limestones. After formation of a reef frame by firmly attached calcareous organisms, relatively large primary voids are incrusted and even filled by deposits of fibrous calcium carbonate precipitated from sea water. Similar deposits form the cementing agent of beachrock. Probably these deposits are of great importance in consolidation of the reef rock. After burial, but before the voids are sealed, many of the incrusted cavities become filled with detritus. The sequential relationships of these late interstitial deposits demonstrate conclusively that the fibrous deposits are precipitated from freely circulating sea water. It appears, then, that the early history of reef limestone is marked by progressive reduction and loss of primary porosity. Secondary porosity is produced by selective leaching of aragonite and calcite constituents under gradually increasing pressures. It is this secondary porosity which is of interest in connection with petroleum reservoirs.
30058645|Many of the porphyry intrusions of the northeastern Beartooth Mountains are in close proximity to the Beartooth thrust fault which is thought to have been developed during the Laramide orogeny. Detailed studies of the porphyry bodies show that they were intruded before the thrusting took place and orogenically have no relation to the compressional episodes expressed by the thrusting. The shape, structural and age relations, distribution, and mineral composition of the different porphyry intrusives are described.
30066403|The rift valley lakes of East Africa exhibit considerable variety in size, hydrology, hydrochemistry, and sedimentary regime. Although tectonics and climate are ultimately responsible for lake formation, vol-canism may exert a significant influence upon the lake characteristics. In the Eastern Rift (Kenya, Ethiopia), extensive volcanic activity has disrupted drainage and helped create small, shallow lake basins. Weathering of volcanic rocks produces runoff waters rich in
30080121|A study was made of the factors controlling the distribution of magnesium in the calcareous skeletons of marine organisms. The mineralogy of the carbonate appears to be the most important influence, with large amounts of magnesium occurring in solid solution in the calcitic forms and generally lesser amounts in the aragonitic forms. The complexity of the organisms and the temperature of the water in which they lived are also controlling factors in the amount of magnesium present. A large part of the study, both mineralogical and chemical, was made with X-ray diffraction techniques.
30064941|Mesozoic, eugeosynclinal, metasedimentary, and metavolcanic strata are intruded by elongate and arcuate northeast-trending alpine ultramafic belts in the Klamath Mountains of southwestern Oregon. The ultramafic belts conform to the regional patterns of alternating antiforms, synforms, and conformable high-angle faults. Throughout the region, the belts of alpine ultramafic rocks occupy axes of maximum meta-morphic intensity. The highly deformed, higher-grade metavolcanic-metasedimentary strata and centralized ultramafic-mafic intrusions form distinctive associations which define zones of tectonism. In several zones (herein termed "zones of alpine tectonism") where the intensity of tectonism varies from brittle to plastic, the grade of metamorphism varies from chlorite zone to staurolite zone. Patterns of mesoscopic structures in all zones of alpine tectonism are consistent with deformation during Late Jurassic Nevadan orogeny and suggest a chronological sequence. Isoclinal folding of ultramafic-mafic sheets and intense plastic deformation of adjacent eugeosynclinal strata are recognized in the cores of certain tectonic zones and are considered representative of the first phase of Nevadan orogeny. The ultramafic-mafic sheets were folded by diapiric intrusion and served as loci for continued movement during a later stage of Nevadan orogeny. Later movement was responsible for the occurrence of the more widespread, cataclasized chlorite-zone assemblages which occur within and surrounding the zones of tectonism.
30063772|Pyroxene granulites and charnockites are associated with metasedimentary khondalite (garnet-sillimanite gneiss) and migmatites in the Eastern Ghats mobile belt. Various stages of in situ granulitization similar to those observed in southern India and Sri Lanka are present. Geochemically the granulite suite around Visakhapatnam is bimodal, with acid and mafic variants. There is an increase in the concentration and fractionation of the rare earth elements (REE) from pyroxene granulites to charnockites, and six Sm-Nd models ages (
30065663|Analysis of topographic maps of rivers incised into dated Hawaiian lava flows shows that the long term average bedrock erosion rate along certain reaches is linearly related to stream power. Field observations suggest that two processes may control Hawaiian channel downcutting: (1) stream power-dependent erosion, including abrasion of the channel bed by transported particles, and (2) step-wise lowering caused by knickpoint propagation. Modeling results indicate that a simple stream power-dependent erosion law predicts the straight to weakly convex longitudinal profiles characteristic of Kauai channels but is insufficient to predict two other characteristic features: the upslope propagation of knickpoints and the straight 5-8 channel slopes below the knickpoints; thus more than this single transport law is apparently required to model bedrock channel incision. Field surveys also indicate that significant portions of the channel lengths below the knickpoints are mantled with large boulders. We propose that the boulder mantling of long channel reaches inhibits channel incision, reducing downcutting to a rate set by boulder weathering, breakdown and transport of the material, and perhaps by knickpoint propagation sweeping under the boulder armor. Partial boulder mantling of bedrock-dominated channels is common in mountainous regions, and a theory which takes boulder armoring into account will have broader applications than one which ignores these limiting effects.
30079811|The western margin of the Churchill craton records a complex history of Paleoproterozoic tectonism. The most prominent of these tectonic events is recorded within the 2.01.9Ga TaltsonThelon magmatic zone. The widespread magmatism and highgrade metamorphism of this zone, especially in Alberta and Saskatchewan, obscures an older tectonic belt, the ca. 2.42.3Ga Arrowsmith Orogeny. In the Uranium City region of northwestern Saskatchewan, a suite of Paleoproterozoic granites represent a magmatic product of this orogen. UPb zircon crystallization ages were identified for the Macintosh Bay monzogranite (
30058008|In this paper are given the general conclusions, outlined in previous papers by the writer, as to the evidence for the old age of the faulting in the Coast Ranges, and the detailed evidence for the old age of thirty-seven out of fifty-eight known primary faults south of San Francisco Bay. The author's conclusion is that all the primary faults are pre-Cretaceous in age.
30060395|This paper contains an account of the distribution and characteristics of the blue shale at the base of the Devonian system from Greenfield, Highland County, Ohio, to the Ohio River. Evidence is presented to show that this blue shale belongs to the same formation as the Olentangy shale of central Ohio, that it is local in its occurrence in southern Ohio, and that it rests disconformably on the underlying limestones and lies conformably beneath the Ohio shale, into which it grades in some localities. The field evidence supports the interpretation of Grabau that the Olentangy shale is a basal phase of the Ohio shale and that it is Upper Devonian in age.
30062284|Plateau-side terraces in arid areas around the world are commonly described as pediment remnants, although, in many cases, they may have been formed by debris-flow deposition. Pediments do exist in the area of the Aquarius and Kaiparowits Plateaus of southern Utah; however, many alluvial terraces that were classified by previous workers as pediments are actually formed of thick deposits of sediment released into valleys by episodic landslide events. Pedimentation may have implications of base level stability and aridity that are very different from the implications of landsliding, so that the identification of pediments where none exist, as has occurred for some places in the Aquarius and Kaiparowits areas, may result in erroneous interpretations of geologic history. Although both pediment and debris-flow depositional terraces have smooth, alluvium-covered upper surfaces, the two can be distinguished by the shape of the underlying bedrock surface and the process of formation. The distinction is that pedimentation produces smooth relief through erosion whereas wet debris flow produces smooth relief through deposition, although transitional phases exist. Most terraces on the flanks of the Aquarius and Kaiparowits Plateaus reflect periods of valley filling when wet debris flows rapidly deposited large quantities of sediment. The sources of the wet debris-flow sediment were large lobes of landslide debris that carried down sediment from high on the plateau sides. The relation of younger terraces to landsliding is clear, because the terrace surfaces are graded to the toes of slide lobes, but the origin of older terraces is less obvious, because older lobes of slide debris have generally been removed by erosion.
30078232|Sandstones are considered on the basis of physical attributes and factors which lead to their accumulation. Tectonic conditions, which prevail during sandstone deposition, are stressed as important in controlling the petrographic as well as the physical attributes. Source rock, quartz, sorting, and roundness indices are established and used as bases for grouping sandstones into varieties within limits established by these parameters. The intergradational relationships of various types are shown by a triangular prism employing both compositional and sorting axes. The proposed organization illustrates progress in sandstone maturation from first-cycle debris to quartzose end-member.
30060949|The Paleozoic geodynamic evolution of the protoAndean margin of Gondwana was characterized by extensive subduction processes associated with the docking of several terranes. The major and trace element as well as SrNdPb isotope composition of plutonic rocks from the Complejo Igneo Pocitos (CIP) are used here to constrain the processes of magma genesis in the Early Ordovician continental arc along the protoAndean margin of Gondwana in northern Chile and northwestern Argentina. UPb sphene ages of
30059009|Glass-coated rocks commonly occur as isolated fragments in the lunar regolith and as clasts in friable, feldspathic breccias. Three main types of coatings are: (1) veneers with sharp contacts between the glass and the coated rock; (2) selvages with gradational boundaries between the glass and the coated rock; and (3) grooved coatings on slickensided surfaces. Textures and modes of occurrence of the glass indicate that fusion by shock heating, shearing, fracturing, emplacement of melt, and ejection of fragments were part of a continuous, complex process of impact cratering. A descriptive model is presented to illustrate the sequence and position in a growing crater of formation of the different types of coatings, and possible relationships between the coatings and the coated fragments. Injection of molten material and fusion along subfloor fractures followed by cataclastic flow may form glass-coated clasts in certain feldspathic breccias without ejection from the crater.
30063952|A comparison of fine (median
30079887|Most examples of magma mingling described in the literature result from the intrusion of hot mafic magma into colder felsic magma. This paper describes a small body (100 X 30 m) in the Ladakhi Himalayas, northwest India, where mingling occurred when granite magma intruded and disrupted a pool of partially molten quartz-diorite that formed fine-grained pillow-like enclaves. The mingled body is surrounded by coarse-grained quartz-diorite that was effectively solid during granite emplacement and, within a short distance from the body, was brecciated by the granite. Because the enclaves are virtually in situ, their shapes retain details related to their disruption and to the relative motion between the two magmas. Whereas this seems to be a rare description of mingling and formation of mafic enclaves by intrusion of felsic into mafic magma, this paper argues that, because many batholiths evolve from mafic to felsic, this may be more common in nature than generally realized and not simply an extraordinary feature of that particular locality in the Himalayas.
30067309|Petrographic and chemical study of fresh granite, sericitized granite, and sericite schist shows the changes characteristic of this type of alteration. The principal chemical changes were a large loss of soda and a gain of water. The difference between the sericitized granite and the sericite schist is principally in texture and structure.
30068777|Ion microprobe U-Pb measurements of zircon in the Musgrave Ranges of central Australia date the emplacement of a charnockite, which is cut by a shear zone containing a garnet-clinopyroxene assemblage, M2 (PT conditions ~11 kb and 720C), at ~1200 Ma. Veinlets of a post-M2 adamellite cut an M4 assemblage (PT conditions ~6 kb and 670C) contained in a metadolerite inclusion, suggesting that the adamellite was emplaced during or after M4. Igneous and metamorphic zircons in the adamellite, however, grew at about 1200 Ma, indicating that M2 and M4 were synchronous. At the level of precision of our data, the time interval between the growth of the two assemblages can not have been more than 20 Ma. We interpret the pressure, temperature and time (PTt) path obtained by combining our thermobarometric data and zircon U-Pb ages in terms of magmatic heat input in a thickened crustal segment followed by rapid, possibly technically driven, uplift of the lower part of the thickened crust to a depth of 15-20 km.
30062625|U-Pb ages were determined on metamorphic garnets, monazites, sphenes, and rutiles in metapelites and marbles from the Adirondacks to determine the duration of metamorphism, the timing of mineral growth, and the cooling history. Garnet ages for the Lowlands range from 1168-1127 Ma, those from the central and southern Highlands from 1154-1013 Ma. The ages indicate that metamorphism may have begun synchronously throughout the Adirondacks, but high-grade conditions existed over a period of about 150 Ma in the Highlands and only about 40 Ma in the Lowlands. Metamorphism in the Highlands may not have occurred as a single event but rather in several discrete thermal pulses. An age of
30059232|Distortion of the rocks on either side of an angular unconformity is considered when the rocks are held at the sarne level of metamorphism at the time of deformation. It is found that when the rocks above the unconformity are deformed into a cylindrical concentric fold, the rocks below will be folded conically; both folds have a common axis. When, however, the rocks above the unconformity are deformed into a cylindrical similar fold, the rocks below also fold cylindrically; both folds have their own axis whose attitude is controlled by the intersection of the common axial plane and the prefold attitudes of the rocks on either side of the unconformity.
30059945|The Tennessee River has been interpreted as a pirate stream. This idea has been rather generally accepted and used. There are opinions to the contrary, but they do not prevail since they have not been so widely published and are seldom taught. It is the purpose of the following article to present an explanation of the course of the river based on the geologic history of the region and obviating the element of stream capture.
30062396|Synchronous deposition and deformation of the flysch deposits of eastern New York occurred during the westward overthrusting of the Taconic Allochthon in medial Ordovician time. An observed spatial west to east increase in the intensity of deformation is believed to represent the progressive development of structures through time. Folding initiated as upright kinks and buckles with fold axes north-south and approximately horizontal. Fold axes then rotated towards an east-west shear direction with fold tightness and asymmetry increasing and fold axial planes rotating to the west. Shear zones with a phacoidally cleaved fabric and small thrust faults strengthened the east over west structural asymmetry. After attaining intermediate dips (roughly 45) the fold axial planes began to rotate back toward vertical and lose asymmetry. Bulk flattening and shear competed in the microstructural development of the flysch with slaty cleavage and phacoidal cleavage the corresponding end-products. Shear zones and thrust faults evolved into master faults, producing a large-scale imbricate structure in the flysch. Melange originated both as tectonically broken formations and as disrupted olistostromic deposits. The dominant mechanism for melunge formation appears to have been the disruption of interbedded graywacke and shale sequences under large strains. Imbrication of the original stratigraphic sequence has allowed the incorporation of older rocks, including shelf carbonate, into the melange as blocks and large slivers. The progressive sequence of structures observed within the flysch of eastern New York represents deformation within the leading edge of an accretionary prism developed over continental lithosphere.
30070556|Inclusions of granite, sandstone, and shale in the basalts of northern Bavaria are described. The feldspars, in most instances, are partially changed to sanidine, and the quartz is partially fused to glass. By-products of the alteration are diopside, aegirite, and kataphorite, derived from the basalt, and spinel and sillimanite derived from the mica. In other places fusion into glass predominates, with accompanying cordierite, spinel, and sillimanite.
30068572|As shown in the accompanying paper by Tuttle and Bowen, two kinds of albite exist. They are distinguished by optical properties and differences in X-ray powder patterns. The generally known "normal" albite (called "low" albite in this paper) is one type, the other (here called "high" albite) can be obtained by heat treatment of "low" albite or by direct synthesis. This investigation deals with some of the "low-high" albite relations. X-ray investigations combined with optical measurements have been carried out. The optical measurements are similar to those reported by Tuttle and Bowen. Structural differences as revealed by the X-ray photographs are discussed. The lattice of "low" albite differs from that of "high" albite in that (010)
30068618|A chemically analyzed biotite granite from the Dinkey Lakes, Sierra Nevada Batholith, consists of 34.8 per cent quartz, 31.5 per cent plagioclase, 29 per cent orthoclase, and 4.7 per cent mafic minerals (mainlybiotite). The crushed rock, sealed with 25-35 wt. per cent
30080203|The Shisha Pangma pluton forming most of the Xixabangma (8027 m) massif in south Tibet is one of the 20
30056283|The phase-equilibrium relationships at atmospheric pressure and high temperatures in the systems albite-sphene, anorthite-sphene and albite-anorthite-sphene were studied. The quenching method was used throughout, and the data for the limiting runs in each system are presented. Equilibrium diagrams have been constructed, and the courses of crystallization of typical mixtures under conditions of equilibrium and perfect fractionation are described. The petrological significance of the investigation is discussed with the aid of a tentative quaternary diagram of the system albite-anorthite-diopside-sphene, in which simplified rock compositions occur.
30084970|Several tests of significance of preferred orientation in fabric diagrams which have been proposed in the past are examined and found unsuitable. It is suggested that fabric diagrams should be compared with random diagrams and significant differences be considered due to preferred orientation in the parent rock fabric. In order to facilitate the comparison, the diagram should be contoured. A method of contouring is described (the Mellis method), which is at the same time quicker, easier, more accurate, and more reproducible than that normally employed. The areas enclosed by the contours and the frequency of occurrence of concentrations are determined. Tables are presented giving these data for a number of artificially produced random diagrams and for a number of published rock-fabric diagrams. On the basis of these data the rock diagrams are compared with the random diagrams and interpreted according to the differences shown.
30063881|Three types of chain are defined that incorporate all interior links: CH chains which are bounded at their downstream end by a tributary stream, and LCHO and LCHA chains which are bounded at their downstream end by a main stream. Multiple regression analyses performed on data from three different areas reveal that variables representing space-filling constraints and valley-side plan form explain from 49.3% to 53.6% of the variation in CH chain lengths and from 30.0% to 44.7% of the variation in all (CH + LCHO + LCHA) chain lengths. Space-filling constraints and valley-side plan form are viewed as controls of chain lengths. The variation in chain lengths explained by these controls is considerably higher than has previously been explained in link lengths. This improvement is attributed largely to the fact that the mechanism of tributary development and abstraction operates more or less independently along either side of a stream, and hence generates chains rather than links. Links are produced by the juxtaposition of the sequences of chains extending along the two sides of the stream. It is therefore evident that, from the point of view of understanding network development, the chain rather than the link is the fundamental element of natural channel networks.
30068194|Time-averaging makes events that happened at different times appear to be synchronous in the geological record. It can generate overcompleteness by concentrating objects (e.g., fossils, clasts) from a longer time interval into a unit that formed during a shorter interval. Time-averaging results both from extrinsic agents (e.g., vertical mixing, condensation, analytical pooling of data) and the intrinsic properties of the fossilized objects (preservational potential and abundance). Variation in intrinsic and extrinsic factors results in disharmonious time-aver aging: different taxa preserved together may be time-averaged over different time-scales. Because extrinsic and intrinsic factors vary in time and space, the geological record is characterized by vertical and lateral variations in time-averaging. The importance of time-averaging depends on the time-aver aging threshold, which is determined by the time-scale of the process of interest. Significant time-aver aging occurs when the scale of temporal mixing exceeds the time-scale of the process. Insignificant time-averaging occurs under opposite conditions. Accordingly, the consequences of time-averaging can be viewed as a function of the time-averaging threshold. Insignificant time-averaging eliminates noise by erasing short-term fluctuations and enhancing persistent signals. Significant time-averaging reduces resolution by the cumulative averaging of short-term signals. It may also generate false patterns by making diachronous events appear to be synchronous.
30066421|Eustatic sea level change can be produced by a change in ocean bottom water temperature through an alteration of the upper thermal boundary condition of oceanic lithosphere. The consequent evolution of lithospheric thermal structure can cause thermal expansion or contraction of the lithosphere. If continental lithosphere remains unaffected by the change in ocean temperatures, "eustatic" sea level will change as measured in the continental frame of reference. A two-dimensional finite difference model has been formulated and shows that if ocean bottom water temperature were to change rapidly by 14C, as it may have during the Tertiary, sea level would change by 8 m in 8 m.y., and 17 m in 40 m.y. This result is in agreement with the one-dimensional error function solution for a heating or cooling halfspace. However, the changes in lateral heat flow between ocean water and the continental slope, and between oceanic and continental lithosphere, can produce epeirogenic motions of the continental margins (and thus may represent a climatic control on epeirogenic processes). Thus, the affected margins should not be used as a reference frame against which to measure the magnitude of sea level change produced by this mechanism. While this mechanism of water temperature-induced change in lithospheric thermal structure produces effects with magnitudes which are less than those resulting from changes in the average age of ocean floor and operates on timescales longer than those of ice volume changes, the effects of the mechanism are relatively simple to calculate and should be included when consideration is made of eustatic sea level changes in the past.
30079438|This study synthesizes new and existing chemical data to interpret the tectonic setting of the Late Jurassic Ingalls Complex of the Northwest Cascades, Washington, and to compare it with other Cordilleran ophiolites of similar age. Mafic rocks of the Ingalls Complex represent a spectrum of magma types including normaltype and enriched midocean ridge basalt, withinplate basalt, and island arc basalt. Based on mafic magma chemistry, compositions of Crspinels in associated peridotite, and field relations, the Ingalls Complex is a suprasubduction zone ophiolite formed in a backarc basin cut by an oceanic fracture zone. Regional tectonic relations also support this hypothesis. Our synthesis of available chronologic, geochemical, and stratigraphic data for all Jurassic Cordilleran ophiolites shows that the Ingalls Complex has similarities and differences with each. The most compelling likeness is between the Ingalls Complex and Josephine ophiolite, both of which exhibit a wide range of magmatic affinities, Crspinel compositions that are consistent with a suprasubduction zone origin in a backarc basin setting, and positions inboard of a coeval Jurassic arc.
30063056|The Upper Devonian Catskill Formation contains at its base the Irish Valley Member, which is about 600 m thick, and consists of alternating marine and nonmarine strata. Below the Irish Valley is a sequence of turbidites and slope deposits, and above, a sequence of dominantly nonmarine alluvial plain sediments. The Irish Valley Member contains about twenty-five repeated facies sequences, varying in thickness from about 4 to 45 m. From bottom to top, the sequences contain: (1) a sharp basal surface; (2) green bioturbate fine sandstone, with scattered quartz granules and brachiopods or crinoidal debris; (3) olive green fissile shale; (4) green siltstones with thin wave-rippled sandstones and sparse marine fauna; (5) red siltstones with root traces, desiccation cracks, and very thin wave-rippled sandstones; and (6) red siltstones with root traces, desiccation cracks, tan calcareous nodules and, in some cases, fining-upward alluvial sequences. We suggest phases 1 and 2 indicate marine transgression, phases 3 and 4 indicate shoaling by progradation of a muddy shoreline (sand bodies thicker than 50 cm are rare), and phases 5 and 6 represent mainly vertical accretion on a coastal plain. Because of the absence of major sand bodies in phase 4, we believe wave action was slight, the tidal range was low, and the rate of mud supply by longshore drift was high. Shifting in position of the major streams during regional subsidence is the probable cause of repetition of the sequences.
30071565|Cladistics is a method of hierarchical analysis in which a branching diagram or cladogram is used to group entities as nested sets based on special shared similarities. An area cladogram can summarize in a precise way the hypothesized history of interconnections between areas. The utility of this method in Paleozoic paleogeography is explored by representing as cladograms some current hypotheses about the interconnections between Gondwana and Euramerica during the Middle Paleozoic. Only one aspect of paleogeographic reconstruction (fragmentation or fusion sequences) can be represented on an area cladogram, but establishing the chronological sequence of significant events is central to any historical science. Preliminary component analysis of six different cladograms for six areas shows no component common to all the cladograms, and therefore no specific aspect on which all six hypotheses agree. Area cladograms summarizing geological and geophysical data are required for cladistic vicariance analysis in biogeography, for which traditional map reconstructions are inadequate. Area cladograms are also useful in making paleogeographic hypotheses explicit, for exposure to criticism and refutation.
30068823|Gneiss pebbles, deposited in foreland fans during the Miocene Epoch, were studied with geochemical and thermochronological methods to reconstruct the paleodrainage evolution of the Eastern Alps and the geodynamic behavior of the source areas. Clear discrimination between upperplate Austroalpine and lowerplate Penninic gneiss pebbles was achieved by singlepebble paleocooling paths. Austroalpine gneisses showed highly variable and regionally distinctive paleocooling paths, which record Variscan to Cretaceous RbSr and KAr cooling ages. Penninic gneisses showed Paleogene to lower Miocene hightemperature (RbSr, KAr) and Miocene lowtemperature (zircon and apatite fission track) cooling ages. Cooling rates of Penninic gneisses indicate maximum exhumation rates at 17 Ma during the climax of lateral tectonic extrusion, recording dominance of tectonic unroofing. The paleodrainage evolution was characterized by a relatively stable catchment configuration in the western part of the Eastern Alps, where northward radial dewatering to fixed foreland entry points was documented throughout molasse sedimentation in OligoMiocene times. The largest river system, represented by the PaleoInn River, displayed a considerably larger catchment area than today and variable entry points into the foreland. The drainage pattern of the eastern part of the Eastern Alps was governed by the fault pattern that developed during lateral extrusion. Penninic basement rocks first became exposed in the eastern part of the Tauern window at 13 Ma, some 4 m.yr. after the climax of tectonic unroofing.
30081082|Particle response to turbulent velocity fluctuations of the wind may be characterized by a response time that is strongly dependent upon grain diameter. While very small particles respond quickly to all wind velocity fluctuations and follow essentially fluid element paths, larger particles respond only to the lower frequency air velocity fluctuations, and hence diverge significantly from fluid element paths. A realistic model of the history of the wind velocity fluctuations to which an airborne particle is subjected, incorporating both the vertical structure of the turbulence in the atmospheric boundary layer and the effects of particle "slip" relative to the air, combined with a simple linear differential equation for the particle response to step changes in wind velocity, allows calculation of suspension trajectories. Ensembles of such trajectories produce concentration profiles that compare favorably with power-law concentration profiles predicted using continuum suspension theory. The same fluctuation field acts to modify trajectories of larger particles previously modeled as being determined entirely by the mean wind profile, the modifications diminishing as particle size increases. The spectrum of particle behavior is therefore shown to be continuous, with saltation and suspension its idealized end-members.
30080862|Statistical principles of the analysis of variance are explained and illustrated by detailed examples involving the field sampling of cross-bedding dip direction. Statistical tests of equality of two or more variances or of several means control the risk of falsely concluding that a difference is present and also the risk of failing to detect a real difference of any amount. Estimates of variance components indicate the variability arising on several levels of sampling and the reliability of averages based on different allocations of sampling and subsampling. These methods provide the basis for balancing the statistical reliability desired against the cost of increasing this reliability, and they help to maximize the amount of information gained per unit of sampling effort, so that significant economies can be obtained for regional sampling.
30055695|In this paper the attempt is made to describe a particular section of organic siliceous shale in as nearly objective fashion as possible, and to interpret the facts without reference to any hypothesis about the origin of the "Monterey shale" formations. The samples selected for study turn out to be very different from "typical diatomaceous shale," and to contain a varied and interesting assemblage of detrital and secondary minerals, and especially of micro-organisms. Its constituents suggest that the material may have accumulated in a fairly open sea, not many miles from land, in water from a few hundred feet to a few hundred fathoms deep. However different these rocks may be from more "typical" organic shales, there is some evidence that they may have been concerned in the genesis of southern California oil.
30079425|Coarsegrained segregations are found in several subaerial flows of Jurassic flood basalts in the Watchung Mountains, New Jersey. They are particularly common within a 140180mthick quartztholeiitic Preakness flow, the thickest of the Watchung flows. The segregations are enriched in iron and depleted in aluminum compared with the enclosing basaltic rock and are composed of pyroxene, plagioclase, and magnetite in a dark finegrained interstice. Most of the segregations are characterized by a 0.10.6cm (gabbroid) crystal size range, but a few lenses are characterized by a 0.42cm (pegmatoid) size range. Three types of coarsegrained segregations are found within the thickest Preakness flow: type 1, vesicular horizontal sheets (<2 m, typically 520 cm thick) within the upper 40 m of the flow; type 2, a thick (1030 m) mappable but discontinuous nonvesicular layer located at the contact of the colonnade with the overlying entablature; and type 3, very thick (up to 96 m) lensshaped accumulations within thickened portions of the flow. No single mechanism is capable of generating all three types. Our evidence indicates that most type 1 segregations were transported from the top of the lower crystallization front to the base of the upper crystallization front as vesiculated diapirs of residual melt, and type 2 segregations were filter pressed out of thickened lower colonnade during the collapse of crystal networks. At two locations, some type 2 residual melt drained into depressions caused by local subsidence, resulting in type 3 accumulations.
30053569|The northern Kaapvaal craton is divided into three distinctive crustal zones: (1) the high-grade Southern Marginal Zone (SMZ) of the Limpopo belt in the north; (2) a transitional zone of technically stacked metamorphic rocks which includes the area from the Sutherland belt in the north to the Pietersburg and Murchison belts in the south; and (3) a low-grade granite-greenstone terrane farther to the south. The change across the SMZ boundary is expressed by an overall increase in the grade of metamorphism, a strip of retrogression related to a zone of thrusting, abrupt changes in intensity of deformation, rock densities, magnetic lineament patterns, and isotopic ages in compositionally similar rocks. Regional metamorphism in the northern Kaapvaal craton is demonstrably not a continuum in the sense that the highest-grade rocks underwent all earlier stages of metamorphism; rather, that rapid local tectonic processes must have occurred. A proposed evolutionary path for the SMZ was initiated with crustal thickening during the collision of the two continents in the Late Archean. Tectonic burial and superimposition of granulite facies metamorphism was followed by upward movement of deeper crustal rocks and thrusting onto the adjacent transition zone. The original collisional record in the granulite terrane was, however, obliterated by the later mainly upward response of the thickened crust. Response related zones of thrusting acted as channelways for the migration of $CO_{2}$-rich fluids, which were responsible for the establishment of a retrograde orthoam-phibole isograd at lower temperatures. These fluids were also responsible for the local transformation of quartzo-feldspathic gneisses to charaockites in the hanging wall blocks of the thrust faults at higher grade. Late-tectonic granitic bodies intruded along some of these structures. The present reconstruction of the evolution of the northern margin of the Kaapvaal craton supports suggestions that plate tectonic processes were active in the Archean. The transition zone is made up of relatively smaller zones of higher-grade rocks thrust onto lower-grade rocks during the collision of the Zimbabwe and Kaapvaal cratons. It is suggested that the former possibly moved southwards over the latter and depressed the Limpopo belt to granulite conditions of metamorphism. The Limpopo belt then responded to this burial by subsequent regional uplift.
30070566|The subaerial portion of the Colorado River Delta may be divided on the basis of texture and structure into three principal areas. The upstream area is one of deposition during periods of low-river stage only, and its deposits are almost exclusively fine sand, showing in vertical section intricate patterns of small-scale cross lamination formed by current ripples. The middle area is the principal site of deposition today and is characterized by many local deltas built up on the general plain. During low-river stages mud alone is deposited here, but with higher waters the mud is carried beyond and fine sand is deposited. The mud is structureless or flat bedded; the sand shows cross lamination either of the ripple variety or of a type comparable to the foreset beds of a simple experimental delta. The lower part of the delta, including the estuary, is entirely of mud today due to recent severance of direct connection between the river and the sea. The deposits are uniformly flat bedded except where erosion channels have been scoured out by retreating tide waters and later filled with layers conforming to the contours. The principal types of lamination on the delta are described and classified and two varieties of pseudobedding are discussed in this paper.
30075225|Three channels on the Boso Peninsula, Japan, were examined to assess how crosssectional to reachscale channel morphology relates to substrate variables, and how crosssectional to reachscale erosional patterns relate to basinscale longitudinal profile. Two of the channels, Shichirigawa and Toriizawa are deeply incised into interbedded sandstone and mudstone, whereas the third channel, Futamagawa, is incised into mudstone. Reachscale channel morphologies include knickpoints, chutes and pools, plane beds, and both transverse and longitudinal bed erosional features. Stepbackwater modeling of a September 1996 typhoonrelated flood flow along each channel indicated that unit stream power is highly variable downstream. Stream power minima are associated with bends and with coarseclast deposition. Magnitude of erosional bed features correlates with hydraulics and flow energy expenditure along Futamagawa, and with variability in substrate resistance along Shichirigawa and Toriizawa. Thickness and orientation of the bedrock strata strongly control erosional patterns along Shichirigawa and Toriizawa. Reaches dominated by sandstone have shallower pools or a plane bed. Reaches with a higher proportion of resistant mudstone and with strata that strike across the channel have more knickpoints and a stepped morphology. Comparison of main stem and tributary drainage areas and gradients indicates that a simple stream powerdependent erosion law does not fully account for the evolution of longitudinal profiles on the Boso Peninsula. Ability to incise does not necessarily increase with stream power or basin area for channels on the Boso Peninsula because of substrate influences on bed erosional forms and on coarse clast resistance.
30081230|We have performed a series of laboratory experiments that clarify the nature of the transition between fluidmud and grainflow behavior. The surface velocity structure and the speed of the nose of debris flows in channels with semicircular cross sections were measured with several cameras and visual tracers, while the mass flow rate was recorded using a load cell at the exit chamber. Other rheological tests were used to calculate independently the yield strength and matrix viscosity of the debrisflow mixture. Shear rates were varied by nearly an order of magnitude for each mixture by changing the channel radius and slope. Shear rates were significantly higher than expected (655 s
30081144|In the Precordillera thrust belt of west-central Argentina, faulted, rotated, and onlapping relations of piggyback-basin units and foreland basin-units yield an accurate but imprecise chronology of thrust motion. Addition of data from provenance history, strata accumulation rates and presence of thick conglomerate units in the Bermejo foreland basin results in a thrust chronology that is more precise, but not entirely independent of assumptions about foreland basin dynamics. Seven new radiometric dates allow substantial revision of the interpreted age of first deformation in the Precordillera at about 30 South. Units previously assigned to the Paleozoic and Mesozoic are of Oligocene and Miocene ages. A redbed unit that began before
30059322|The Rio Grande Rise is capped by a thick sequence of pelagic carbonate and reefal sediments, ranging in age from upper Cretaceous to Recent. The north flank of the Rise is dissected by deep erosional canyons which expose the near-horizontally layered calcareous strata as outcrops on the canyon walls. Lithologic and stratigraphic studies of twenty-two piston cores from a small area (
30071224|The Grandfather Mountain Formation (GMF) is one of several remnants of Neoproterozoic intracratonic rifting and associated magmatism in the southern Appalachian Blue Ridge province. New U-Pb zircon ages and isotopic data are presented to constrain the timing of rift basin formation and the source of concurrent magmatism. U-Pb data for three concordant zircon fractions from the stratigraphically highest metarhyolite within the GMF yield an age of
30062254|Classical phylogenies of the lower organisms are based on assumptions recently claimed to be erroneous. Alternative assumptions, more consistent with modern genetic and biochemical data, lead to the construction of new phylogenies. The new phylogenies (one for prokaryote organisms and one for eukaryotes) based on the symbiotic theory of the origin of eukaryotic organelles predict the nature and sequence of organic deposits on the Precambrian earth. Even if incorrect, these phylogenies present a modern framework upon which to compare the many recent reports of organic remains in sediment.
30066310|Geological mapping is integrated with highprecision UPb zircon and monazite geochronology to document in detail the nature and temporal evolution of the amphibolitegranulite facies boundary exposed in the Vredefort impact structure of the central Kaapvaal Craton. Our study has revealed that the preimpact configuration of the amphibolitegranulite facies boundary is best preserved in panels between impactrelated brittle faults and that past concepts of the boundary must be revised. A regional lithologic transition exists between amphibolite facies Outer Granite Gneiss (3.0843.09 Ga) and a heterogeneous assemblage of granulite facies gneisses (ca. 3.13.3 Ga). Tabular deformed quartz syenite bodies, dated at
30061024|The Abiquiu quadrangle is located in north-central New Mexico, largely in Rio Ar-riba County. Tertiary volcanic and sedimentary rocks overlie pre-Tertiary rocks with angular unconformity. Oldest of the volcanics is the Chicoma formation, consisting mainly of andesite and latite flows, with a maximum thickness of several thousand feet. Tertiary sedimentaries, heretofore undifferentiated, are divided into three formations: (I) the El Rito formation, grading from talus breccia to conglomerate and sandstone, maximum thickness about 200 feet; (2) the Abiquiu tuff, consisting of more than 1,000 feet of stream-laid tuff and volcanic conglomerate, with a few small interbedded lava flows; and (3) the Santa Fe formation, consisting of a great thickness of alluvial deposits with some interbedded basalt flows. Toward the close of Tertiary time, extensive deformation by normal faulting took place. Tertiary sedimentaries were downfaulted and downwarped against pre-Tertiary rocks on the west, and against Tertiary volcanics on the southwest and, internally, were broken into numerous irregular fault blocks. The injection of some of the dikes probably occurred at this time also.
30078269|The Cambrian Chickies Quartzite was produced by a migrating mosaic of subtidal channels, intertidal flats and tidal flat ponds. These tidal zone subenvironments are interpreted from assemblages of physical and biogenic structures, each of which has unique hydrodynamic implications. The highest flow regimes and most persistent currents occur in channels represented by non-burrowed tangentially cross-stratified dune deposits. The range of flow conditions on the intertidal sand flat is represented by burrowed sandstones containing a sequence of physical structures from tangential to avalanche cross-stratification to lower flat bed. The high-energy low flat deposits contain closely spaced Scolithus burrow forms. Lower-energy high flat deposits contain Monocraterion burrow tops in conjunction with widely spaced Scolithus dwelling tubes. Quiet water ponds in abandoned channels on the intertidal flat are represented by lenses of non-burrowed gray clay immediately overlying channel deposits.
30059120|Because the study of three-dimensional objects of varying type and origin is so widespread in geology, it is advantageous to develop general methods of shape analysis. Implementation of these using modern computational techniques makes it possible to study the form of geological bodies more precisely and objectively than before. Two approaches exist: formal numerical methods, e.g. multi-variate or Fourier analysis, and computerized modelling. The latter consists of constructing mathematical models of objects in computerized form so that they can be easily manipulated. The modelling techniques are drawn from Computer-Aided Design, and represent complex surfaces by sets of piece-wise "surface patches." Models made in this way are ideal subjects for further work such as sectioning, systematic distortion, or generation of visual output. This paper describes the requirements of a computerized modelling system, outlines the theory of many of the basic techniques, and discusses their advantages and limitations. Three examples are given of applications to geological data sets: the morphology of a brachiopod after deformation, the structure of subsurface sand bodies, and the local variability of cross-stratification in sandstones. It is concluded that in much of geology computerized modelling has considerable potential.
30065690|The Sudbury structure has been interpreted by R. S. Dietz as an astrobleme. Fieldwork indicates that shatter cones are locally developed in a belt up to 11 miles wide around the outer contact of the nickel intrusive, and are confined to preintrusive rocks. Although apparently modified by folding, the cones show a strong preferred orientation toward the Sudbury Basin. Such a distribution and orientation are not incompatible with the astrobleme theory as expounded by Dietz. However, shatter-coning may not be uniquely characteristic of meteor impact, and it is hoped that further evidence will be forthcoming by which the theory may be properly evaluated.
30078413|Polyphase Alpine transcurrent faulting and thrusting in the Apuseni Mountains in Romania resulted in the juxtaposition of contrasting structural units that include both metamorphic assemblages and PermianMesozoic cover. Resolution of the chronology of Alpine events and distinction from preAlpine evolution has been possible by systematic
30065539|The intimate coexistence of two microstructurally defined phyllosilicate populations that have apparently achieved two different degrees of diagenetic/metamorphic maturity underscores the importance of chemical processes in slaty cleavage development. Petrographic observations and analytical data on phyllites from Ocoee Gorge, Tennessee, indicate that most of the cleavage-parallel phyllosilicates concentrated in thin lamellae grew during low-grade metamorphism. On the other hand, the bedding-plane parallel phyllosilicates found between lamellae are detrital or diagenetically altered grains that were in place before slaty cleavage developed. Electron microprobe and XRD analyses have been used to characterize the mica, interstratified mica/chlorite, and chlorite found in the two microstructurally defined populations. Cleavage-parallel phyllosilicates are homogeneous and have crystal chemical characteristics indicative of low-grade metamorphism. Bedding-parallel phyllosilicates, on the other hand, are more heterogeneous and appear to be detrital or diagenetic. Specific differences in the two groups include greater K content of cleavage-parallel mica and the greater chemical variability of bedding-parallel mica. Cleavage-parallel interstratified mica/chlorite is limited to a maximum of about 50% chlorite, whereas there is no limit on chlorite in bedding-parallel interstratified grains. In addition, the proportion of mica in the total phyllosilicates is higher parallel to cleavage than parallel to bedding. The differences between the cleavage-parallel and bedding-parallel phyllosilicates suggest that new grain growth and recrystallization of pre-existing grains were more important than passive concentration and rotation in the development of this fabric.
30063998|Paleogeographic analysis of post-Taconian rocks in New England and adjacent parts of Canada has revealed the existence of two volcanic arcs which shut off at the time of the Acadian Orogeny. One was built on arc basement previously accreted to North America during the Taconic Orogeny, the other on Precambrian continental basement of Avalonia. In the intervening Merrimack-Fredericton Trough, metamorphosed and poly deformed turbidites and black shales record deep water conditions in Silurian. Following McKerrow and Ziegler (1971), this tract is interpreted as the site of an ocean which closed in Siluro-Devonian by simultaneous subduction beneath both continental margins. In the Molucca Sea in Indonesia, a comparable arc-arc collision is in an early stage of development; Moore et al. (1982) suggested that an accretionary prism built against one arc is overthrusting its counterpart, which developed on the other side of the ocean. An identical geometry, with an Avalonian accretionary prism overriding the convergent North American margin, is proposed for the Acadian Orogeny in New England to explain these aspects of the regional geology: (1) early west vergent structures in the Merrimack Trough in Maine and New Hampshire, related here to subduction beneath Avalonia; (2) east vergent structures at a deeper structural level in the trough in Connecticut, related to subduction beneath North America (Rodgers 1981); (3) rapid subsidence of the Piscataquis Volcanic Arc beneath a thick pile of east-derived flysch in Devonian; (4) subsequent deep tectonic burial and high grade metamorphism of parts of this belt beneath west-vergent nappes; and (5) only minor Acadian deformation and metamorphism on the Avalonian side of the trough.
30058907|A study of the weathered zones of the various drift-sheets of Illinois reveals that they consistently comprise four subdivisions, regardless of topographic or vegetative environment, but that the zones nevertheless show characteristic responses to topographic position and to drainage conditions. In well-drained areas the silttil profile has developed, in poorly drained areas the gumbotil profile has developed, and in partially drained areas the mesotil profile has developed. The Wisconsin and Iowan drift-sheets show immature profiles but the Illinoian and older drift-sheets show, respectively, early-mature to mature profiles. It seems probable that silttil profiles of one area may be correlated with gumbotil profiles of another area. In the older drift-sheets where erosion has worked headward into a broad flat area, the gumbotil profile of weathering may show in its upper portion the beginning of a second profile due to the newer and better drainage conditions. "Fossil" weathering profiles buried beneath later deposits reveal the conditions that prevailed during the in-terglacial stages in which they were developed.
30057039|Available evidence strongly suggests that many ancient clastic rocks show markedly preferred directions of sediment transport. Statistical analysis is useful in studying such transport systems because it can segregate local, intermediate, and regional variability. On the local and intermediate sampling levels current variability depends on the local hydrodynamic regimen. Tectonics, however, is the fundamental control for both wide lateral and thick vertical persistence of flow pattern. In all fluvial and argillaceous marine sands, regional field mapping of appropriate sedimentary structures indicates the regional slope without ambiguity. In the clean marine-shelf sands available evidence for a regional-slope interpretation is scanty, and, although such a hypothesis seems highly plausible for many ancient sediments, further studies of directional structures in marine-shelf deposits are required. Because regional petrology distinguishes regional mineral associations, it helps confirm sedimentary transport flow patterns in rocks of uncertain environmental origin as well as making possible additional source-area inferences. Both the number of samples and the ptrographie measures required depend on regional variability and sediment maturity. In the more mature sediments, contrasts in mineral associations probably are less pronounced, and the need for more refined measures and statistical tests of significance becomes greater. Although some problems still remain, it is believed that a combined regional study of directional structures and sedimentary petrology, supplemented by appropriate statistical techniques, makes possible a relatively simple and rapid provenance methodology that has general applicability to sediments of all ages in a wide range of depositional environments.
30063903|A sedimentologic, petrologic, and geochemical evaluation of lacustrine carbonates from the EoceneOligocene Fenghuoshan Group of northcentral Tibet provides insight into the paleoenvironmental and paleolimnological setting of the Hoh Xil basin during the midTertiary. Fenghuoshan lacustrine rocks consist primarily of carbonate mudstones and wackestones. These carbonates are generally less than 3 m in thickness and are intercalated with siliciclastic lacustrine and fluvial/alluvial plain deposits. Individual limestone beds coarsen and contain increasing amounts of siliciclastic material upward. Fenghuoshan carbonates also contain abundant ostracode, bivalve, and charaphyte fossils. Sedimentologic evidence suggests that carbonate deposition occurred in shallow, relatively shortlived lacustrine systems that were subsequently filled by alluvial deposits of coeval fluvial systems. Stable C and O isotopic analysis of Fenghuoshan carbonates show 
30058827|An analysis of the morphometry of three areas of similar gross lithology, structural effect, and stage of dissection shows that there is a significant difference between each of the equivalent landscape unit forms. A climate/vegetation index (7C) was obtained for each region, employing the mean annual rainfall, the mean monthly maximum precipitation in 24 hours, and Thornthwaite's precipitation effectiveness index. It is found that the climate/vegetation index bears a remarkably consistent relationship to the mean logarithms of stream lengths, basin areas, and drainage densities.
30079619|The discovery of Morrison dinosaur bones in Cimarron County, Oklahoma, led to a study of the geology of the area. This investigation brought to light six deposits containing remains of these animals, of which four genera have been identified. The study showed that the Morrison extends down the Cimarron River, beyond Highway 38, north of Boise City. At Robbers' Roost, 4 miles east of the New Mexico state line, the Morrison is unusually thick but thins rapidly toward the east, owing to erosion of a post-Morrison dome. For this reason, and because the Morrison has only a few feet of sediment between it and the Triassic, and because it is overlain by Lower Cretaceous sediments, it seems best assigned to the Jurassic.
JG80174|New isotopic ages constrain the onset of the Andean Orogeny in central Chile (3437S). They define three pulses of Early Mesozoic magmatism in the Cordillera de la Costa: granitic magmatism at 225220 Ma, bimodal magmatism at 210197 Ma, and mafic magmatism at 170150 Ma. Each pulse has distinct field, petrographic, geochemical, and Sr-Nd-Pb isotopic characteristics and crystallization conditions. Major magmatic sources are the regional Mesozoic subarc-subcontinental mantle and the Paleozoic Chilean continental crust, with the importance of juvenile contributions increasing with time. All three Early Mesozoic magmatic pulses display geochemical signatures that are characteristic of subduction-related magmas of magmatic arcs, such as a Nb-Ta trough and a positive Pb anomaly. The 210197-Ma magmatism is peculiar for its bimodal nature, the occurrence of transitional A-type granitoids, the presence of fayalite granites, and its association with an episode of crustal extension. A contemporaneous accretionary wedge nevertheless indicates ongoing subduction at that time. The 210197-Ma magmatic pulse thus was formed in an extensional suprasubduction zone environment. It marks the transition from the Gondwana Orogeny to Andean-style subduction magmatism. We argue that the onset of the Andean Orogeny was related to a reconfiguration of the tectonic conditions of plate convergence during overall near-continuous subduction and arc magmatism since the Paleozoic.
30081133|The Miocene ophiolitic mlange-flysch association of the Misis Complex in southern Turkey contains three main units of clastic sediments that exhibit abundant acidic, mafic, and ultramafic clasts of magmatic origin. These are: (a) mixed volcaniclastics (vitric, lithic, and crystal tuffs) from the "matrix" of the mlange; (b) volcaniclastics (vitric tuffs) from large bedded sedimentary olistoliths; and (c) turbiditic flysch sediments with an admixture of magmatic, metamorphic and sedimentary clasts. Chemical and petrographie data suggest that magmatic clasts within the volcaniclastic sediments (units a and b) were derived from two main sources: an acidic calc-alkali volcanic arc and a back-arc ophiolite complex, now represented by basalt pillow lavas and ultramafic blocks within the mlange. The turbiditic flysch sediments (unit c) represent the accumulated debris of the denuded acidic arc, together with ophiolitic material derived via dismemberment and tectonic erosion of the back-arc basin crust. Chemical data indicate that the ophiolitic source, however, did not come into prominence until the late Middle Miocene.
30070616|Oxygen, which makes up more than 90 per cent by volume of the total lithosphere, shows the highest concentration in the outer shell. The regular decrease with depth represents an approximation to thermo-dynamic equilibrium. When highly oxidized surface rocks are brought down to great depths, oxygen will be squeezed out of the mineral lattices and returned to the surface. Therefore, the deeper parts of our globe cannot become oxidized.
30071583|Tectonic subsidence curves calculated from three wells indicate that the Illinois Basin formed through initial fault-controlled mechanical subsidence and subsequent thermal subsidence. Thermal subsidence involved an early stage of thermal linear (520-460 Ma) and subsequent thermal asymptotic subsidence (460-350 Ma). This thermal subsidence was in response to mantle intrusion which formed a three-arm rift system. A second subsidence episode of unknown origin was documented from Middle Mississippian through Early Permian time. Subsidence mechanisms controlled sedimentation and subsidence rate trends and also sedimentation patterns for each of the four distinct tectonic subsidence phases. Tectonic subsidence curves were extended across the Sauk-Tippecanoe, Ordovician-Silurian, and Tippecanoe-Kaskaskia unconformities and fit a post-rift thermal contraction model. The Sauk-Tippecanoe, Ordovician-Silurian, and possibly the Kaskaskia-Absaroka unconformities formed because rates of eustatic sea level fall exceeded rates of subsidence. Positive and negative deviations from curves with respect to a model thermal contraction curve indicate misassigned depositional times, periods of non-equilibrium sedimentation and subsidence, and the start of a new subsidence episode. Middle to Late Ordovician negative deviations suggest that accepted absolute geological dates for this interval may require revision. Calculations involving both average mega-group sediment accumulation rates, respective unit thicknesses, and model thermal contraction curves indicate that the duration of the Blackriveran Stage expands from 3 to 14 m.y., and the Rocklandian through Edenian stages contracts from 18 to 7 m.y. Late Silurian-Early Devonian (410-390 Ma) and Late Devonian through Early Mississippian (370-350 Ma) positive deviations correspond to the formation and filling of 200 to 300 m deep, sediment starved basins. A strong negative deviation beginning in Middle Mississippian time (350 Ma) corresponds to a second tectonic subsidence event.
30057141|Past and present rates of regional erosion are calculated for the Appalachian, Mississippi, and Himalayan regions. The present rate of erosion of the Mississippi region is about the same as the average rate during the last
30058231|Investigations involving orientations permeate virtually all branches of the earth sciences. Statistical methodology depends upon the requirements of the subject matter and the availability of suitable methods. Some developments in other sciences apply to earth-science problems. In all orientation studies in which the spread of data occupies an appreciable part of the period, periodicity presents special problems. We require clarification of statements of precision of measurement; the order of measuring error may not be constant for all observations of one type. Most angle-sampling problems are believed to be similar to those of non-periodic variables. Application of variance analysis to the design of many investigations must await determination of variance properties which are as yet unknown. Sample-size criteria are now best derived by sequential sampling. Statistical models and measures of departure from the models must be carefully defined. Operational definitions provide considerable insight into the meaning of analytical techniques. Single-variate (two-dimensional) and bivariate (three-dimensional) techniques are outlined; periodic analogues of linear normal theory are introduced, with tables and figures. None of the treatments discussed accounts for spatial distributions of the entities whose orientations are the subject of study.
30061989|O, H, C, U, and Th isotopic variations have been measured along the growth axis of a calcite stalagmite from the Flint Ridge-Mammoth Cave System, Kentucky. Ages were determined by the
30066402|Using depth instead of hydraulic radius in the Manning equation introduces a positive bias of 12.92% when the ratio of width to depth in the channel is 10, falling to 1.33% when the ratio is 100. If the result is used subsequently the bias may be magnified to as much as 107%.
30058938|A new example of keystone fault illustrating the special features of this type better than any hitherto seen was recently found 30 miles north of LaTuque, Quebec. This example clearly answers some of the criticisms which have been brought against the theory. The converging joints can be seen and the intervening block has dropped about 25 feet.
30081020|Plagioclase in the Hat Creek high alumina olivine tholeiite decreases in anorthite (An) component with crystallization. Petrography reveals the composition of plagioclase that formed at various stages of crystallization represented by microporphyritic glassy tops of the flow and by segregation veins and their residual glasses. The plagioclase ranges from An79 in the cores of microphenocrysts to An9 rims on crystals in glass-bearing segregation veins as the fraction of crystallization increases from 0 to 0.9. The temperatures of crystallization corresponding to the various fractions of crystallization are estimated on the basis of olivine/liquid and magnetite/ilmenite geothermometry and linear interpolation. The temperatures ranged from 1237C to 980C. Supercooling was less than 20C initially. Most of the plagioclase microphenocrysts have An consistent with the plagioclase geothermometer. Plagioclase in most of the segregation veins differs from that expected. The derived histogram of amount of plagioclase versus its composition reveals that the mode lies at the An-rich end of the spectrum with successively smaller amounts formed in more sodic intervals. The curve for composition versus crystallization extrapolates to pure albite at about 100% crystallized. Except for the anomalous segregation veins, the observations agree with a modified theory for perfect fractional crystallization of plagioclase in dry basaltic magma. The anomalous segregation veins apparently lost or gained residual liquid and some inherited microphenocrysts which were carried in during vein formation. The compositional spectrum of plagioclase in basaltic and gabbroic rocks can be used to substantiate closed system fractional crystallization.
30066229|Late Paleozoic: Variscan orogeny in northwestern Africa was followed by regional stability and emergence. Marine deposition continued only in the southeastern corner along the southwestern margin of the Pelagian cratonic block. Early Triassic: Thick detrital deposits prograded eastward across the edge of the Pelagian block while nonmarine detrital sediments accumulated in the Northern Sahara Salt Basin to the west. Middle Triassic: Tethys spread across the eastern half of northwestern Africa. Its open marine facies was confined to the Pelagian block; a marginal facies reached the Northern Sahara Salt Basin and encroached on the eastern and northeastern flanks of the Variscan domain. Late Triassic to early Liassic: Grabens developed along northeasterly trends in the western half of northwestern Africa as well as along the more easterly-trending Gibraltar and South Atlas fracture zones. A vast saline province encompassed the northeasterly grabens in Morocco and adjacent Algeria, the Moroccan continental margin, the Saharan Atlas segment of the South Atlas fracture zone, and the Northern Sahara Salt Basin. Thick detrital deposits accumulated only in southwestern Morocco along and adjacent to the South Atlas fracture zone. During deposition of the upper part of these sequences multiple basaltic flows were extruded throughout the western half of the region. Along the northern margin of the Variscan domain and in the Saharan Atlas trend altered basaltic lava occurs in extruded evaporite-rich melange. Middle to late Liassic: Tethyan carbonate facies spread across most of northwestern Africa and reached the central Atlantic rift belt. Subsidence along fracture trends established in Late Triassic time induced a deeper-water (pelagic) facies at about the time that significant seafloor spreading began in the North Atlantic Basin.
30071184|Both published and unpublished information on Kinderhook microfaunas, together with significant macrofaunas and floras, are reviewed in an effort to assess the value of these microfaunas, particularly the conodonts, for stratigraphic correlation. Of all classes of fossils represented, the conodonts are best known because of their widespread occurrence in beds of this age and the relatively large number of papers published on them. The ostracodes, which occur in several zones, are relatively abundant but little known. Other kinds of microfossils, such as Foraminifera, holothurian and echinoid fragments, spores, ?radiolarians, and nepionic forms of many of the common larger fossils are the subject of few reports or have been neglected entirely.
30058340|A narrow belt of granitic boulders weathered from a pebble and cobble conglomerate and occupying the highest mesa and butte summits of the region extends for about 18 miles out on the Tertiary plain east of the Laramie Range in Platte County, Wyoming. The conglomerate is judged to be a record of a vigorous late Tertiary river which managed to move 20-foot boulders 18 miles on a gradient of not more than 75 feet to the mile. Field evidence supports this interpretation and does not permit favorable consideration of any other hypothesis.
30058982|Field evidence on the origin of sedimentary aragonite needles indicates that the needles may be derived from certain algal carbonates. Determinations were made of the relative
30081248|It has been often debated whether all granitic gneisses associated with coesitebearing eclogites in southern Dabieshan, China, have also been subjected to ultrahighpressure (UHP) metamorphism. We show here that a metagranitoid adjacent to the Bixiling eclogiteultramafic complex has preserved primary granitic textures and an igneous mineral assemblage of
30056145|Pedestal rocks and related erosion features, occurring particularly in desert regions, are generally cited as proof of wind work. In this paper evidence is presented to show that granular disintegration, primarily induced by insolation, may, in some instances, be the chief weathering process effective in the production of such forms.
30056109|The usual method for the calculation of the hypsometric integral is rather laborious. In this paper it is shown how a rapid and accurate estimate can be obtained when the drainage basin is approximated by a simple geometrical form.
30063806|We present the results of direct calorimetric determinations of the heat of mixing of
30078395|We present here a new model for the origin and tectonic significance of quartzfeldspar gneiss bodies that occur in restricted clusters within an elongate belt of lowrank schist lining the presentday northern coast of South America in eastern Venezuela (Paria Peninsula) and Trinidad. Conflicting origins have been ascribed to these gneisses, owing partly to faulty earlier dating. Pb/U data from abraded fractions of zircons from the Dragon Gneiss indicate discordia with a lower intercept of 321 (+13, 29) Ma. From petrography, zircon morphology, and rock composition, this intercept date is interpreted as the age of magmatic crystallization of a late Paleozoic granitoid plutonic protolith of the Dragon Gneiss. Petrography and
30068036|To model the development of karst aquifers from primary fissures in limestone rock, a numerical model of solutional widening of such fractures by calcite agressive water is suggested. The geological setting determines relevant geometrical parameters, i.e., length of the fracture, its initial width and the hydraulic gradient driving water from the input to the output. To simulate the solutional widening as it proceeds in time, the solution rates must be known as a function of concentration c of dissolved calcite. They are given as a first-order kinetic rate law for
30066276|Veins of prehnite in graywacke and mudstone or quartz in low-grade schist from New Zealand are commonly ptygma-like in form. The vein material is fissure filling. Various internal growth structures and their fabric, together with quantitative measurements of the vein contortions and their relationship to other structures in the rock, show that the ptygmas are not essentially the result of deformation. The infilled fissures were originally irregular cracks. The ptygmatic veins, having a relatively small surface area for internal volume, were formed as a result of expansion of the vein material during growth and simultaneous accommodation of the host. Possible mechanisms are that the initial cracking of the rock is the result of high water pressures developed during metamorphism and that the vein expansion results from internal forces created during crystallization of the vein mineral from highly supersaturated solutions.
30079765|The Waingaro Fault Slice, one of several structural units of the early Paleozoic Takaka Terrane in Northwest Nelson, South Island, New Zealand, consists of six fault-bounded subslices that represent different sections of a late Middle to early Late Cambrian volcano-sedimentary succession. Three basaltic to basaltic-andesitic suites and their volcaniclastic equivalents (150-500 m thick; previously mapped as Devil River Volcanics) are intercalated in a nonvolcanic sequence of turbiditic sandstones and siltstones (approximately 1800 m thick). Compositional systematics of the relatively immobile high field strength elements (HFSE) and rare earth elements (REE) as well as the depositional facies provide strong evidence for an island arc setting for the three basaltic to basaltic-andesitic suites. The oldest (Benson volcanic suite) has incompatible trace elements similar to arc-tholeiites, whereas the two younger suites (Cobb Flat and Peel volcanic suites) show affinities with calc-alkaline and high-K suites. Enrichment in LREE and, as inferred, in large ion lithophile elements (LILE) increases up stratigraphic section and is interpreted to reflect heterogeneities in the source rocks, possibly due to increasing slab-derived metasomatism of the mantle source. Fractionation of olivine and clinopyroxene from picritic to tholeiitic parental magmas is inferred to have caused variation in abundance of the elements Mg, Ca, Al, Ni, Cr, V, Se within individual suites. Comparable subduction-related Cambrian volcanics in most other fragments of southeast Gondwana (southeast Australia, Tasmania, and West Antarctica) are dominated by more evolved compositions. Volcanics of the Waingaro Fault Slice most closely resemble the predominantly basaltic Glasgow Volcanics of the early Paleozoic Bowers Terrane, Antarctica, consistent with their inferred close relationship in Cambrian time.
JG116506|Taiwans natural setting creates highly vulnerable watersheds whose rivers discharge disproportionately large quantities of sediment to the coastal ocean. The 16 Taiwanese rivers analyzed in this article discharge
30066214|To quantify systematic topographic variations in Atlantic and Gulf coast barrier islands, we calculated eigenvectors of a matrix of 530 profiles. The first 2 eigenvectors (or profile functions) explained 64% of the topographic variance. Along-the-coast trends in the weightings on these functions indicate a regional scale organization and thus provide the basis for a quantitative classification of barrier-island forms.
30080925|The Clipperton fracture zone is divisible as follows: (127-113 W. long.). A broad, low welt, 900 miles long, has a central trough 10-30 miles wide and at most 4,200 feet deep. North of the welt the sea floor is 150-200 fathoms deeper than to the south. (113-107 W. long.). Clipperton Island is one peak on a volcano-studded ridge, 60 miles wide and 330 miles long, with a deep, narrow trough on the north side. Local relief is 18,000 feet, and for 8,300 feet the slope is 40. (107-101 W. long.). A low welt with a central trough 1,200-2,400 feet deep transects the Albatross Plateau. (101-96 W. long.). The east-west trend of the fracture zone appears offset 60 miles to the north; a great branching feature, the Tehuantepec Ridge, trends 400 miles northeast to the continental margin. Great submarine ridges like Clipperton Ridge are found in other places where major lineations intersect. This may indicate that a northwest-trending lineation intersects the Clipperton fracture zone near Clipperton Island. Transcurrent faults and submarine fracture zones are associated with most oceanic trenches. Lineations are much longer than trenches and intersect them at random angles. Lineations appear older than trenches.
10.1086/675227|New laser ablation inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry U-Pb dating on zircon and monazite was performed to estimate the time required for the building of the Serre batholith in Calabria. Age spectra from the bottom and top of the pluton are characterized by two main peaks at 306 and 295 Ma, resulting from a mutual interference between serial intrusive events. On this basis, the emplacement of the top granodiorite layer postdates by about 10 m.yr. emplacement of the lower tonalite layer. These results have been incorporated into a two-dimensional numerical thermal model, assuming overaccretion of a batholith in an extensional tectonic regime. With this approach it was possible to reproduce pressure-temperature paths for various levels of the continental crust and define timing for low-pressure regional and contact metamorphism. In a unique tectonomagmatic scenario the model reproduces regional low-pressure metamorphic effects in the lower to intermediate continental crust and, with a time lag of about 6 m.yr., contact metamorphism in the upper crust. Finally, we propose a conceptual model for the emplacement of the Serre batholith in an extensional tectonic setting. Space for magma can be created by lower crust thinning and rock uplift at the bottom and top of the batholith, respectively.
30081021|A labor-saving device is recalled which predicts the course of plagioclase fractionation in Hat Creek basalt within 2 mole % An until the system is 80% crystallized, referred to the smoothed Hat Creek data. The effective plagioclase-liquid partition coefficient
30067254|From a study of the distribution of bog marl in Minnesota, it is evident that some types of glacial deposits are more favorable for the development of marl than others. By ignoring all factors influencing the precipitation of calcium carbonate from lake waters and by taking into consideration the field relations only, as they now exist in regions where marl has accumulated, the following generalizations may be made: 1. The greatest number and also the largest deposits of marl are found in areas of coarse outwash sands and gravels. 2. In morainic areas, the sandy and stony moraines of the red drift contain a far greater number of marl deposits than the limy and clayey moraines of the young gray drift, even though the latter contains more lime. 3. Few marl deposits are found in lake basins, clayey till plains, or in areas of fine outwash sands. 4. Other conditions being favorable, high, irregular morainic topography favors the accumulation of marl.
30055876|A black shale with pyritized fossils occurs just over the Bevier coal in Boone County, Missouri. This shale is local in occurrence, lenticular, and thin. An impervious gray shale with very little pyrite occurs above it, and locally an unpyritized fossiliferous gray shale occurs below. The pyritization is believed to be syngenetic. The conditions favorable to such an origin are believed to have been similar to those now found in limans.
30061975|The stability field of sapphirine has been located in the PT range 1 bar-7 kb, 600-1500 C by experimental study of compatibility relations between the phases chlorite, cordierite, enstatite, spinel, sapphirine, corundum and mullite in the presence of excess water. In the pressure range from about 300 to at least 7,000 bars
10.1086/666742|This article presents zircon U-Pb and Hf isotope data, together with the whole-rock major- and trace-element composition, of Early Carboniferous granitoids newly identified from the Jiacha and Langxian areas in the southern Lhasa terrane, southern Tibet. The Jiacha rocks are monzogranites that yield zircon U-Pb ages of 347345 Ma and 
30056200|The distribution of the major and trace chemical elements within the mineral phases of pelagic muds is a problem to the geochemist. Chemical and mineralogical analyses of the muds only partially solve this problem. A statistical technique of correlation analysis of the concentrations of the elemental constituents of pelagic muds appears to provide a tool for interpreting the geochemistry of the muds. All the presently available, detailed chemical analyses of pelagic muds were analyzed employing this statistical technique. In the three sets of data analyzed, elemental groups, formed by correlation analysis, suggest possible mineralogical associations of the elemental constituents of the muds. General conclusions concerning the distribution, mechanism of deposition, or source of the elemental constituents of pelagic mud based on this statistical technique cannot be made at present. When more and better data become available, the application of this technique may help answer some of the important problems of the geochemistry of pelagic mud.
30055619|Soda feldspar is believed to crystallize in three different phases having definite relationships with the three crystal phases of potash feldspar; the relations between composition and optic properties in these three series are shown in three diagrams, and those between adularia and celsian in a fourth. Finally, another diagram shows the classifications of plagioclase proposed by various authorities, together with a modification suggested by the writer.
30081038|The system
30062297|The Apuseni Mountains in Romania expose preAlpine crustal basement rocks between the Carpathian and Dinaride segments of the Alpine Orogen. Because of a lack of direct constraints, the age and plate affinity of the basement rocks have been largely uncertain. New SmNd data for key lithotectonic assemblages and UPb zircon data for crosscutting plutons are presented. They show the presence of Early Proterozoic crustal components and help constrain the age and nature of several contrasting preAlpine crustal domains. Basement rocks of the Apuseni Mountains consist of a northern granitegneiss terrane (Some) bounded by an amphibolite/granodiorite belt (Codru), a composite igneous belt overprinted by Alpine shearing (HighiBiharia), and a southern carbonatelens mica schistgneiss terrane (Baia de Arie). The northern terrane has yielded
30062142|Peninsular India can be separated into five discrete crustal areas: the Bhandara, Singhbhum, and Aravalli (Bundelkhand) cratons; the Eastern Ghats; and a block in southern India containing the Dharwar craton and adjoining Granulite terrain. These areas are separated by four major joins: Eastern Ghats front, Godavari rift, Mahanadi rift/Sukinda thrust, and Narmada-Son lineament and associated thrusts. All joins except the Godavari rift are former orogenic belts, where thrusts juxtapose rocks of different metamorphic grade. These thrusts, and the absence of clear correlation of suites among different cratons, suggest that the Indian shield formed by accretion of separate continental fragments. Epicontinental Late Archean/Early Pro-terozoic sediments throughout India, however, may indicate that the joins are intracontinental, formed within a coherent block. The term "Dravidian shield" is used for the southernmost of the five crustal blocks, including all of India south of the Deccan basalts and Godavari rift and west of the Eastern Ghats front. The shield includes the amphibolite-facies Dharwar craton and the granulite area of southern India. The amphibolite-granulite contact is structurally and lithologically gradational. This gradation, the absence of geophysical anomalies, and the correlation of suites across fault zones indicate that the Dravidian shield has been a single crustal block since about 3,000 to 2,500 m.y. ago. The restriction of pre-2,500-m.y. platform sediments to the Granulite terrain suggests that it had a thicker crust at that time than the rest of the shield. Granulite metamorphism may have resulted in lower thermal gradients at a later time because of depletion in heat-producing elements in the deeper crust.
30078522|The San Miguel de Allende graben, Guanajuato, Mexico, contains numerous rhyolitic volcanic ash beds. Electron microprobe and xray fluorescence analyses of glass shards from 14 localities, combined with mineralogic, stratigraphic, radiometric, and paleomagnetic data, allow us to correlate the ash beds (and the intervening sedimentary strata and fossils), understand the timing of volcanism, date the age of extension, and better understand the tectonic and volcanic evolution of central Mexico. Our analyses reveal that at least six separate eruptions of rhyolitic ash occurred during the Late Miocene and Pliocene (53 Ma) while the San Miguel Allende basin was subsiding. The fallout ash beds can be distinguished by phenocryst mineralogy, inferred eruption temperatures, and differences in major and trace element compositions. Two magma series (medium K and high K) are represented in the rhyolitic tephra deposits. The highK series is marginally peralkaline, reduced (indicated by high Fe/Mg ratios), dry (paucity of hydrous silicates), hot (860C), and enriched in many incompatible trace elements including Nb, Y, and Zr. They have the characteristics of anorogenic rhyolites formed in rift and hotspot settings. In contrast, the rhyolites of the mediumK series are similar to those erupted in subductionrelated volcanic arcs. They are calcic to calcalkalic with low Fe/Mg ratios and have hydrous phenocrysts, suggesting the water fugacity was also high. Eruption temperatures were less than 860C. However, these mediumK rhyolites have high Sr/Y ratios and were probably derived by differentiation of adakitic parents. We suggest the contrasting rhyolite series are the result of differentiation of two different parental magma types. During the late Miocene to Pliocene slab breakoff, hot asthenosphere rose through a break in a subducting slab of oceanic lithosphere. Parents of the mediumK series (adakitic magmas) formed as hot rising mantle caused the edge of the torn plate to melt. HighK parental magmas were formed by decompression melting as asthenospheric mantle rose through the gap in the slab.
30070800|An attempt has been made to study the composition of meteorites on a more quantitative basis than has been attempted heretofore. In particular, investigations have been made of experimental and theoretical approaches that might lead to more rigid comparisons between terrestrial and meteoritic matter. Stress has been placed particularly upon the following studies: (a) the distribution of elements between meteoritic phases; (b) average composition as a function of metal-phase content; (c) correlation between element distribution, thermochemical data, and general thermodynamic considerations. It is demonstrated that if one assumes that the observed distributions of elements represent equilibrium distributions, then equilibrium must have been established at temperatures of the order of 3000 C. and pressures of the order of
30057181|The solid solubility, disorder, and decomposition relationships in the system
30081211|Australia has strong claims to be known as the old continent. In addition to landscapes of later Cretaceousearly Tertiary derivation, remnants of early Mesozoic (TriassicJurassic) surfaces, which are part of the contemporary landscape, are also recognized. Being of etch type, they have two ages: one referring to the period of preparation by subsurface weathering and the other to their date of exposure. In many instances, exposure can be dated and the period of preparatory weathering closely inferred. Such old paleosurfaces are demonstrated on Kangaroo Island and are strongly implied in, for example, the Flinders, Gawler, and MacDonnell Ranges; in Arnhem Land and the Arcoona Plateaus; in many parts of the Eastern Uplands; and on several bornhardts in the Yilgarn and Gawler Cratons. They reinforce the suggestion that once in positive relief and shedding water, surfaces persist with little change for long periods. Such ancient features are incompatible with several wellknown models of landscape evolution. The chronologies and events they imply extend our understanding of the landscape in the chronological context. They add to our knowledge of Earth's history.
30079585|The deformed beds of the Llano de Albuquerque are beveled and overlain by a cover of gravel, caliche, soil, and wind-blown sand 5-70 feet thick. Topographically the Llano de Albuquerque is a plain which slopes gently eastward toward the Rio Grande and is surrounded by escarpments and erosional slopes; it is a remnant of a once widespread erosion surface made up of coalescing pediments graded to the Rio Grande. At the time of formation of this surface, here named Ortiz, the Rio Grande had a grade about 500 feet above the present. On it were poured the great basaltic flows of the Mount Taylor region. The Ortiz surface has been dissected and largely destroyed by several successive lowerings of the grade of the Rio Grande. In the first period of dissection following Ortiz time the Rio Puerco gained its north-south course by piracy of certain western tributaries of the Rio Grande flowing in a southeasterly direction out of the Plateau Province. The vulcanism and erosion of later cycles are briefly summarized.
30080154|Spatial frequency power spectrum analysis is combined with statistical data processing in a morphological study of stromatolite fabric. Fourteen photographs of stromatolite fabrics from the holotypes of published taxa and 10 line drawings simulating stromatolite fabric were used for the input images; the output data were plotted to make curves of power spectra for each input image, and the data from the 14 stromatolite samples were subjected to Q-mode hierarchical cluster analysis. The diagrams of the power spectrum curves allow similarity-dissimilarity among the analyzed images to be readily perceived by visual inspection. Cluster analysis using different data matrices yielded dendrograms that provided quantitative evaluation of similarity-dissimilarity in fabric features between the 14 stromatolite taxa. The results clearly show the efficiency and utility of this approach in recognition and classification of complex stromatolite fabric patterns, and this method may have a wider application for comparative studies in other geological fields.
30062306|Deep linear lake basins in West Texas originated by "cap rock" breaching along Pleistocene pluvial streams, but large shallow circular lake basins were caused mainly by "cap rock" breaching due to solution and leaching in blowouts. Large pluvial lake basins and associated playas oriented normal to ancient prevailing winds developed by end-current erosion during wet periods, but the small post-Wisconsin lake basins which now pockmark the plains, as well as the present playas of the larger pluvial basins, developed by wind deflation mainly during the arid Altithermal period 6,500 to 5,000 years B.P. Isolated examples of small basins formed by meteorite impact, animals, infiltration, and active sand dunes also exist. Small basins formed by differential subsidence and piping and roofing are unknown but may occur. Radiocarbon dates, sedimentation rates, and paleoclimatic studies indicate the basins have received little fill since the last pluvial period. Beneath thin Recent playa surface deposits is a thin zone of Wisconsin Tahoka Clay resting on a variable thickness of pre-Tahoka (pre-Wisconsin?) lacustrine strata. The large pluvial lake basins antedate approximately 27,000-year-old sediments, and the present playas postdate approximately 17,000-year-old strata.
30058951|The coast-belt of Ecuador, lying between 1 and 3 degrees south of the Equator, consists of Tertiary formations with which are associated igneous dikes and sills and occasional lava flows. This article deals entirely with the igneous rocks of the region, and an account is presented of the distribution, geological history, and the petrological details of the respective rock types. An attempt has been made to show that a petro-graphic province may occur in this region, and a correlation of the different rocks has been made which indicates that the intrusions bear a constant relation to the Tertiary formations with which they are associated.
30066411|The North Snowy Block (NSB), northwestern Beartooth Mountains, Montana, is composed of seven major lithologic units of Archean age: (1) Mount Cowen granitic augen gneiss; (2) a paragneiss unit that consists of a variety of quartzofeldspathic gneisses, psammitic schists, amphibolites, and iron formation; (3) an augen-textured granitic sill; (4) the phyllitic Davis Creek Schist; (5) a trondhjemitic gneiss-amphibolite complex; (6) the Pine Creek Nappe complex, a regional isoclinal structure with an amphibolite core and symmetrically disposed marble and quartzite; and (7) a supracrustal-migmatite complex that consists of a quartzite-amphibolite unit and a heterogeneous gneiss with lit-par-lit injections of granitic material into the supracrustal rocks. Each unit has its own distinct lithologic assemblage, metamorphic grade, and structural style. The contacts between most units are marked by mylonitic rocks (which are interpreted as the products of ductile faulting) and abrupt changes in metamorphic grade. In the four structurally highest units these changes produce an inverted and discontinuous increase in metamorphic grade. The present configuration of these units is best explained by post-metamorphic, tectonic juxtaposition, possibly along both strike-slip and thrust faults, between 2.74 and 2.56 Ga ago. On a larger scale, this area contains the boundary (paragneiss-Mount Cowan contact) between two fundamentally different terranes in the northern Wyoming Province-a Late Archean plutonic terrane to the east and an Archean metasupracrustal terrane to the west. Relationships in the NSB and other parts of the Beartooth Mountains suggest that this boundary was produced during a Late Archean orogeny with many similarities to modern collisional environments.
30062449|A suite of mafic and ultramafic rocks exposed at Pin, SE Brazil, were affected by at least three recrystalli-zation episodes, the earliest one producing high-grade granulites about 2,000 m.y. ago (Transamazonic cycle), later partly converted into amphibolite-facies lithologies during the Brasiliano cycle (650 m.y.) and serpentin-ites and talc shists. The predominant ultramafic rocks are meta-olivine pyroxenites, meta-websterites, meta-norites, serpentinites (mainly former harzburgites) and magnesian schists (mainly former orthopyroxene-rich rocks). The mafic suite presents granoblastic meta-gabbros, amphibolites and amphibole gneisses, composi-tionally akin to high-alumina basalts and olivine tholeiites. Bulk chemical composition shows a trend of Fe enrichment and probable continuity in chemical tendencies among ultramafic and mafic members. Mineral analyses of oliviries, spinels and especially orthopyroxenes and clinopyroxenes in ultramafitites show a chemical trend compatible with their derivation from recrystallized differentiated (layered ?) complexes. Compositional variations of various coexisting mineral assemblages suggest that the granulitic high-grade re-equilibration occurred at temperatures from about 750 to 880C and minimum pressures of about five to seven kb. Present petrography, outcrop patterns and chemical data suggest that the main primary minerals in ultramafitites were Mg-rich olivine, Al-orthopyroxene and Al-subcalcic clinopyroxenes. Experimental studies of high-pressure crystallization of basalts show that such minerals can fractionate away from an olivine tholeiite magma-at a pressure interval from about seven to about 12 kb.-yielding a series of ultramafic rocks and a residue which on many accounts matches the composition of the Pin metagabbros and associated rocks.
30071140|Manganiferous rock varnish collected from Death Valley and Antarctica contains the smallest known terrestrial sedimentary deposits, with some layers only a few nanometers thick. Irregularities in these nanometer-scale layers are consistent with shrinking, cracking, and weathering of clay minerals. In the Death Valley rock varnish, very different High Resolution Transmission Electron Microscope (HRTEM) textures coexist that may be related to climatic change. HRTEM observations contradict previous microbial models of Mn-Fe enhancement, requiring a new three-step model of biomineralization and diagenesis for varnish formation.
30056317|In 1939 attention was called by Nichols to the failure of earlier workers to apply the Reynolds number criterion and distinguish between laminar and turbulent flow in estimating the viscosity of lava from observed flow velocities. The present writers follow Nichols in his primary contention but take exception to some of his argument and much of his application of field observations in estimating viscosity of la\ a. It is the conclusion of the paper that even with the use of the Reynolds number and the Stan ton diagram in outlining flow conditions, according to the best available data, the complexities and uncertainties of the flow of lava under field conditions preclude definitions of condition or statements of results with sufficient precision to justify presentation as numerical coefficients of viscosity in the ordinary sense.
30063999|The modern structural, drainage, and depositional systems of the Lake Hazar Basin in southeastern Turkey exhibit an "instantaneous" picture of faulting and sedimentation within an actively evolving pull-apart basin. A general sedimentation model is proposed which consists of two types of drainage and depositional systems. Streams entering the basin laterally cross numerous oblique-slip faults and are short, steep, associated with small drainage basins, and characterized by profiles with many knickpoints. They build alluvial fan deltas which are small, steep, and composed of coarse-grained debris flow and fluvial deposits. Fluvial deposits consist of braided channel and bar, sheetflood, and overbank facies. Streams entering the basin longitudinally flow along the surface trace of single faults and are long, gently-sloping, associated with large drainage basins, and characterized by smooth profiles. They build large, gently-sloping, alluvial fan deltas composed of fluvial and lacustrine deposits. Lacustrine deposits include shoreline, nearshore, and offshore facies. The relative relief of both systems is similar. The primary difference is gradient, which is controlled by position relative to the faults. This model is comparable with those proposed to account for sedimentation in ancient strike-slip basin deposits.
30067381|Mafic dikes and dike swarms associated with tholeiitic flows of the continental Deccan flood basalt province are studied to understand the timing of lithospheric extension, rifting, and rift activation related to the eruption of the Deccan basalts. Integrated geophysical, tectonic, and geochemical studies and
30068112|The Knox dolomite is subdivided in this article into seven formations, the lower three of which are referred to the top of the Cambrian, and the upper four to the basal series of the Ordovician system. The physical and faunal characteristics, stratigraphic relations, age, and correlation of the different units are discussed. The growth in knowledge of Knox stratigraphy is briefly summarized. A map shows the distribution of the Knox dolomite in the area and the belts that have been mapped in detail. A table gives the stratigraphic position, age, equivalents, and a brief history of the classification of the various Knox and closely related formations. Two measured sections, showing the eastern and western characters of the Knox dolomite, are given in some detail.
30070633|The Panama Basin is a miniature ocean basin in which the effect of variable rates of supply, dilution, dissolution, and lateral transport of biogenous sediments can be studied in detail. The rate of input inferred from rates of biologic productivity in surface waters does not resemble the distribution of either carbonate (foraminifera and calcareous nannofossils) or opal (diatoms and radiolaria) in sediments at the sea floor. The distribution of carbonate is primarily controlled by dissolution ; at any depth, the rate is highest adjacent to the continent and decreases offshore in the more pelagic areas. The rate of dissolution increases rapidly with depth at about 1,500 m. Winnowing and lateral transport from ridges into the basin is the second most important factor controlling the distribution of carbonate and the dominant factor governing the distribution of opal. In pelagic sediments of the western basin, about half the carbonate fraction appears to be derived from the surrounding ridges. Dilution by terrigenous material is important only in the eastern Panama Basin, where the concentration of opal is significantly reduced by fine-grained debris derived from Central America.
30065800|Microbialite morphostratigraphy is a new tool for intrabasinal correlation using diverse microbialite structures (morphotypes). The recognition of the succession of morphotypes over constrained temporal intervals and broad areas is a function of the complex interactions that operate to create the structure. Because so many nonlinked variables (e.g., biotic, sedimentological, physicochemical) are involved, similar morphotypes do not reoccur over long temporal intervals. To demonstrate the technique, the upper Cambrianlowermost Ordovician shelf strata of the Great Basin, United States, were correlated using both morphostratigraphy and standard lithostratigraphy. Six morphozones and one morphosubzone were recognized, as were four main lithologic successions. Because the boundaries between the morphozones and lithologic successions did not coincide, it is inferred that the characteristics of the various microbialite structures are not solely controlled by physical factors. The principles for establishing a morphostratigraphy outlined in this article allow for the potential to correlate along other ancient marine margins in both the same Cambrian and Ordovician interval, as well as any interval in the Phanerozoic in which diverse microbialite structures occur.
30079914|New Pb, Nd, and Sr isotope data are presented for geochemically similar, 1.11.2 Ga, granitoids and tonaliticgranitic orthogneisses from Antarctica, southern Africa, and the Falkland Islands and adjoining plateau, areas originally within the supercontinents of Rodinia and Gondwana. These data support contentions for the presence of a Mesoproterozoic (1.2 Ga) destructive plate margin running from NamaquaNatal (southern Africa), through the displaced microplates of the Falkland Plateau and Falkland Islands, the Haag Nunatak crustal block (West Antarctica) and into western Dronning Maud Land (East Antarctica). The bulk of these granitoids represent juvenile Mesoproterozoic additions to the crust, except for in parts of East Antarctica (i.e., the Sverdrupfjella) where older (Paleoproterozoic or Archean) crust was involved in granitoid generation. Our isotope data permit plate reconstructions in which southern Africa, East Antarctica, and the Falkland Islands and plateau were adjacent within Rodinia.
30064160|New paleomagnetic and
30066384|Work in parts of Northern Rhodesia has shown that some rocks formerly thought to be Katanga meta-sediments are schists and quartzites formed locally by shearing of basement gneisses and granite gneisses. On the northern margin of the Mpande dome, refoliation of the Basement Complex during the first intense deformation (Lufilian orogeny) of the Katanga System, and accompanying shearing, crushing, sericitization and silicification, has transformed granitic rocks into tectonites that are difficult to distinguish from overlying metasediments. Field and petrographic evidence of the deformation and reconstitution of the Basement Complex in seven localities on the northern margin of the dome and two on the western margin is detailed. The first stage in the transformation of granite gneiss into quartzite of tectonic origin is sericitization of feldspar and subsequent recrystallization and crushing; in many cases silicification accompanies sericitization and ultimately produces a rock indistinguishable from metasedimentary quartzite. Mica schist is another product of intense shearing. It is thought that migration of material during deformation leads to meta-morphic differentiation and the production of an alternation of quartzites and schists. Since the structures in the tectonites and metasediments are parallel, it is difficult and in places impossible to establish the position of the Katanga unconformity.
30056272|On the higher parts of the Canjilon Divide, New Mexico, occur thick deposits of glacial till which are believed to represent the maximum extension of the oldest, or Cerro, glaciation of the San Juan Mountains of Colorado. On the lower parts of the divide and on the gently sloping upland west of it, there are numerous discontinuous and comparatively thin bodies of till which form a distinctively hummocky topography. The topographic forms and the distribution of till are satisfactorily explained only as having been formed by landsliding of bodies of till derived from a thick till mantle capping the remnants of the high-level erosion surface. The sliding took place on gentle slopes, now stable, and is believed to have resulted from intense frost action during glacial stages of the Pleistocene, when periglacial climatic conditions must have prevailed. Two widely separated periods of sliding are suggested by the comparative sizes and the distribution of the various landslide masses. These are correlated, tentatively, with the Durango and the Wisconsin glacial stages of the San Juan Mountains.
30066235|A new, Latest Jurassic reconstruction for the continents now surrounding the Indian Ocean is proposed. Eastern India sutured with western Australia, Madagascar with Kenya and Tanzania, western India with Arabia, Somalia, and the Chagos-Laccadive-Maldives, Wilkes Land with southern Australia, and Queen Maud Land with southeastern Africa. Microcontinents filled the gaps between Madagascar, India, Australia, and Antarctica. These continental fragments are usually neglected in previous reconstructions. The probable sequence of dates of these continental separations is summarized as well.
30071182|A variety of paleontologic and stratigraphic problems are presented by rocks near the Mississippian-Pennsylvanian boundary in the central and northern Rocky Mountains. Stratigraphic sections of these rocks show diverse interpretations of fundamental concepts of stratigraphy and paleontology. In many places where Upper Mississippian rocks directly underlie Pennsylvanian rocks it is difficult to determine the precise location of the boundary between these units. Formations that straddle the boundary are very useful and satisfactory over large areas. Most geologists use various types of lithologic criteria to distinguish formations, but some appear to rely mainly on faunal data, unconformities, or attempts to trace prominent beds. More uniformity in criteria than now exists for the delimitation of formations is desirable. Surface and subsurface formations should conform to the same definition. Critical paleontologic studies of several common species and genera, if based on a large number of specimens, might help solve the boundary problem. More correlations based on several lines of paleontologic evidence and less reliance on a few index fossils would also help. Larger and more varied collections of well-preserved fossils stratigraphically located are needed from critical areas. Additional stratigraphic work in this region should be of a detailed nature and should preferably be done in connection with detailed mapping. Ecologic and paleogeographic factors merit more attention. The age significance of unconformities has perhaps been overestimated generally.
30068177|The location of the Salton volcanic domes and the alinement of the associated mud volcanoes strongly suggests their affiliation with the buried extension of the San Andreas fault. Two surface trends are evident-the northeastward locus of the volcanoes, and the northwestward line of mud geysers. The latter coincides almost exactly with a southeastward extension of the San Andreas fault from 15 miles to the northwest. A detailed magnetic survey indicates that the subsurface material is not confined to the immediate vicinity of the domes. Steep magnetic gradients observed over the flats some distance from the line of volcanic hills are interpreted as the magnetic effect of the sloping surface of the underground igneous mass. In consequence of wind-directed wave attack during the presence of Lake Cahuilla and Salton Sea the lighter pumiceous materials have been concentrated to the lee of the hills in wave-built terraces or "tails," which at the southernmost volcano have accumulated in sufficient quantities to be of commercial importance. At this same volcano a peripheral distribution of obsidian with relation to pumice leads to a unique interpretation of its structure and origin. Fumarolic carbon dioxide gas trapped in the valley sediments to the northeast of the domes has been recently exploited for the manufacture of "dry ice."
30080824|The Covert meteorite is a veined spherical chondrite which fell at least 35 years ago and thus contributes to our knowledge of the rate and manner of disintegration of stony meteorites after landing on the earth.
30057924|Present methods of mechanical analysis are confined to rocks that can be separated into their component grains. This restriction is partly removed by a new method in which correction factors are added to data obtained from thin sections. Check analyses on St. Peter sandstone and a glacial sand show that the range of error of the average grain size and other statistical measures is within that permissible in mechanical analysis. Finally, an actual application is made to a pre-Cambrian quartzite in which secondary growth has completely cemented the grains. The necessary mathematical theory to establish the correction factors is given in the Appendix at the end of the paper.
30060386|Irregular pigmentation is due to the oxidation and the subsequent re-fusion of flow breccias. In banded varieties the oxidation occurs in minute tensional cracks developed by the differential rate of flow between the successive layers of lava. This same factor may be the cause of the laminations in acidic lavas.
10.1086/600865|Many coastlines of the world, particularly those at higher latitudes and those located in tropical cyclone belts, are regularly battered by strong storm waves. Drowning of lowlying areas by storm surges and storm floods has been thoroughly recorded; however, storm deposits at rocky shorelines or on cliffs have been underrepresented in the literature. This article presents observations of extraordinary wave deposits along the highwave energy coastlines of western Ireland and the northern Scottish isles and discusses possible wave event types and time windows of the processes responsible. We used archaeological, geomorphological, and geochronological disciplines to compare our findings with earlier results published for these areas and to contribute to the debate on whether large clasts found well above sea level and/or a considerable distance inland were deposited by storms or by tsunamis.
30057953|The name "Quadrant" has been applied to rock strata of Mississippian, Pennsyl-vanian, and Permian age. However, the true Quadrant is basal Pennsylvanian. Other rocks of central Montana commonly referred to this formation constitute the Big Snowy group and are Mississippian in age. The type section of the Quadrant shows rocks of the Amsden formation occurring above the Madison limestone and below the Quadrant quartzite. The stratigraphic relations, character, and paleontology of the beds commonly called "Quadrant formation" are discussed.
JG80188|The first arrival of sedimentary material from Asia onto the Indian continental margin provides a minimum constraint on the timing of initial India-Asia collision. A combination of petrology, detrital Cr-spinel geochemistry, and zircon U-Pb dating of the Upper Cretaceous to Eocene deep-water succession at the Sangdanlin section, southern Tibet, provides evidence for major provenance change within the strata. The Upper CretaceousPaleocene Denggang Formation quartzarenites contain zircons with dominant Proterozoic-Ordovician U-Pb ages, with an additional age peak of Early Cretaceous, which we interpret to be derived from the northern Indian margin. By contrast, the lithic sandstones of the Early to Middle Eocene Sangdanlin and Zheya formations are dominated by zircons younger than 200 Ma, showing one major peak at 80125 Ma and two subdominant peaks at 5470 and 180196 Ma, comparable to those from the Gangdese magmatic arc. Cr-spinels in the Sangdanlin and Zheya formations are abundant and characterized by extremely low TiO
30065623|Orthogneisses adjacent to the Kolar Schist Belt were emplaced as tonalitic to granodioritic magmas between 2630 and 2530 Ma. An orthogneiss unit east of the Kolar Schist Belt apparently was a homogeneous granodioritic intrusion at about 2532 Ma, cooling to the blocking temperature of the U-Pb system in sphene by 2521-2517 Ma. Gneisses on the west side of the Kolar Schist Belt were emplaced as at least three separate intrusions dated at 2631, 2610, and 2552 Ma. Evidence from an older basement into which these rocks were intruded comes from inherited zircons with an age of >2800 Ma. Rocks with zircons of the appropriate age to be part of this basement occur as tectonic fragments and inclusions in the area. Gneisses west of the Kolar Schist Belt were last cooled through the blocking temperature of the U-Pb system in sphene at about 2552 Ma, synchronous with the last major intrusive event. Late felsic dikes and plutons apparently postdate deformation and yield sphene Pb-Pb ages of <2480 Ma. A sample of muscovite in the shear zone on the west wide of the Kolar Schist Belt has an
30059221|The system
30081000|The New England Fold Belt of southeastern Australia is divided by the Peel Fault System into a western magmatic arc-frontal arc succession and an eastern subduction complex assemblage. The western part of the subduction complex consists of repeated slices of a sequence which, where most complete, comprises dolerite overlain by basalt (sometimes pillowed), radiolarian chert, siltstone and, in the younger thicker slices, sandstone. The basal contact of this sequence is always faulted. A planar veined surface separates overlying basic igneous rocks from a sheared mass composed mostly of sedimentary material in which are imbedded tectonically derived blocks of basic igneous rock. This sheared zone passes gradationally down into less deformed sedimentary rocks of the underlying sequence. Slices, each of which is usually a few hundred meters thick, young constantly westward (toward the magmatic arc) forming a stacked steeplydipping sequence tens of kilometers thick. The distribution and inter-relationship of lithologies within the subduction complex is consistent with a model involving the progressive off-scraping and accretion of the upper segments of oceanic lithosphere by imbricate thrust faulting, rather than the subduction of this material beneath the arc. The subduction complex underwent regional orogenic deformation at the termination of underthrusting in the Early Permian. Structures produced during this event are analogous to those recognized in other inferred subduction complexes, perhaps suggesting that the structural fabric of some of these complexes is the result of both deformation following an episode of subduction as well as deformation at the time of underthrusting.
30059025|The interpretation of lithologically complex rock sections from xenolith suites sampled by volcanic vents has been recognized as a major problem for some time. The recent use of inherent pyroxene thermometers and barometers to determine the apparent stratigraphic succession of mixed suites of ultramafic xenoliths has led to conclusions of far-reaching importance concerning the history of the lithosphere, and the technique has been extended to the interpretation of ultramafic massifs as well. While the pyroxene thermometer-barometer approach promises to become a powerful tool in the study of many mantle-derived rocks, we have encountered several problems in its application that require consideration. These are: (1) systematic compositional variations across xenoliths that contain both dikes and their wall rocks yield enormous apparent pressure differences in the same hand sample, (2) alpine peridotites show apparent pressure ranges far in excess of those appropriate to their thickness, and (3) xenoliths from kimberlites that yield very high apparent temperatures and pressures of equilibration show sheared to mylonitic textures that are not likely to have long survived at high temperatures. It seems unlikely that any single grid would apply to rocks with a relatively wide range of bulk chemical composition, and indeed, the grid seems to have given more consistent results when applied to isochemical suites. We further suspect that partial reequilibration by igneous and met-amorphic processes in both the crust and mantle has affected some pyroxene-bearing ultramafic rocks; these processes in effect result in secondary bulk compositional changes that yield spurious calculated temperatures and pressures. We must emphasize, however, that we have no data indicating local chemical variations within garnet peridotite xenoliths in kimberlites. Until the problems discussed are solved, we urge caution in the construction of geotherms from mixed xenolith suites or within alpine periodotites.
30059015|Rb-Sr isotopic analyses were carried out on 23 whole-rock samples from the Hammereisenbach Granite (GHE) and from the Brhalde Granite (GBH) in the Southern Schwarzwald, W.-Germany. Analytical data were calculated using the two-error regression treatments according to McIntybe et al. (1966) and according to Brooks et al. (1972). For purposes of age determination, GBH was divided into two zones based on the distribution of indicator elements. The age and initial
30065611|The chronostratigraphy of synorogenic strata of Ro Azul in the Bermejo foreland basin, Argentine Andes, reveals details of Miocene tectonic activity and deposition. Chronostratigraphic interpretations are based on magnetic polarity stratigraphy and zircon fission-track dates of interbedded volcanic ashes. The Ro Azul section is located within the Precordillera thrust belt, uplifted and rotated by motion on subjacent faults. The Cenozoic strata are themselves broken by two principal zones of faulting, whose displacements are great enough to affect correlation of the local magnetic stratigraphy to the magnetic polarity time scale. The 3200 m thick section coarsens upward, from sandstone and mudstone (Cucul Formation) to conglomerate (El Corral Formation); the magnetostratigraphic approach could be used only in the relatively fine-grained strata of the lower part of the section. The radiometric ages indicate the entire section is of middle to late Miocene age, and we correlate the magnetic polarity pattern of each fault block to the magnetic polarity time scale. The lower 500 m of the section apparently ranges from approximately 16 to 12 Ma, although the age of the lowest 100 m is quite uncertain. The fault-bounded block from 500 to 1000 m probably correlates to approximately 13.5-12.5 Ma. The block from 1000 to 2000 m correlates to approximately 12.5-10 Ma. Given the lack of unconformities in the coarse uppermost 1200 m of section and a zircon fission track age within the conglomerates, we speculate that the upper part of the section was deposited very rapidly; the top of the section is probably no younger than about 8 to 9 Ma. These correlations and similarities of facies, paleocurrents, and provenance imply that the Cucul Formation represents the proximal facies correlative to the Jarillal Formation of Sierra de Huaco, and that the El Corral conglomerates are the up-dip equivalent of the Huachipampa Formation of Huaco. These results are consistent with a paleogeographic model of a major drainage reorganization in the Bermejo foreland basin at about 10 Ma. It is clear, however, that thrusting in the Precordillera began more than 2 m.y. prior to the drainage reorganization.
30065143|Paleoproterozoic supracrustal rocks in the aureole of the
30064956|On Atlantic-type continental margins there is no differential movement between ocean floor and continent. On Andean-type margins spreading ocean floor descends beneath a submarine trench and continental mountain arc, and on island arc-type margins ocean floor descends beneath a trench and island arc bordering a small ocean basin of Japan Sea type. The corresponding modern geosynclines of Atlantic. Andean, island arc, and Japan Sea type each have distinct associations of sediments and volcanics. Geosynclines of Mediterranean type occur in small ocean basins between continents. Orogeny of Andean and island arc type occurs during development of the respective geosynclines. Himalayan-type orogeny results from collision of migrating continents. Development of the types of continental margin and associated geosynclines, and changes in type of geosyncline, are related to the oscillation of continents between ocean rises. The sequence pre-flysch
30063794|An attempt is made to evaluate the relative influences of T and
30066182|In the narrow metamorphic aureole of the Papoose Flat granitic pluton, Inyo Mountains, California, progressive flattening of stratified sedimentary rocks is observed; it is accompanied by recrystallization and development of foliation, lineation, and preferred orientation of minerals. The field and petrographic evidence indicate that these phenomena occurred concomitantly during a single episode of deformation and metamorphism associated with the emplacement of the pluton into previously unmetamorphosed rocks. The type of strain in the rocks is reflected in distortion of fossils and well-developed boudins. Preferred orientation in recrystallized quartzites is shown to be related to this episode, and the purpose of the paper is to correlate the preferred orientations with the strain and stress insofar as they are specified by the structures noted. The quartz axes are typically oriented in two nearly perpendicular planes that are symmetrically inclined to the foliation and intersect in the foliation perpendicular to the prominent lineation. The symmetry of the patterns is orthorhombic, the foliation and lineation being, respectively, a plane and axis of symmetry. The stratigraphic thinning, distorted fossils, and boudin geometry indicate that the strain involved considerable flattening perpendicular to the foliation and elongation parallel to the lineation. This relationship of the "crossed-girdle" fabrics to the principal strains confirms a hypothesis advanced tentatively by other investigators from areas with more complex deformational and metamorphic histories.
30059029|The aim here is to simulate the production of a clastic limestone by modeling the relationship between bottom energy (here a direct function of water depth) and five major limestone rock components, (micrite, spar, fossils, coated grains, and oolites). Each component is assigned a particular type of continuous distribution curve (normal, lognormal, or exponential). Each curve varies within an energy-depth range of 0.0-1.0, thereby establishing the relative proportion of each component at each point along the sea floor from sea level (energy-depth 0.0) to wave base (1.0). At selected points on the energy-depth scale the proportional contribution of each of the five components is calculated and triangular plots of various combinations of these components are compared to "ideal" and "real world" data plots. By varying the means and standard deviations of the component curves a variety of results can be obtained. A satisfactory "real world" plot is obtained when there is an element of random change in the position of component means whereas plots obtained when means remain fixed relative to the energy-depth scale are "ideal," that is, they bunch into separate areas of the triangle field. By plotting real world data points on a triangular diagram in order of their relative stratigraphic or geographic location, it is possible to detect relatively minor variations in environmental conditions. This knowledge may be useful in working out the history of the limestone rock body.
30081210|Major and trace element abundances and Nd and Pb isotopes of sedimentary and igneous rocks of Late Proterozoic to Permian age from northwest Argentina and northern Chile (northern Puna) have been analyzed to evaluate paleogeographic reconstructions and the crustal evolution of the Pacific margin of Gondwana during the Paleozoic. Recycling of material solely derived from preexisting material of western Gondwana can explain the isotope compositions of the sedimentary samples. Major and trace element compositions of the sedimentary samples are similar to upper continental crust and show no systematic changes during the Paleozoic. PreOrdovician and Ordovician sedimentary samples of the eastern belt of the northern Puna have homogeneous crustal 
30062198|Nd isotopic data were obtained for Precambrian Grenville-belt rocks in Texas. The samples represent most components of the crust of the Llano, Van Horn, and Franklin Mountains exposed terranes. Almost all Precambrian igneous, metamorphic, and sedimentary rocks from the three regions document addition to North America of mantle-derived crustal materials in the 1.6-1.0 Ga interval. The exception is a quartzite from the westernmost (Franklin Mountains) exposure, which was derived from ~1.8 Ga crust of the southwestern United States. The initial
30078268|Repeated observations from the mouths of the Mississippi River from 1968 to 1973 indicate that the relative contributions of outflow inertia, turbulence, bottom friction, buoyancy, and marine forces to river mouth outflow dynamics and consequent sediment deposition vary spatially and temporally. Effluent behavior varies significantly with river stage and between four discrete dynamic regions. During low and normal river stages, when a distinct salt wedge intrudes into the distributary channel, Region I, which extends from the mouth to about four channel widths seaward, is characterized by buoyancy-dominated lateral effluent expansion and vertical thinning and by vertical saltwater entrainment. In Region II, which is situated over the distributary-mouth bar crest, the density interface approaches closest to the surface, densimetric Froude numbers attain maxima, internal waves break, and intense mixing occurs. Region III lies approximately between six and ten channel widths seaward of the mouth and is characterized by an internal hydraulic "jump" in which densimetric Froude numbers decrease to subcritical values and the depth of the density interface increases. In Region IV, which extends from about ten channel widths seaward of the mouth to the seaward limits of the effluent, densimetric Froude numbers are subcritical ; the surface effluent expands under the influence of buoyancy and is subject to mixing by marine forces. When the river is flooding, the salt wedge is flushed seaward beyond the bar crest. Turbulent mixing, strong bottom shear, and seaward bed-load transport prevail throughout Region I. Under these conditions, the effects of buoyancy are weak relative to the effects of inertia and friction. Throughout most of the year, the combined effects of effluent buoyancy and saltwater entrainment create lateral convergence of flow near the bottom and beneath the effluent. These three-dimensional flow tendencies may be responsible for inhibiting the divergence of incipient subaqueous levees in Region I, thereby causing high depth/width ratios at the outlet and allowing stratified distributaries to prograde with straight, parallel banks and a minimum number of bifurcations. During the extreme flood of spring 1973, prolonged discharge of large volumes of bed load, together with high outflow velocities, strong bed shear, and turbulent diffusion resulted in rapid shoaling of the South Pass distributary-mouth bar.
30058259|Calcites from a variety of marbles have been investigated by single-crystal X-ray techniques. Most of the specimens were relatively high-grade metamorphic carbonates, from amphibolite and granulite facies rocks. The typically clouded calcite of these rocks commonly contains dolomite, revealed by the X-ray photographs but not always observed under the microscope. This finely disseminated dolomite is in the same crystallographic orientation as the host calcite and is almost certainly an exsolution product. An oriented intergrowth of dolomite in calcite was produced in the laboratory. The original material was an echinoid test made up of spongy but single-crystal calcite with approximately 10 per cent $MgCO_3$ in metastable solid solution. This amount of Mg is stable in calcite only at temperatures well above 600 C; therefore exsolution of some of the Mg as dolomite took place when the sample was heated under $CO_2$ pressure at 500 C. The host magnesian calcite retained its identity as a single crystal, and the dolomite exsolved in the same crystallographic orientation as the host. The calcites of many of the metamorphic rocks still have significant amounts of Mg in solid solution; the exsolved dolomite in these cases indicates a higher temperature than would be deduced by the amount of Mg now in solid solution in the calcite.
30059028|The volcanic units outcropping in southeastern central Afar include a sequence of thick, stratoid lava flows with interbedded acidic rocks, ranging in age from 25 to 1 m.y. This sequence is overlain by a number of volcanic ranges, some of them in axial position (Manda-Inakir) and others trans-versally oriented in respect to the axis of the depression (Assab, Edd). The age of all these volcanic ranges seem to be younger than 0.6 m.y. The flood basalts sequence is not well defined from a petrological and geochemical standpoint: its products range from mildly alkaline to alkali-basaltic terms. On the contrary, each volcanic range is well characterized in terms of the nature of its products; Manda-Inakir products form a series starting from mildly alkaline basalts and the transversal volcanic ranges consist of typical alkaline series. The geochemical characters of these rocks seem to be roughly consistent with the general evolution pattern inferrable for a spreading area.
30068293|Slightly and moderately deformed palagonitic rocks from Jamaica suggest the destiny of palagonite. The principal rock described indicates its origin in sideromelane tuff, gives evidence of a palagonite-tuff stage, and displays in detail its mode of deformation. Sideromelane is inherently unstable; and palagonite, the product of the action of water upon it, is essentially chlorite. But palagonitization is slow, and, before it is much advanced, the rock spaces have usually been filled with low-grade chlorite followed by zeolite. The deposition of chlorite is often in two stages, which may differ entirely in orientation. Deformation, facilitated by the low resistance, raises the grade of both these chlorites; and chlorite schists and chlorite and albite schists, it is suggested, largely result from the dynamometamorphism of palagonite tuffs.
30079967|The contact between preMesozoic and Tertiary rocks in the western Canyon Range, westcentral Utah, has been interpreted as a large, lowangle normal fault that marks the breakaway zone of the hypothesized, basinforming Sevier Desert detachment. Recent fieldwork suggests that the contact may in fact be depositional along much or all of its length. Deformational fabric in the supposed footwall likely traces to the Mesozoic Sevier orogeny rather than to Tertiary detachment faulting. Kinematic indicators at the range front are not generally consistent with lowangle normalfault motion; instead, wellexposed highangle faults are the dominant rangebounding structures. The Tertiary conglomerates of the western Canyon Range foothills, previously viewed as an evolving syntectonic deposit related to detachment faulting, are here reinterpreted as three distinct units that reflect different periods and tectonic settings. The pattern in these conglomerates, and in faultoffset gravityslide deposits that mantle the western foothills, is consistent with block faulting and rotation along several generations of highangle structures. Local seismicreflection data lend qualitative support to this interpretation, and underscore the need to consider alternative working hypotheses for evolution of the Sevier Desert basin.
30081066|Numerical modeling of the longitudinal profiles of rivers at grade is accomplished using the basic equations of open-channel flow, sediment transport equations, and empirical relations for downstream variation in flow discharge, sediment discharge, sediment caliber, and channel width. Only in some cases are the computed stream profiles fit exactly by any one of the commonly supported mathematical function analogs to graded profile form-exponential, logarithmic, or power function, but in most cases any of these functions can provide a fit with a degree of error smaller than would be noted in treating field data. Profiles dominated by spatial change in fluid and sediment discharge are distinctly power functions, while profiles dominated by sediment size reduction are not necessarily exponential in form. Other important controls on profile shape are the degree of downstream width change in response to increasing discharge and the general range of sediment size. A dynamic model of a river's approach to grade indicates that disequilibrium river profiles closely approximate a graded profile shape even while the general slope is relatively high, and significant erosion remains to achieve equilibrium.
30075224|Although there is an established relationship between geological structure and the morphology of certain glacial erosional landforms, the role of lithology is less clear. This is particularly true of the surface wear characteristics of glaciated bedrock. In order to examine this relationship, the surface wear characteristics of eight recently deglaciated metamorphic bedrock slabs in the Kongsfjorden area of Svalbard were mapped and recorded using detailed micromaps. Features recorded included leeside fracture surfaces, leeside cavities, and the location and depth of open joints and quartz veins. On schist, glacial erosion is favored by situations where ice movement is parallel to the trend of the bedrock foliation. In these situations, cavities may be elongated in the direction of ice flow. On more homogeneous lithologies such as marble, cavity formation is suppressed and more uniform glacially abraded rock surfaces develop. On all the metamorphic rocks examined, glacial abrasion is favored in situations where bedrock foliation is normal to ice flow. The structure of the parent bedrock, especially the orientation of foliation, exerts a strong influence on the surface wear characteristics of glaciated bedrock slabs and on the location of subglacial cavities. Geological structure therefore has the potential to influence rates of ice flow across bedrock surfaces.
30055878|The portion of the Interior Low Plateau province which lies west of the Lexington plain and northwest of the Nashville Basin consists of two distinct and individual physiographic units, sharply separated from one another by the curving line of the Dripping Springs escarpment and its northward equivalent. The southeastern unit is a part of the Highland Rim section; the name "Shawnee Hills section" is proposed for the northwestern unit.
30068502|Casts of intestines exceeding 1 m in length have been excavated from the non-marine kaolinitic mudstones of the Whitemud Formation (late Cretaceous) in southern Saskatchewan. They are associated with hundreds of thousands of coprolites preserved in a channel-fill with fluvio-deltaic clastics overlying Bearpaw Formation marine shales. This deposit may represent the largest known accumulation of Cretaceous vertebrate coprolites from the North American Interior. The four known intestines are tightly sinuous without spiral coiling and with longitudinal lobes. Finely detailed surface striations and ridges preserve the texture of the gut wall, but no internal detail was observed in each intestinal specimen. The longitudinal muscles suggest a preservation of the large intestine, in contrast with the circular muscles of the small intestine. The intestinal specimens and coprolites are attributed to a herbivorous tetrapod because of the tightly packed sinuous gut.
30068732|Field mapping and strain measurement data are used to infer a deformation history for synorogenic, subgreenschist facies sedimentary rocks of the Ordovician Bullbreen Group in central-western Spitsbergen. Evidence for true extension parallel to fold axes, and comparison of incremental strains preserved by fiber-filled extension veins with numerical deformation models, suggest that strike-slip shear was a significant component in what was generally a thrust-shear deformation regime. Initial dextral strike-slip shear parallel to the fault-controlled Bullbreen sedimentary basin subsequently decreased in importance relative to thrusting perpendicular to the basin margin. Although the presumed Caledonian-aged dextral strike-slip motion described here may have been a local phenomenon, it is difficult to reconcile with existing models of N-S orientated, large-scale, sinistral strike-slip in western Spitsbergen.
30079537|Available relief is defined as the vertical distance from an original, fairly flat upland down to the initial grade of the streams. If available relief is less than about 200-300 feet, valley flats are formed before the upland is destroyed, but if it exceeds 200-300 feet the upland disappears before valley flats appear. Commonly, then, 200-300 feet constitutes a critical relief at which valley flats begin to form just as the upland disappears. Certain inferences arising from the observations are discussed.
30060857|The structural configuration of the state of Kansas is well known and has been the subject for the application of both polynomial and Fourier series trend analyses. It is therefore an ideal area for reanalysis using spatial filtering techniques. The filtering method permits selective display of features of desired spatial dimensions which are relatively free from obscuring effects of large-scale trends and small-scale fluctuations. Directional and nondirectional filters were applied to a set of Kansas maps and the output maps were contoured, then Z-trended for optimum display of contained trends. Known trends were presented with a distinction and precision that confirmed previous analyses. In addition, several weak and poorly defined cross-trends were clarified. North-trending features, emphasized by a north-south directional filter, may be more important in interpreting the structural evolution of Kansas than previously realized. These considerations suggest the need for some reevaluation of the tectonic history of the area.
30055904|A reconnaissance mapping of the crystalline area of Alabama has been completed. The so-called Archean of earlier reports has been divided into belts. Some Triassic diabase dikes in Alabama have been mapped. A tentative interpretation of the structure of the crystallines and the relations of the more important intrusives are here presented. The field work has been correlated with mapping in progress in Georgia and is offered as a basis for more detailed studies.
30070634|The abundance and distribution of biogenic, terrigenous, and volcanic particles in the Panama Basin are markedly dependent on bottom topography and dissolution of calcite in the deeper parts of the basin. Of the coarse fraction (> 62), foraminiferal tests and acidic volcanic glass shards are concentrated on the Cocos and Carnegie Ridges as lag deposits. Foraminiferal fragments found on these ridge flanks and on the Malpelo Ridge are caused by the winnowing of bottom currents and by dissolution of calcite with increasing depth. The hydrodynamically light radiolarian skeletons are concentrated by bottom currents in the basin adjacent to the ridges. The foraminiferal calcite compensation depth in the basin is 3,400 m. This relatively shallow depth is probably a consequence of the high biologic productivity in the cold, nutrient-rich surface waters over the basin. The pattern of productivity, however, is not reflected in the pattern of biogenic sediments. Acidic volcanic glass appears to have been carried into the basin from Costa Rica, Colombia, and Ecuador by easterly winds at altitudes of 1,500-6,000 m. Basaltic shards from the Galapagos Islands have been dispersed only over short distances to the west. Terrigenous sand-sized material is found on the edge of the continental shelf, where associated glauconite points to a relict origin, and along the northern Cocos Ridge, where contour currents may act as the dispersal mechanism.
30060493|In the Apennines, near Florence, our colleague, J. W. R. Brueren, observed remarkable intraformational structures in Miocene strata, one of which was described in 1941. In the present paper an attempt is made to give another explanation and a more detailed description of this example. The structures originated from flowage of an unconsolidated sand layer at the top of a series of marly and sandy deposits, causing deformation of underlying strata. Differential burden due to initial concentration of sand in lenses was responsible. In the literature, only two comparable examples were to be found. In the Turin Hills, which must be considered as the northwestern end of the Apennines, we discovered another instance of disturbed stratification. In this case the folding resulted from a sliding of rather consolidated strata in the frontal region of a delta, the development of which may be advantageously studied in the region investigated. A few notes on other kinds of disturbed stratification in the Turin Tertiary are added. The author made an attempt to compile all available data concerning sliding and flowing structures; but, since the results are rather unsatisfactory, he refers here only briefly to the many cases described in the literature.
30068116|A quantitative study is made of the composition of various pre-Cambrian igneous and metamorphic rocks from Marie Byrd and King Edward VII Lands, Antarctica.
30080871|Stylolites occurring as definite seams or as fine sutures at grain contacts are common in many sandstones. Most seams are parallel to bedding, but some have formed along fractures at an angle to bedding. The stylolite columns range from a fraction of a millimeter to 5 cm. in length and are largest in quartzose sandstones. Seams are generally small and closely spaced in highly calcareous and argillaceous sandstones. Stylolites in sandstones are clearly the result of pressure solution. Mutual solution occurs not only between quartz grains but also between quartz and calcite, feldspar, mica, and, to a limited extent, heavy minerals. In the Appalachian area most of the stylolitic solution along seams occurred before folding and without the aid of meteoric waters. Pressure solution greatly modifies the size, angularity, and sphericity of grains in many places. Porosity may be almost entirely eliminated in fine-grained beds where solution occurs at grain contacts. The silica dissolved along seams may be an important source of cement in sandstones; however, there is no simple relationship between the amount of stylolitic solution and the amount of cement in a local area.
30056285|A well-developed early Pleistocene terrace which extends along the valley of the Smoky Hill River through Ellis, Russell, and Ellsworth counties, Kansas, is described. An abandoned high-level valley-the Wilson Valley-which carried the drainage of the early Pleistocene upper Saline River, enters the Smoky Hill Valley at the high-terrace level in northwestern Ellsworth County. Several invertebrate faunules and associated vertebrate remains are listed from these Pleistocene deposits. On the basis of physiographic data the terrace deposits and the sediments underlying the floor of Wilson Valley are considered as equivalent, in part, to the McPherson formation (restricted) of the "Equus beds" area of central Kansas. The described terraces and abandoned valley constitute new data pertaining to the Pleistocene drainage history of central and northern Kansas.
30064189|Variations in opinions as to the usefulness of cleavage in the interpretation of folded structures is due in part to lack of discrimination among the several varieties of foliate structures and the assumption by some observers that all cleavage is flow cleavage. Five varieties of foliate structures-bedding fissility, bedding foliation, fracture cleavage, flow cleavage, and shear cleavage-are described and discussed from the standpoint of physical characteristics and genesis. It is emphasized that compressional folding necessarily involves plastic deformation. Such plastic response is of two kinds, intergranular and interatomic. The folding of an incompletely cemented sedimentary series may occasion only intergranular plastic deformation and grain-crushing, without development of cleavage, until the limits of this type of plastic response are reached by consolidation. If folding continues beyond the limits of intergranular plasticity, interatomic plasticity functions, with development of flow cleavage. Dynamic metamorphism reduces interatomic plasticity, and continued deformation may develop shear failures in the form of thrust faults or shear cleavage.
30080230|The Cordillera Real of the Bolivian Andes is a large, tectonically active mountain range that dominates sediment influx into the Amazon Basin, but rates of exhumation in the orogen are poorly known. We present 20 new apatite fission track ages from two valleys in the Cordillera Real to constrain patterns of mountain range exhumation over 10
30080143|Fourteen new K/Ar and fission-track ages obtained on volcanic rocks from the Danakil depression are presented. Together with previous data, they allow a preliminary reconstruction of the volcanic evolution of the northern Afar (Danakil) rift. Independent age determinations indicate that the Danakil rift began to form in the lower Miocene (23-25 m.y. B.P.). Since then and up to the present day, volcanism has been almost continuous producing rock associations of contrasting origin according to the tectonic nature of the areas involved. The development of axial volcanic ranges of subcrustal origin, marking the evolution from a continental to an oceanic rift by means of separation of the sialic crust probably took place only very recently (less than 1.2 m.y. B.P.).
30056565|Bottom photography with the Ewing submarine camera was employed during the war to determine the bottom character of various areas off southern California and Mexico (Fig. 1). The photographs provide information on the appearance of the sea floor on the continental shelf, on the submerged banks, and on the walls of submarine canyons. These pictures indicate the rocky nature of extensive portions of the sea bottom. An abundance of rounded boulders and cobbles is also shown, but growth of delicate organisms on these rocks implies that rolling is now slight. Ripple marks are present on sand in areas particularly exposed to waves and currents. Finally, the smoothness of most sediment surfaces is impressive, although the surfaces of muddy sediments usually have small depressions.
30068581|A small section of the system
30080208|The carbon isotope composition (
30068307|Two small areas of mica-peridotite occur in Union County, Tennessee, near the "Great Bends" of the Clinch River. They appear to be outcrops of inclined basic plugs that were intruded along or near the plane of a major fault. The magma appears to have been at a low temperature when intruded, as it did not metamorphose the sedimentary rock with which it came in contact. The age of the intrusion cannot be definitely determined. The youngest sedimentary rock cut by the peridotite is the Chattanooga black shale of Missis-sippian age. Therefore, intrusion was later than the early part of the Mississippian period. These plugs are of special interest because they are in an area that has long been considered a sedimentary province without any intrusions.
30066307|The southern Dharwar Craton of Karnataka and Tamil Nadu states in south India exposes a depth profile of Late Archean crust. Amphibolite facies felsic to intermediate Peninsular Gneiss of protolith ages 3.42.9 Ga with subordinate infolded supracrustal relics and the large Closepet Granite body give way southward to granulite facies (orthopyroxenebearing) gneisses over a transition zone about 40 km wide, with mineralogic pressure indicators increasing from about 4 kbar (corresponding to about 15 km paleodepth) to about 7 kbar (corresponding to near 25 km paleodepth). Previous whole rock and zircon geochronology have established that amphibolite facies metamorphism, migmatization, and granite intrusion took place in the latest Archean at 2.532.51 Ga. However, some workers have considered the foliated granulites as products of an earlier metamorphism, distinct from the terminal Archean events. This work presents whole rock geochemical studies coupled with ion microprobe
30058984|Recent interest in dimensional orientation of sand-sized particles has indicated that detailed studies of the orienting process are necessary in order to understand better and apply this tool for directional investigations in ancient sedimentary rocks. Based on the laws of fluid mechanics, the theoretical considerations of the present and earlier investigators indicate that the most stable position which an ellipsoidal particle acquires in depositional transport is one in which the long axis lies parallel to the direction of fluid motion, with a slight dip into the current. In the present study, experiments were performed with varied sediment parameters and varied fluid-flow conditions. Although large perturbations exist in the process of sedimentation, these experimental measurements reveal that the theory is valid in a statistical sense. The statistically preferred direction of orientation of sand-grain long axes parallels the fluid-flow direction; in addition, there is a statistically preferred imbricate direction dipping into the current. This orientation is dependent both upon the sediment parameters of size and shape and upon the fluid-flow conditions.
30068482|In mountain belts with low- or medium-pressure metamorphism the distribution of metamorphic zones is influenced by the shape of the heat source and the anisotropism of heat transfer. Both isograds and chrontours indicate that higher heat flow is associated with regional belts of steep schistosity. In metamorphic Caledonides of the south-west Scottish Highlands a laterally extensive heat source was focussed by the belt of steep schistosity at the root zone of the Tay Nappe to form a thermal ridge. On cooling, the isotherms retreated NE along the steep belt towards the center of the heat source. In the Swiss Alps the Lepontine phase of metamorphism is related to a small, slightly elongate heat source. Its lateral effects parallel to the root zone of the Pennine nappes were exaggerated by structural anisotropy. As the belt cooled, the focus of the heat-source migrated westwards, parallel to the root zone at about 3 mm/yr.
30079641|The well-defined trench of the Mississippi River between St. Louis and Cape Girardeau roughly contours the eastern slope of the Ozark topographic dome instead of following the lowland farther east in Illinois. This relationship is believed to result from upwarping of the dome after the river had assumed essentially its present course in other words, the Mississippi is thought to be antecedent to the warping. Strath-terrace remnants in tributary streams indicate two movements separated by a time of quiescence. Evidence now available does not date the warping closely. The movements appear to have been post-Wilcox and preglacial.
30062025|The ages of more than 200 detrital zircons from two Proterozoic quartzites (the Baraboo and Hamilton Mounds Quartzites) from central Wisconsin have been measured utilizing a laser ablation ICPMS technique. Both quartzites contain Penokean (1.831.89 Ga) and Archean components as well as a younger (postPenokean) component. The 69 detrital zircons from Hamilton Mounds contain major prePenokean age populations at 3.2, 2.9, and 2.55 Ga; Penokean ages at 1895, 1853, and 1811 Ma; and a postPenokean population at 1772 Ma. Most detrital zircon ages are similar to previously measured ages of locally underlying gneisses and intrusive rocks of the Marshfield terrane. The 147 detrital zircons from two samples of the Baraboo Quartzite show a grossly similar age distribution, with populations at 1754 and 1850 Ma and 2.55 Ga. However, the zircon populations in the Baraboo Quartzite differ from those of Hamilton Mounds in having a large population at 1920 Ma, a broad distribution of ages from 2.0 to 2.4 Ga, a large Archean population at 2.68 Ga, and a young population group with a combined age of
30078245|Lindgren (1898b) believed that the waters of the Snake River between Idaho and Oregon were impounded by Columbia River lavas to create a great late Tertiary lake in southwestern Idaho. Livingston (1928) concluded that late Tertiary deformation interrupted a postulated former Snake course through northeastern Oregon and that the resulting lake spilled into the headwaters of one of its downstream tributaries, thus creating the present river course. On evidence from the lower Snake in Washington, Lupher and Warren (1942) suggested that the upper Snake may have belonged to a different drainage system in preearly Pleistocene time. On the basis of the youthfulness of the Snake River Canyon, the barbed tributaries in its upper part, and other physiographic and structural evidence, together with correlation of these features with portions of the late Tertiary-Quarternary stratigraphic record, it is concluded that: (1) although Livingston's evidence is invalid, the capture or spillover is a fact; (2) the capture occurred at the Oxbow, probably during the early Pleistocene; (3) the postulated northeastern Oregon Snake course did not exist; (4) the former course may have extended to the Pacific via southeastern Oregon, northwestern Nevada, and northern California; (5) the late Pliocene and/or early Pleistocene Idaho Lake was created by deformational (and perhaps volcanic) damming of the former course; (6) the Idaho formation as restricted by Lindgren (1898a) is essentially valid; and (7) the ''Idaho formation" as redefined by Kirkham (1931a) is composite and invalid.
10.1086/673175|Detrital chromian spinels from adjacent sediment (recent sands and a Tertiary sandstone) were used to obtain a general view of the lithological and petrological characteristics of the Nain ophiolitic mlange, Iran. They display a wide chemical range in terms of Cr# (=
JG80179|This note examines the relative role of fluvial and tectonic controls in the sedimentary and geomorphic evolution of the Asopos delta, a small, active-fault-bounded Mediterranean fan delta system in eastern Attica (Greece), over the late Holocene, a period of quasi-static sea level. Despite the location of the delta in the hanging wall of a major normal-fault system that ruptured in a magnitude 6.0 (Richter scale) event in 1938 and the reporting of significant local effects (including tectonic subsidence) in contemporary accounts of the earthquake, there is little evidence from sediment core analysis and archival data of any significant longer-term effect of the 1938 event on sedimentation processes and geomorphology in the fan delta. An earlier phase (prethirteenth century AD) of channel migration and subsequent progradation in the western part of the delta is likely to have been fluvially, rather than tectonically, controlled. Recent rates of (vertical) sediment accumulation in the delta area are extremely low (<2 mm/yr, based on
30079993|The early magmatic and tectonic history of the Carolina terrane and its possible affinities with other Neoproterozoic circumAtlantic arc terranes have been poorly understood, in large part because of a lack of reliable geochronological data. Precise UPb zircon dates for the Virgilina sequence, the oldest exposed part, constrain the timing of the earliest known stage of magmatism in the terrane and of the Virgilina orogeny. A flowbanded rhyolite sampled from a metavolcanic sequence near Chapel Hill, North Carolina, yielded a UPb zircon date of 632.9 +2.6/1.9 Ma. A granitic unit of the Chapel Hill pluton, which intrudes the metavolcanic sequence, yielded a nearly identical UPb zircon date of 633 +2/1.5 Ma, interpreted as its crystallization age. A felsic gneiss and a dacitic tuff from the Hyco Formation yielded UPb zircon dates of 619.9 +4.5/3 Ma and 615.7 +3.7/1.9 Ma, respectively. Diorite and granite of the Flat River complex have indistinguishable UPb upperintercept dates of 613.9 +1.6/1.5 Ma and 613.4 +2.8/2 Ma. The Osmond biotitegranite gneiss, which intruded the Hyco Formation before the Virgilina orogeny, crystallized at 612.4 +5.2/1.7 Ma. Granite of the Roxboro pluton, an intrusion that postdated the Virgilina orogeny, yielded a UPb upper intercept date of 546.5 +3.0/2.4 Ma, interpreted as the time of its crystallization. These new dates both provide the first reliable estimates of the age of the Virgilina sequence and document that the earliest known stage of magmatism in the Carolina terrane had begun by 633 +2/1.5 Ma and continued at least until 612.4 +5.2/1.7 Ma, an interval of 25 m.yr. Timing of the Virgilina orogeny is bracketed between 612.4 +5.2/1.7 Ma and
10.1086/649818|Neoproterozoic though Cambrian clastic sedimentary and/or metasedimentary rocks occur in the Hammondvale Metamorphic Suite (HMS; ca. 680620 Ma) and the Broad River (ca. 620 Ma), Coldbrook (ca. 560550 Ma), and Saint John (ca. 540490 Ma) groups in the Avalonian Caledonia terrane of southern New Brunswick. Evolved Nd isotopic values show that the HMS and the metasedimentary rocks of the Broad River Group were in part derived from older cratonic material. The presence of Mesoproterozoic and the absence of Paleoproterozoic zircon in the HMS suggest that the source of this older cratonic material was the Amazonian craton. In contrast, sedimentary rocks of the Coldbrook Group show generally positive 
30081261|Steepland rivers draining small, coastal watersheds often have very high suspended sediment loads, but the event characteristics of suspended sediment concentration and yield in this class of river is not well documented. Continuous monitoring at four sites in the Waipaoa River basin, New Zealand, demonstrates that during individual and composite events, suspended sediment concentration versus water discharge relations typically show clockwise hysteresis and that event maximum concentration is poorly related to event peak discharge. The signature of different erosion processes is also imprinted on the event yield magnitude frequency distributions. Gullydominated tributary basins produce relatively high yields at all frequencies, reflecting greater sediment availability, whereas in tributary basins, where shallow landsliding is the dominant erosion process, there is a steep increase in yields in relation to return period. We estimate that flood discharges from the Waipaoa River approach or exceed the critical suspended sediment concentration (40,000 mg L
30060669|A demonstration is given of the ability of waves of moderate strength to round blocks of hard, finegrained basalt as much as 2 feet in diameter in less than ten years. Mention is also made of an example of the short distance of travel that may be involved in the rounding of stream pebbles.
10.1086/677046|A major cosmic-impact event has been proposed at the onset of the Younger Dryas (YD) cooling episode at 12,800  150 years before present, forming the YD Boundary (YDB) layer, distributed over >50 million km
30056142|The Glass Buttes, a small mountain range composed entirely of volcanic rocks, have as their dominant structural feature an anticline. This anticline has been very greatly modified by a multitude of normal faults. The lavas of the district represent three periods of extrusion. The older flows of basalt were followed by a series of acidic lavas which were, in turn, partially covered by a later series of basalts.
30053568|The Early to Middle Paleozoic stratigraphic, structural, and metamorphic histories of central Newfoundland and New Brunswick show remarkable similarities. These characteristics should be reflected in zonal or terrane subdivisions of the Canadian Appalachians, and we therefore recombine the Dunnage and Gander zones/terranes into the Central Mobile Belt (CMB). In our interpretation, the CMB is a deformed Ordovi-cian ocean basin (Iapetus II), that was formed in between the Taconic magmatic arc and the Avalon continent during Mariana-type subduction of the Iapetus I ocean. The generalized stratigraphic sequence of the CMB records the formation of ophiolitic crust and continental margin sediments of Iapetus II in Early Ordovician times, which was followed by a period of relative quiescence when spreading stopped (limestone and shale deposition). Late Ordovician to Silurian closure of Iapetus II was accompanied by the deposition of a thick clastic sequence and locally volcanics. A complex history of thrusting, regional folding, and strike-slip faulting has been recognized. The major (Late Ordovician?-Early Silurian) thrusting episode records the formation of an accretionary complex that was subsequently deformed during continued regional shortening. Transcurrent faulting mainly occurred in Silurian and Devonian times. Mineral assemblages in the area are representative of two distinct metamorphic events. The first event produced medium to high pressure assemblages and is associated with the formation of the accretionary complex. The second, low pressure event is correlated with the widespread intrusion of granitic bodies. The width of the Iapetus II ocean is not well established. Paleomagnetic evidence indicates that either this ocean basin was 3500 km wide (orthogonal convergence) or that closure was oblique. In order to reduce the width of Iapetus II, sinistral strike-slip movements would have to have accompanied final closure in Silurian times, but this is generally not supported by field evidence which indicates dominantly dextral movements during that time.
30060830|Dolomite crystals occurring in the Mahmal Formation (Middle Jurassic) in Makhtesh Ramon (southern Israel) display four types of zoning: (a) calcian dolomite zones; (b) polycrystalline calcite zones; (c) ferroan dolomite zones; (d) polycrystalline hematite zones. All four types are early diagenetic and were formed before the growth of the dolomite crystal was completed. Calcian dolomite zones were formed by dilution of the interstitial dolomitizing brines with normal sea water or fresh water, leading to an increase in the
JG80144|We applied SHRIMP zircon U-Pb age dating to ultrahigh-temperature (UHT) sapphirine-bearing orthopyroxene garnet (SOG) granulite and biotite-hornblende (Bt-Hbl) gneiss in the Schirmacher Hills, East Antarctica. In the Bt-Hbl gneiss, concordant ages of
10.1086/664788|Upper Cambrian to Middle Ordovician mafic volcanic rocks of the Donjek assemblage comprise the oldest exposed units of the Alexander terrane in the Saint Elias Mountains of northwestern Canada. In this study, we use the geochemical and geological characteristics of these rocks to decipher their tectonic setting, petrogenetic history, and relationship to the early Paleozoic Descon arc system of the Alexander terrane in southeastern Alaska. Donjek assemblage volcanic rocks are subdivided into three geochemical types: transitional basalt (type I), light rare earthenriched island-arc tholeiite to calc-alkaline basalt (type II), and enriched mid-ocean ridge basalt to ocean-island basalt (type III). Simple petrogenetic models illustrate that the basalts were generated by the decompressional partial melting of enriched asthenospheric mantle and variably mixed with depleted mantle and subduction-related components. Analogous geochemical signatures for modern Sumisu Rift and Okinawa Trough lavas imply that the Donjek assemblage basalts erupted during the rifting of the Descon arc. This model provides a new comparative framework for terranes of Siberian, Baltican, and Caledonian affinity in the North American Cordillera and, in particular, suggests a paleogeographic connection to rift-related magmatism in the Seward Peninsula region of the Arctic AlaskaChukotka terrane.
30059946|British Honduras consists of a central peneplain of folded Upper Carboniferous marine beds, with granitic intrusions, surrounded by unfolded limestone of about Oligocene age. Deposits between these two periods are unknown. The main movements are associated with Permo-Carboniferous and Miocene diastrophism. The trends of the Paleozoic rocks conform to those of Honduras and Guatemala. Youthful NE.-SW. features parallel to western Cuban trends are common. Large faults descending into 2,000-fathom water outline the east coast.
30071134|Petroleum in the Los Angeles Basin took a relatively short time to migrate through carrier beds from the deep basin to present-day reservoirs. We use a numerical model to reconstruct, beginning in Miocene time, subsidence, sedimentation, compaction, thermal evolution, and fluid migration in the basin's central block. The modeling indicates that the heat flow is currently near the continental average (1.5 HFU) but was higher (~2 HFU) during the early evolution of the basin. The thermal history predicted by the model suggests deeply subsided source rocks of late Miocene age began to generate oil about 2.2 Ma. In the simulations, compaction slowly drives groundwater from mature source beds toward reservoir rocks. These slow rates combined with the low solubility of petroleum in water preclude the possibility that oil migrated by a miscible process; instead, the oil must have moved as a phase separate from the groundwater. The buoyant force acting on the oil phase along the steeply dipping carrier beds was as much as an order of magnitude greater than the hydrodynamic force acting on both oil and water. This difference, along with the assumption that capillary forces segregated oil into the most porous and permeable laminae of the carrier beds, leads us to estimate conservatively that the oil migrated through the carrier beds at velocities 6 to > 100 times faster than water. According to our calculations, oil traversed the approximately 13 km from source beds to the West Coyote oil field in about 60,000 to 120,000 years, whereas groundwater required between 1.4 and 1.9 m.y. We calculated that oil had to saturate only a small portion of the carrier bed (~0.1%) to account for the amount of petroleum reaching the field.
30081055|The Precambrian of northern New Mexico is part of an extensive 1,800 to 1,500 m.y.-old terrane extending from Colorado through northern New Mexico into central Arizona. Three lithostratigraphic sequences are present in New Mexico. The oldest consists of 1,760 to 1,720 m.y.-old metamorphosed bimodal volcanic and volcaniclastic rocks to which no basement has been recognized. This juvenile crust developed as a magmatic arc complex and represents an early period of crustal instability. Between 1,740 and 1,700 m.y., the volcanogenic sequence was intruded by voluminous, coeval granodiorites and tonalites which progressively stabilized the early crust. Unconformably overlying the volcano-plutonic terrane is a thick sequence of metamorphosed quartz arenites and subordinate argillites, the Ortega Group, which accumulated on a sTable continental shelf. The inner shelf was dominated by tidal processes with subordinate reworking by storm and fair-weather waves. Storm processes were responsible for sand deposition on the outer shelf. The Ortega shelf sloped gently to the southeast and experienced an overall transgression which culminated in drowning of the outer shelf with onlap of black basinal muds from the south. STable-shelf sedimentation resulted from prolonged thermal subsidence following cratonization of the juvenile volcanogenic crust by intrusion of granitoid plutons. The third lithostratigraphic sequence, the Marquenas Quartzite, consists of polymictic metaconglomerates and texturally-immature metasandstones deposited in a braided-alluvial environment. These terrigenous sediments were supplied from a general southerly direction, and pebble compositions indicate derivation from the underlying volcanogenic and shelf sequences. The Marquenas Quartzite signifies cannibalization of the underlying magmatic arc and shelf succession in response to deformation of the craton margin to the south. This margin defined the southern limit of the proto-North American craton, which extended from central Arizona to southern Wisconsin at ca. 1,700 m.y. ago and was destroyed between 1,660 and 1,630 m.y. ago.
30070776|Mafic and ultramafic rocks are found in isolated complexes along the Chersky Range, eastern Sakha Republic (Ya kutia), Russia. Five of the six exposures are located on the eastern side of a Devonian-Ordovician carbonate platform and appear to be thrust over it; the sixth, the Debin fragment, is located to the west. On the basis of lithology, geochemical composition, and structural position, the ultramafic rocks and their associated mafic volcanics and deep-marine sedimentary rocks are interpreted as ophiolites or ophiolite fragments derived from back-arc or oceanic crust located to the east of the Chersky Range. Faunal and radiometric dating indicate that the oceanic crust has an age of about 370-430 Ma, Early to Middle Devonian. The ages of metamorphic minerals suggest that the ophiolites were obducted and metamorphosed during the amalgamation of the Kolyma-Omolon superterrane, about 170-174 Ma (Callovian, late Middle Jurassic), at which time olistostromes containing fragments of the ophiolite were formed. This age predates the formation of the Uyandina-Yasachnaya volcanic arc, believed to represent the final closure of the ocean basin between the Kolyma-Omolon superterrane and the North Asian craton. It is possible that the southernmost ophiolite, the Debin fragment, has a different history from the other Chersky Range ophiolites and was emplaced as a result of the accretion of the Kolyma-Omolon superterrane.
30056943|Algal-stained rocks of Bahamian coasts are characteristically spotted by small, irregular patches of unstained limestone freshly exposed by the removal of thin flakes of the surface rock. An investigation of this phenomenon shows that the outer algal-stained film of limestone is greatly weakened by boring algae and that it is this part of the rock that scales away, forming the white patches. It is becoming increasingly apparent that boring blue-green algae are among the most important agents of destruction of coast limestone.
30068470|Investigation of reports of very high shorelines in the Bonneville Basin discloses that no investigated "shoreline" more than 90 feet above the Bonneville level can be attributed to the ancient lake. Checking of evidence upon which these reports were based indicates that a number of confusions and illusions, here described, are responsible.
30058235|The dermal bones and sensory openings of the skulls of three extinct amphibians, Trimerorhachis insignis, Diplocaulus magnicornis, and D. recurvatus, have been investigated to determine the factors involved in the integration of these bones and openings. Mathematical relationships of measurements are expressed by correlation coefficients (total and partial) of all pairs. Intercorrelated series of measures (p-groups) are considered to imply the existence of biologically meaningful groups (F-groups). Three factors-skull length, skull width, and the cranial sensory system-are basic to the integration of dermal bones and sensory openings. Trimerorhachis insignis and D. magnicornis, widely separated taxo-nomically, prove to be very similar with respect to the influences of these factors. Diplocaulus recurvatus, descended from D. magnicornis, shows the striking effect of the evolutionary change of one of the factors.
30066177|Holocene history in the Gulf of Panama is based on lithology and faunal changes in cores from the continental shelf and on surface and subsurface sediment patterns. A transgression that started at the beginning of the Holocene caused deposition of nearshore sediments and fauna near the shelf edge. Approximately 11,500 years B.P., sea level was about 50 m. below its present position. The rise in sea level caused a change from Nearshore Fauna to Outer-Shelf Fauna in the center of the Gulf. Supply of sediments from land to the center of the Gulf was drastically reduced as a result of the fast landward migration of the shoreline, and only sediments formed in situ were deposited. With stabilization of the sea level, sediments started to spread from the shoreline seaward, forming a lens of modern clayey mud that overlies transgressive sand. The contact between this modern sediment lens and the transgressive sand is a disconformity. The time gap between the two, near the seaward edge of the clayey-mud lens (about 50 km. from shoreline), is 6,500 years.
30078572|Ore bodies in the Night Hawk Peninsular Gold Mine lie in or near a stock of albite syenite intruding Keewatin lavas. The deposit consists of carbonate zones carrying disseminated sulphides and cut by auriferous quartz stringers. The geological and mineralogical features are briefly described, and the hydrothermal metasomatism of the syenite is discussed in detail. Chemical analyses of the fresh and altered phases of the syenite are given, and the chemical changes are graphically displayed.
30081002|The probable range of a taxon is its most frequently observed range defined for a set of geologic sections. The probable range concept is defined and demonstrated using two applications, both based on Deep Sea Drilling Project data. The first uses a Cenozoic and Mesozoic North Atlantic Ocean data set (calcareous nannoplankton, 228 taxa, 55 sections). The major result is a standardized rangechart at a definable level of minimum confidence for the data set that shows excellent correlation when compared with published range data. The second application uses a Pacific Ocean data set (calcareous nannoplankton, planktonic foraminifera, Radiolaria, 330 taxa, 32 sections). The application results in an estimated maximum attainable resolution of 100,000 years for the Tertiary. The quantitative application of the probable range concept offers the improvement of resolution beyond the 100,000 year level, equally reliable alternatives to standard biostratigraphic zonations, and objective limits of confidence or risk of error in using biostratigraphic sequence trends for age and paleoenvironmental interpretations.
30065779|Left-lateral transcurrent (wrench) faulting through the Southern Puerto Rico Fault Zone (SPRFZ) in central southern Puerto Rico is indicated by fault orientations and motion direction indicators. The SPRFZ is a west-northwest trending, 3-8 km-wide, diffuse system of faults and folds that within the study area bounds Paleocene and Eocene volcaniclastic rocks (the Eocene Belt), and is flanked by Cretaceous volcanic and volcaniclastic rocks. Structural data show that much of central southern Puerto Rico is cut by strike- and oblique-slip faults, whereas locally in the southeastern part of the Eocene Belt, rocks are pervasively thrust northeastward over Cretaceous rocks of central Puerto Rico. Structural data and the distribution of fault types support two local evolutionary scenarios: (1) different structural horizons of the transpressional SPRFZ (i.e., upper, thrust dominated horizon and lower, strike-slip dominated horizon) were juxtaposed along post-transpressional normal faults that border the Ponce Basin; and (2) sinistrai strike-slip faulting translated southwestern Puerto Rico with respect to central Puerto Rico along the transcurrent faults of the SPRFZ. The Puerto Rican portion of the Greater Antillean pre-Oligocene magmatic arc occupied a zone of transition from subduction to strike-slip deformation associated with the initial development of the Northern Caribbean Plate Boundary Zone (PBZ). Middle Eocene to early Oligocene motion through the SPRFZ occurred during initial movement along the PBZ.
30080011|The Beata Ridge is a prominent SSWtrending topographic structure in the central Caribbean basin. It is characterized by unusually thick oceanic crust (up to 20 km) and is believed to form part of the Caribbean oceanic plateau. Samples recovered by submersible during the
10.1086/669977|The major Precambrian crustal growth in the North China Craton (NCC) has been thought to have occurred at 2.5 Ga. Here we present secondary ion mass spectroscopy (SIMS) and laser ablationinductively coupled mass spectrometry (LA-ICP-MS) zircon U-Pb ages and Hf isotope compositions from dioritic and tonalite-trondhjemite-granodiorite (TTG) gneisses of the Neoarchean-Paleoproterozoic metamorphic terrane in the central NCC. Zircons from the trondhjemitic samples yield emplacement ages at
30062383|The development of Precambrian mobile belts has been interpreted as a result of plate tectonic mechanisms. Recently debates on the role of plate tectonics in the Precambrian have been aired, and many current views tend to test alternative models involving ensialic reactivation or in situ, intraplate, tectonic processes. An attempt to analyze the palaeotectonic distribution, and progressive development, of Australian Precambrian mobile belts invokes the role of transform-like kinematic processes. The transform, ductile shear nature of these ensialic belts explains the internal deformation and the presence of igneous-metamorphic complexes. Contemporaneous, orthogonal zones of limited divergence and convergence are accommodated by this kinematic model. The history of the Australian Precambrian can be defined on the bases of at least five kinematic stages from the Archaean to the late Proterozoic. Each stage is defined by a Eulerian pole of rotation about which small circle arcs are fitted to chronologically appropriate mobile belt curvature traces. Estimates of displacement along the Albany-Fraser mobile belt, of about 600 km, accomodate orthogonal divergent-convergent tectonic zones in Central and Northern Australia.
30056776|Several sedimentary situations are discussed in which the suggestion is strong that negative exponential functions are involved. Methods of testing data for these relationships are given in the case of pebble size on a beach, the thickness of a loess deposit, the profile of an alluvial fan, and the dispersion of glacial boulders in a boulder train. In each case the controlling coefficient is determined, and in a summary at the end of the paper are discussed the implications of the exponential function as applied to geological phenomena. It is tentatively suggested that the laws of probability play a part in determining the exponential functions, and that these laws may find a wider application in the study of sedimentary deposits.
30068060|Assuming the existence of discernable hierarchies in the thickness and/or temporal recurrence of stratal units within sedimentary sequences has become an increasingly important axiom of sequence and cyclostratigraphic studies, and multiple orders of stratigraphic cyclicity are now commonly associated with inferred durations and magnitudes of rhythmic variation in global sea level. Beyond the desire to establish an informal nomenclature relating stratigraphic thickness to periodicity of eustatic change, an assumption of stratigraphic orderedness also supports the inference that groups of sedimentary units with distinct modal dimensions in fact do occur with some generally distinct frequency in stratigraphic sequences. In contrast to such perceived patterns of stratigraphic order, many groupings of sedimentary units exhibit lognormal frequency distributions wherein most of the population has an exponentially increasing frequency of occurrence with linearly decreasing class size. Such thickness distributions typify a wide range of sedimentary entities, including individual lithofacies, formally named stratigraphic units, epoch-interval sedimentary sections, and cyclic peritidal lithofacies associations, as well as durations of unconformity-bounded stratigraphic sequences and the magnitudes and durations of presumed change in global sea level. These distributions indicate that most natural populations of sedimentary units comprise a non-modal series of increasing frequency with decreasing size. The importance of this statement lies in the fact that discrimination of stratigraphic hierarchies and their designation as nth-order cycles may constitute little more than the arbitrary subdivision of an uninterrupted stratigraphic continuum.
30065503|The petrofabric patterns of olivine for various ultramafic masses and specimens are correlated with their conditions of crystallization as inferred from the compositions of associated clinopyroxenes. It is suggested that, besides orientations formed during purely magmatic crystallization, there are high temperature and lower temperature orientation patterns for olivine, probably produced by recrystallization. The observed seismic anisotropy of the mantle near midocean ridges may be due to recrystallization under lower temperature conditions.
30081173|UPb and
30060114|The multivariate statistical technique of principal component analysis can be of considerable aid to the mineralogist and petrologist in the preliminary screening of mineralogical chemical data. The processing of chemical analyses of biotites by principal component analysis revealed the properties of isomorphous or atomic substitution, paired or coupled substitution, and other relationships among the chemical elements. Common mineral contaminants can also be discovered and removed from the chemical data. The use of principal component analysis is advocated as a preliminary screening device to point out subtle relationships of mineralogical significance that should have a basis in petrological theory.
30084814|Abrasion by eolian transport was studied in three different types of wind tunnel. Limestone, feldspar, and quartz were tested in the shape of cubes, crushed crystals, or natural grains. Abrasion increases with size, wind velocity, angularity and roughness of surface. Polished medium-sized quartz grains sustain no loss. Wind abrasion of quartz is 100 to 1,000 times more effective over the same distance than the mechanical action of a river. But eolian abrasion is slight for fine quartz sand and drops to zero at 0.05 mm. in diameter. No quartz particles are produced in the size range dominating in loess. Experimental abrasion of ventifacts indicates that these are cut slowly in scores of years by medium strong winds, but in a matter of days by storm winds, and in a matter of hours if the cutting sand is coarse and angular. These results must be looked upon as first approximations, for many factors in nature are either unknown or not reproduced in the experiments. Experiments on frosting and defrosting will be treated elsewhere.
30068304|The Antecedent-Platform theory for the origin of coral reefs holds that any bench or bank that is located at a proper depth within the circumequatorial coral-reef zone is potentially a coral-reef foundation. If ecological conditions permit, a reef may grow to the surface from such a foundation without any change in sea-level. Reef foundations, or platforms, are formed by erosion, deposition, volcanic eruption, or earth movement or by combinations of two or more of these processes. Examples of each type from Fiji and Tonga are cited, some of the examples being visible beneath elevated reefs, others inferred beneath existing reefs. In Fiji and in parts, if not all, of Tonga, pyroclastic action has been the dominant form of volcanic activity since early Tertiary time; and many coral reefs probably developed on platforms cut by the waves in uncon-solidated material of this kind. Platforms originating below the depth limit of reef corals were veneered with tuffaceous limestone and built to the zone of reef-coral growth by organisms other than corals, chiefly Foram-inifera and algae.
30055975|The discovery of fossil footprints in the Permian Dunkard formation of West Virginia is offered as announcement of a new locality where two or more new species are apparently represented. The character of the material collected does not permit complete description of the species.
30062455|Mafic and ultramafic xenoliths from the Lashaine volcano, Tanzania are composed of garnet and spinel peridotites and pyroxenites and rocks enriched in hydrous phases. Composite xenoliths, composed of two or more lithologies, include peridotite with thin phlogopite bands, and peridotite-pyroxenite assemblages. The dominant metamorphic textures of all lithologies are overprinted by several generations of partial melt textures; the youngest is interstitial glass quenched upon eruption. Earlier partial melting took place under conditions that permitted relatively coarse crystallization of the melts that now are represented by the pyroxenites and hydrous mineral veins and dikes, emplaced in the peridotite long before eruption of the Lashaine volcano. Metasomatic reaction between peridotite and a pyroxenite dike yielded compositional changes in the peridotite that are like the chemical trends separating garnetiferous from nongarnetiferous peridotites in the suite as a whole. We infer that the chemical heterogeneity of the suite resulted from episodic partial melting, concentration of fluids in veins, and metasomatic reactions between veins and garnet-peridotite wall rock. Evidence from Lashaine and other localities indicates that local melting-vein formation-metasomatism has occurred repeatedly in the mantle, probably in diapiric masses. Alkalic components become concentrated by these events until ultimately enough melt is produced to erupt as alkalic basalt.
30064200|A theoretical discussion of the role of water in simple silicate melts is presented. It is shown that to a good approximation in the region
30062397|A compilation of nearly 25,000 rates of sediment accumulation shows that they are extremely variable, spanning at least 11 orders of magnitude. Much of this variation results from compiling rates determined for different time spans: there is a systematic trend of falling mean rate with increasing time span. The gradients of such trends vary with environment of deposition. Although measurement error and compaction contribute to these regressions, they are primarily the consequence of unsteady, discontinuous sedimentation. The essential character of the unsteadiness may be cyclic or random, but net accumulation is characterized by fluctuations whose magnitudes increase with increasing recurrence interval. Ratios of median long- to short-term accumulation rates provide a measure of the expected completeness of sedimentary stratigraphic sections, at the time scale of the short-term rate. Expected completeness deteriorates as finer time scales are considered.
30078331|Initiation of sea floor spreading in the Red Sea 4-5 m.y. ago was preceded by an early Tertiary period of continental extension accompanied by intrusive and extrusive magmatic activity. During the Miocene, tholeiitic basaltic magma was intruded along faults and fractures in rifted continental crust to form extensive dike swarms and layered gabbroic plutons along with associated silicic intrusive bodies. These intrusions, best exposed sporadically in a 4-6 km wide zone at the edge of the Red Sea coastal plain in southwest Saudi Arabia, are known collectively as the Tihama Asir complex. One of these intrusions, a layered gabbro at Jabal Tirf near Jizan, consists of clinopyroxene gabbro and clinopyroxene olivine gabbro, plus minor troctolite and anorthosite, displaying cumulate textures. Microprobe analyses performed on a sequence of samples, from the bottom to the top of the intrusion, reveal no systematic variation in mineral chemistry with stratigraphic height in the intrusion. Mineral compositions in the Jabal Tirf layered gabbro are similar to the Skaergaard Lower Zone a (LZa), but the intrusion shows no iron-enrichment trend like the Skaergaard. The mineral chemistry of the Jabal Tirf layered gabbro suggests crystallization at approximately 1 kb, liquidus temperature about 1200C, solidus temperature about 950C, and low magma water content. The layered gabbro formed by multiple influxes of already differentiated tholeiitic magma from a single source, possibly a lower crustal magma chamber. Associated diabase dikes formed from the same parental magma as the gabbro. Cogenetic silicic intrusives may result from differentiation of basaltic magma and partial melting of lower continental crust.
30060279|Single crystal X-ray diffraction data on the submicroscopic unmixing of sodic plagioclase provides a theoretical basis for drawing the lower boundary of the amphibolite facies at approximately the
30070518|Observation by Scanning Electron Microscopy of a sericitic quartzite from a low-grade 1 cm-wide shear band developed from an originally pure quartzite revealed a nonconnected intergranular porosity. The isolated pores occur principally on quartz-quartz grain boundaries. Pores surrounding isolated mica flakes show very irregular geometries, reflecting a highly unstable (disequilibrium) crystal-fluid interface, but regular (frequently crystallographic) pore shapes predominate in other grain boundaries. Statistical analysis reveals that the pores are principally concentrated on grain boundaries oriented perpendicular to the two foliations developed within the shear band (i.e., grain boundaries at 45 and 90 to the shear band boundaries), indicating that the fluid phase occupied extensional sites relative to both the overall and local (scale of one microlithon) strain ellipsoids. There is a strong spatial relationship between interfacial porosity and the presence of mica, with the most porous grains occurring adjacent to the mica-rich folia. An aureole of pore space is commonly present around isolated mica flakes, and small mica crystals are found inside these pores. It is concluded that the irregularly shaped pores represent sites of local quartz dissolution associated with syn-kinematic growth of mica. Conversely, the regular pores are interpreted to be grain boundary fluid inclusions (i.e., equilibrium crystal-fluid textures) present during dynamic recrystallization. Based on the spatial relation between pores and serrated-bulged boundaries, a simple mechanism is proposed where solution transfer of silica across intergranular, isolated fluid pockets promotes grain boundary migration.
30059168|Evidence is offered for believing that Cladochonus and Monilipora are really the same genus, not only because they have by description essentially the same characters, but also because they probably have the same genotype. Monilipora was proposed as an independent genus because Nicholson and Etheridge had an erroneous conception of Cladochonus. The Cladochonus of those authors and of much current literature doubtfully existed in nature.
30066179|In humid regions, the silica-to-alumina ratios have been found to provide an easy way to quantify the degree of rock weathering. The reliability of this index depends on the uniformity of the bedrock, the constancy of the alumina content during weathering, the degree of correlation between silica loss and total-element loss, and on the magnitude of the difference between the silica-to-alumina mole-ratio values of fresh and thoroughly weathered rock. Examination of total silicate analyses of fresh and derivative weathered rock from sixty-four non-quartz-bearing volcanic rocks in north-east Papua and forty-eight igneous and metamorphic rocks (some quartz-bearing) from other humid areas revealed extremely good correlation, with a high degree of significance, between the silica loss and the total-element loss, and between the silica-to-alumina mole-ratio and total-element loss. The silica-to-alumina mole-ratio also correlates well with the more complex absolute and relative weathering indices calculated from total-silicate analyses. The simple index should provide a useful guide to the physical, chemical, and engineering properties of weathered rocks.
30079752|Andesitic and dacitic lavas erupted from Quaternary stratovolcanoes in the Central Volcanic Zone (CVZ) of the Andes have major and trace element compositions similar to proposed melts of subducted mid-ocean ridge basalt and Na-rich trondjhemites, tonalites, and granodiorites (TTG) in Early Archean high-grade gneiss terrains. Suites of lavas from individual volcanoes have average La/Yb of 25-45, Sr/Y of 30-65, Yb contents of 1.5-1.1 ppm, and
30060906|Geometrical, erosional, and depositional evidence indicates that three stream piracy events have occurred near the Balcones fault zone in Central Texas. The most ancient episodes of capture (perhaps as old as Miocene) diverted the major streams in the region from predominantly eastward courses to a trend roughly perpendicular to the newly developed Balcones escarpment. The other two types of piracy events are probably ongoing, but only one of these is strongly influenced by the geologic and physiographic setting near the Balcones fault zone. The other occurs only among low-order headwater drainage basins and is controlled by local bedrock and slope conditions and is not largely affected by the larger physiographic influences of the Balcones escarpment.
30084992|A method is discussed by which the aqueous solubility of
30056504|Two examples of folded strata are discussed, in which bedding-plane slip is revealed by the displacements of transverse quartz veins from bed to bed. Detailed examination of a specimen containing argillaceous and arenaceous lamellae affords evidence for an interpretation of the internal readjustments by mass flowage, bedding-plane slip, and slip along planes of fracture cleavage, that went on during folding. The fracture cleavage, although parallel to the axial planes of the folds, is believed to have formed obliquely to the AB plane of the strain ellipsoid.
30078236|Field observations during the winter of 1951-1952 on Wamplers Lake in southeastern Michigan included measurements on the movement of the sheet of lake ice in response to air-temperature fluctuations. The following generalities resulted from the study: (1) A temperature rise of 1 F. per hour prolonged over a period of 12 hours on an 8-inch sheet is sufficient to cause thrust on a shore composed of unconsolidated glacial outwash containing some boulders. (2) The direction of ice thrust against the shore is not everywhere orthogonal to the trend of the shore line on an elongate lake but may be oblique at certain points. (3) Tensional fracturing of the ice due to rapid cooling results in one set of cracks that radiate from the central part of the lake and another set roughly concentric with the shore line.
30065726|The chemical variation among pumice fragments from the Pahute Mesa Member of the Thirsty Canyon Tuff (Black Mountain volcanic center, southwestern Nevada) is consistent with magma withdrawal from a chemically zoned magma body. The top of this magma body contained little chemical variation, the lowest concentration of light REEs, and the highest concentrations of
30056203|Zoisite and clinozoisite were prepared under conditions of high pressure from hydroxide mixtures. The lattice constants of pure zoisite are
30075138|The area studied lies around Bauchi in the northeast of Nigeria and within the basement complex of Nigeria. The rocks here consist of metasedimentary rocks, migmatites, granites, quartz monzonite, and diorite. These are disposed in an aureole with the diorite and monzonite forming a core which is surrounded successively by zones of a biotite-hornblende granite, a finer grained biotite granite, and migmatites. The rocks are described with some petrographic detail. An account of the study made of the myrmekite structure commonly associated with the feldspars of the granites and the monzonite is given; and the structure is suggested as evidence of microclinization by metasomatism. Some features suggested as evidence of probable origin by plutonic process are: the spatial distribution of the rocks, the gradational nature of the boundaries between the principal rocks, the presence of a northeast-southwest lamination common to all the rocks, the crystalloblastic outline of the microcline crystals in the different rocks and the presence of schlieren and such petrographic structure as the myrmekite. This plutonic process probably involves an early introduction of metasomatic microcline and quartz, and a later soaking of the granites by a ferrous-iron-rich migma to produce diorite and monzonite. The migma probably originated partly from the unstable material displaced from the zone of granitization above and partly from the zone of transformation to eclogite below. A similarity of the quartz diorite and monzonite to the Indian charnockite is suggested, and the problem of charnockite genesis is discussed in the light of the present investigation.
30068712|Geothermometry and geobarometry of orthogneisses and metasediments across the Pikwitonei granulite facies domain of central Manitoba shows an increase of paleopressure from about 6 kbar near the orthopyroxene isograd on the east to 12 kbar near the western boundary against the Thompson Nickel Belt. The most consistent geobarometers are based on the assemblage garnet-orthopyroxene-plagioclase-quartz. Associated temperatures determined from various geothermometers are mainly in the range of 700-800C, indicating, with the paleopressures, a steep dP/dT gradient during late Archean metamorphism. Metasedimentary assemblages within the Thompson Belt indicate amphibolite facies metamorphic conditions near 650C and 4.5 kbar, which probably resulted from a mid-Proterozoic (Hudsonian) closure of a continental rift. A few outliers of granulite facies within the Thompson Belt record metamorphic conditions similar to those of the Pikwitonei domain and are probably relics which survived the later event. It is postulated that Archean crust of the Superior Province, bearing the effects of a profound granulite facies metamorphism, was thrusted westward in mid-Proterozoic time onto the Churchill craton. Subsequent isostatic uplift of the thickened crust has exposed a coherent crustal block with a considerable paleopressure variation, and smaller isolated uplifted blocks (the Thompson Belt relics). Water for hydrous retrogression of these blocks probably came from underthrusted Thompson Belt sediments.
30058950|The old theory that frost heaving is due to change in volume of water frozen was based on experiments with closed systems. Field observations and recent experiments indicate that soils, when subjected to freezing under normal conditions, usually behave as open systems. When the freezing of saturated soils results in little or no heaving, part of the water is forced through the soil voids below the zone of freezing, compressing or expelling air. Excessive heaving results when water is pulled through the soil to build up layers of segregated ice. These ice layers grow in thickness because water molecules are pulled into the thin film that separates the growing ice crystals from underlying soil particles. Since heavy surface loads may be heaved and much force is required to pull water through impervious clay, the water is put under high tension. Heaving is limited by the tensile stress that may be developed in the water and by downward growth of ice crystals in soil voids. These two factors also probably explain the rhythmic banding due to alternating layers of ice and clay. In well-consolidated clays the surface uplift equals the total thickness of the ice layers, the water content of the clay between the ice layers remaining approximately constant; but heaving is continuous and regular instead of intermittent. Clay is soft near the lowest ice layer because much of the water is unfrozen, the hardness increasing higher up where the temperature is lower and freezing has gone on for a longer time. Additional evidence has been obtained by freezing in open systems other liquids than water.
30071561|Hornblende and biotite
30080172|Pebble counts were made on a single end- and ground-moraine unit following a grid-sampling plan. The data are presented by a series of maps on which the percentage of each major lithologic type is entered. The resulting distribution patterns indicate that the percentage of a rock type of index grade at a given point in a moraine is dependent upon the provenance of the rock type, its lithologic properties, the nature of the glacial processes, and the dilution it has undergone by the addition of other rock types. The occurrence of striae and facets on pebbles appears to be determined largely by hardness, brittleness, cleavage, grain size, and distance of transport.
30059167|While the literature dealing with the general subject of laccoliths is rather large, yet descriptions and theoretical discussions regarding this type of intrusion are somewhat scattered. In the present paper an attempt is made to collect and classify as many of the known facts as possible, to draw a few general conclusions from the facts so arranged, and to present an experimental method of verifying some of these conclusions which has been developed by the author in the geological laboratories of the University of North Carolina.
30082316|This paper presents a new synthesis of Franciscan Complex tectonics, with the emphasis on the pre-San Andreas fault history of these rocks. Field relations suggest that the Franciscan is characterized by nappe structures that formed during sequential accretion at the trench. The presence of these structures along with other field relations, including the lack of evidence for large offset of conglomerate suites, indicates that strike-slip fault systems of large displacement (>500 km) did not cut the Franciscan Complex during subduction. Regional geology and comparisons to modern arc-trench systems suggest that strike-slip faulting associated with oblique subduction took place inboard (east) of the Franciscan in the vicinity of the magmatic arc. The Franciscan varies along strike, because individual accreted elements (packets of trench sediment, seamounts, etc.) did not extend the full length of the trench. Different depths of underplating, distribution of post-metamorphic faulting, and level of erosion produced the present-day surface distribution of high P/T metamorphism. Franciscan Complex tectonic history can be summarized as follows: (1) East-dipping Francistan subduction initiated beneath, and shortly after formation of the Coast Range ophiolite. (2) High-temperature precursors to Franciscan high-grade tectonic blocks formed as a dynamothermal aureole during subduction initiation beneath the hot hanging wall and were underplated to the upper plate. (3) Subduction continued, the high-grade metamorphic rocks were overprinted with assemblages of increasing P/T ratio as the hanging wall cooled, and the aureole was dismembered into blocks. (4) As subduction progressed, more material was underplated and metamorphosed as coherent blueschist. Peak metamorphic temperatures of successively subducted units decreased with time as hanging wall heat continued to dissipate. (5) Trench sediments with parts of seamounts, oceanic rises, and other small masses on the downgoing plate were underplated or offscraped during approximately 140 m.y. of continuous subduction, forming stacks of nappes. (6) The Mendocino Triple Junction migrated northward, and the subduction zone was replaced by a transform plate boundary associated with the San Andreas fault. Deformation and faulting related to the Neogene transform tectonic regime obscured many subduction-related structures.
30079804|Zircons extracted from a migmatitic orthogneiss of granodioritic composition from Kabala, Kaduna area of northern Nigeria, yielded a SHRIMP
30059987|Two syenites, a syenodiorite, and a granodiorite from the Deboullie Stock were melted in the presence of excess water. In addition, the two syenites-similar in chemical composition but contrasting in the modal amounts of hydrous minerals-were melted with a series of water contents from 0 to 10 wt %. Results from the water-excess experiments are similar to those for other calc-alkaline rocks with the following differences: (1) a clinopyroxene was present through the melting interval for the syenites and syenodiorite and for only part of the interval for granodiorite; (2) at 2 kbar, the quartz-absent syenodiorite began melting at 775C while the other three rocks began melting below 700C; and (3) two feldspars from the syenites coexisted through an interval of 100-150C above the solidus at 2 kbar. Results from the water-deficient runs were difficult to interpret because of disequilibrium within runs lasting 180-330 days. In the vapor-absent region, quartz and feldspars coexist with liquid at temperatures much higher than in the vapor-present experiments. Their upper stability limits are strongly dependent on the water content increasing by about 100 C for 1 wt % decrease in water content.
30061271|A finite-difference numerical program has been constructed to model the thermal structure of a subduction zone, including the combined effects of frictional heating and the heat sink created by dehydration of the subducted oceanic crust. Frictional heating is assumed to begin at the surface and to decrease linearly to zero at the depth at which dehydration begins. Dewatering of the oceanic crust occurs in the 80-125 km depth range and removes approximately 50 cal/gm of oceanic crust dehydrated. In young (<60 m.y. old) island arcs, isotherms are sufficiently elevated by frictional heating to melt the slab, perhaps accounting for the early tholeiitic volcanism recognized in some arcs. In old subduction zones, however, the frictional heating term must be increased to the equivalent of > 10 Kb shear stress (at the surface) before isotherms below the dehydration zone are elevated above the level predicted by conduction models. For lower stresses, the slab at
30062243|A review of recent work in the deeper levels of the Alpine orogene reveals that the orogenic history there can be subdivided into two general phases: main Alpine, the period during which the basement nappes moved into position, and late Alpine, the period of high temperature during which growth and recrystallization of the minerals took place. Main Alpine times lasted from(?) lower Eocene to lower Oligocene, and late Alpine times from lower Oligocene to the beginning of the Pliocene. Postwar work in no way supports the infrastructural-diapiric origin for the basement nappes suggested by Van Bemmelen (1960).
30059325|Petrological, isotopic, and gravity data for a massive granodiorite with K-rich biotite-diorite and tonalite variants in the New England Batholith, Australia, indicate that the more mafic rock types form the lower parts of a pluton that has been tilted so as to expose the base along its southwestern margin. The mafic rocks are inferred to be cumulates of refractory and phenocrystal phases and not the products of independent K-rich basic magmas. This evidence of tilting in the unfoliated granodiorite Uralla pluton suggests that granite samples should be used cautiously in palaeomagnetic-palaeolatitude studies, for the absence of metamorphic foliation is not sufficient evidence that the granite has not been tilted.
30080932|An examination of a partly weathered single crystal of phlogopite (with a low iron content) has been carried out. The only weathering product found is a two-layer clay mineral of the "septechlorite" or antigorite type. Electron microscopic observation shows the absence of epitaxial relations between the two phases. The importance of the iron content of a mica as a controlling factor in its weathering is illustrated.
30065780|Impact structures can be catalogued according to the age of the rocks in which they are now found ("country rocks"). The observed frequency distribution of craters by age of country rock is shown to be statistically indistinguishable from the predictions of a simple model in which it is assumed that the survival time for craters is the same as that for their target rocks. Other models are considered, but do not match the data. A lower limit of the rate of bombardment through the Phanerozoic, based only on documented craters, is
30068714|A model for changes in river channel geometry at a confluence is deduced by substituting the hydraulic geometry relationships into the continuity equation of flow. Changes in the hydraulic geometry variable G can be described by:
30060263|A gravity investigation is presented of the Baraboo syncline, which is an inlier of folded pre-Cambrian igneous and metasedimentary rocks in the flat-lying Paleozoic sedimentary rocks of south-central Wisconsin. This investigation shows that gravity measurements can be useful in depicting the surface geology (lithology and structure) of a limited structural feature-the Baraboo syncline. The regional gravity anomaly consists of the southern terminus of a gravity minimum that is centered over Wisconsin. This minimum is interpreted in the light of seismic crustal studies as originating from a thickening of both the "granitic" layer and the earth's crust. A distinct gravity minimum which cannot be explained by surface geology is found associated with the Baraboo syncline. It is interpreted as originating from a local increase in thickness of the "granitic" layer. This minimum, which is quantitatively investigated, provides the clue which suggests that the Baraboo syncline does not terminate at its western end, as generally believed, but rather extends to the southwest for an additional 5 miles. Other structural and lithologic relations of the syncline are studied with the aid of the gravity data. An analysis of the complementary magnetic study of the Baraboo syncline substantiates the conclusions reached from the gravity investigation.
30061311|The Glenarm series of schists, marbles, and quartzites of the Atlantic Piedmont has been assigned to the pre-Cambrian in numerous recent papers. The apparent superposition of these rocks on strata of known Paleozoic age near the northwestern margin of the Piedmont province is explained by the Martic low-angle overthrust fault. It is the purpose of this paper to reopen the Glenarm-Martic problem by presenting evidence that suggests, first, that the Glenarm Series in southeastern Pennsylvania may be wholly or in part Paleozoic, and, second, that the Martic overthrust does not exist.
30061939|Deformed ultramafic xenoliths with basaltic salvages occur in a postglacial ejecta deposit from Adagdak volcano on Adak Island in the central Aleutian Island Arc. These dunites, wehrlites, clinopyroxenites, and amphibolites are interpreted to be cumulates from primitive arc magmas that formed in magma chambers beneath the crust-mantle boundary. The primitive arc magmas are similar in composition to the xenolith's host basalt (11.8% MgO). Trace element and Nd and Sr isotopic data are consistent with derivation of these xenoliths from the same parent as other Aleutian calc-alkaline volcanic rocks. The peridotite xenoliths contain olivine (F086.6 to 83.2), clinopyroxene (FS4.1En46.4Wo49.5 to FE5.2En46.6Wo48.2), Cr-Al spinel (19-30%
30056758|The Geneva dolomitic limestone of the northern portion of the southern Indiana Middle Devonian region, which formerly has been considered as either a lithologic facies of the Jeffersonville or Sellersburg limestones or both or a distinct formation older than the Jeffersonville, is shown by paleontologic and stratigraphic evidence to be a lithologic facies of the Jeffersonville. Since the Geneva and Jeffersonville are variations of the same geologic formation, the former name, by the custom of priority, should be applied to all the Indiana Devonian of Onondaga age. A direct sea connection between the northern and southern Indiana areas during Sellersburg time is postulated, and a new member of the Sellersburg formation is named.
10.1086/663982|The Sterling Hill and Franklin zinc-iron-manganese deposits, Sussex County, New Jersey, are sedimentary-exhalative in origin but were highly deformed and metamorphosed to granulite grade during the Mesoproterozoic Ottawan orogeny. They are unique because the major zinc minerals, zincite, franklinite, and willemite, are oxides and silicates rather than sulfides. However, at Sterling Hill minor granular sphalerite occurs in the central black willemite zone associated with loelling and graphite and sparsely elsewhere in the deposit. Based on textural observations and stable isotope geochemistry, sphalerite was present during metamorphism and was most likely part of the protolith mineral assemblage. It likely formed from a fluid containing seawater sulfate that circulated through volcanic rocks and reacted with igneous sulfides; some contribution from biological reduction of sulfate seems likely. This interpretation agrees with the generally accepted model that the protolith formed on the floor of an ancient rift in an environment similar to the present-day Red Sea brine pool sediments. The presence of loellingite and absence of pyrite or arsenopyrite in the black willemite zone requires that
30056067|A brief history of packing as it relates to sand-size sediments is presented. Packing is divided into two aspects: the unit property of packing and the aggregate property. A technique for measuring the former is adopted from the work of Masson (1951) and Winsauer et al. (1952) and is called, by this writer, packing proximity (
30056270|Change of facies has resulted in the naming of more formations than exist in the Silurian of New York. The Rochester, Williamson, Sodus, and Reynales formations, or their representatives, have considerable areal extent. The Brewerton and Schroeppel do not appear to be valid units. The Rochester and Irondequoit are here grouped with the Lockport in the Niagara group. The section at Vanhornsville is briefly described and discussed.
30065731|A new hypothesis for dynamic processes in coastal fans is presented, based on the concepts of temporal changes in fan morphology and associated sediment bodies in phased and cyclic mode. These changes, which are marked by overflows from a "fan valley" before its complete burial as well as after the initiation of its entrenchment, are entirely related to relative sea level changes. The hypothesis is exemplified by the Middle Pleistocene to Holocene Tenryugawa fan system, Pacific coast of central Japan.
30059409|The Negaunee iron formation, heretofore treated as a lithologic unit, may be divided into four stratigraphic zones in the area studied. Beginning with the oldest these are: the Makasin Hill zone, characterized by straight bedding throughout and abundant martite in the lower one-third; the North Lake zone, characterized by lenticular groups of strata having concretionary structure, interbedded in a straight bedded formation; the Corning Creek zone, characterized by large, lenticular, wavy-bedded bodies, interbedded in a straight bedded formation; and the Jasper Knob zone, characterized by straight bedding throughout and abundant red jasper, specularite, and magnetite or martite at least in the upper portion, and in most places extending all the way to its base. At the base of this zone there is a thick uralitic dolerite sill of which the possible genetic relation to the distinctive mineralogy of the zone is considered. Structural relations brought out by the subdivision of the Negaunee formation are also described.
10.1086/670722|The Gangrinboche Conglomerate, exposed along the Yarlung-Zangbo suture zone, records a crucial stage of the Himalayan orogeny. The type section of these strata in the Xigaze area, southern Tibet, including the Qiuwu and Dazhuka Formations, was studied by integrated stratigraphic, sedimentologic, petrographic, and geochemical techniques. Palynological data and detrital zircon U-Pb ages indicate that the Qiuwu Formation was deposited during the latest Oligocene to the earliest Miocene (most probably 23 Ma), while the overlying Dazhuka Formation was deposited during 2318 Ma. The Qiuwu Formation was deposited in a deltaic setting, and detritus was entirely derived from the Gangdese magmatic arc in the north. The Dazhuka Formation, in contrast, was deposited in mainly braided river environments and contains clasts derived from both the Gangdese arc in the north and the Himalayan orogen in the south. Clasts derived from the south first occur at the base of the Dazhuka Formation and increase in abundance upsection to become predominant at the top of the formation. This indicates active Early Miocene uplift and accelerated erosion of the Himalayan belt. Paleocurrent data from the Dazhuka Formation show westward axial sediment transport, which together with mixed provenance from both sides of the basin indicates that a paleo-Yarlung-Zangbo River running parallel to the suture zone initiated at the very start of the Miocene, although with flow direction opposite to that of the present. Flow reversal and establishment of the modern eastward-flowing course must have occurred later on in the Neogene, possibly initiating rapid uplift and focused erosion of the Namche-Barwa syntaxis. Basin subsidence at the close of the Paleogene and subsequent development of a major longitudinal paleo-Yarlung-Zangbo took place contemporaneously with initiation of the South Tibetan Detachment System and Main Central Thrust farther to the south, probably reflecting onset of the hard collision phase of the Himalayan orogeny.
30080233|A systematic geochemical examination and zircon UPb dating of Neoproterozoic bimodal volcanic rocks from the Chungju area in the northeast segment of the Okcheon Metamorphic Belt (OMB), South Korea, allow a comparison with similar rocks from the Nanhua Rift, South China. The bimodal metavolcanics of the Chungju area comprise the subalkaline to alkaline basalts (hereafter mafic metavolcanic rocks) and trachytes (hereafter felsic metavolcanic rocks). The mafic metavolcanic rocks are characterized by light rare earth element (LREE)enriched and humped traceelement patterns with moderate depletions in Sr and Ti and variable but reasonably low Nd(
30059963|The following paper is an international attempt to explain the peculiar and interesting "conglomerates" at Quebec and Lvis as submarine landslips in the earlier stages of the development and deformation of a geosyncline. Since the discovery of undoubted ancient tillites and stratified drift in the Paleozoic, there has been a tendency on the part of American stratigraphers to overemphasize the necessity for a glacial origin of some extremely heterogeneous conglomerates and breccias. The authors of this paper review the history of the Quebec controversy from 1860 to the present day and compare the phenomena of the Quebec and Lvis "conglomerates" with those of the Wildflysch and blocs exotiques of the Alps; the Kimmeridgian boulder beds at Brora, Scotland; etc. The origin of the Quebec conglomerates should not be studied as an isolated phenomenon, but must be considered in relation to the history of the geosyncline in which they occur. It remains to test the hypothesis from this general point of view, especially in the field. Finally, the subject transcends the mere origin of the conglomerates and has a direct bearing on paleogeographic problems, such as the presence or absence of land barriers in the Eo-Paleozoic of Eastern Canada.
30081148|Numerous climate models predict that the geography of the supercontinent Pangea was conducive to the establishment of a "megamonsoonal" circulation. In general, geologic evidence supports the hypothesis of a megamonsoon that reached maximum strength in the Triassic. Pangea in the Late Carboniferous had widespread peat formation in what is now central and eastern North America and Europe and relatively dry conditions on the Colorado Plateau. The equatorial region of the continent became drier through the end of the Carboniferous. By the Permian, the equatorial region of Pangea was dry, and indicators of aridity and rainfall seasonality became more widespread. Wind directions from Colorado Plateau eolian sandstones are consistent with an increasing influence of monsoonal circulation at this time. In the Triassic, climate in the Colorado Plateau region became relatively wet, though still seasonal, and the few eolian sandstones indicate a major shift in wind direction at that time. In addition, sedimentation in Australia, which was in relatively high latitudes, took on a much drier and more seasonal character. These two events support the hypothesis that the Pangean monsoon was at maximum strength during the Triassic. In the Early Jurassic, the Colorado Plateau region became arid again, but climate apparently became wetter in eastern Laurussia and Gondwana. Finally, drying occurred in Gondwana and southern Laurasia, indicative of the breakdown of the Pangean monsoon.
30079958|Rare, erosional turret bedforms are described in a coastal foredune environment. These ephemeral structures are formed as a result of moist columns of sand being sculpted by aeolian action of saltating particles. Mature formation of these features appears to be facilitated by the action of an advancing foredune ridge, first preserving and then isolating the turrets for further enhanced erosion within a dune environment. It is envisaged that these structures may be preserved in dune stratigraphy.
30079444|Detrital zircons separated from the Ordovician Armorican quartzite in the foreland of the Variscan belt of Iberia were dated by laser ablation inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry. The age groups found correspond to Proterozoic and Archean crust formation events. The Proterozoic events reflected by zircon ages are AvalonianCadomianPanAfrican (550800 Ma), GrenvilleanSunsas (9001300 Ma), and EburnianTransamazonianIcartian (18002200 Ma). Archean zircon ages are comprised between 2500 and 2800 Ma (CentralAmazonianLiberian events). The presence of Mesoproterozoic (Grenvillean) zircons in the Armorican quartzite, which was deposited in a shallow platform bordering the NW African craton (north Gondwana margin), suggests that the NW Iberian terrane drifted from the South American margin, where it was located during the Neoproterozoic, toward Africa. The drift of the Iberian block, likely achieved via transform faults, was arrested by its docking and amalgamation with the periNW African Neoproterozoic terranes, resulting in the birth of the Paleozoic Armorica Terrane Assemblage.
30068821|The South Tibetan Detachment (STD) System comprises both ductile shear zones and brittle lowangle extensional faults bounding the upper (northern) margin of the highgrade metamorphic and anatectic rocks of the Greater Himalayan Sequence (GHS). Along the Himalayan chain from Zanskar in the west to Bhutan in the east, leucogranites are restricted to the footwall of the STD and rarely, if ever, intrude across the fault into unmetamorphosed sedimentary rocks of the Tethyan zone. The Manaslu leucogranite (2419 Ma) was previously thought to be an exception, intruding up as far as the Triassic sediments. We have mapped a newly discovered 350400mthick shear zone of highstrain mylonites along the upper Nar Valley and Pangre glacier (Phu
30059254|Mud cracks occur in the McMillan formation of the Maysville group at Stonelick Creek, 25 miles east of Cincinnati. The structures are developed in a very fine-grained calcarenite bed 0.3 foot thick, which forms part of a marine sequence of thin, alternating layers of mudstone and limestone. The edges of the mud polygons are from 1 to 3 feet long and are upturned as much as 33 in places.
30064101|Geomorphic features on playas constantly change in response to short-term and long-term climatic fluctuations. Daily and monthly changes in microrelief are commonly caused by playa flooding and by seasonal climatic variations. During summer periods of increased evapotranspiration, water levels drop and salt crusts form in some playas. Long-term climatic variations, which may include the secular changes that followed the "little ice age," caused two important effects on playa basins: (1) lowering of the piezometric surfaces-also caused by man's withdrawal of water-and (2) a change in the nature and density of vegetation cover. The formation of giant desiccation polygons and stripes in playas containing fine-grained silt and clay and the development of micro-karst topography in playas containing evaporites accompanied the lowering of piezometric surfaces. A dramatic example of the sudden formation of giant polygons occurred in 1962 at Rogers playa, California, where 50-m.-diameter polygons developed with individual fissures 1 m. wide and several meters deep. Relict spring mounds and clusters of dead phreatophyte mounds are also associated with lowering water levels. Changes in the nature and density of vegetation combined with water-level changes produced playa expansion and slope retreat. Playa expansion at the expense of adjacent desert flats occurred at Rabbit, Lucerne, and Melville playas, California, and at Stewart Valley playa, Nevada, and Red Lake, Arizona.
30062313|Detailed study of more than forty exposures in the upper Mississippi valley area suggests a logical solution to stratigraphic nomenclature of the Lower Ordovician (Prairie du Chien) strata of this area. Examination of the type area of the Shakopee Formation indicates that strata cropping out in Shakopee, Minnesota, belong to the upper carbonate unit of the Prairie du Chien. The Prairie du Chien Group is comprised of the lower Oneota Dolomite and the upper Shakopee Formation. The Shakopee is subdivided into the New Richmond Sandstone Member and the Willow River Dolomite Member.
30075151|The
30081213|The Mont Rigaud Intrusion is a syenogranitic stock located in the St. Lawrence RiverOttawa River Graben and surrounded by sedimentary rocks of the St. Lawrence Lowlands. The intrusion is circular and divided into three units: an outer ring of hornblende syenite, an inner ring of feldsparhornblende syenite, and an inner core of quartz syenite and granite. Geochemical, UPb, and Nd isotopic data gathered from the stock indicate that all three units are comagmatic and were intruded within a short period of time. Rock samples from the intrusion have a geochemical profile typical of withinplate Atype granites. The pluton is enriched in high field strength elements and rare earth elements and is characterized by negative Eu anomalies in the more fractionated units. The Nd values from the two syenitic units range from +1.5 to +2.2, while the granite yields values of about +0.5. The Nd isotopic data lie below depleted mantle values but above those of the underlying Grenville crust (2.5). Thus, the initial syenitic magma probably did not form by crustal melting but may be a mantlederived melt that has undergone an assimilationfractional crystallization process. UPb zircon studies of the granite unit yielded an age of 564 +10/8 Ma, consistent with the ages of other riftrelated intrusions. Magmatism associated with the St. Lawrence RiverOttawa River Rift falls into two major periods. The first, from 615 to 588 Ma, is characterized by intrusion of mafic dike swarms of tholeiitic affinity. The second, from 577 to 554 Ma, is mostly characterized by alkaline, silicaundersaturated intrusions with minor oversaturated syenitic intrusions, such as the Mont Rigaud Stock. Riftrelated magmatic activity ended with the extrusion of the Tibbit Hill volcanics in the Mont Sutton area of southwestern Quebec.
30071548|Measurement of 3,600 quartzose pebbles from six gravel outcrops, representing fluvial, beach, and glacial deposits in New Jersey, yields the following results. Size distributions of long, "a" axis measurements show that samples of beach pebbles have the largest mean size,
30058217|The melting point of synthetic diopside under pressures up to 5,000 bars was found by experiment to be well represented by the equation.
30081023|A reconnaissance Rb-Sr geochronological investigation of granitoid rocks from the Pampean Range provides a framework whereby four culminations of igneous activity are delineated: granitoids emplaced prior to 500 Ma (pre- and synkinematic bodies), ca. 475 Ma (late kinematic bodies) and ca. 440 and 340 Ma (post-kinematic bodies). A number of the post-kinematic granitoids have disturbed Sr isotope systematics which is related to the formation of microcline megacrysts. The Carboniferous granitoids are distinguished by their high initial Sr ratios (i.e., > 0.710); a feature compatible with an origin involving reworking of upper crust or crustal contamination. There appears to be no systematic E-W migration of granitoid emplacement during the ca. 300 Ma evolution of the basement rocks in the Pampean Ranges.
30062629|Rb-Sr mean model ages of
30062004|The Neogene strata exposed on Nias Island, Indonesia consist of Miocene marls, sandstones, and conglomerates of the Nias beds that overlie the Oyo Complex, a tectonic mlange of pre-Miocene age. They provide an excellent opportunity to study ancient trench-slope sedimentation. Lithofacies and vertical sedimentary sequences in the Nias beds are similar to those described from ancient submarine fan environments. The overall vertical sedimentary sequences in the Nias beds describe a coarsening-and thickening-upward trend. The basal portion of the sections consists dominantly of thin-bedded and fine-grained turbidites and marls of Facies D and G. Sandstone-to-shale ratios show a general up-section increase, which is observed as a corresponding up-section increase in Facies A, B, and C sandstones and a decrease in Facies D siltsones and marls. Within the large-scale thickening-and coarsening-upward cycles are smaller-scale thickening- and coarsening-upward and thinning- and fining-upward cycles characteristic of deposition in various submarine fan environments. The general vertical progression of fan facies is basin plain
30067401|The Oscar Range in Western Australias Canning Basin features inliers of folded Paleoproterozoic quartzite, quartzitic conglomerate, and phyllite that formed islands during the Late Devonian. Undisturbed strata of the Pillara Limestone (Upper Devonian, Frasnian Stage) surround individual paleoislands that rise above the former seabed with a maximum topographic relief of 90 m. On average, the Mowanbini Archipelago (aboriginal name for the Oscar Range) lies 15 km off the granitic and metamorphic mainland represented by the Kimberley Block to the north. Devonian facies on outer rocky shores were studied at three localities near the southeast end of the Oscar Range. At the west end of the study area, a Devonian reef margin sits unconformably on Paleoproterozoic phyllite, but to the east, the reef is separated from rocky shores by a wide lagoon. Massive clastsupported conglomerate and sandstone beds interfinger with backreef carbonates where the reef is closest to land. Across the lagoon 2.5 km eastward, differential erosion between steeply dipping quartzite layers interbedded with softer phyllite resulted in low sea stacks, or skerries. Tabular quartzite cobbles and quartz sand were shed by the skerries as a unidirectional apron of breccia under shoal water conditions. Nearby offshore stromatoporoid thickets reflect growth orientation aligned with paleocurrents compatible with the breccia apron. On a smaller island 2.5 km farther east, lateral transport of debris from a quartzite shore to a contiguous phyllite sector of the coast conforms to the same pattern of water circulation. Overall, the physical geography of outer rocky shores in relation to the lagoon and barrier reef suggests that waves crashed over the reef to energize a longshore current that moved west to east at one end of the Oscar Range. A rapid rise in sea level probably promoted the burial and preservation of the Mowanbini Archipelago, characteristics shared with other examples of quartzite paleoislands that date from Cambrian to Cretaceous times.
30060070|The island of St. Vincent consists of an active volcano and the remains of two or more that are extinct. Late Pleistocene subaerial ash deposits forming the uppermost geologic unit over much of the island are the object of the present study. Most of the deposits are between 20 and 40 feet thick, but they reach a maximum thickness of at least 120 feet. They consist of andesitic lithic, crystal, and vitric material or their weathered equivalents. Plagioclase (
30063418|An attempt has been made to utilize the unmetamorphosed minerals in the Gunflint formation where it is undeformed in the north limb of the Huronian geosyncline to obtain a value for the age of sedimentation of the Animikie. K-Ar and Rb-Sr age measurements on material that is dominantly
10.1086/675255|The late Paleozoic archives a prolonged icehouse, long recognized by means of Gondwanan continental glaciation. In contrast, the paleotropics have long been considered warm. Here we present the hypothesis of upland glaciation in the Ancestral Rocky Mountains (ARM) of western equatorial Pangaea, a region located within 11 of the paleoequator. The data to support this hypothesis include (
30078248|X-ray and chemical studies of the distribution of magnesium in modern calcareous sediments, fossils, and sedimentary rocks were made. The importance of biologically precipitated magnesium in these three materials is discussed. It is suggested that magnesium originally deposited in the skeletons of calcareous marine organisms can be recognized in ancient limestones.
30070468|The controversial issue as to whether or not certain structures in the Niagaran of the Great Lakes region are true reefs is reviewed. Reefs are defined in terms of fundamental biologic potentials of the organisms responsible for them rather than in terms of the present-day appearance of the structures. These potentials are the ability to erect rigid topographic structures by frame-building, sediment-retention and binding, and to create a wave-resistant structure. These have been the basic properties of reef-building biota throughout all time. Organisms potentially capable of erecting the Niagaran structures are shown to have been present. Evidence of their performance capacity is presented. The biologic affinities of the common builders, combining frame-building and sediment-binding abilities, remain to be determined. Stromatoporoids performed these functions in some cases. The character of the niche-dwelling assemblage is reviewed in terms of environmental relations and potential source material for bioclastic debris. The fossil assemblage, the growth forms, and the character of the sediments both off and on the reef enable one to distinguish quiet-, semirough-, and rough-water environments. These criteria show that the builders raised the structures from quiet-water bottoms into the agitated surface waters. The structures are shown to be wave-resistant. Ecologic zoning cannot be demonstrated because of the removal of the critical sections of the core that embodied corresponding growth surfaces and because of masking action by dolomitization. Further evidence of the reef nature of the Niagaran structures is provided by bioclastic debris fans composed of richer and more varied assemblages as compared with those of previous growth stages, structure-mantling debris covers, the halo of reef-created turbulence, and the contribution of much fine reef outwash to the archipelago bottoms. The Niagaran structures, therefore, exhibit all the basic properties of true reefs. The reef shapes, the direction of maximum reef expansion, and the location of the zone of settling of fine clastic sediment by-passed around the reefs show the prevailing winds to be southerly. An example of mass destruction on the lee of a wave-resistant reef, resulting from a northwesterly storm, supports this view. The substrate from which the reef rose is shown to have been unconsolidated muds and bioclastic sands. Coarse skeletal debris is assumed to have formed the attachment surfaces for the pioneer population, but evidence is lacking because of the inadequacy of exposures. The character of the surrounding deposits indicates the probable depth of water; thus the heights attained by the reefs can be estimated. This method shows that the reef heights, ranging from less than 10 feet to a maximum of about 200 feet, increased progressively from the clastic-free belt southward to the archipelago border. The pattern of Niagaran reef distribution is only faintly discernible. Reef-building on a small scale began in Albian time in Michigan and Ontario. Most vigorous growth and maximum spread, resulting in an impressive archipelago, occurred in late Niagaran time. The reef complex progressively expanded west of the Cincinnati arch from a more central position toward its ultimate southern border. High calcium metabolism, shown by mass fixation of the reef biota, and the development of evaporite basins, which may have started inside the archipelago during Niagaran time, constitute evidence of a moderately warm climate in the Niagaran reef archipelago. Tilting of the earth's axis or continental drift, thought by some to account for the spread of reefs into northern latitudes, is not necessary; vigorous northward movement of warm waters due to prevailing southerly winds seems all that is required. A notably lower temperature threshold for the Niagaran reef-builders is also possible.
30082305|The Lyman Glacier is the source of Railroad Creek, a tributary to Lake Chelan. Measurements begun in 1929 show that by 1940 the Lyman Glacier had retreated 643.5 feet, an average of 58.5 feet per year. Evidence is given that the glacier has receded a total distance of 1,748 feet during the last 40-50 years.
30057080|A gabbro-pyroxenite-peridotite complex of probable Permian age intruded meta-rhyolite, also of probable Permian age. A fine-grained quartz-bearing margin of the gabbro against meta-rhyolite probably resulted from slight contamination and chilling. Zoned pegmatites that are closed bodies of random distribution and of varied size and shape occur in the pyroxenite. Typically, they have an outer zone of coarse augite, a middle zone of coarse augite and plagioclase, and an inner zone of finer-grained myrmekitic intergrowth of quartz and albite. Consolidation was from the margin toward the center. Quartz-diorite-aplite dikes cut the gabbro, pyroxenite, and pegmatites. Regional metamorphism of chlorite grade and late Jurassic age affected the region. It is shown that the pegmatites cannot have been metamorphic in origin, nor can they have been derived from xenoliths. It is concluded that they are of igneous origin and that they reflect the normal differentiation sequence of the intrusive complex. Residual liquid disseminated through the pyroxenite and, enriched in volatiles, gathered into pockets in the crystal mush and crystallized, with further differentiation, to form the zoned pegmatites. The first product was the outer zone of coarse augite. This was followed by the middle zone of coarse augite and plagioclase, and in some instances with hornblende and biotite. The remaining liquid, further enriched in water and alkalis, crystallized to quartz and albite in myrmekitic intergrowth. Paulopost alteration converted plagioclase to muscovite and epidote.
30056941|Thickness values for vanished glaciers are useful in solving many of the difficult problems of glacial stratigraphy, sedimentation, and geomorphology, and it is expected that a knowledge of the profiles of vanished continental ice margins may eventually enhance our understanding of the climates of the glacial stages of the Pleistocene epoch. Values for the preconsolidation pressures of silts that were overridden by four oscillations of the Wisconsin continental ice margin were determined in the soil-mechanics laboratory at Purdue University. Results of seven consolidation tests were used to reconstruct part of the vanished East-White sublobe of central Indiana. A paleoglacier map that is presented for this sublobe is for the particular advance whose maximum extent is delineated by the "Champaign" drift boundary. The map shows altitudes on the vanished glacier surface and 200-foot contours as much as 25 miles back from the margin. The glacier is determined to have been 1,690 feet thick at a point 27.6 miles from the margin. A log-log plot of glacier thickness at a consolidation-test site versus till-sheet thickness at the site yields a linear relationship. A nearly linear relationship also is obtained if a log-log plot is made of the distance of a sample site from the glacier margin versus the till-sheet thickness at the sample site. Assuming linearity for the former relationship, a straight-line curve was fitted to the datum points. When glacier thickness and till-sheet thickness are expressed in feet, the equation for this function is
30058269|Microscopic examination of the textures and mineral orientations in the rocks within the Moine thrust belt is used in conjunction with the field evidence, which indicates several movement episodes of differing intensity and character, to elucidate the changing physical conditions in the northwest thrust front of the Caledonides. Many of the mylonites were formed in an early phase of the orogeny, in narrow (primary) "movement zones" in which the movements are concentrated. During a later phase, recrystallization and new mineral growth, under green schist or epidote-amphibolite facis conditions, occurred in the movement zones and outside them in places where secondary movement zones developed. Later phases show rather brittle, localized deformations, often following the earlier movement zones. Comparison is made of the movement zones and shear belts of the thrust belt with those found in other orogenic belts; and also with those found in nearby parts of the Caledonian belt. It is suggested that the primary movement zones are formed by sliding and reactivation of the basement early in the Caledonian orogeny.
30066274|Deglaciation of southeastern Quebec occurred between 12,000 and 13,000 B.P. by northwestward retreat of an active ice-front. Moraines, including the Stoke Mountain Interlobate Moraine and the Cherry River and Highland Front end moraines, which are associated with evidence of readvance, were formed during this general retreat. The Highland Front Moraine probably formed about 12,600 B.P. A complex series of glacial lakes was ponded southeast of the retreating ice-front. Isobases indicate that the water-plane of the Sherbrooke phase of Glacial Lake Memphremagog is tilted up to the northwest at 3.8 feet/mile (72 cm/ kilometer). A lower glacial-lake system may have been confluent with late-glacial water bodies in the St. Lawrence Lowland and Lake Champlain Basin. The marine limit of the Champlain Sea is at an altitude of 540 feet (165 m.); shells of the Champlain Sea have been dated at
30060990|The granitic masses of the western half of the Waswanipi map-area in northwestern Quebec are of two general types-(1) reddish to gray, coarse-grained, somewhat porphyritic, gneissic quartz-diorites, and (2) red to gray, medium- to fine-grained, quartz-diorites to granodiorites, and rarely soda granites. The rocks surrounding the batholiths are Keewatin-type volcanics, sediments, and anorthosite. Field evidence indicates that the gneiss is older than the massive quartz-diorite, and mineralogic and textural evidence indicates that the gneissic type represents a metamorphosed shell of invaded rocks altered by emanations from a solidifying batholith. The medium-to fine-grained type represents an intermediate zone between metamorphosed country rock-forming Type I and still later solidifying magma.
30062467|Recent work on the formation of folds is reviewed critically and found inadequate to account for the similar folding of inhomogeneous sequences. The geometry of the fourth-phase structures, typical of the later secondary phases of folding, is described from an area where the prior attitudes of the earlier primary structures can be inferred. Four stages in progressive secondary deformation can be recognized. The structures formed are, ideally, (1) conjugate sets of phyllitic (strainslip) cleavages, (2) conjugate sets of similar folds with axial planes parallel to one or other of the cleavage sets, (3) single sets of similar folds formed by the suppression of one or other of the conjugate sets of folds, and (4) single sets of "composite" folds. Flinn's (1962) methods indicate that the deformation was biaxial, at least in the less intense stages. A Compatibility Principle is outlined whereby the strains undergone by adjacent limbs of a similar fold can be related. It is applied to a simplified model of the conjugate folds, and the states of infinitesimal and finite strains are determined quantitatively. Simple shear parallel to the axial planes, and not "flexure gliding" parallel to the layers, is the mechanism of folding. By relating the stress field directly to the state of infinitesimal strain, it is confirmed that the axial planes of conjugate folds lie at approximately 45 to the maximum principal stress. Various modifications of this model account for the actual geometry of conjugate folds. The present hypothesis is discussed in relation to the suppression of one of the conjugate fold sets in the third stage, and the conclusions reached are shown to be able to account satisfactorily for the development of single sets of folds and their axial planar cleavages from the start of deformation. The kinematic and dynamic interpretation of such folds is discussed. The development of phyllitic cleavages is discussed in relation to the folding. Such cleavages cannot be interpreted as "shear fractures" but are shown to form by the microfolding of the primary mica fabric accompanied by the pressure solution of quartz against mica. The apparently anomalous displacements on such cleavages are compatible with the strain undergone during the folding. It is suggested that the behavior of rock masses undergoing deformation is plastic in nature, rather than viscous. By analogy with the plastically deformed layers within metals, which form by simple shear parallel to the theoretical slip planes of plastic strain, it is concluded that secondary folds are initiated by local stress concentrations exceeding the yield stress of the rocks involved. The general implications of this hypothesis are considered.
30066059|Grain size distributions commonly show discontinuities and straight line segments when plotted (using the phi transformation) on probability paper. The different components making up the distribution have commonly been interpreted as subpopulations of grains moved by different transport mechanisms. The paper considers this hypothesis for the restricted case of the two coarsest components observed in many samples of river bed materials. By comparing analyses of bed materials and suspended load, it is shown that the components may be interpreted as (C) traction, and (A) intermittent suspension subpopulations, moved by the dominant discharge of the river. From an analysis of theory, experiments and field data on turbulence in open channels, it is shown that a satisfactory though approximate hydraulic criterion for separating the two mechanisms of sediment transport is as follows: grains move by traction if their settling velocity is larger than the shear velocity of the stream, and by intermittent suspension if their settling velocity is smaller than the shear velocity. This criterion is confirmed by comparison with hydraulic and sediment data for the Middle Loup, Niobrara, Elkhorn, Missouri, Mississippi and Rio Grande Rivers. Consequently, it should be possible to determine the dominant shear velocity of ancient fluvial sands by determining the size "break" between their two coarsest components.
30058681|The Mammoth embayment, a downfaulted block along the eastern slope of the Sierra Nevada, is surfaced in part by a large rhyolite field made up of curved ridges and irregular domelike masses of lava. The extrusions responsible for this landscape welled up from numerous fissures that traversed the embayment floor. The fissure pattern, as revealed by the flow structure of the rhyolite, shows a discordant relationship with the regional fracture system. It is believed that this discordancy was caused by a northwestward horizontal shift of the Sierra Nevada, subjecting the embayment to clockwise torsion. The similarity of the structural pattern of the rhyolite to the whorl-like flow structures in portions of the Sierra Nevada pluton suggests a similar mode of origin.
30060075|The type locality of the Loveland formation was destroyed in 1957 when the site was used as a borrow pit for road construction. A new cut adjacent to the type section is described and characterized by textural, organic-carbon, and mineralogical analyses. The exposure is recommended as a new type section. The sequence and characteristics of the Pleistocene deposits exposed in the new section are similar to those of the former type locality except for the lack of reddish color in the Loveland loess and the presence of 13.5 feet of Farmdale loess, one of the largest thicknesses yet reported in Iowa. Distinguishing features of the Sangamon and Farmdale paleosols are color, texture, and content of organic carbon and the clay mineral vermiculite.
JG80141|Collision orogens such as the Alps or the Himalayas are generated by plate convergence, culminating in attempted subduction of a thinned continental margin. Massive amounts of metamorphic rocks displaying high-pressure parageneses are produced during such relatively brief tectonic events and then rapidly exhumed to form the axial backbone of the new orogen. Sediment composition provides a fundamental key to identify past events of continental subduction, although coupled detrital-geochronology techniques are needed to discriminate neometamorphic and paleometamorphic sources of detritus. Within the Austroalpine Cretaceous and Penninic Eocene axial belts of the Alps, we ideally distinguish three structural levels, each characterized by diagnostic detrital fingerprints. The shallow level chiefly consists of offscraped remnant-ocean turbidites and unmetamorphosed continental-margin sediments and mostly produces lithic to quartzolithic sedimentaclastic sands yielding very poor heavy mineral suites including ultrastable minerals. The intermediate level includes low-grade metasediments and polymetamorphic basements and sheds quartzolithic to feldspatholithoquartzose metamorphiclastic sands yielding moderately rich epidote-amphibole suites with chloritoid or garnet. The deep level contains eclogitic remnants of continent-ocean transitions and supplies feldspatholithoquartzose/feldspathoquartzose high-rank metamorphiclastic to lithic ultramaficlastic sands yielding rich to extremely rich suites dominated by garnet, hornblende, or epidote, depending on protoliths (continental vs. oceanic) and pressure/temperature paths during exhumation. Although widely overprinted under greenschist-facies or amphibolite-facies conditions, occurrence of ultradense eclogite in source areas is readily revealed by the heavy mineral concentration (HMC) index, which mirrors the average density of source rocks in the absence of hydraulic-sorting effects. Rather than the pressure peak reached at depth, the metamorphic index (MI) and hornblende color index (HCI) reflect peak temperatures reached at later stages, when subduction is throttled by arrival of thicker continental crust and geothermal gradients increase, as documented in detritus derived from the Tauern window and Lepontine Dome. Experience gained from modern sediments provides fundamental help to decrypt the information stored in the sedimentary record and thus to identify and reconstruct subduction events of the past.
30063908|The Keivy alkaline province, Kola Peninsula, consists of six peralkaline granite bodies, alkaline syenogranite dikes, and two nepheline syenite intrusions emplaced between the tonalitetrondhjemitegranodiorite basement and the supracrustal Keivy terrane. UPb zircon ages for the Keivy alkaline province range from 2613 to 2682 Ma and, for the spatially associated gabbroanorthosite complexes, from 2659 to 2668 Ma. The Keivy alkaline granitoids are geochemically different from other Late Archean alkaline rocks inferred to have been emplaced in subduction zone settings. The Keivy alkaline province may represent the earliest example of magmatism associated with continental rifting and the involvement of a mantle plume with oceanic island basaltlike characteristics.
30056374|In considering variations in the radiocarbon content of natural material, it is important to distinguish between processes of fractionation and of dilution; thus the accumulated data on C13 variations can be useful if correctly interpreted. In this paper the mechanism of the isotopic fractionation in plants is discussed, in an attempt to evaluate the relative effects of the local environment and of the activities of the plants themselves. It is shown that "cyclic enrichment processes" have had no effect on the isotopic composition of the various groups of plants. The relationships between C13 and C14 variations in depositional processes of carbonaceous materials are discussed with respect to the relative enrichment of these isotopes in carbonates, and an estimated "age" is derived for the carbon in the ocean. The established ranges of C13 concentration in the various types of carbonaceous materials allow accurate estimates to be made of the errors which can be introduced in radiocarbon dating by natural isotopic fractionation and the processes of chemical and bacterial decay. Some 30 new C13 analyses of carbonate and plant samples are given.
30060991|Ice flowage in response to the laws of fluid mechanics is shown by analyses of deflection striae found on the exposed floor of the Clements Glacier in Glacier National Park. This is particularly well shown at places where the ice has moved across angular steps and small transverse trenches in the glacier floor. At such places deflection of the ice resulted from differential pressures, which in turn resulted from flow at differential velocities. At several localities it was discovered that this mechanism had been capable of forming eddy-like currents in the ice. An attempt is made to ascertain the minimum thickness of ice necessary to produce such flow. It is found to be between 100 and 200 feet. It is assumed that 150 feet is a reasonable figure. This corresponds to a pressure of
30064174|The most recent global icehousehothouse climate transition in earth history began during the Permian. Warmer polar conditions, relative to today, then persisted through the Mesozoic and into the Cenozoic. We focus here on two Permian stages, the Sakmarian (285280 Ma) and the Wordian (267264 Ma; also known as the Kazanian), integrating floral with lithological data to determine their climates globally. These stages postdate the PermoCarboniferous glaciation but retain a moderately steep equatortopole gradient, judging by the level of floral and faunal differentiation. Floral data provide a particularly useful means of interpreting terrestrial paleoclimates, often revealing information about climate gradations between dry and wet endmember lithological indicators such as evaporites and coals. We applied multivariate statistical analyses to the Permian floral data to calibrate the nature of floral and geographical transitions as an aid to climate interpretation. We then classified Sakmarian and Wordian terrestrial environments in a series of regional biomes (climate zones) by integrating information on leaf morphologies and phytogeography with patterns of eolian sand, evaporite, and coal distributions. The dataderived biomes are compared here with modeled biomes resulting from new Sakmarian and Wordian climate model simulations for a range of CO
30069405|Four distinct clay-mineral provinces are identified in Peoria loess in the Mississippi River basin: upper Ohio, Wabash-Illinois, upper Mississippi-Missouri, and lower Mississippi. The kaolinite-illite-expandable mineral compositions and the vermiculite-montmorillonite compositions differ distinctly in these depositional provinces. The upper Mississippi-Missouri province, 60% of the area of the Mississippi River Basin, is the dominant source region for clay minerals in the Peoria loess along the lower Mississippi Valley.
30063377|Dredge samples of a coarse sediment taken from a depth of 150 fathoms of water off the southeast end of Santa Catalina Island, California, exhibit characteristics that suggest the sediment to be of beach origin. The conclusion is reached that the island has subsided approximately 600 feet in post-Middle Miocene time, and possibly in post-Pleistocene time.
30068448|The Poohbah Lake intrusive is an alkalic stock, some 6 miles long and 2 1/2 miles wide, elongated in a northeast-southwesterly direction. The stock is intrusive into the early pre-Cambrian mica schists in several different facies, among which are malignites and related alkalic types. This is the type locality for malignite. The stock was once described by Lawson, but certain details are added, along with a discussion of its probable origin. Two new chemical analyses are presented. There is no evidence for the presence of a limestone near by, and Bowen's theory of crystallization differentiation best explains the origin of this alkalic stock.
10.1086/677843|Crustal deformation occurred widely in the Yanshan tectonic belt, north of the North China Craton, and its time and mechanism remain as open problems. On the basis of new structural data and
30063355|Middle Ordovician formations outcrop in several anticlinal areas in central Pennsylvania between Path Valley and the Allegheny Front. There are about 1,500 feet of limestone and shale representing the Chazyan and Mohawkian series. A number of conclusions have been reached, and many problems remain to be solved. The area lies in the eastern part of the Allegheny stratigraphic belt, extending to the Adirondack axis, which passes along Path Valley; rocks in the Cumberland Valley on the southeast were formed in the Champlain miogeosynclinal belt. Of the Chazyan formations, the stratigraphy of the Loysburg formation is insufficiently known; the Hatter formation thins southeastward by overlap. The lower Mohawkian, Black River, Benner, and Curtin limestones thin southeastward to extinction beyond the Adirondack axis, principally through offlap and truncation. The higher Mohawkian, Trenton, formations are the Nealmont, Salona, and Coburn limestones and the Antes black shale. The Nealmont, lower Trenton, lies with pronounced regional unconformity on older rocks and thins by overlap from a maximum in a northeast-trending belt within the area of outcrop. The Salona, middle Trenton, is rather constant in lithology and thickness in most of the area, converging rapidly as it approaches the Adirondack axis. The distribution of the upper Trenton Co-burn and Antes formations is insufficiently known. The stratigraphy of the economically important Valentine "chemical" limestone, the upper member of the Curtin formation, has an important bearing on the understanding of the behavior and distribution of the unit. Metabentonites, present in the Benner, Curtin, Nealmont, and Salona limestones, permit more precise correlation of sections and interpretation of relationships than are normally possible.
30068534|U-Pb ages were determined on metamorphic sphenes and monazites from the Late Proterozoic Adirondack Highlands and Lowlands in the vicinity of the Carthage-Colton mylonite zone. Monazites were extracted from metapelites, and sphenes were separated from marbles, calc-silicate gneisses, and granite gneisses in order to determine the timing and the duration of metamorphism as well as the cooling histories for rocks on either side of the mylonite zone. Monazite ages from the Lowlands range from 1171-1137 Ma; sphene ages in the Lowlands range from 1156-1103 Ma, those from the Highlands immediately to the east of the mylonite zone range from 1050-982 Ma. The ages indicate that the last high-grade metamorphism in the Highlands is ca. 100 m.y. younger than in the Lowlands and that both terranes had separate cooling histories at least until ca. 1000 Ma. Sphenes from within the Carthage-Colton mylonite zone yield ages of about 1098 Ma, which are distinct from sphene ages on either side of the shear zone. The mineral ages, structures, and metamorphic histories suggests that the Carthage-Colton mylonite zone is a fundamental tectonic boundary within the Proterozoic Grenville Orogen of North America.
30062312|Spray-on colored paint stripes were used to determine the direction of particle movement along the beach face of the Homer Spit. The observations were made over a 5-day period, and after each tidal change the locations of individual particles were plotted. The observations indicated that the method offered an inexpensive way to determine the short-term movement of beach material.
30056064|Sedimentary petrology was used in this provenance study to map regional mineral associations and to indicate the composition and tectonic states of their source areas. Quantitative estimates of tourmaline roundness and varieties of quartz were the primary basis for recognizing two regional mineral associations. The statistical significance of quartz varieties and tourmaline roundness was evaluated with a form of multivariate analysis. Estimation of the other mineralogical constituents supplemented the differentiation of mineral associations and the reconstruction of source-area composition. The two areas of contrasting mineral associations are western Illinois (no metamorphic quartz pebbles, high tourmaline roundness, low metamorphic quartz, insignificant feldspar) and the remainder of the areas studied, including southern Illinois, Indiana, eastern and western Kentucky, Ohio, and Michigan (metamorphic quartz pebbles, low tourmaline roundness, medium to high metamorphic quartz, 1-5 per cent feldspar). The source-area interpretation, based on integration of petrology with cross-bedding, indicates that a source to the north and northwest of western Illinois-in the direction of the Transcontinental Arch-contributed detritus to western Illinois. Sources contributing to the rest of the north-central United States lay to the north and northeast-parts of the Canadian Shield and uplifted parts of the linear mobile belt bordering the craton on the east. The clastic material from all sources was primarily from pre-existing sediments, but that from the Transcontinental Arch had a long abrasion history of many earlier sedimentary cycles, whereas that from the east and northeast was only a few cycles removed from igneous and metamorphic derivation. The craton sloped southwest from the most stable parts of the continent to the more rapidly subsiding portions of the mobile belt. Basal Pennsylvanian sediments overlapped the craton in a northeasterly direction, up the regional slope.
30067422|In an article by N. L. Bowen on "The Problem of the Anorthosites," he developed his idea on gravitational differentiation of magmas. Like all of Bowen's works, this one is succinct, which, however, does not affect its clearness, but the hypotheses and theses exhibit many misunderstandings. Attention is called to these in this paper.
30070462|The Capitan is the best known of the larger Permian barrier reefs of the Southwest. This paper describes the sedimentation and depositional environment of this well-known reef.
30062131|Some vesicles in certain subaerial flows of basalt and basaltic andesite are partially filled with dark, partly-glassy segregation material. The segregation material has about three times the concentration of KO, TiO, and PO as the associated host rock. Therefore, the segregation materials are inferred to be frozen residual liquids that migrated into the vesicles. Several possible processes for filling the vesicles are examined within the context of the cooling time implied by heat conduction. The preferred process is one in which the residual liquid migrates through a porous and permeable, but rigid, network of interlocking crystals in response to a pressure gradient generated by vapor saturated crystallization. As crystallization proceeds HO is concentrated in the residual liquid and gas. This produces a higher pressure in the gas-poor matrix than in the vesicles and forces liquid to migrate into the vesicles. Textural features suggestive of or consistent with the process include: (1) vesiculation of segregation material, (2) convex perforations of the segregation lining of vesicles, (3) vuggy voids in the matrix, and (4) bubbles in residual glass. We suggest that filter pressing by gas effervescence may petrologically be important to crustal depths as great as several kilometers.
30060249|Plate tectonics can be used as a framework for relating diagenesis to geological and geophysical parameters: regional tectonics, including rates of subsidence, uplift and deformation; volcanism and plutonism; heat flow; and transport of formation waters. These parameters affect diagenetic variables: the primary detrital-chemical assemblage; composition of early interstitial waters; rates and depth of burial; length of time buried; geothermal and pressure gradients; and oscillatory vertical movements. The consequences of changes in the values of these variables are illustrated for the diagenesis of the silica polymorphs, Ca- and Mg-carbonates, zeolites, and clay minerals. The unstable nature of biogenic opaline silica components of the primary assemblage leads to successive polymorphic inversions, ultimately to microcrystalline quartz chert. Pressure and temperature control the solubility and rate of inversion of all silica polymorphs. Carbonate systems also are controlled both by the presence of unstable phases (Mg-calcite, aragonite) in the primary assemblage and the effects of pressure and temperature on solubility. In later diagenesis oscillatory movements lead to reversals or replacements of carbonates. Zeolites are derived from the marine and nonmarine alteration of volcaniclastics. Burial, accompanied by pressure and temperature increases, produces the diagenetic zeolite facies. Clay minerals of both terrigenous and marine volcanic derivation are responsive to ion-exchange and silicate reconstitution reactions in early interstitial waters. Pressure and temperature increases lead to the stable chlorite-illite assemblage under deep-burial conditions. Plate-tectonic environments are for simplicity classified as mid-ocean ridge, trailing edge (passive), subduction, continent-continent collision, rift valley, and intraplate (cratonic). Mid-ocean ridges are sites of thin pelagic sediment accumulation affected by high heat flow, hydrothermal activity, and volcanic activity, followed by decreasing heat flow and slow burial as the sediments spread from the ridge. Geothermal gradients are higher in these marine sediments than they are on the continents. Muddy and sandy sediments remain largely unlithified except for layers of chert and limestone. Trailing edges are characterized by lowered heat-flow rates and reduced geothermal gradients, as well as rapid subsidence and burial of terrigenous detrital and chemical sediment after the initial opening phase in which evaporites and heavy metal deposits are formed. The resulting rocks are moderately cemented and lithified by carbonate and quartz and, in deeper zones, have the stable chlorite-illite mineral pair. Volcaniclastics are rare, as are zeolites. Subduction zones, a diverse group of subenvironments, are regions where low heat flow, rapid subsidence, and burial, accompanied by crumpling, operate on turbidites and pelagics, together with large amounts of volcaniclastic debris from nearby island arcs. Zeolites, smectites, and low-temperature-high-pressure mlanges, including ophiolites, are produced. Continent-continent collisions produce enormous quantities of terrigenous detritus deposited in both terrestrial and marine environments, from intermontane basins with subaerial exposure and meteoric water infiltration to submarine fans and plains. Geothermal gradients are low, sedimentation and burial are rapid, and diagenesis is mild, except in sections that have remained deeply buried for 100 m.y. or more. Diagenesis of rift-valley sediment is related to the abundance of volcaniclastics, mixed with alluvial and lacustrine deposits, all buried rapidly in regimes of high heat flow and hydrothermal activity. Intraplate diagenesis is the result of low subsidence and sedimentation rates in low continental heat-flow regimes. But oscillatory movements are frequent, and complex parageneses of authigenic mineral replacements indicate multiple changes in formation-water composition. A uniformitarian approach to this subject is valid only for the Phanerozoic, for present-ay patterns of plate tectonics may not have existed during earlier times when heat flow from the interior was differently distributed.
JG80238|The quantitative significance of coarse-grained deposits in the overbank realm, such as crevasse-splay deposits, has not been studied at the delta scale or at the Holocene timescale. Such knowledge would be beneficial for understanding and explaining sediment distribution in delta plains. This study addresses delta-scale distribution of sand-containing basin fills and their sand-body proportion variability, based on eight valleywide cross sections in the Holocene Rhine-Meuse delta in the Netherlands. We found that sand-containing basin fills form 7.1% of the fluviodeltaic wedge, of which splay deposits are most frequently observed midway between the delta apex and the coast. Organic-clastic lake fills and bay-head delta deposits, in contrast, are limited to the distal delta plain. Over four successive periods (between 9000 and 800 cal yr BP), the largest proportions of splay deposits remain at 50150 km downstream of the upstream-shifting delta apex. We show that intermediate floodbasin widths (between 3.1 and 3.6 km in the Holocene Rhine-Meuse delta) yield the highest proportions of splay deposits. High rates of base-level rise and wide floodplains both facilitate the creation of accommodation, which in turn provides conditions for peat-forming wetlands in which organic-clastic lake fills can develop. The results show that sand bodies form 26%30% of sand-containing basin fills. This proportion is shown to be controlled by, among other variables, channel planform and superelevation of the trunk channel and substrate composition. We conclude that potentially large volumes of nonchannel sand bodies exist in distal delta plains. They constitute up to 39% of the reservoir volume in the distal Rhine-Meuse delta and yield relatively high connectedness ratios.
30065015|On the west flank of the Sawatch Range, Colorado, evidence is found for six distinct glacial advances One glaciation is pre-Wisconsin, four are Wisconsin, and one post-Wisconsin in age. In addition to end and lateral moraines of each advance, terrace remnants of six valley trains were identified and studied for a distance of 25 miles along Frying Pan River and its major tributaries. Elevations above stream level of these outwash terraces are 400-450, 90-120, 50-40, 20-30, 12-17, and 6-8 feet. Five of the tributary valleys contained large ice streams which did not join the trunk Frying Pan glacier during the Wisconsin stage. Extensive review and testing of the numerous criteria used to distinguish deposits of multiple glaciations show that nine of these criteria can conveniently be expressed in parameters indicative of relative age. Estimates based on these criteria, coupled with a recent radiocarbon dating of late Mankato till in the Midwest, yield the following approximate ages for deposits of the six glaciations in Frying Pan Valley: 230,000, 63,000, 46,000, 17,000, 11,500, and 5,750 years. The accuracy and reliability of the procedure used cannot be evaluated without further absolute Carbon 14 age determinations.
30064982|Correlated periodicities of mass extinctions, climate, magnetic-field reversals, and other geological phenomena may best be explained by cycles of activity within the mantle and core. We propose that these cycles are due to variations in the thickness of the thermal boundary layer at the base of the mantle as the layer alternates between two phases of activity. In the quiescent phase little flow occurs and the layer thickens with time by thermal diffusion. The active phase begins when the thickening layer becomes dynamically unstable. Hot material erupts from the layer, causing it to become thinner. As the layer thins, the rate of energy supply to the geodynamo, and hence its reversal frequency, increases. The hot material rises to the surface, where it causes widespread basaltic volcanic eruptions. These eruptions release large amounts of
30065778|Etching is a mechanism of landform development involving two stages or phases. First, a regolith develops as a result of interaction between groundwaters and country rock. The surface of contact between the two, called the weathering front, develops a relief as bedrock weaknesses are exploited by chemical corrosion. Second, the regolith is stripped to expose the weathering front as an etch surface. Etch forms are widely distributed but are especially well developed and preserved in the relatively stable shield lands. They range in scale from the plains and hills of inselberg landscapes to minor features such as boulders, gutters, basins, flared slopes, scarp-foot depressions, and pitted surfaces. Many etch forms have two ages, one related to the period of subterranean preparation, the other to the exposure of the erstwhile weathering front. Many are developed in a variety of rock types as well as in a considerable range of climatic settings. Etching carries several implications for landform interpretation. Also, the validity of the mechanism calls into question the efforts invested in studies of epigene processes. The explanation of many erosional forms is to be found in the interplay of bedrock and groundwaters at the weathering front, not in the processes and mechanisms operative at the land surface.
30056623|Historical, botanical, and geological studies in a part of the Coast Mountains of British Columbia show that all the existing glaciers of that area are retreating from climaxes attained in the early part of the eighteenth century and in the middle of the nineteenth century. A rapid rate of shrinkage, amounting to a loss in depth of as much as 12 1/2 feet of ice annually, has prevailed, however, only since the second and third decades of this century and has coincided approximately with a relatively warm period indicated by meteorological records. In three of four glaciers studied, the maximum advance of the last three centuries exceeded any other since the latter part of the Pleistocene epoch, and one of these three glaciers has been as extensive as it was in 1947 for only about four centuries since the deglaciation of its basin by the Cordilleran ice sheet in late Wisconsin time. For a fourth glacier, however, the advances of the past few centuries failed by far to reach the limits of a much earlier, probably late Pleistocene, advance. Reduction in its potential accumulation area as a result of unusually rapid lowering of its cirque head wall by erosion may account for the anomalous behavior of this glacier. Many low-level cirques, formed by early or pre-Wisconsin alpine glaciation, have not been reoccupied by local bodies of ice during or since the disappearance of the Cordilleran ice sheet.
30064659|A whole-rock rubidium-strontium isochronal age on Mount Bohemia syenodiorite establishes it as
30065622|Slaty cleavage developed in finely interlayered phyllite and metasiltstone of eastern Ocoee Gorge, Tennessee is defined by zones enriched in cleavage-parallel white mica (P domains), alternating with zones enriched in quartz and feldspar (Q domains). P domains are better developed in phyllite than in metasiltstone layers, where they tend to be discontinuous and widely spaced. Growth of new mica and recrystalliza-tion of clays and mica appear to have been essential processes in the development of the domainal slaty cleavage fabric. Constituent components of mica, in particular potassium, may have been transported into P domains, perhaps by fluids generated during diagenesis and low-grade metamorphism of these argillaceous sediments. Pressure solution of quartz and its mass transfer from P to Q domains may have contributed to the development of some domains but does not appear to have occurred universally. Similarly, a degree of passive concentration of resistant phases, such as rutile, probably occurred within some P domains and may have been due to pressure solution transfer to quartz. Evidence supporting these conclusions is textural and chemical and includes (1) the greater concentration of K than of Ti in most P domains relative to neighboring Q domains; (2) the greater mica/chlorite ratio in P than in Q domains; (3) compositional differences between P and Q domain phyllosilicates; (4) geometry of quartz overgrowths that suggest many quartz grain shapes are controlled by overgrowth precipitation, rather than pressure solution; and (5) P domain morphologies that suggest P domains propagated upward from phyllite layers into metasiltstone layers.
30062116|Compositional flow bands in glassy andesite from the Pavlof volcanic center, Alaska, have textures indicative of fracture of liquid: (1) Round vesicles truncate flow bands. (2) Some vesicle walls are continuations of fractures through pieces of individual phenocrysts. (3) Bands curve around most phenocrysts. (4) Some bands cut across other bands. (5) Many bands converge into a vesicle or point. The last point suggests that initially large vesicles shrank or blinked-out before or during extrusion. Therefore, we infer that some vesicles formed at local, transitory dynamical pressures less than the ambient static pressure, as required if vesiculation was initiated by fracture of the liquid. Fracture vesiculation of viscous magmas may help explain the explosivity of some eruptions, the rapid decline in rate of extrusion, and mixing of magmas.
30067025|One of the most famous fossiliferous Pleistocene sites in the Pacific Northwest is Fossil Lake, Oregon. Until recently, fossil collections from the area were not stratigraphically controlled, owing to the lack of a detailed stratigraphic and chronologic framework. Our field studies reveal at least nine exposed thin rhythmic finingupward depositional packages, most separated by disconformities. Analysis of interbedded tephras reveals that the Rye Patch Dam (646 ka), Dibekulewe (610 ka), Tulelake T64 (95 ka), Marble Bluff (47 ka), and Trego Hot Springs (23.2 ka) tephra layers are present in the section, indicating deposition from more than 646 ka to less than 23 ka, which includes both the late Irvingtonian and Rancholabrean North American land mammal ages, a much longer time span than previously believed. Bones analyzed from eight of the defined units have distinctly different rare earth element (REE) signatures. Fossils obtain REE during early diagenesis, and signatures are probably closely related to lake water compositions. REE signatures in fossils from lower packages suggest uptake from neutral pH waters. In contrast, REE signatures become increasingly heavy REEenriched upsection, with positive Ce anomalies in the upper units. REE signatures in fossils from the upper units are very similar to waters from modern alkaline lakes, such as Lake Abert, Oregon, suggesting diagenetic uptake in increasingly alkaline and saline waters. These REE changes suggest increasing aridity upsection, a contention reinforced by the habitat preferences of the terrestrial vertebrates preserved.
10.1086/663974|Age frequency distributions of various rock types now exposed at Earth's surface primarily reflect characteristic crustal depths at which they originate and the cumulative influence of vertical tectonic movements that displace them. Abundances of mid- to upper-crustal lithosomes increase rapidly to some modal age and then gradually decrease with increasing age. Paucity of exposures younger than the modal age reflects an intrinsic interval of geologic time needed for tectonic movements to exhume rock units, while increasing rarity of exposures older than the modal age reflects the overall dispersion (uplift and erosion, subsidence and burial) from initial lithosome positions relative to Earth's surface. We develop a random-walk model that describes the geologic cycling of crustal rock as a tectonically driven diffusive system because, at a globally averaged spatial and temporal scale, tectonic subsidence/burial and uplift/erosion are essentially random processes. From this, we produce solutions to the diffusion equation with an appropriate source term and boundary conditions that predict the crustal distribution of lithosomes in time and depth. We next use diffusion of implanted isotopes and trace elements as a computational analogue for the diffusion of crustal lithosomes on a tectonic scale. Both comprise random dispersion within systems with an absorbing boundary, and either is represented by one-dimensional diffusion. We use analytical solutions from atomic diffusion studies to derive a tectonic diffusion coefficient that describes the movement of lithosomes in time-crustal depth space. Tectonic diffusion coefficients from best-fit approximations to age frequency distributions of porphyry copper deposits, globally exposed granite plutons, North American granite plutons, and dated samples of U.S. granitic rock, expressed as
30056042|The tidal delta at Barnegat Inlet and deposits at other New Jersey inlets shown on coast charts suggest an orderly evolution of deposits in tidal lagoons on young shorelines of emergence. In an effort to deduce this evolution from the factors governing tidal inlets, hypotheses are presented according to the following sets of assumed conditions: (1) the inlets open simultaneously and remain stationary; (2) the inlets open successively and remain stationary; (3) the inlets open simultaneously and migrate rapidly; and (4) the inlets open successively and migrate rapidly. Each hypothesis is presented in a series of five stages of development of the same part of the same shoreline, but it is believed that the different stages all may exist on different parts of the same shoreline at the same time. The theory is tested by comparison of the idealized stages of development with coast charts of New Jersey and Long Island. Both shores exhibit features corresponding to the deductions, New Jersey features indicating nearly stationary inlets, whereas Long Island inlets indicate rapid migration away from the headland. The success of the test of the theory on these two shores seems to indicate that tidal inlets on young shorelines of emergence may produce a definite evolution of lagoon deposits. It is believed that such lagoon features may be useful in the interpretation of shoreline history, and especially of inlet behavior.
30060103|Plagioclases of composition
30056856|Highly brecciated pre-Cambrian gneiss, granite, and diabase are described from a core in crystalline rocks directly beneath glacial drift near Manson, Iowa. Surrounding the crystalline mass, whose top is about 1 1/2 square miles in area, is a depressed zone about 280 square miles in area, consisting of a thick section of strongly disturbed Lower Cretaceous sedimentary rocks. A comparison of the characteristics of the structure with those of cryptovolcanic structures suggests a similar origin. The basement complex appears to have been violently intruded into the sedimentary rocks subsequent to Lower Cretaceous time and before the Pleistocene. The fact that the crystalline rocks were exposed and deeply weathered before being covered by glaciers suggests that this stiucture was quite deeply eroded.
30059220|Compositional data and (
30070668|We estimate the effects of three biases on the observed alpha diversity of paleocommunities from the Middle Paleozoic and Late Cenozoic. The first bias results from the preferential dissolution of aragonite relative to calcite; this bias can lower the relative abundance and preserved diversity of aragonitic taxa, potentially lowering the rarefied diversity of an entire fossil assemblage. We model the effects of this bias by analytically reinserting aragonitic specimens and taxa into Paleozoic assemblages that have been described in the literature. The aragonitic specimens are inserted using a wide range of reasonable assumptions about the original local paleocommunity composition. Although the dissolution bias is probably not as severe as has been argued by some, our analytical modeling indicates that the average Paleozoic assemblage may have lost up to 29% of its total diversity. The second bias results from the higher diversity of the tropics relative to temperate latitudes, but the Late Cenozoic collections we analyzed from the literature represent temperate assemblages whereas the Paleozoic collections were tropical in origin (the northward drift of North America and Europe through time caused this difference). On the basis of latitudinal diversity gradients in the Late Cenozoic, the diversity of the temperate Late Cenozoic samples should be at least doubled for an accurate comparison to the tropical Paleozoic samples. The third bias is environmental: our Late Cenozoic samples tend to come from more onshore, stressed habitats than the Paleozoic samples. In our study, this factor should reduce the apparent diversity of Late Cenozoic paleocommunities by about 9%. After correcting for these biases, standardized alpha diversity appears to increase by a factor of 3.03.7 from the Middle Paleozoic to the Late Cenozoic. Previous studies that did not correct for these biases suggested that alpha diversity increased by a factor of 2.5 times; the earlier studies produced approximately correct results because (by chance) the effects of the biases largely cancel out. In the consensus article on marine diversity history, an observed increase in alpha diversity was taken as powerful support for an increase in global diversity from the Paleozoic to the Cenozoic. Although we do not test all conflating factors, this study provides new rigor to this longstanding view on alpha diversity change in the Phanerozoic.
30057401|Along portions of the northwestern coast of the Gulf of California the beaches exhibit a fortnightly cycle of erosion and deposition which is related to the combined effects of the tides and the waves generated by the daily "sea breeze." In this area the higher waters of spring tide occur during the early afternoon when the "sea-breeze" regime is strongest. This coincidence of maximum wave intensity during the times of highest water causes the position of the beach berm to follow the elevation of the envelope of the higher high waters in a fortnightly cycle. A record of the beach cycle is preserved within the beach face by the bands of heavy minerals that are concentrated by wave action at the level of each high water.
30063867|The interfacial or grain boundary free-energy contribution to mineral interrelationships is largely ignored in the petrologic literature. Although only a small part of the total energy of the system, the interf acial free energy could play a dominant role during nucleation, crystal growth, exsolution, replacement, and diffusion transfer-processes that largely involve surface phenomena. By effectively determining the saturation point of the disperse phase, the nucleation sites, nucleation frequency, grain form, extent of individual grain growth, and, for certain systems, modal composition for the mineral assemblage could be determined by the minimum interfacial free energy of the system. Because of a continuously changing environment about a grain during its growth (caused by any grain boundary strain or orientation and/or compositional differences of the adjacent grains or phases), the average interfacial free energy associated with the grain and its associated grains must continuously increase, so that a continuous increase in the effective concentration of the disperse phase is required to support further growth, especially in systems of heterogeneous nucleation. In certain systems this increase in interfacial free energy could result in a maximum grain association limit for the growing grain if the concentration required for its further growth is higher than required to precipitate the material as a separate group of grains, such as in veins of the phase. Relative grain sizes, grain distributions, extent of various grain associations, and nature of grain contacts are interpreted as an expression of a minimum interfacial free energy of the mineral assemblage. A mechanism by which the influence of the interfacial free energy on the crystallization of a grain assemblage could be made significant is discussed in terms of a nucleation-crystal-growth model.
30065751|Deformed pebbles from the Moodies conglomerate were collected at ten localities in the Barberton Mountain Land. The axial ratios and orientations of these pebbles were used to calculate the total finite strains experienced by the pebbles at each locality. A technique described by Ramsay (1967, p. 209-211) was used to remove the effect of initial pebble shape. Viscosity ratios between the different pebble types were calculated and used to convert pebble strains into the total finite strains experienced by the rocks. The results showed that the amounts of strain varied over the Barberton Mountain Land from low strain localities in the center of the region to areas of high strain in the north and northwest. Generally, the strains were of a flattening type, though at two localities adjacent to granite contacts the strains approximate to pure shear. An attempt is made to relate this variation in strain to the regional structural geology.
30085500|The conditions controlling the deposition of calcite versus aragonite in caves have been studied. Samples of cave waters and cave deposits have been analyzed. Calcium carbonate has been precipitated in the laboratory under controlled conditions from solutions of calcium bicarbonate containing various added salts. The influence of the composition of the solution on the percentages of calcite and aragonite formed has been studied. Factors directly favoring the formation of aragonite under cave conditions are high temperature, low concentration of calcium bicarbonate, and high concentrations of magnesium, strontium, and lead. The pH, in itself, does not appear to be a controlling factor, though it is related to other important factors. The presence of manganese, barium, or sulfate ions, in concentrations likely to be found in cave waters, does not appear to be effective. Physical factors, including the rate of supply of water to a surface, the area of the surface, and the relative humidity probably operate through their effects on the composition of the solution to influence the formation of calcite versus aragonite.
30068450|Many stones in a supposed Kansan terminal moraine near Stevens Point, Wisconsin, appear to be ventifacts. Some of them show also varying degrees of wear during glaciofluvial transport following the sandblasting. The position of many of the ventifacts beneath undisturbed pseudostratification indicates that the wind-scouring preceded incorporation in the till. The probability that the wind-scour occurred during advance of the Kansan ice is discussed.
30060179|This paper includes Sudbury breccias not previously examined in detail; particular emphasis is placed on the relations between Sudbury breccias and the Onaping volcanics and nickel irruptive. Comparison is made with breccias described elsewhere and particularly with the very similar pseudotachylite which is abundant around the upthrust granite core of the Vredefort dome, South Africa. In post-Huronian time the central core of a large dome structure is believed to have been thrust upward, and explosive volcanoes developed at its apex. The volcanic center then collapsed, to form the great caldera now known as the Sudbury Basin. The stretching of the crust resulted in the formation of multitudes of tension fissures; earth movements related to the upthrust, explosive volcanism, and collapse of the structure caused crush breccias to form in the tension fractures. Fluids related to the volcanism passed through the breccia zones and may have assisted in the formation or modification of the breccias.
30063822|During the Holocene sediment input from the Yellow River to the Yellow Sea and adjacent areas has amounted to about 3000
30056657|A brief summary of the limited literature devoted to mud balls centers around nomenclature, the ideas regarding the origin of mud balls, and the factors limiting their size. A report is made of a combined field and laboratory study in which an investigation of the size which mud balls may attain leads to conclusions that differ from those in the literature; findings are presented which deal with the relationship between sphericity and the distance mud balls travel, the influence of weight, sphericity, and specific surface upon armor quantity, and the importance of mud balls as a factor in the transportation of debris produced by erosion.
30079994|Detailed stratigraphic analyses of Late Emsian and Early Eifelian (Lower to Middle Devonian) carbonatedominated strata in the northern Appalachian Basin indicate anomalous, locally varying relative sea level changes and inversions of topography. The distribution of a major basalbounding unconformity, basinal pinnacle reefs, local absence of parasequences, and eastward migration of shallow marine carbonate lithofacies and related biofacies in the Onondaga Limestone and underlying strata mark the retrograde migration of an elongate, northeastsouthwesttrending area of positive relief, bordered on its cratonward side by a similarly migrating basin of intermediate depth. These features are thought to represent the forebulge and backbulge basin of the Appalachian foreland basin system as it developed during a time of relative quiescence within the Acadian Orogeny. However, the relatively small size of the bulgelike feature (ca. 80100kmwide, 2050m positive relief), its great distance from the probable deformation front (>400 km), and the lack of a welldeveloped foredeep immediately adjacent to the bulgelike feature may indicate that it represents a smallerscale flexural high (flexural welt) superposed over the cratonward edge of the largerscale classical forebulge of the basin. Development of shallowwater reefs on the crest of the bulge during sea level lowstand, followed by migration of the bulge and widespread transgression, permitted growth of economically significant pinnacle reefs in the deep basin center. Further subsurface reef exploration should concentrate along the projected position of the bulge during the basal Onondaga lowstand.
30063869|Numerical systems of terrace nomenclature have basic defects which tend toward confusion in correlation and may lead to erroneous interpretations of regional history. A binomial system of nomenclature, similar to that used in the naming of stratigraphic formations, is recommended.
30071178|Evidence is advanced that indicates a major break within the Mississippian system of rocks at the end of the Osage epoch. A marked physical break is demonstrated in the upper Mississippi Valley area, the Batesville, Arkansas area, the northeastern Oklahoma area, the subsurface of Kansas, the southwestern New Mexico area, the northern Montana area, the Banff area in British Columbia, and the Wapiti Lake area in northern British Columbia. Widespread differences in the distribution of Osage and Meramec rocks are indicated, and, finally, attention is called to one of the most remarkable faunal breaks in the entire Paleozoic era.
30055916|Detailed pebble analyses from the scattered exposures of pre-Illinoian drift in central and southern Illinois show that Nebraskan ice from the Keewatin center invaded the western part, and Kansan ice from the Labradorean center covered the central and eastern parts of the state. The two drift sheets lie in contact near Winchester, Scott County.
30079982|Two morphologic settings in the northwestern Argentine prone to giant mountainfront collapsedeeply incised narrow valleys and steep range fronts bordering broad piedmontswere analyzed through detailed investigations of fossil landslides and related fluviolacustrine sediments. Nine different rhyodactic tephra layers were defined by geochemical fingerprinting of glass, morphology of pumice, stratigraphic relationships, and mineralogy. The age of three tephra could be determined either directly by
30070515|Isotopic and petrographic analyses of the major thrust zone (Calcare Cavernoso) in the Apuane region of the Northern Apennines are used to date the timing of motion on that thrust zone and to document the type and the amount of fluid focused there. The thrust zone consists of a porous cataclasite composed of polylithologic clasts and finely crystalline dolomite included within a recrystallized calcite matrix that shows no affect of subsequent brittle or ductile deformation.
30060821|The boundary shear stress pattern and the superelevation of the water surface in a meander on a small stream are predicted from two simple equations representing a frictionally dominated force balance. This comes about even though inertial forces due to local bed topography delay crossing of the boundary shear stress maximum to a position farther downstream than would otherwise be expected. Measured bedform migration rates reflect the boundary shear stress field, and in this river, bedform crest orientations respond to gradients in the shear stress field by becoming oblique to the general flow direction. When so aligned the bedforms interact with the helical flow in the curved channel and induce a near bottom secondary current which, in the upstream part of the bend, is outward above the crests and inward along the troughs. At the downstream end of the bend this pattern is reversed and significant quantities of sediment are transported along troughs from one point bar to the next. This near bottom flow pattern imposes a cross-isobath, zig-zag trajectory on the sediment grains and sorts the bed material. Further, it provides a realizable mechanism for maintenance of equilibrium channel geometry in streams with bedforms.
30067317|After outlining briefly the quantitative methods of Delesse, Rosiwal, Johannsen, Shand, and Wentworth, as carried out on mineral surfaces or thin-sections, the paper deals with some new variations of the Rosiwal method. These are based on the fundamental principle that accuracy of quantitative determination is increased by enlarging the scale of measurement or estimation. To this end small cross-sectioned grids, so arranged that one square of the grid corresponds to i per cent of the total area, are superimposed on photomicrographs or lantern slides. Quantitative determinations are then made either by areal estimation or lineal measurement. To increase the scale of measurement still farther, determinations are also made on the images of lantern slides, as projected by the lantern on the screen. The accuracy of these three new methods is checked successfully against a photographic variation of the Delesse method. A more rapid method for approximate determinations is also evolved by setting up a series of quantitative photographic standards, by comparison with which determinations may be made on any section. These standards are given for five of the common structures in ores. Finally there are indicated a few of the directions in which such quantitative methods may be used.
30059356|A process which Francis Ruellan believes to be actively smoothing the land surface in those parts of Brazil that have strongly marked wet and dry seasons is scarcely distinguishable from the one described by W. M. Davis as 'rock-floor robbing" by sheetfloods, insofar as that process takes part in the degradation of pediments.
30068879|Temperaturedependent clay mineral assemblages and vitrinite reflectance data have been used to investigate levels of diagenesis from the ApenninicMaghrebian foldandthrust belt in eastern Sicily at the footwall of the PeloritaniCalabride Arc. Data are from units sampled along a regional transect between the Nebrodi Mountains to the north and Mount Judica to the south. These units developed in very different tectonic settings from those of oceanic to passive continental margin domains deformed during the Cenozoic mountain building and related active margin deposits. The integration of organic and inorganic thermal indicators allowed us to distinguish among different tectonic settings, with thermal maturity generally decreasing from hinterland to foreland as a result of progressively less severe thermal evolution and/or tectonic loading during the mountain building. Specifically, the highest vitrinite reflectance (VR
30061091|A contributory network of narrow, fluvially incised valleys filled with a distinctive sequence of Tertiary continental to shallow marine sediments is widespread throughout the eastern Yilgarn Craton in southwestern Australia. Previously referred to as deep leads, or paleochannels, these are herein termed insetvalleys to more accurately reflect their geomorphic expression and emphasize their subordinate and entrenched position with the bedrock surface of a much broader and older system of primary valleys. Owing to minimal denudation and tectonic deformation during the Late Cenozoic, the insetvalleys are excellently preserved and can be readily traced in boreholes and opencut mines throughout the eastern Yilgarn Craton and possibly also adjacent parts of southwestern Australia. With a combined catchment areal extent of at least
30058970|The theory of the "drift of continents" as proposed by the late Dr. Wegener was supposed to account readily for the Pleistocene and the Permo-Carboniferous ice ages, and this was considered one of the most important proofs of its validity. In the following paper it is shown that his theory fails completely in this respect, and it is considered that the fixity of the continents is the more reasonable supposition.
30065006|In spatial analysis the data are often assumed to be normally distributed, which may not be a property of the earth science phenomenon studied. Different types of pre-analysis standardization lead to disparate qualitative or quantitative interpretations: The standardization techniques compared are Gaussian normal-ization and proportion of range transformation. For two case studies: (1) oceanographic data investigated with Q-mode factor analysis, and (2) stratigraphic data analyzed by algebraic map comparison, proportion of range standardization is more appropriate than Gaussian standardization, in view of the scientific interpretation, with the results of factor analysis generally being more sensitive to pre-analysis standardization than the results of map comparison.
JG80142|The Andaman ophiolites are well exposed in the Andaman group of islands, which is part of the Sunda-Burmese double-chain arc system in the Bay of Bengal, India. Plagiogranites occurring on the eastern margin of the southern part of South Andaman Island appear as interstitial vermicular and micrographic intergrowths of quartz and plagioclase. They are tonalitic to trondhjemitic in composition, and their Rb, Yb, Ta, and Y abundances are characteristic of a volcanic-arc affinity. Sensitive high-resolution ion microprobe U-Pb dating of zircons from a plagiogranite within the Andaman ophiolite has yielded a weighted mean
30055805|A method is presented which to a large extent eliminates the errors of observation of the optic axial angle by the Michel-Levy method. Instead of standardizing circles of reference, observations on a mineral of known 2E are made directly through the interference figure of the unknown. The method is accurate to within a degree if the known mineral and the lines on the micrometer ocular are placed exactly in the 45 position.
30064175|We use a climate model to simulate two intervals of Permian climate: the Sakmarian (ca. 280 Ma), at the end of the major PermoCarboniferous glaciation, and the Wordian (ca. 265 Ma). We explore the climate sensitivity to various levels of atmospheric CO
30065044|In coastal regions, the highest magnitude storms cannot always be invoked to account for large-scale, anomalous sediment features. Any coastline in the Pacific Ocean region can be affected by tsunamis, including Australia, which historically lacks evidence of such events. Geologically, tsunamis along the New South Wales coast have deposited a suite of Holocene features that consist of anomalous boulder masses, either chaotically tossed onto rock platforms and backshores or jammed into crevices; highly bimodal mixtures of sand and boulders; and dump deposits consisting of well-sorted coarse debris. In addition, many coastal aboriginal middens were distributed by such events. Within estuaries, tsunamis have left a record of stranded run-up ridges that have been interpreted mistakenly as cheniers. Dating of such deposits indicates that several events have affected this coastline since 3000 BP. In contrast to storm waves, tsunamis can leave a depositional imprint of their passage characterized by chaotic sorting and mixing of sediments either from different coastal environments or of different sediment sizes. The preservation potential of these deposits is high where sediments have been deposited above present sea level or stranded inland.
30059031|In order to understand wave-cut platform initiation at a time of stationary sea level, a wave flume experiment was conducted. A steep model cliff was exposed to three different types of waves: standing, breaking, and broken waves. Results showed that breaking and broken waves formed platforms, while standing waves did not. In the development of these platforms, impulsive pressure was predominant in the physical action of breaking waves, while shearing force was dominant in broken waves. Erosive forces of breaking, broken, and standing waves decreased in that order if their deep water wave characteristics were the same. The platform produced by breaking waves was located lower than that made by broken waves.
30060818|This paper contains 50 maps which have been designed for use by the geologic community in preparing paleogeographic, biogeographic, climatologic, and tectonic reconstructions of the Paleozoic periods. Seven maps for each of seven Paleozoic intervals are included, plus a suture map showing the outlines of the Paleozoic continents in their present positions. The intervals chosen are the Late Cambrian (Franconian), Middle Ordovician (Llandeilian-earliest Caradocian), Middle Silurian (Wenlockian), Early Devonian (Emsian), Early Carboniferous (Visean), Late Carboniferous (Westphalian CD), and Late Permian (Kazanian). The paleomagnetic information used to orient the continents is given. For each interval, three types of maps are included, one locality map with place names labelled, four paleogeographic maps with our interpretation of the distribution of mountains, lowlands, shallow seas, and deep oceans, and two outline maps for those who prefer to make their own paleogeographic interpretations. Several projections are used-Mercator, Mollweide, and stereographic polar-to suit the various requirements of paleogeographic work.
30063997|The Red Lake and Eagle Peak plutons are similar in age (K-Ar: 87-89 m.y.) and range in composition from granodiorite to granite. The Red Lake pluton is equigranular, has a locally greisened marginal zone, and shows only minor mineralogical and chemical zoning, whereas the Eagle Peak pluton is mineralogically, compositionally, and texturally zoned, with an equigranular margin and a porphyritic core. Modal and normative trends within each pluton are consistent with separation of plagioclase and mafic minerals leading to a residual liquid enriched in quartz and alkali feldspar. The formation of the prominent alkali feldspar megacrysts in the Eagle Peak core was promoted by plagioclase separation,
30068878|By selecting a limited number of variables (westward vs. eastward subduction polarity; oceanic vs. continental origin of downgoing and overriding plates), we identify eight endmember scenarios of plate convergence and orogeny. These are characterized by five different types of composite orogenic prisms uplifted above subduction zones to become sources of terrigenous sediments (IndoBurmantype subduction complexes, Apenninetype thinskinned orogens, Omantype obduction orogens, Andeantype cordilleras, and Alpinetype collision orogens). Each type of composite orogen is envisaged here as the tectonic assembly of subparallel geological domains consisting of genetically associated rock complexes. Five types of such elongated orogenic domains are identified as the primary building blocks of composite orogens: magmatic arcs, obducted or accreted ophiolites, neometamorphic axial belts, accreted paleomargin remnants, and accreted orogenic clastic wedges. Detailed provenance studies on modern convergentmargin settings from the Mediterranean Sea to the Indian Ocean show that erosion of each single orogenic domain produces peculiar detrital modes, heavymineral assemblages, and unroofing trends that can be predicted and modeled. Five corresponding primary types of sediment provenances (magmatic arc, ophiolite, axial belt, continental block, and clastic wedge provenances) are thus identified, which reproduce, redefine, or integrate provenance types and variants originally recognized by W. R. Dickinson and C. A. Suczek in 1979. These five primary provenances may be variously recombined in order to describe the full complexities of mixed detrital signatures produced by erosion of different types of composite orogenic prisms. Our provenance model represents a flexible and valuable conceptual tool to predict the evolutionary trends of detrital modes and heavymineral assemblages produced by uplift and progressive erosional unroofing of various types of orogenic belts and to interpret petrofacies from arcrelated, forelandbasin, foredeep, and remnantocean clastic wedges.
30075150|Measurements of water temperature, salinity, transparency, current velocities, and sediment distribution are used to interpret the physical and sedimentary environments of a spitlike shoal extending 80 nautical miles north of the western tip of Seward Peninsula, Alaska. The shoal, covering approximately 2,000 square miles, is characterized by slopes of less than 31 feet per mile. Sediment-bearing coastal water passes northward through the Bering Strait and past the shoal at speeds of as much as 50 cm/sec. Four sedimentary environments have been recognized, and their significance with relation to the physical conditions is interpreted. The importance of seasonal variations is mentioned.
10.1086/668602|The Towaliga fault, southern Appalachians, contains fault rocks that formed under various
30061945|The mean size
30057184|The main features of the Waulsortian (Upper Tournaisian and Lower Vise'an) carbonate mudbank complex of Eire are described and the paleogeography outlined. The distribution and lithological characters of the Waulsortian limestones and associated sediments are briefly described. The Waulsortian rocks comprise a large mudbank complex, together with numerous discontinuous banks which formed in the lagoon on the landward side of the complex. The complex originally extended over an area of about 7,000 square miles in Eire. Thickness variations are shown on an isopach map. The development of the complex was controlled by two (or more) stable structural blocks on the Variscan foreland. These allowed the accumulation of a great thickness of Waulsortian limestone in the Shannon (NW. Co. Limerick and S. Co. Clare) and Cork areas before lateral spreading began. Bank growth took two main forms. These, the knoll and sheet forms, are briefly described and illustrated. The mechanism of growth is less certain. It is suggested that the banks are accretionary structures formed in situ by accumulation of carbonate mud and bioclastic sand trapped and retained by organisms, probably plants, which are not preserved. Bryozoa acted as auxiliary supporting structures in some cases but do not form a framework.
30062268|A new petrological definition of kimberlite is proposed and discussed.
30079440|The name Jens Munk Archipelago is proposed for a cluster of small monadnocks that rise a maximum of 45 m above present sea level on the shores of Hudson Bay in the Churchill area of northern Manitoba. Resistant Precambrian quartzite formed shoals and islands during the Late Ordovician and Early Silurian periods. Outcrop control in the present tundra environment of the Hudson Bay Lowlands is spotty at best, but the quartzitic monadnocks are fringed by Upper Ordovician and Lower Silurian ramp deposits, mainly carbonate in composition. Five isolated outliers of OrdovicianSilurian strata are described, and the location of four other potential outliers is indicated. Ramp dip at any one site generally ranges from 10 to 15, and the surviving ramps on opposite flanks of paleoislands suggest preservation of near synsedimentary conditions. Extensive conglomerates of reworked quartzite are most abundant on a northern exposure within the islands. Ripple marks and oriented cephalopod debris are related to a vigorous longshore current generated by northeasterly trade winds that emanated from a subtropical highpressure cell in the Northern Hemisphere. A paleogeographic reconstruction links the Jens Munk Archipelago of Manitoba to a larger landmass with a Precambrian quartzite core centered over northern Saskatchewan. The general paleoecology of the Jens Munk Archipelago conforms to patterns of windward and leeward facies preserved on other paleoislands of various ages.
30067247|A study of five genera of Oligocene, Miocene, and Pliocene Equidae of North America seems to show that the angle formed between the ectoloph and the protoloph can be correlated with the geologic age in which the animal in question lived, and that the angle becomes progressively smaller.
30062325|Animals living under "constant" environmental conditions have been hypothesized to lose genetic variability. If so, this would account for a lack of adaptation to changing environments and hence be responsible for the significant mass extinctions of the fossil record. However, eight modern deep-sea species (1,000-2,000 m) in as constant a major environment as exists on earth, have as much genetic variability as do shallow marine and terrestrial species (20%-50% of the loci polymorphic). Accordingly, species do not appear to lose genetic variability as the environment becomes "constant," and this explanation of the cause for mass extinction fails.
30063687|The results of a study of numerous, black polished grains and pebbles of calcium phosphate occurring along "corrosion zones" in limestones are here set forth. The material is described in respect to its field occurrence and associations and its physical and chemical characteristics. The evidence indicates that the pebbles have been formed as a result of solution of the lime carbonate with its contained phosphate under anaerobic conditions with subsequent deposition of the phosphate on the interior of minute shells forming internal molds and granules. This conclusion suggests a source of phosphorus, a manner of accumulation for phosphate layers in limestones, and also that thin layers of phosphate pebbles indicate disconformities due to non-deposition and marine solution.
10.1086/600864|A geochronological study of the Kapuskasing structural zone (KSZ), a section of Late Archean lower crust within the southern Superior Province, Canadian Shield, was undertaken to test a plate tectonic model for the Late Archean AbitibiOpatica terrane as a modified large igneous province (LIP). New geochronological data allow us to interpret (1) construction of the LIP in an environment where inherited zircons were derived from an older sialic crust and preserved in the granulitegrade lower crust and (2) highgrade metamorphism in the lower crust related to crustal refinement of the LIP. U/Pb and Pb/Pb dates were obtained by LAICPMS with beams of 830 m. The study yielded 21 interpretable zircon dates spanning 500 m.yr. from one mafic granulite and two garnetiferous metatonalites. Nine of the dates are significantly older than the oldest known magmatic event recorded in the upper crust of the AbitibiOpatica terrane and indicate >2760Ma protocrustal material in the KSZ lower crust. The remaining metamorphic zircons directly correlate to wellknown magmatic events in the upper and middle crust in the AbitibiOpatica terrane. Metamorphic pulses in the lower crust, associated with magmatic refinement of the crust, caused crystallization or recrystallization of zircons. The new data are consistent with the presence of a thick metamorphic crust formed by refinement of an LIP before its tectonic accretion. The results demonstrate the usefulness of the LAICPMS method to study the metamorphic evolution of highgrade rocks.
30066155|Deposition on alluvial fans is caused mainly by decrease in depth and velocity of flow, which results from increase in width as a flow spreads out on a fan. The alluvial-fan deposits of western Fresno County, California, are mudflows, water-laid sediments, and intermediate types. Common voids in the deposits are intergranular openings between grains that are held in place by a clay bond, bubble cavities, interlaminar openings in thinly laminated sediments, and buried, but unfilled, polygonal cracks.
JG116404|Compositional and chemical analyses suggest that Middle TriassicLower Liassic continental redbeds (in the internal domains of the Betic, Maghrebian, and Apenninic chains) can be considered a regional lithosome marking the Triassic-Jurassic rift-valley stage of Tethyan rifting, which led to the Pangaea breakup and subsequent development of a mosaic of plates and microplates. Sandstones are quartzose to quartzolithic and represent a provenance of continental block and recycled orogen, made up mainly of Paleozoic metasedimentary rocks similar to those underlying the redbeds. Mudrocks display K enrichments; intense paleoweathering under a hot, episodically humid climate with a prolonged dry season; and sediment recycling. Redbeds experienced temperatures in the range of 100160C and lithostatic/tectonic loading of more than 4km. These redbeds represent an important stratigraphic signature to reconstruct a continental block (Mesomediterranean Microplate) that separated different realms of the western Tethys from Middle-Late Jurassic to Miocene, when it was completely involved in Alpine orogenesis.
30058912|Pits were developed in a sandy beach by springs. The pits contain the coarser sediment in the middle and the finer about the edges, an arrangement of sediments contrary to that common in basins of deposition.
30079572|Coral reefs, being the product of lime-secreting organisms, have been studied by a number of British biologists, who have attempted to solve the geological problem of reef origins without using geological methods of investigation. Various erroneous conclusions have therefore been announced. The latest of these is by Gardiner of Cambridge University. The geological inadequacy of his discussion is shown: first, by his failure to generalize his facts properly; second, by his adoption of an unwarranted assumption at the beginning of his argument; third, by his precipitate rejection of a theory against which he has a strong prejudice; fourth, by his failure to deduce the essential consequences of the theories that he examines; and fifth, by the lack of an impartial confrontation of such consequences with appropriate facts as a means of making choice between successful and unsuccessful theories.
30060096|With the aid of 1,045 new analyses for magnesium in echinoid and asteroid skeletal calcite, the geological significance of the well-known relationship between magnesium content and water temperature has been reexamined. Remarkably large, but systematic, variations in skeletal chemistry indicate that physiological factors, possibly related to calcification rate, are much more important than environmental parameters in controlling magnesium levels in the calcium carbonate deposited by echinoderms. The results emphasize a growing need for detailed reexaminations of some current concepts relating the chemical composition of biogenic carbonate to phyletic level of the organism, and the reliability of interpretations based on invertebrate chemical data in paleoenvironmental and paleoecological studies.
30059312|This paper is a synthesis of pre- and post-Apollo 11 studies to produce an outline of the moon's geologic evolution from three lines of evidence: (1) relative ages of lunar landforms and rock types, (2) absolute ages of returned lunar samples, and (3) petrography, chemistry, and isotopic ratios of lunar rocks and soils. It is assumed that the ray craters, circular mare basins, and most intermediate circular landforms are primarily of impact origin, although many other landforms are volcanic or of hybrid origin. The moon's evolution is divided into four main stages, each including several distinct but overlapping events or processes: Stage I (4.7 b.y. ago)-origin of moon by unknown means, followed immediately by heating of outer 500 km to at least 1,000 C. Stage II (4.6-3.7 b.y. before present)-first differentiation to form highland crust, by eruption of high-alumina basaltic magma and minor quantities of differentiation products such as anorthosite and felsite; infall of small circum-terrestrial bodies to form old highland craters; formation of circular mare basins by infall of large circum-terrestrial bodies; formation of Archimedes-type craters; highland vulcanism. Stage III (3.7-3.2 b.y. before present)-second differentiation of moon, by generation and eruption of iron-rich basaltic magmas to form maria. Stage IV (3.2 b.y. ago to present)-sporadic impacts by asteroid belt meteoroids and comet nuclei to form ray craters; local vulcanism and gas venting from deep sources; minor faulting; continual slow landscape degradation by small impacts and other agents. The moon now appears relatively cold and rigid to depths of about 500 km. Major unsolved problems include the composition and origin of the highland crust, the role of vulcanism in formation of ray craters, the nature of the lunar interior, the cause of asymmetric mare distribution, and the relation of the moon to the earth.
30070657|Integrated sedimentological and micropaleontological study of 16 cores and 137 piezocone penetration tests, approximately 40 m deep, in the Comacchio area enables the documentation of the depositional history of southeastern Po Plain in the last 30 ka, in response to fluctuating sea level. Sedimentation within an alluvial plain was the dominant feature across the entire study area during the pronounced sea level fall that culminated in the Last Glacial Maximum. Thin lowstand fluvial sediments form the lower part of a shallow incised valley above the Last Glacial Maximum unconformity, whereas a characteristic paleosol separates the last glacial alluvial plain deposits from the overlying postglacial deposits in the interfluves. Transgressive and highstand deposits show a welldeveloped stacking pattern of retrogradational (coastal plain and estuarine) and progradational (deltaic) facies. Detailed reconstruction of transgressive paleogeography shows evolutionary features that can be useful for refined interpretation of coeval and ancient analogs. At relatively early stages of transgression (10.59 ka B.P.), sedimentation in a coastal plain was restricted to the incised valley, whereas nondeposition and pedogenesis took place on the interfluves. With rising sea level (96 ka B.P.), a wavedominated, barred estuary developed in the former topographic low. At peak transgression, after filling up of the estuarine systems with coastal, backbarrier sediments, wide areas outside the valleys were flooded, aggradation extended onto the interfluve unconformity, and a shallow marine depositional environment developed across most of the study area. The depositional history during the subsequent highstand phase was dominated by progradation of the early Po Delta and reflects the complex interplay between highfrequency sea level fluctuations, climate, subsidence, and autocyclic processes.
30081250|The Jiaodong gold province is the largest gold repository in China. Both mineralization and granitoid hosts are spatially related to the crustalscale TanLu strikeslip fault system, which developed along the Mesozoic continental margin in eastern China. A series of
30071183|No comprehensive study of our Carboniferous ammonoids has been attempted since the very beginning of the present century. Only three ammonoid zones can now be recognized in the American Mississippian system. These seem to be more or less equivalent to our Kinderhook, Osage, and Meramec-Chester beds, and they are characterized by the genera Protocanites, Beyrichoceras, and Goniatites, respectively. Locally, ammonoids are abundant in the Kinderhook and the Meramec, but elsewhere they are rare. Our Devonian and Mississippian systems are not known to carry a single ammonoid genus in common, and only two stocks cross the border between them. One of these, the prolecanitids, became quite varied in the Mississippian, and they have a considerable amount of stratigraphic value there. The other stock that continues into the Mississippian is represented by the genus Imitoceras. Its descendants underwent a great development during the Carboniferous and gave rise to most of the many diverse forms known from there. Although Kinderhook ammonoids differ materially from those of the Devonian, they are close to those of the Osage. The latter, known from only a few specimens, are quite distinct from Meramec-Chester forms, which are more or less transitional with early Pennsylvanian types.
30062164|The Bridgeport terrace in the lower Wisconsin valley is characterized by pre-IUinoian till-like sediment at the west end of the terrace that grades eastward into fluvial sediment with eastward-dipping foreset beds that underlie an eastward-sloping-depositional surface. The Bridgeport sediment overlies a rock bench that protected it from erosion. Stratigraphic relationships indicate the valley was already incised below the rock bench by the time the Bridgeport sediment was deposited. A pre-IUinoian age for the Bridgeport terrace is indicated by deeply weathered sediment and by the reversed remanent magnetism of fine-grained units in the terrace gravel. Furthermore, a well-developed, probable Sangamon age, paleosol is developed underneath two loess units that overlie the fluvial sediment. The clay mineralogy of till-like sediment at the west end of the terrace is similar to pre-Illinoian till units in Iowa and west-central Wisconsin.
30060903|A number of hypotheses concerning the evolution of stream channel networks have been advanced, with the object of accounting for the observed properties of distributions of channel link lengths. This paper comments on the validity of earlier investigations, and on current hypotheses of network growth. Data from a time-controlled series of drainage networks and the results of a computer simulation experiment are presented and employed to generate a new hypothesis to account for the observed distributions of link lengths. This hypothesis suggests that the structure of channel networks may be accounted for without the need to invoke the major post-bifurcation channel "adjustments" of previous models.
10.1086/681219|North-south-directed extension on the South Tibetan Fault System (STFS) played an important role in Himalayan tectonics of the Miocene Period, and it is generally assumed that orogen-perpendicular extension ceased in this orogenic system before the Pliocene. However, previous work in the Annapurna and Dhaulagiri Himalaya of central Nepal revealed evidence for local Pleistocene reactivation of the basal STFS structure in this area (the Annapurna Detachment). New structural mapping and (U-Th)/He apatite and zircon thermochronology in this region further document the significance of Pleistocene N-S extension in this sector of the Himalaya. Patterns of (U-Th)/He accessory-mineral ages are not disrupted across the reactivated segment of the STFS basal detachment, indicating that Pleistocene offset was limited. In contrast, the trace of a N-dipping, low-angle detachment in the hanging wall of the reactivated Annapurna Detachmentformerly linked to the STFS, but here named the Dhaulagiri Detachmentcoincides with an abrupt break in the cooling-age pattern in two different drainages 20 km apart, juxtaposing Miocene hanging-wall dates against Pleistocene footwall dates. Our observations, combined with previous fission-track data from the region, provide direct evidence for significant N-S extension in the central Himalaya as recently as the Pleistocene.
30064163|Crystallization ages of monazites from peraluminous granites and granitic pegmatites in southwestern Maine constrain the timing of final ductile motion of a major shear zone to approximately 280 Ma. U-Pb monazite ages of granite at Brunswick (
30080969|An exposure in one of a series of small end moraines is described. The deposits are of late Pleistocene age and were laid down during the retreat of the glacier that occupied the Lake St. Clair trough, west-central Tasmania. The moraine is composed of beds of gravel, sand, clay, and massive silts up to 3 feet thick, capped with bouldery till. The beds, which dip upstream, show only localized slump structures. Together with the presence of undisturbed false bedding in the gravels, this structure suggests that the englacial relationships of the deposits have been preserved. An origin by slow melting of debris-charged ice is suggested.
30058501|This is a brief study of one of the large and little known glaciers of the Canadian Alps. It is nine miles long and covers an area of about 22 square miles. The surface velocity of the ice on a line across the dissipator was found to range between 3 and nearly 5 inches per day. The glacier is retreating, the amount for the past twenty years being estimated at 925 feet. A secondary tongue advances into and retreats from a small side valley intermittently and independently of the main glacier.
30079931|Four distinct rock units have been recognized near El Aguacate, in the JanicoJuncalitoLa Vega area of the Duarte complex (Dominican Republic): (1) serpentinites crosscut by numerous diabasic dikes, (2) basalts interbedded with Late Jurassic ribbon cherts, (3) picrites and ankaramites relatively enriched in incompatible trace elements, and (4) amphibolites and gneissic amphibolites chemically similar to Oceanic Plateau Basalts. Similar ArAr ages of late magmatic amphibole from a picrite, and hornblende from an amphibolite (
30068305|Glaciers and ice sheets can be classified into four types, or phases, ranging from alpine glaciers, in which the depth of ice is small in comparison to the relief of the land surface, to continental glaciers, in which the depth of ice is much greater than the relief of the land surface. In the former case the direction and rate of flow of ice are determined very largely by the topography; in the latter, by the climate. The characteristic erosion forms of each of the four phases are described, and suggestions are offered as to their origin. Illustrations of the various erosional features are taken from southern British Columbia, and a few typical glacial-erosion histories are outlined.
30078411|Cenozoic intraplate basalts in eastern China show variations of Pb, Sr, and Nd isotope ratios that essentially correspond to major lithospheric domains with distinct tectonic histories. Whereas an enrichedmantle EM1type isotope signature is commonly observed in basalts from the North China block, an EM2type isotope signature appears to dominate in those from the South China block. This study reports new trace element data for Cenozoic basalts occurring around the Tanlu fault zone, a sinistral, translithospheric fault related to the Triassic continental collision between the North and South China blocks. Combining published isotope data, basalts from the Subei basin in the east of the Tanlu fault exhibit the EM1type geochemical and isotopic features, implying that their lithospheric mantle source region is structurally affiliated with the North China block. This is consistent with the crustal detachment collision model that suggests a subsurface suture between the North and South China blocks running in the lower crust through Nanjing, south of the Subei basin. Accordingly, despite its upper crustal continuation with South China, the deeper levels of the Subei basin are most likely part of the North China block. The sinistral offset along the Tanlu fault is therefore <150 km, and the northward detachment of the South China upper crust should have taken place no later than the Late Jurassic, when this area became involved in regional extension and basin development. A NWSE lithospheric profile across the Tanlu fault and Subei basin is proposed to account for the generation of Cenozoic basalts with spatial geochemical and isotopic variations.
30071566|Metamorphic rocks in the core of the southern Priest River Complex record two distinct metamorphic events. The earliest metamorphism occurred above 5 kb near the amphibolite-granulite boundary and accompanied the formation of a steep, crystalloblastic foliation. The second, less pronounced, metamorphism was at lower pressure (<3.5 kb), in the middle amphibolite facies, and accompanied mylonitization within a 4 km thick zone. Retrograde reactions during the second event include the formation of andalusite, muscovite, secondary green biotite, and the breakdown of garnet. Biotite-garnet geothermometry yielded widely variable and unrealistically high temperatures. Plagioclase-garnet geobarometry is partially reset by the retrograde event, and therefore provides minimum pressures. The P-T path is not known precisely but may include two episodes of prograde metamorphism, perhaps related to continued accretion of terranes to the west. The first metamorphism probably accompanied the Jurassic accretion of Quesnellia, whereas the second may represent crustal thickening during late Cretaceous intracontinental, compressional, ductile shearing.
30062061|The combined methodologies of X-ray petrofabric analysis and chemical petrology have been used to investigate both the strain and thermal histories of metaclastic rocks near Piermont, New Hampshire. Our results show that X-ray petrofabric analysis is very sensitive to the coarsening of mineral grains caused by metamorphic chemical reactions. Strain estimates based on X-ray petrofabric measurements tend to lose significance as approximations to total strain as low grade, fine grained fabric is replaced by higher grade, coarser grained fabric. Study of a quartz pebble conglomerate indicates that the mechanical and chemical heterogeneity acquired during deposition of this poorly sorted sediment has not been erased by metamor-phism. Thus, the scale on which chemical equilibrium is apparently attained between minerals correlates with the volume in which strain is homogeneous. Strains computed from the preferred orientation of phyllosilicates according to the March (1932) model are not the same as strains derived from measurements of deformed pebbles in congolmerate. Such differences in strain estimates are believed to be caused by differences in stiffness between the pebbles and their matrix.
30056376|Variations in chemical bonding, as caused by isomorphism in the layer silicates, are related to polarization of the various ions beyond the co-ordination system in which the substitution takes place. Evidence to support predicted variations in physical properties of clays is derived from well-known high-temperature phase, thermal, and dehydration characteristics of clay minerals.
30078519|The Antarctic Ross and the Australian Delamerian orogenies are the consequence of stress transfer to the outboard trailing edge of the newly assembled Gondwana supercontinent. This tectonic reorganization occurred in the Early to Middle Cambrian on completion of PanAfrican deformation and subduction along the sutures between eastern and western Gondwanan continental fragments. Before this, Neoproterozoic to Early Cambrian rocks in eastern Australia were formed in a passive margin and record dispersion of Rodinia with consequent opening of the protoPacific. Our new UPb and RbSr geochronology shows that in the South Australian (Adelaide Fold Belt) domain of the Delamerian Orogen, contractional orogenesis commenced at
30070655|A Late Archean (2.42.7 Ga) garnet granulite from the southern margin of the south Indian craton preserves fluid inclusions with the highest density CO
30084975|The value of five form ratios in hydrologic application was tested by a statistical analysis of their correlation to runoff for 25 watersheds in the Appalachian plateau. Only the circularity and elongation ratios showed significant regressions.
30061078|Dunite nodules, bearing minor amounts of chromite and clinopyroxene, occur as inclusions in an isolated outcrop of alkaline basalt (limburgite) near the northwest coast of Kanaga Island in the Aleutian arc. Gabbroic inclusions with very calcic plagioclase (up to
30081172|The 0.22 km thick, Archean StoughtonRoquemaure Group (SRG) in the Northern Volcanic Zone of the Abitibi greenstone belt (Quebec, Canada) is composed of tholeiitic basalt, komatiitic basalt and komatiite. The mafic and ultramafic rocks are pillowed, brecciated, and massive columnarjointed flows. The SRG conformably overlies the 2730 Ma Hunter Mine Group, a volcanic complex dominated by calcalkaline felsic rocks. The tholeiitic basalts of the SRG resemble MORB. The komatiitic basalts and komatiites have positive 
30056076|The present lack of uniformity and precision in the use of terms applied to surface forms of the erosion cycle makes evident the need for a revision and simplification of the system of nomenclature. In the following article the writers review the concept of the erosion cycle and propose a logical terminology applicable to the humid and the arid cycles of erosion. Some of the terms now in use are redefined and a few new ones are suggested.
30060277|In the extreme northeast of Guernsey there are good coastal exposures of diorite which is veined by acid (or near-acid) material. The diorite complex is sheeted, and the principal veins are parallel to the sheeting, which dips at rather low angles. These gently dipping veins ("sheet veins") are linked at intervals by cross-connections which tend to strike north-south. The surfaces of sheet veins are commonly ridged, the ridges having an approximately north-south trend. The average flow direction in vein material, marked by elongate feldspars and acicular hornblendes, is also north-south. The diorite becomes more fine-grained against sheet veins, and this is considered to be a chilling effect. The widths of the fine-grained zones bear no relationship to the thicknesses of the sheet veins against which they occur. The more pronounced vein projections (ridges) and the cross-connections break through these chilled edges. It is maintained that the chilling was produced by fluids, presumably gaseous, moving at high velocity through the sheet-vein fissures, and that acid magma was later injected in a north-south direction to form the sheet veins, which became ridged parallel to the movement, many of the ridges developing into cross-connections between sheet veins.
30059723|The evidences of recent submergence of Bermuda are from four sources: (1) topog-raphy, (2) submerged limestone caverns, (3) buried cedars and peat bogs, and (4) existing marshes. The most convincing proof of postglacial submergence is found in the marshes on the island. The Hamilton marsh, 97.7 feet deep, gives evidence of a postglacial rise in sea-level of at least this amount. A test boring was made in this marsh to a depth of 42 feet. Five layers of woody peat were encountered, which are best interpreted as representing periods of relative stability of sea-level. They therefore show that the change was periodic and not gradual. They also offer an unusual means of determining the rate of peat accumulation and the length of postglacial time. It may be possible to correlate with their aid recent changes in level in other parts of the world.
30081267|Unusually large and locally variable carbon isotope excursions coincident with mass extinctions at the end of the Permian Period (253 Ma) and Guadalupian Epoch (260 Ma) can be attributed to methane outbursts to the atmosphere. Methane has isotopic values (
30062226|Quartz clasticity measurements may provide a method for calculating distance to source areas. The underlying assumption, based on experimental evidence, is that the maximum diameter of quartz available in source areas is 1.0 mm. An example from the Middle Devonian Ludlowville Formation in New York illustrates the method.
30067344|Recent pumice deposits which had their origin in a crater of old Mount Mazama are described and their origin discussed. The chemical and mineralogical composition show no specially interesting features, but field relations and mechanical analyses suggest different modes of origin for the two types recognized. The younger deposit belongs to a normally projected type, though mechanical analyses suggest that sorting by air currents has played a less important role here than is usually considered the case in such deposits. The older pumice, judged from the sorting and other features, has apparently had an entirely different origin, and is regarded as the product of nues ardentes, or "burning clouds," which distinguish the Pelean type of eruption. Information about Peleean eruptions is briefly summarized, and the characteristics of deposits of nues ardentes are compared with those of the Crater Lake material.
30080159|The Rivire-Pentecte Anorthosite (Grenville Province) intruded metasedimentary rocks akin to those of the <1300 Ma old Grenville Supergroup of the western Grenville Province. Interstitial zircons from an undeformed garnetiferous leuconorite are concordant at
10.1086/677262|Zircon U-Pb ages, Lu-Hf data, and whole-rock Sm-Nd data from xenoliths in the Eocene Grassrange diatremes of central Montana reveal the presence of Proterozoic-Archean crust at depth in the Great Falls tectonic zone. The data suggest that the Proterozoic granitoids are not part of the juvenile Little Belt magmatic arc but likely involved melting of Neoarchean crust after closure of the Little Belt ocean. Zircons in the Archean granites suggest their source(s) was part of the Medicine Hat block, not the northern Wyoming craton, and that the samples represent crustal material that was reworked during the Paleoproterozoic collision.
JG80140|We model quantitatively the chemical dynamics of terra rossa formation that we deduced earlier from new field and petrographic evidence. The key phenomenon is that authigenic kaolinite (a proxy for kaolinite solid solutions and other clays) replaces limestone at a downward-moving reaction front at the base of the existing terra rossa. The chemical elements needed to make the authigenic clay are assumed to come from dissolution of eolian clay dust deposited at the surface. The model consists of equations of mass conservation (in one spatial dimension) that incorporate infiltration, diffusion, and replacement and dissolution reactions. Distinctive elements of the model are that (1) the kinetics of the kaolinite-for-calcite replacement is dominated by the crystallization stress generated by the kaolinite growth, in accordance with the view that replacement happens not by dissolution-precipitation but by guest-mineral-growth-driven pressure solution of the host; (2) the field observation that the terra rossaforming front is narrow indicates that the growth of kaolinite at the front proceeds roughly at the pace at which the appropriate aqueous reactants reach the front, which in turn warrants scaling time, length, and concentrations such that transport and reaction terms are of the same order of magnitude; and (3) the huge contrast between aqueous concentrations and mineral densities, in effect, makes the scaled equation of mass conservation steady state. Numerical simulations correctly reproduce the formation of two adjacent zones in the moving reaction frontreplacement and leachingand of considerable secondary porosity in the leaching zone. This leaching porosity maximum constitutes a solitary wave, or soliton, that moves with the front. The simulations produce a range of predicted front widths that bracket the observed front width. Similarly, model-predicted front velocities of a few meters per million years agree well, within an order of magnitude, with both (1) a paleomagnetically derived rate of terra rossa formation at Bloomington and (2) the rate of authigenic clay formation that could be expected to formby clay dissolution at the surface, downward infiltration of aqueous solutes, and precipitation of new clay at the frontfrom average clay dust deposition rates as measured today.
30062261|The lemniscate loop is a streamlined geometric form which has a simple algebraic equation containing a parameter whose value governs its overall length to width dimensions. The lemniscate has been employed in geomorphology, including comparisons with glacial drumlins and erosional streamlined "islands" in the Channeled Scabland of eastern Washington and within the channels on Mars. These past comparisons have mainly been visual. The present study involves more detailed quantitative comparisons between the lemniscate loop, symmetrical airfoils, drumlins, and various islands formed by water flows. The analyses focus primarily on the length-to-width ratios of these landscape features and their consistency with the analytical lemniscate shape. Many drumlins are found to be similar to the streamlined lemniscate, but an equal number are more closely approximated by an elliptical geometric form. The streamlined islands in rivers, in the Channeled Scabland, and in the Martian channels all have nearly the same average length-to-width ratios, as well as other dimensions, and are reasonably consistent with the lemniscate and airfoil shapes.
30080930|Physical forces and topography control the depositional environments of shelf and shallow-water sediments. However, certain bottom communities are capable of modifying water circulation and bottom conditions sufficiently to produce recognizably different sediments than those deposited without the organisms. The organisms responsible for such modifications may or may not be sediment contributors, and their sphere of influence can be limited to their habitat or can extend well beyond it. The biotic modifications of the physical environment constitute a grading spectrum of increasing influence, ranging from the trapping and binding of individual sediment particles by organic films, such as mats of blue-green algae, to the quiet-water lagoonal conditions produced by barrier reefs miles beyond their growth limits. The recognition of the influence of the organisms is based on anomalous structures, textures, or faunas of the sediments that cannot readily be explained solely by variations in physical factors or topography. Stabilization of the sediment by the community is also required if its influence is to be preserved. The best-known fossil examples of community influence on depositional environment are algal stromatolites and organic reefs; other examples are expected throughout the geologic past.
30056072|The crystalline core of the Sawatch Range is composed of coarse schist and gneiss, largely of sedimentary origin. Two distinct periods of batholithic intrusions occurred in pre-Cambrian time. Wide zones of mixed supercrustal and granitic material border the outcrops of the batholiths and show gradational facies on one side into the sedimentary schists and on the other side into the plutonic rocks. From field relations and microscopic study of thin sections these migmatite zones are interpreted as being due to regional granitization or replacement, involving the carrying out and bringing in of material by emanations, gaseous or liquid, from the invading batholiths.
30061269|Experimental and theoretical data from systems peridotite-
30061126|The ductility of single crystals of quartz has been studied using identation techniques. Indentations made by a Knoop diamond pyramid were studied by interferometry, X-ray, and electron microscopy. Large permanent deformation essentially free of gross fracturing characterizes identations less than 1/10 mm. in size. Within such identations, where effective confining pressure exerted on the quartz is of the order of 20 kb., closely spaced planar features occur which are parallel with {
30071095|Mapping upper air currents of past epochs by studying the distribution and thickness of extensive deposits of volcanic ash may provide an independent approach to the problem of polar wandering. Records left on the ground by accumulating ash are controlled in large part by upper-air circulation. Because upper-air winds are relatively simple in their gross geometry and in their relationship to the earth's rotational axis, an interpretation of their effect can be made which is subject to considerably less doubt than any other approach thus far suggested (e.g., cross-bedded eolian sandstones) as a check on rock magnetic data applied to polar wandering. The principal features which make the proposed method attractive are: (1) eruptions carrying large amounts of ash to high altitudes (15,000-40,000 feet) are frequent, with approximately
30081084|Dispersal of subglacial sediment down-ice from its bedrock source assumes the form of a negative exponential decay curve. Dispersal decay curves can be quantified by their decay constants, half-distances ( = half-lives), and total transport distances. Mapped dispersal decay curves associated with Pleistocene ice sheets in North America and Europe identify several scales of dispersal, ranging from local (kilometers) to continental (100's to 1000's km) scales. Till composition reflects the various scales of dispersal. Local scales (short transport distances) result in tills that reflect underlying bedrock, whereas continental scales (long transport distances) result in tills derived largely from sources far up-ice. A number of parameters proposed as influencing subglacial sediment dispersal and transport distances do not explain the range of scales observed, although they may explain minor variations (kilometers) in transport distances. Topography and basal ice velocity (sliding velocity) are interpreted as primary controls on the observed scales of transport. Topography directs transport paths of basal debris toward topographic lows, resulting in longer transport distances through depressions than across intervening obstructions. Sliding velocities determine rates of entrainment, dilution, and deposition. Relatively high sliding velocities decrease mixing rates by transporting basal debris and result in long transport distances. Relatively low sliding velocities result in short transport distances, as debris is lodged, new debris is entrained, and mixing rates are high.
30079725|Biotites and hornblendes in granitic rocks near the San Andreas fault in the Coast and Transverse Ranges of California generally have crystallized later than associated felsic minerals. Recent experimental studies on natural materials indicate this could result if the ferromagnesian minerals crystallized at water pressures less than about 1 kbar and within a narrow range of water pressures. Iron in the hornblendes is invariably more oxidized than that in coexisting biotite. This variation in composition of eight selected pairs of hornblendes and biotites suggests that the two minerals formed in an unbuffered and closed system with respect to oxygen. Compositions of hornblendes and biotites from the southern California batholith are similar to those of the Coast and Transverse Ranges; however, the ratio of ferric to ferrous iron in pairs of the minerals from the Sierra Nevada batholith generally is the same for both hornblende and biotite and suggests crystallization in a closed, but buffered, environment. Buffered crystallization conditions probably generally prevail in undisturbed (primary) plutonic environments. In contrast, textural and chemical data presented herein on mineral pairs from the Coast and Transverse Ranges suggest postmagmatic recrystallization effects.
30062143|The Indian Precambrian continental crust exhibits a variety of geological features fashioned at different times by different geotectonic processes. The bulk of this crust was formed prior to 2600 m.y. ago and remobilized at least twice between 2600-2000 m.y. ago (early Proterozoic Mobile Belt, EPMB) and 2000-1500 m.y. ago (middle Proterozoic Mobile Belt MPMB). Three early Precambrian nucleii: Karnataka (KN), Jeypore-Bastar (JBN), and Singhbhum (SN) appear to have survived in the craton and are characterized by low-grade supracrustals and tonalitic trondhjemite gneisses, formed 3800-2600 m.y. ago. The EPMB event involved sedimentation, amphibolite-granulite facies metamorphism, and
30066298|Sr and Nd isotopic compositions are reported for minerals separated from the five distinct intrusions which comprise the central carbonatite body of the Jacupiranga alkaline complex. The calculated Rb-Sr age of
30080966|Recently Frye, Glass, and Willman (1962) extended correlations of their "Wisconsinan" loesses from Mississippi River Valley southeast of Alton to various parts of the state and adjacent areas. Upon reaching northwestern Illinois and eastern Iowa they correlated their "Roxana" with Leighton's Farmdale loess, and their "Peoria" with the Iowan. This is in the area where the genetic relationships of drift and loess are known-Iowan drift and Iowan loess, and Farmdale drift and Farmdale loess-the area from which, Leighton contends, stratigraphic tracing of the loesses should start, not from the far distant Alton area of southwestern Illinois where the genetic relations of loesses and drifts cannot be determined. Having sampled and determined the composition of the loesses, they devised a diffraction-intensity (D.I.) ratio to characterize the loesses of their classification. Using their published D.I. ratios, the present writer finds that the ratios clearly identify and differentiate the Farmdale, Iowan, and Tazewell loesses consistent with the standard classification of the years. Tracing from eastern Iowa, across Mississippi River into northwestern Illinois, the D.I. ratios show the loesses to be Farmdale and Iowan, but not Tazewell. Southeastward across the weathered Illinoian drift, the D.I. ratios characterize the Farmdale and Iowan loesses even where they lie beneath the Tazewell morainal drift. Southwestward from eastern Iowa and northwestern Illinois along the former Iowa River segment of the present Mississippi, south of Muscatine, Iowa, they also characterize the same loesses, Farm-dale and Iowan, but indicate no Tazewell. Moreover, along the Lower Illinois River below Peoria, the Peorian loess, which has never been definitely differentiated into its two components, the Iowan and Tazewell, can be differentiated by the use of the D.I. ratio. These and the underlying Farmdale, which commonly carries a regosol and rests on the Sangamon weathered zone, continue in regular succession down the Lower Illinois River Valley to the Mississippi and southeastward past Alton to Frye and Willman's type section, the Pleasant Grove School, and beyond. Such tracing reveals a telltale stratigraphic inconsistency at their type section. Their "Roxana" there comprises both Farmdale and Iowan, whereas in northwestern Illinois their "Roxana" is Farmdale only. It was from Leighton's Iowan unit in the Pleasant Grove School section that the fossil shells were collected which gave an erroneous
30070682|Annual records of ice core D values from the Greenland Ice Sheet Project 2 core define a temporally ordered normal distribution over an interval of 686 yr (AD 13001985) about a mean value of
30061061|Exposed within the Upper Triassic Trujillo Sandstone of the Texas Panhandle are excellent examples of transverse braid bar deposits. The bars are 0.3-1.0 m high with a distance of 5-10 m between bar crests. They are composed of fine- to medium-grained sand with planar cross stratification overlain by a thin layer of small-scale trough cross stratification or linguoid ripples. A plot of stratification ratio versus bed relief index indicates a predominance of transverse bars over longitudinal bars for the Trujillo Sandstone. This indicates deposition in the distal portions of a braided stream system.
30063907|Models using hydration crystallization reactions (the reverse of dehydration melting reactions such as
30065708|The United Nations has targeted Santa Maria volcano, Guatemala, as part of its multidisciplinary "Decade Volcano" program to mitigate volcanic hazards. As part of this program to spotlight one of the world's most dangerous volcanoes, and on the basis of paleomagnetic data, we represent a wholly new interpretation of the temporal evolution of the Santa Mara volcano. Santa Mara is a typical, moderate-sized (
30056068|The sharply undulating surface that separates the Shakopee dolomite from the overlying St. Peter sandstone was studied in southwestern Wisconsin and contiguous areas in Iowa. It is characterized by irregularly dipping beds, evidence of much subsurface solution directly below the contact, and a varied thickness of intercalated green and maroon shale and sandstone in the contact zone. The contact has relief of as much as 170 feet. Data from detailed examination of outcrops and from subsurface studies of churn-drill samples and diamond-drill cores indicate that the irregular contact is due primarily to compaction of Shakopee lime muds over relatively rigid masses, probably biogenic, accentuated by subsurface solution and accompanying compaction under the weight of younger sediments. No compelling reason was found to assign any of the irregularity at the contact to subaerial erosion of an emergent Shakopee surface in pre-St. Peter time.
30081151|To investigate the linkage between erosion process and channel network extent, we develop two simple erosion threshold theories driven by a steady state runoff model that are used in the digital terrain model TOPOG to predict the pattern of channelization. TOPOG divides the land surface into elements defined by topographic contours and flow lines, which can be classified as divergent, convergent and planar elements. The calibration parameter for the runoff model is determined using empirical evidence that the divergent elements which comprise the ridges in our study area do not experience saturation overland flow, where as the convergent elements in the valleys do during significant runoff events. A threshold theory for shallow landsliding predicts a pattern of instability consistent with the distribution of landslide scars in our
30065497|The Lower Silurian paleogeography of the area between the Canadian Shield of Quebec and the Pre-cambrian of Cape Breton Island is discussed in the light of lithosphere plate tectonics. South of the Saint Lawrence River, Llandovery brachiopod communities around the Matapedia Basin indicate shelf areas sloping toward a sequence of mid-Caradoc to mid-Llandovery calcareous flysch. The surrounding land is composed of folded rocks of Cambrian to mid-Caradoc age. The Fredericton Trough, crossing central New Brunswick, contains a thick Silurian turbidite sequence and probably represents the floor of the Proto-Atlantic Ocean. South of this trough, the Avalon Platform formed a land area during the Lower Silurian. Precambrian and Cambrian rocks are exposed in southern New Brunswick and Cape Breton Island, and probably underlie the intervening areas. In southwestern New Brunswick and coastal Maine, the western parts of this platform were covered by volcanics and shallow-water deposits in the early Silurian and again in the late Silurian and early Devonian. South of the Avalon Platform, the Meguma Basin contains a thick sequence of Cambrian to Devonian sediments. The deep-water sediments of both the Matapedia and Meguma Basins are followed by shelf deposits with volcanics; shallowing occurred in Middle Llandovery times in the Matapedia Basin, although not until the late Silurian in the Meguma Basin.
30063390|Ferruginous concretions are locally abundant in sands and sandy clays of the South Carolina Coastal Plain. The great variety of shapes is primarily determined by the structure of the enclosing sediments. Hollow forms result from intergranular deposition of limonite in excess of that necessary to fill interstices between sand grains. The outer zone of solid concretions receives greater increments of iron oxides and, being thus forced to expand more rapidly, results in hollow interiors. The rate of supply of material is an important factor in determining the form of the concretions.
30079767|The Star Sedlo gneiss complex occurs as a roof pendant in the early Carboniferous Central Bohemian Pluton. Mylonitic tonalitic gneiss and amphibolite in the complex share a common foliation, which is discordant to the margins of the granitoid masses of the enclosing pluton. Hornblende
JG80200|Dune deposits on Lake Michigans southeastern shore contain pin stripe laminations: thin (<3 mm) laterally continuous (10 m) layers of dark sand, with vertical separations of 0.5100 cm between laminations. On modern dune surfaces concentrations of dark sand are observed in ripple troughs and form continuous sheets that pass under ripple crests. We explore the source of the dark grains and the processes that can concentrate them in layers, using direct field observations, textural analysis, and point counts of sand grain minerals using the energy-dispersive x-ray analysis function on an electron microprobe. Large and medium size fractions of dune sand are dominated by quartz while smaller size fractions contain high proportions of dark heavy minerals (Fe-Ti oxides, garnets, and Fe-Mg silicates). Pin stripe laminations and dark surface patches are enriched in this fine-grained component, suggesting that sorting by grain size is important in their origin. The fine-grained sand fractions of glacial tills have low concentrations of dark heavy minerals. Thus, the high proportions of heavy dark minerals in finer-grained fractions of dune sands developed during postglacial transport. The association of fine dark sands with ripples suggests that they form as translatent stratification when smaller grains preferentially collect in troughs during ripple migration. Dark laminations in dunes seldom display characteristic features of grainflow (upward coarsening in grain size, troughlike cross section), indicating that this mechanism does not account for the majority of pin stripe laminations. Grainfall has been observed creating a patch of dark sand and may account for the formation of some pin stripe laminations. Pin stripe laminations indicate the orientation of past dune surfaces and can help reconstruct past dune geometries and migration histories.
30063638|Stone nets, stone stripes, and soil stripes have formed on high, flat erosion surfaces at altitudes ranging from 11,200 to 13,000 feet in the Wind River Mountains, Wyoming. Although the frost-heave theory of Hgbom is accepted as accounting for the segregation of coarse material at the surface of ground which has undergone alternate freezing and thawing, certain weaknesses in this theory and in other theories for the origin of stone nets cause them to be unsatisfactory as explanations of those structures in the Wind River Mountains. A theory is developed in which alternate contraction and expansion of frozen ground, under a range of subfreezing temperatures, may produce a net of fractures bounding polygonal areas of frozen ground. Ice wedges form in these fractures and enlarge with successive contractions of the frozen ground. On eventually thawing from the top down, the wedges are gradually replaced by coarse fragments from the upper part of the central polygonal area. Most of the stone stripes are considered to be the result of solifluction acting on stone nets. Little definite evidence concerning the age of the soil structures in the Wind River Mountains is available. The stone nets appear to be inactive at present. Solifluction movement is seasonally active in the soil stripes and possibly in some of the stone stripes.
30067319|A restudy of the Hillsboro sandstone of Highland County has shown that those exposures formerly interpreted as sandstone layers interbedded in the Greenfield and the Niagaran dolomites are really masses of sandstone completely enclosed in the dolomites, not more than 25 feet below the Silurian-Devonian disconformity, which here cuts across the Greenfield and Niagaran dolomites. These masses were formed from sand washed down into cavities that existed beneath this erosion surface. The remaining exposures of the Hillsboro are of bedded sandstone resting on either the Greenfield or the Niagaran at the horizon of the disconformity. By this interpretation the Hillsboro comes in a hiatus which extends from the Greenfield dolomite of Upper Silurian (Cayugan) age to the Ohio shale of Upper Devonian age. It is in the same hiatus as the Sylvania sandstone of early Devonian age of northwestern Ohio, but this hiatus in Highland County extends farther downward and farther upward.
30068466|An attempt is made to follow the development of secondary structures in a slate, the Martinsburg formation in Warren County, New Jersey. In part of the area discussed, the structures are of the type common in slate regions with overturned folds, axial-plane flow cleavage, and the development of grain. Grain is believed to result from stretching of quartz grains in a rather than from tension normal to ac during elongation of the fold axis. Fabric analysis emphasizes the importance of elongation in a. In the southern portion of the area described, other structures have been superimposed as a result of the movement of a thrust fault. The bedding is refolded, the flow cleavage is folded, and fracture cleavage parallels the axial planes. Closer to the thrust, antithetic rotation of the slate along the fracture cleavage has almost destroyed all evidence of the earlier flow cleavage and has caused the fracture cleavage itself closely to approximate flow cleavage in microscopic and megascopic appearance.
30068629|Representing a stream channel of finite width as a surface z = z(x, y, t) subject to the three conditions: (1) that sediment mass is conserved during transport; (2) that the channel has a form just sufficient to transport its total water discharge; (3) that the channel has a form just sufficient to transport its total sediment load; and then applying the Manning equation and a well-known empirical law of sediment transport, it is possible to derive a downstream hydraulic geometry for steady-state channels. In the present case, the following geometry is derived: channel width
30056473|At Eagle Lake in western Ontario are early pre-Cambrian metamorphic rocks intruded by two different granites. The earlier, a gray granite, has dikes of light-colored pegmatite, which in one locality take the form of a tinstone-bearing pegmatitic greisen. A tinstone-bearing greisen has also been reported from eastern Manitoba, and a reddish pegmatite at Shatford Lake in eastern Manitoba also carries tinstone. The several occurrences indicate a tin-bearing area of about 150 miles in length.
30063766|In many half-graben, strata progressively onlap the hanging wall block of the basins, indicating that both the basins and their depositional surface areas were growing in size through time. Based on these constraints, we have constructed a quantitative model for the stratigraphic evolution of extensional basins with the simplifying assumptions of constant volume input of sediments and water per unit time, as well as a uniform subsidence rate and a fixed outlet level. The model predicts (1) a transition from fluvial to lacustrine deposition, (2) systematically decreasing accumulation rates in lacustrine strata, and (3) a rapid increase in lake depth after the onset of lacustrine deposition, followed by a systematic decrease. When parameterized for the early Mesozoic basins of eastern North America, the model's predictions match trends observed in late Triassic-age rocks. Significant deviations from the model's predictions occur in Early Jurassic-age strata, in which markedly higher accumulation rates and greater lake depths point to an increased extension rate that led to increased asymmetry in these half-graben. The model makes it possible to extract from the sedimentary record those events in the history of an extensional basin that are due solely to the filling of a basin growing in size through time and those that are due to changes in tectonics, climate, or sediment and water budgets.
30059952|This paper deals with the occurrence of two boulders of bituminous sandstone which have been found in the glacial deposits of central Alberta. They occur mixed with other material that was carried south by the Keewatin ice during glaciation. One boulder is a lens-shaped mass about 11 by 2 1/2 feet. These are now more than 200 miles from the source rock and were mistaken for local oil seepages.
30078347|The 7-14 km thick, Archean volcano-sedimentary sequence in the Chibougamau-Caopatina Region (CCR), composed of two mafic to felsic cycles and two thick, essentially epiclastic successions, is divided into a Southern Caopatina Segment (SCS) and Northern Chibougamau Segment (NCS). The sedimentary units which evolved after cycle 1 volcanic rocks in the SCS, and after the combined cycles 1 and 2 in the NCS, document a diachronous sedimentary basin evolution. This criterion has been employed to distinguish an early evolutionary stage in the south and a late evolutionary stage in the north. In each segment the basin episode represents a unique extensional event. Volcanism preceded the major sedimentary-rifting event in both segments. Composition of sediments and sedimentary facies, correlated with the interpreted basin margin faults, support the interpretation of two phases of crustal extension. Volcanic construction and sill intrusion were the prevalent factors governing emergence of volcanic islands in the CCR; emplacement of magma in subvolcanic chambers is considered subordinate. Once volcanism waned, uplift of the consolidated, subvolcanic plutons and rise of the tonalitic gneiss were responsible for the continued unroofing of the volcanic edifices. The abundance of synvolcanic plutons supports this interpretation. Significant plutonic accretion below the volcanic centers transformed the Archean crust in time from a thin transitional crust to a thicker continental-type crust. A late stage K-rich volcanism also suggests the presence of a continental-type crust. Deposition of the Archean supracrustal rocks in the CCR was controlled by tectono-magmatic processes, and they show initial development of a primitive island (arc?) that gradually evolved into a mature island environment. Finally, backarc or marginal basin extension took place, and detritus derived from the volcanic edifices was shed into the adjacent fault-bounded basins. The marginal basins of the western Pacific or Andaman Sea marginal basin may be modern analogues.
30066293|A simple thermodynamic model describing hydrous silicate melts has been applied to the systems albite-, diopside-, and silica-
30056253|In regions of considerable topographic relief underlain by steeply dipping bedded formations, such as the Athens Plateau of southwestern Arkansas, the action of creep tends to move the edges of the up-ended beds down-slope, forming pseudo-folds which are in no way related to the underlying geologic structure.
30058632|This paper was delivered at the Tercentenary Conference of Arts and Sciences at Harvard University, September, 1936. It is a brief presentation of some of the major difficulties that are encountered in attempting to explain all the phenomena of differentiation of igneous magmas by a single process. Special attention is given to the theory of differentiation by crystal fractionation.
30058192|Modal analyses for a collection of 145 thin sections of New England calcalkaline granites are presented and discussed. The data are used to estimate a range in which average or bulk modal compositions may be expected to fall. The internal variability of such granites is also examined in some detail. Remarkable internal homogeneity, rather small differences between granite masses, and consistent relation of data points for each mass to the thermal valley in the system Q-Or-Ab all suggest the existence of granitic (liquid) magmas as parent-materials. The origin of these magmas is not known; the most likely processes appear to be selective refusion and crystal fractionation. Critical evidence permitting a choice between these alternatives is not available, and it is curious that the difficulties confronting them are nearly identical.
30062240|Two separate processes are shown to be involved in accumulation on talus. Direct free fall from the cliff gives accumulation amounts which decrease with distance downslope from the cliff foot. Accumulation and redistribution by slush avalanching then reverse this trend to give a depositional layer, the thickness of which increases directly with downslope distance. These two processes can be shown, by means of a simulation model, to be capable of accounting for the form of the talus. Increasing the relative importance of slush avalanche redistribution in this model leads to an increase in the length of the basal concave segment on the slope.
30062452|Understanding of the deformation which gives rise to geological structures is greatly enhanced by knowledge of the total strains to which their component parts have been subjected. Strains may be measured directly provided that some suitable indicators are present. The Cambrian Slate Belt of Wales contains ideal strain indicators in the form of perfect triaxial ellipsoidal bodies at a limited number of localities. These indicators enable fully quantitative evaluation of the strain involved in the production of slaty cleavage. Variations in three-dimensional deformation also explain aspects of large scale structure, such as changes in fold dihedral angles and the positioning and magnitude of major plunge variations in non-cylindrical folds on all scales. Strains measured from these indicators are compared in detail with strains measured from intensities of preferred orientation of phyllosilicates obtained by x-ray transmission goniometry. The results obtained by both methods cover an appreciable range of principal strains. They are consistent in their close relationship to each other and also to the local and regional geological structure. The natural strains,
30058440|The concept of rotational slip in glaciers, previously introduced by Lewis, must now be considered in the light of recent theoretical work by Orowan and Nye, based on the assumption that ice is an ideally plastic material and that rate of stress is a function of the shear stress. This paper is chiefly concerned with the formation of shear surfaces in "passive" flow. Possible inferences of Nye's work are discussed. If substantial differential movements develop along the surfaces of maximum shear stress of the passive state, we may have found an important part of the explanation of the variation of intensity of glacial erosion. Previous work relating to rotational movement is surveyed; and important pioneer work by Gibson and Dyson is discussed. Results of systematic studies of banding of various cirque glaciers in the Jotunheimen area of Norway are presented. The remarkable systematic behavior of the dips of the bands, which increase steadily away from the head wall and decrease steadily again toward the terminal moraine, is most easily attributable, at present, to some form of rotational movement. Surface features of the ice below the Mount Collon icefall are discussed in relation to subglacial conditions exhibited in a tunnel dug through to the rock wall. Possible implications of a set of data concerning ice movement and distribution of banding are discussed. We may have here the first evidence of rotational movement beneath an icefall.
JG117107|The Eastern Snake River Plain (ESRP) is a northeast-trending volcanic basin that marks the track of the Yellowstone hotspot. Subsidence has characterized the ESRP since at least 4 Ma. To test whether subsidence of the ESRP surface is an active process, synthetic aperture radar interferometry has been applied to detect deformation during 19932000. Results show that no regionally consistent deformation occurred across the ESRP during the periods of observations. However, local displacements of 13-cm magnitude have been detected in the adjacent Basin-Range province. This deformation is not attributed to long-term movement of the ESRP but instead to local tectonic and/or groundwater processes.
30082473|Sidney Paige's contention that the granite has made room for itself by distension of the crust, and not by stoping and assimilation, is corroborated by a study of the inclusions and the foliation of the igneous rock.
30081073|An asymmetrical arrangement of microfolds in flow layering adjacent to phenocrysts indicates the sense of shear and is a potential indicator of the local flow direction in flow-layered volcanic rocks. This microstructure is analogous to a similar arrangement of microfolds around rotated porphyroclasts in some metamorphic rocks. It is also relevant to the incorporation of inclusion trails in porphyroblasts that grow while undergoing rotation relative to the matrix foliation, suggesting that asymmetrical microfolds may form outside porphyroblasts during their growth and relative rotation. Asymmetrical microfolds adjacent to garnet porphyroblasts have been observed in some metamorphic rocks.
30059399|The main uplift of the Uinta Mountains is a broad, simple, anticlinal arch which attained a mean altitude of 1.82 miles in early Tertiary time, as a result of an orogenic upthrust of 0.66 miles added to a general epeirogenic uplift of the region of 1.16 miles. The culminating point of the arch was of course higher than the mean altitude, but probably never exceeded 2.8 miles. The upthrust of 0.66 miles necessitated a downthrust of the sial into the sima of 5.94 miles to maintain isostatic equilibrium. Under erosion the mountain column lost load and rose by flotation, a volume of sima in depth replacing that of the sial removed in the inverse ratio of their specific gravities; so that the total column down to the zone of compensation always maintained a constant mass. Immediately anterior to the elevatory movement the top of the Point of Rocks formation was about at sea level; so that the difference between the position of this datum plane, as restored by Powell in his displacement diagrams, and the present surface is the measure of the prism removed by erosion. This is the equivalent of a prism having a uniform thickness of 4.42 miles. During this removal the mountain column rose 3.98 miles, and the loss of height of the range was 0.44 miles. The residual mountains of today are the equivalent of a prism having a uniform thickness of 0.22 miles. The rise separated the range from the plateau on the north by an upthrow of 3.98 miles on the north-flank fault. In addition to this there was a downthrow of the plateau on the same fault of 0.6 miles due to the load of Tertiary. On the south flank of the main uplift the corresponding upthrow was by flexure of the stratified rocks near the surface, but probably by a fault in depth. The mountains of the adjoining Yampa Plateau uplift were much lower originally than the main uplift and, as features of the relief distinct from the epeirogenic uplift, have been completely wiped out by erosion. The effect of elastic expansion due to relief of load is not considered in the discussion, which is intended to illuminate the behavior of mountains under the control of isostasy rather than to arrive at precise numerical results. For purposes of comparison the isostatic relations of the Black Hills are briefly reviewed.
30071164|An early to middle Paleozoic magmatic arc was discovered in the Qinling orogenic belt of central China that marks the boundary between the North China craton and the South China craton. The arc was built on the deformed southern passive continental margin of the North China craton, which has been modified by the accretion of an oceanic island arc in early Paleozoic time. U/Pb analyses of zircons from granites indicate short-lived arc activity from Middle Silurian to Early Devonian time. Trace element analyses as well as REE analyses of I-type granites are consistent with the interpretation that the magmatic arc developed above a north-dipping subduction zone. Termination of magmatic activity was probably caused by the initiation of collision between the North China craton and the South China craton. This interpretation is consistent with faunal data and places new constraints on the Paleozoic tectonic evolution of the Qinling belt.
30085002|The piedmont angle is principally of structural origin: the sharp break of slope is found most commonly at lithological or structural boundaries, though rarely it has developed at fault zones. Superimposed on this structural effect is that of differential weathering and erosion. Moisture is concentrated first on the debris slope, which becomes weathered and hence especially susceptible to erosion. Once a distinct hill-plain junction has formed, this too becomes a zone of moisture concentration, and hence of further weathering and erosion. The scarp-foot zone is gradually worn down and concurrently migrates headward; old pediment levels are abandoned (and preserved by virtue of their debris mantles), and the scarp is attacked at the base, thus being steepened to the maximum extent consistent with stability. As long as scarp-foot weathering and erosion continue, the escarpment is maintained at the maximum possible inclination. This etching out of the scarp foot is in some areas in the Flinders ranges (and elsewhere) demonstrably a geologically recent event-a retouching of the base of the scarp. Pediments develop at the scarp foot primarily and initially by weathering, wash, and rill attack in a short period before the debris mantle is fully developed. Subsequently, the bedrock surface is modified by subsurface weathering and flushing. The remarkable smoothness, and the preservation, of pediment surfaces is, however, due to the capping of coarse debris-the mantle. In detail and in significant measure, therefore, pediments are in part aggradational forms.
30063950|Paleomagnetic methods apparently have little or no resolving power for studies of global tectonics. As the number of ancient pole determinations increases, the scatter of ancient pole positions has become so great, even from single localities and geologic provinces, that the circles of error for paleopoles from rocks of each age are wider than the Atlantic Ocean. From this fact it is apparent that paleomagnetic pole determinations cannot be used to show relative movements between continents. The use of paleoclimatology to interpret earth history in general-and global tectonics in particular-has not been successful because its practitioners have not utilized the results of present-day meteorology, physical oceanography, and climatology. The writer used marine evaporite, coal, desert eolian sandstone, and tillite deposits as paleoclimate indicators. From a plot of marine evaporite, coal, and proved desert eolian deposits on world maps-one for each age from the Proterozoic through the Miocene-a consistent geometric pattern emerged. Addition of proved tillite deposits to the maps brought out a second, but time-related, pattern. The geometric pattern on the maps shows that, since Devonian time, the major coal deposits of each age consistently are in two belts which extend to high latitudes. Equatorward from the two coal belts are two-or at times only one- evaporite belts. The widths of the coal and evaporite belts fluctuate through time. When the evaporite belts have the greatest latitudinal spread (up to 125), the earth must have been very warm; these are termed "evaporite maxima." The coal belts are very narrow during evaporite maxima. When the coal belts are broadest, the evaporite belts are restricted (about 60) and glaciation is most common. These periods are called "glacial maxima." The great fluctuation of the widths of these belts illustrates the second, or time-related pattern: specifically, the average world temperature has changed considerably during earth history, and the changes are episodic; ultimately a periodicity may be established. The climate changes do not appear to be related to orogeny. In the Northern Hemisphere, the northern limit of evaporite deposition through time fluctuates from about lat 40 N. to lat 83 N. In the Southern Hemisphere, the fluctuation is slight, ranging from lat 20 S. to lat 40 S. This northward "offset" of evaporite zones is similar to that of the present northward offset of the meteorological equator. The largest areas of desert eolian deposits are in two circumglobal belts: one extends from Spanish Sahara to India, and from Southern California to the Rio Grande Valley; the other crosses South America from Peru and Chile to southern Brazil, extends across southern Africa, and continues across most of Australia. The two belts where the known desert eolian sandstones are concentrated coincide with today's horse-latitude, or desert, belts. It was found that 95 percent of all ancient evaporites, Proterozoic to the present, are in areas which today receive less than 100 cm of annual rainfall. Thus the evaporites are in areas which today have the driest air currents. The significance of this discovery is that the planetary wind- and ocean-current circulation patterns have undergone little or no important change since middle Proterozoic time. This is not possible unless the positions of the rotational pole, ocean basins, and continents also have been the same for the past 800-1,000 m.y. An independent test of these statements is provided by a study of the tectonic history of the Arctic and North Atlantic Oceans and the relation of this history to evaporite deposition in Eurasia and North America. This study demonstrated that the Gulf Stream and North Atlantic Drift have been in existence since middle Proterozoic time. Thus the Atlantic and Arctic basins appear to be very ancient features. In view of the results presented here, modern concepts of continental drift (the new global tectonics) and polar wandering require complete reevaluation unless some other explanationcan be found for (1) the evaporite- and coal-distribution patterns and (2) the causal relations of these patterns to the modern planetary ocean- and wind-circulation system, and to the present rotational pole.
30057910|Data are presented to show that the Coast Range intrusives of southeastern Alaska may be tentatively grouped in a number of belts wherein one general type of igneous intrusive rock predominates. Intrusive stocks and batholiths in a wide belt of folded sediments and volcanics to the southwest of the Coast Range batholith have an average composition of a quartzose diorite; the Coast Range batholith, throughout a considerable length, consists predominantly of quartz diorite in the southwest portion, granodiorite in the core, and quartz monzonite in the northeast portion. Small stocks of gabbro and ultrabasic rocks also occur in the Alexander Archipelago to the southwest of the main Coast Range batholith. Each of the major types of plutonic rock occurring in large volume is accompanied by a small volume of a highly sodic leucocratic facies and by aplite dikes whose composition probably varies with the composition of the rock with which they are genetically associated, and in whose origin mineralizers have played an important part. The Coast Range intrusives and those of the Sierra Nevada are compared, and it is shown that both have a similar variation in composition and mode of geographic distribution, which is probably due to the same structural cause.
30068436|Field and laboratory study of structural breccia in the vicinity of Sudbury indicate the following sequence of events during the post-Huronian deformation which produced it. Aqueous fluids at elevated temperature and pressure permeated strikewise fractures along which there was slight dislocation of the walls. Fragments were torn loose and comminution was aided by action of the fluids. This formed a mobile matrix which in time attained sufficient volume to transport the remaining fragments. Low confining pressure permitted easy movement of the breccia and prevented the development of good crystallographic orientation in the minerals. The magmatic fluids enriched the matrix particularly in sodium and in general increased the amounts of mica, chlorite, sodic plagioclase, etc., over that found in the fragments. Study of three breccia types shows a tendency for the matrixes to converge toward a common chemical composition. Following these changes came the introduction of nickeliferous sulphides, unimportant in most breccia bodies, but locally giving rise to ore bodies such as the Frood.
JG80203|The well-preserved magmatic arc in the eastern Pontides orogenic belt of northeastern Turkey offers critical clues on convergent margin tectonics associated with the late Mesozoicearly Cenozoic geodynamic evolution of the eastern Mediterranean region. Here we investigate the petrology, geochemistry, and U-Pb zircon chronology of adakitic intrusions from the Pulur region in the southern zone of the eastern Pontides belt. The intermediate to felsic intrusives in the Pulur region are characterized by the presence of abundant plagioclase, amphibole, and biotite phenocrysts. The rocks display extreme light rare earth element enrichment (
30075120|The elliptical bays (swamps) in Horry County, South Carolina, which the writer has interpreted as lake basins encircled by beach ridges, bars, or atolls, apparently owe their shape and orientation to the tendency of rotary currents in liquids to assume the shape of an ellipse whose longer axis points N. 45 W. in the Northern Hemisphere and N. 45 E. in the Southern Hemisphere. The currents in the lakes were probably induced by breaking waves during a late Glacial epoch.
30056199|Variations in concentrations of Si, Al, Fe, Mg, Ca, Na, K, and Ti (as oxides) and Ba, Co, Cr, Cu, Ga, Mn, Ni, Pb, Sc, Sr, V, Zn, and Zr were determined by the mutual-standard method of spectrochemical analysis on the total soil and parent-rock samples, separated sand, silt, and clay fractions, and acetic acid leachates of soils developed from granodiorite (Wyoming), basalt (Colorado), granite (Missouri), and metamorphosed andesite (North Carolina). Intraplate precision is 7.5 per cent; interplate precision is 28 per cent. Particle-size distribution, the mineralogy of each size fraction and measurements of -H2O, pH, Eh, soluble salts, free iron oxide, organic matter, and exchange capacity are related to composition by graphical and statistical methods. These conclusions are presented for the four soils: 1.Enrichment or depletion of most trace elements is directly proportional to the amount of clay and silt produced by weathering. 2.The largest concentration changes occur across the parent rock-soil interface. 3. Al-Ga, Fe-Co, Fe-Mn, Fe-Ti, Fe-V, and Mg-Sc show similar behavior during weathering; less definite associations are noted for Fe-Cu, Fe-Cr, Mg-Cu, Ca-Sr, K-Ba, and K-Pb. 4.The B-horizon usually shows maximum enrichment in Co, Cr, Cu, Mn, Ni, Sc, Ti, and V and contains the largest leachable amounts of most elements. 5. Climate appears to be more important than parent-rock composition in affecting trace-element distributions. 6.Concentration changes of some elements are related to survival or destruction of certain parent-rock minerals. 7. The only distinct differences in element content between the two salic and two mafic parentage soils are in the concentrations of Si, Fe, Cu, Sc, V, and Zr. 8. No clear-cut relation between minor element variations and pH, Eh, or free iron oxide values throughout a profile has been found in any of the four soils.
30062096|Bounce and prod casts from the Ordovician of Llangranog, Wales, and a roll cast from the Silurian of Ringerike, southern Norway, are attributed to longitudinally ribbed orthoconic nautiloids, probably Kiono-ceratids, impinging or rolling on firm mud bottoms.
30065757|Trend surface analysis has been used to measure the regional variation in composition of the Caledonian granites of the British Isles. The variations in <tex-math>$Na_{2}O/K_{2}O$</tex-math>, and in normative albite, orthoclase, and quartz, are illustrated by contour maps. The trend surfaces for each of these constituents show a marked parallelism to Caledonian structures in the region. The surfaces for <tex-math>$Na_{2}O/K_{2}O$</tex-math>, albite, and orthoclase show some indication of bilateral symmetry, such that a belt of high normative albite-low normative orthoclase compositions corresponds broadly to the central highly metamorphosed zone of the orogenic belt. Comparison of the magma compositions with relevant experimentally investigated systems suggests that the Caledonian granitic magmas originated under water pressures that were greatest in the central part of the orogenic belt.
30071185|The Mississippian flora is one of the least investigated fossil floras of North America. David White recognized two phases-a lower, or Pocono, phase and an upper, or Chester, phase. The Pocono flora is characterized by Triphyllopteris and lycopods of the Lepidodendropsis type. The Chester flora is set off by the occurrence of Cardiopteris polymorpha, lycopods resembling the Old World Lepidodendron volkmannianum, and Asterocalamites. Both of these floras are distinct from the late Devonian below and the early Pennsylvanian above. The Reeds Spring formation of Missouri and the Wedington sandstone member of the Fayetteville shale contain the only Mississippian land floras yet described from the Mid-Continent region. The plants of the latter support the middle or early late Chester age indicated by the inverterbates. The flora of about forty species in the upper New Albany shale, described as Devonian, contains at least as many Mississippian elements. Most of the species found there, however, are restricted to this zone and consequently are of limited value in determining the age of the plant beds.
30057891|It is shown that the color of red beds is not due to a larger iron content, nor due to the mere presence of ferric oxide. It is the presence of red ferric hydrate and ferric anhydride which makes the rocks red. It is pointed out that conditions under which dehydration of ferric oxides can occur are to be investigated rather than conditions producing ferric oxide-these latter being the ordinary processes of erosion. The indisputable evidence that red beds are continental in origin explains why the red rocks retained their color, since the sediments were never exposed to the reducing action of the marine continental shelves.
30060650|The formation of dolomite from a number of metastable carbonate materials has been investigated. Aragonite-basic magnesium carbonate mixtures, Ca-Mg carbonate gels, and magnesian calcites produced by calcareous algae and echinoids were treated in the presence of
30057041|The Benioff torsion apparatus for creep testing of slender cylindrical specimens is described. Continuous creep and creep recovery curves for granodiorite and gabbro at room temperature and atmospheric pressure are given. For constant-torque tests of up to 1 week's duration, the results are closely represented by the equation
30056243|Various rock minerals were crushed and sifted to determine the relative losses through different sieves. It was found that these losses were not equal in different minerals, so that discarding the fines may introduce errors in proportions in percentage determinations by heavy-solution separations.
JG80115|Discerning the effects of anthropogenic activities (i.e., reservoir construction, land use change), as opposed to those of natural processes (i.e., climate variability), on suspended sediment flux has become an increasingly difficult challenge. This contribution presents water and suspended sediment flux from five major watersheds that discharge into the southeastern U.S. Atlantic, a region that is currently considered sediment starved. Three periods of Anthropocene time were defined and evaluated: (1) pre-European conditions (16801700), (2) pre-dam conditions (19051925), and (3) post-dam conditions (19852005). Physical and hydrologic watershed data were used to run a climate-driven hydrological transport numerical model (
JG80119|New U-Pb dating of detrital zircon and geochemical features of Permian-Mesozoic arc-derived volcanic rocks and volcaniclastic turbidites (graywackes), when compared with those of the volcanic rocks associated with unconformable Late Cretaceous shallow-water sediments, reveal that subduction in New Caledonia, once thought to be extinct in the Late Jurassic (ca. 150 Ma), was still active at least from ca. 130 to 95 Ma. The accumulation of volcanic arc-derived sediments during the late Early Cretaceous suggests that, as in New Zealand, active-margin activity went on for a short time in spite of the assumed subduction jamming by the Hikurangi Plateau at ca. 100 Ma. Meanwhile, the rift-related magmatic activity that preceded the marginal breakup migrated eastward from ca. 130 Ma (13095 Ma) in eastern Australia, to 110 Ma (11082 Ma) in New Zealand, and, finally, to ca. 89 Ma (8983 Ma) in New Caledonia and generated large volumes of silicic magma. In contrast, marginal basins opened synchronously at ca. 83 Ma when the stretched continental crust finally broke out. In general, intraplate and volcanic arc signatures coexisted in Cretaceous syn-rift magmas. Therefore, the Australian marginal breakup appears to be the final effect of continuous southward unzipping of Gondwana that interfered with the subduction-modified mantle wedge of the Mesozoic active margin. The occurrence of lateral flow of the upper asthenospheric mantle due to the rapidly eastward-migrating Australian plate margin possibly prevented the formation of a volcanic arc at the eastern end of the system.
30064653|Unconformities of transgressive sequences commonly occur within the basal beds of the sequences, not below them. Such unconformities, called ravinements, separate basal marsh, lagoon, estuarine, and beach deposits from overlying marine sands. Study of the ravinements in the Bay of Fundy shows that they are cut mainly by surf action along a narrow zone at the foot of the shore face. Spits in the Bay of Fundy advance shoreward before the ravinement, leaving no trace of their passage, except where the supply of shingle is so great that the spits are stabilized. Sea level shifts then result in the abandonment of an old barrier and the formation of a new. The Cretaceous Peedee and Black Creek Formations of the Carolina Coastal Plain are separated by a well-developed ravinement; this ancient example makes it possible to observe the effects of ravinement when operating over a considerable period of time. Sporadic lenses of littoral sand at the Black Creek-Peedee interface indicate that the shoreline advanced in the stepwise manner characteristic of many transgressive shorelines. Many explanations have been offered for this phenomenon; probably no one of them has a monopoly on the truth. It is suggested that the ravinement process may contribute to stepwise migration. Shore face erosion may feed a barrier until the shore face is mantled in its own lag; the barrier is then overstepped and a new shoreline is formed. It has recently been shown that erosion by inlet migration is an important coastal process. If the barriers are retreating landward, an especially severe form of ravinement results.
30057342|Plants build dunes, and dune growth controls plant growth. Hence we can use the distribution and structure of dune plant indicators to reconstruct recent changes in sand deposition, erosion, and stabilization. This is illustrated by the alternate widening and contraction of foredunes around Lake Michigan during recent decades.
30068769|The changing configuration of a glacier-derived, turbid surface meltwater plume was observed over a 40 hr period in a small marine inlet in Spitsbergen. Factors controlling plume position (tides, winds, and melt stream discharge) were also monitored. Tidal forcing was the dominant control on plume behavior over the study period, when winds were calm or light. The plume spread over much of the inlet on the flood and around high tide, and was restricted to the north side on the ebb and at low water. Winds were generally <5 kts and only influenced plume position when reaching over 12 kts. Coriolis effects were unimportant. Sediments on the inlet floor fined progressively with distance from glacier-fed stream effluxes. Short cores showed that deposition was mainly in the form of structureless sands and silts.
30079624|In 1935 the colonization of a part of the Matanuska Valley in south-central Alaska was undertaken by the federal government. The agricultural land, where the soil is fertile and deep, is limited in extent. The soil is loess, which is being deposited even today, and clearly demonstrated is the part that glaciation may play in the formation of such deposits.
10.1086/673176|Sediment routing systems link source regions undergoing erosion with depositional sinks and involve a volumetric or mass budget. Understanding how these source-to-sink systems function is key to stratigraphic prediction, but estimation of their surface sediment discharges and depositional fluxes on geological time scales is a challenging problem. We recognize a paleosediment routing system from the geological record in the mid-late Eocene Escanilla Formation and time equivalents of the tectonically active wedge-top region of the southern Pyrenees. By mapping the >200-km-long fairway of the Escanilla sediment routing system, we obtain the sediment budget and grain-size fractionation of three time intervals, each of 2.52.6-m.yr. duration, over the time period 41.633.9 Ma. Four thousand cubic kilometers of sediment, sourced principally from two feeder systems in the high Pyrenees, was deposited in a period of 7.7 m.yr. The positions of moving boundaries, characterized by rapid reduction in the percentage of gravel, sand, and fine grain-size fractions (gravel cline, gravel front, sand front), are sensitive to the dynamics of the sediment routing system. In order to understand these dynamics, total volumes of sediment sequestered as stratigraphy, together with the component volumes of gravel, sand, and fines, are transformed into a mass balance framework. Over time, there was a progressive westward progradation of coarse-grained facies driven by increasing sediment supply from the rapidly eroding Pyrenean orogen. Changes in the rate of downsystem fining of grain size, percentages of grain-size fractions in preserved stratigraphy, position of moving boundaries, and evolution of gross-depositional environments are related to variations in the volume of sediment supplied, the grain-size mix of the supply, and the spatial distribution of tectonic subsidence generating accommodation.
30082322|Before much was known about the geology of continental margins and the occurrence of oceanic islands in suspect terranes, tests of theories related to island biogeography were undertaken mostly by ecologists and in paleontological investigations of non-insular biota. A significant new source of paleontological data with which to test models for species equilibrium over evolutionary versus ecological time scales and other important problems in evolutionary theory exists within circum-oceanic belts where ancient oceanic islands are preserved as allochthonous terranes. Research on faunas from these areas simplifies attempts to apply the theory of island biogeography to the fossil record and to trace the history of island populations over evolutionary time scales. Paleontologic data from a Paleozoic island arc (Alexander terrane) show significant fluctuations in the taxonomic diversity of brachiopods and thus question one of the main assertions of the dynamic equilibrium model. These data also support the concept of survival of relict taxa in ancient island refugia.
30078533|The Acadian deformation front in the northern Appalachians of Maine and New Hampshire can now be closely located during the early Emsian (Early Devonian; 408406 Ma). Tight correlations between paleontologically and isotopically dated rocks are possible only because of a new 408Ma time scale tie point for the early Emsian. The deformation front lay between a belt of Lower Devonian flysch and molasse that were deposited in an Acadian foreland basin and had not yet been folded and a belt of early Emsian plutons that intruded folded Lower Devonian rocks. This plutonic belt includes the newly dated Ore Mountain gabbro (U/Pb; 406 Ma), which hosts magmaticsulfide mineralization. Along the deformation front, a 407Ma pluton that locally truncates Acadian folds (Katahdin) was the feeder to volcanic rocks (Traveler Rhyolite; 406407 Ma) that are part of the forelandbasin succession involved in these same folds. The Emsian igneous rocks thus define a syncollisional magmatic province that straddled the deformation front. These findings bear on three alternative subduction geometries for the Acadian collision.
30056155|Topographic maps strongly support Tight's restoration of former main drainage lines in southeastern Ohio and adjacent West Virginia, but suggest numerous changes of detail, and the possibility of a more complex history than Tight recognized. No definite confirmation of Tight's theory of the manner of drainage diversions has been found. Structural control is abundantly indicated in the region, and may have been a factor in some of the drainage changes. Some evidence suggests that the former drainage may have been originally consequent on Appalachian uplift, either in late Paleozoic or more recent time. Indirect evidence, of uncertain validity, suggests that at least part of the present drainage may have been superposed from a sedimentary cover more continuous than the valley silts, which Tight considered the cause of the drainage changes.
30059194|The stability relations of a number of mineral assemblages formed by metamorphism of siliceous dolomites, magnesites, and calcites are defined by the use of thermochemical data. The calculated equilibrium curves are in excellent agreement with available experimental determinations. Possible deviations of reaction temperatures in nature from the theoretical curves are discussed, and the theoretical curves are shown always to give maximum P, T-values for any given reaction. The sequence of reactions occurring during progressive "equilibrium" metamorphism of siliceous carbonates differs from the Bowen (1940)-Tilley (1951a) reaction series in that diopside becomes stable before forsterite and wollastonite before periclase. The calculated sequence is in excellent agreement with field observations in areas of regional metamorphism. The Bowen-Tilley series appears to be a result of the metastable persistence of mineral assemblages above their equilibrium reaction curves. The P, T time-conditions in the various metamorphic facies are discussed, and a "petrogenetic grid" is constructed to establish limits on the CO pressures necessary if the assemblage calcite-quartz is to remain stable in the amphibolite and granulite facies. Some calculations on the thermal history of contact aureoles around small basaltic intrusions are presented in an appendix.
30057029|The high-temperature equilibrium relationships in the 10 per cent CaAl2Si208 plane in the CaSiO3-Ca2Al2SiO7-NaAlSiO4-CaAl2Si2O8 system have been investigated by the quenching method. The results contribute to the understanding of the origin and differentiation of alkaline rocks.
30062134|The principal igneous and metamorphic activity in the Precambrian basement of the South Snowy Block occurred ~2700 Ma ago. A thermal overprint at ~1800 Ma shows a pronounced spatial variation in intensity, indicated by biotite Rb-Sr model ages. The pattern of resetting may indicate a link with the nearby "Madison Mylonite Zone." The low initial Sr isotope ratio (.708) at 2700 Ma of the metasedimentary rocks (apparently the oldest rocks exposed in the South Snowy Block) suggests a maximum protolith age of ~3.0 Ga. No isotopic data from any unit studied indicated a substantially older inherited radiogenic component.
30063906|Trace element and Nd isotopic compositions of Late Cambrian to Middle Ordovician passive margin metasediments from the northernmost Taconic Allochthon of the northeast United States indicate a provenance consistent with a twocomponent mixture of an evolved Grenville source and a rift source generated during the Late Proterozoic opening of the Iapetus Ocean. Initial 
30079608|The rapakivi granites of Fennoscandia, characterized by Johannsen as "abnormal," include coarse-grained rocks having a peculiar ovoidal texture, controlled by the form of their potassium feldspars, which formerly served to define the whole group. When, however, it was realized that associated with the ovoidal varieties there are related granites having equigranular and porphyritic textures, notwithstanding some textural abnormalities, stress was laid on their age relations, and all the granites of inter-Jotnian age in Fennoscandia were grouped together. In the field these granites are vicarious with the Jotnian sandstones and have a similar distribution on or near the boundaries between the Svecofennian and Gothokarelian orogenic areas. The Jotnian quartzites were long ago designated as "Oldest Red" (Sederholm), i.e., as constituting the youngest continental sediments of pre-Cambrian age and representing the Molasse facies corresponding to the denudation of the Gothokarelian folds; consequently the rapakivi rocks are to be regarded as Molasse granites. A systematic discussion and reciprocal confrontation of sixteen well-known characteristics of these granites and their field appearances lead to the conclusion that they must have been formed at the expense of the Jotnian sediments and its closest Archean neighbor-rocks by a process akin to metasomatism. All other hypotheses lead to hopeless contradiction. The transformation process depends upon the influx of alkali aluminates as "emanations," in quantities corresponding to and fixed by the original porosity-actual and potential-of the parental sandstone; a surplus of "emanations," with consequent increment of volume, giving birth to true dynamic magmatic rocks represented by acid surface volcanics of rheomorphic origin. Possible mechanisms of influx are discussed and also the conditions favoring bedwise "granitization" leading to the formation of sheetlike bodies of granite differing somewhat one from another in age, composition, field position, and erosional peculiarities. The "abnormality" referred to by Johannsen is thus related to an equivoluminal "metasomatic" transformation of Molasse sandstone sequences, by influx of particular elements. In this respect the rapakivis are quite different from other granites hitherto described as being of similar provenance; nevertheless, they are accompanied by magmatic rock-types of rheomorphic origin, the formation of which involved increase of volume, as described by the writer and several other authors elsewhere.
30062604|In the Eastern Nazareth Mountains in Lower Galilee, Palestine, the Cretaceous is represented by a continuous series of marine deposits ranging from the Upper Albian to the Maestrichtian and possibly to the Danian. The uncertainty of the stratigraphic position of the Vraconian reflects the need of redefining the boundary between the Lower and Upper Cretaceous. The occurrence of "pseudo" flat-pebble conglomerates and the origin of the chert of the Cenomanian deposits are discussed. The mode of recurrent rudistite bioherms in the Lower Turonian is demonstrated. Ammonites characteristic of the Austin chalk of Texas occur in the Coniacian-Santonian beds. Differences between the Maestrichtian of the area studied and of the Palestinian standard section are discussed. The Cretaceous deposits represent a record of the widespread Upper Cretaceous transgression beginning in late Albian time. Fluctuating conditions in Cenomanian, Turonian, and Senonian time are reflected by the character of both the sediments and faunas.
30059003|Limestone breccias in the Doucers Formation of west White Bay, Newfoundland, are probably related to the Cow Head Breccias of the west coast of the island. This correlation assists in the solution of two outstanding problems: (1) Where was the source of the intraclastic debris ? and (2) Where did the breccias (now part of a klippe sequence) originally accumulate?
30067303|To investigate tilting and changes in level in the United States and Canada, results from the records of tide gauges of different stations were analyzed. In the Great Lakes region all results indicate a tilting of the land upward in a northerly direction, by about 10 cm. per 100 km. per century. Along the Pacific Coast a small rising of the land is indicated at the north, whereas in California the changes in height seem to be negative, but small and irregular. Along the Atlantic Coast of Canada the changes are small and within the limits of error nearly everywhere, but south of Portland (Me.) sinking prevails clearly. It is very probable that the tilt in the Great Lakes region is due to forces which tend to restore isostatic equilibrium, disturbed by the melting of ice after the Ice Age.
10.1086/599217|We report
30058701|The asymmetric "trap-door" type of uplifts which are significant and characteristic features of the structure of the Central Rockies are developed in a genetic sequence in the Pryor Mountain uplift. Excellent surface expression with topographic relief of canyon type combine to make the Pryor uplift a favorable place to determine the three-dimensional form and mode of origin of this type of uplift. The writer's study of the Pryor uplift indicates that these asymmetric anticlines are due to tangential compression acting on curved fault planes in the basement complex. Elevation and rotation of the segments preceded thrusting over the steep limb of the fold. This structural phenomenon is similar to that described by Willis as "ramp" structure. The intervening basin area between the Pryor Mountains and the northern Big Horn uplift is compared to a "ramp "valley. The structural interpretation offered in this paper is an attempt to explain the over-thrusting associated with asymmetric anticlines of the Central Rocky Mountain region. This overthrusting has been avoided in previous explanations of similar anticlines. An explanation based on normal faults activated by gravity does not seem applicable.
30056955|The wave-formed furrows and potholes near Moss Beach, Calif., occur as the result of (I) the contraposed shore line; (2) the relative freedom of that coast during certain seasons from severe storms, which produce violent waves; and (3) the abundance of tool materials which are very tough compared with the furrowed and potholed rock. The conclusion is drawn that the aggregate activity of small wave erosion, lost sight of in the startling effects of violent wave work, may be of great importance especially in regions of low storm frequency.
30056331|Chemical analyses of fresh and altered phases of basalt around Kilauea crater in Hawaii National Park indicate that two types of relatively rapid chemical decomposition are taking place. The first type occurs at steam vents where no sulphur dioxide is present. In this case silica and the soluble bases are leached away, leaving the hydrated oxides of aluminum and iron in the form of a characteristic lateritic product. The second type of decomposition is found at the solfatara, where sulphur dioxide is present to a variable extent. Here the alteration is accelerated, and the low pH results in the leaching-out of the alkali and alkaline earth elements, aluminum, and iron, leaving a siliceous yellow residue. These indications have been confirmed by laboratory studies in which fresh rock was subjected to the action of steam, air, and carbon dioxide in various combinations over a period of 6 months. A white deposit, found abundantly at the solfatara of Hawaii National Park, is of interest because it contains 12 per cent more sulphur trioxide than can be combined with the basic elements present. It appears to contain a melanophlogite with a vastly greater amount of "free" SO3 than any reported.
30081185|Although steppools are generally considered to be stable bedforms, stability is not absolute, but depends on size, scale, and perspective. Hydraulic analysis of the stability of steppool sequences in the Santa Monica Mountains, California, indicates that they are active channel features that are generally restructured within 5 to 100 years. The degree of mobility depends on step particle size. Steps are stable within small temporal and spatial scales, where they function as independent variables that dissipate stream energy and regulate channel hydraulics, but stability decreases at larger scales, where step pools become dependent variables that respond to discharge and sediment load. Hence the role of steppools changes from energy dissipation to one of channel adjustment. These results underscore the need to consider larger spatial and temporal scales in order to reveal the complete function and significance of steppools in mountain fluvial systems.
30067333|An outcrop of pre-Cambrian rock in the Devils Lake area of south-central Wisconsin, described in the literature as a rhyolite flow, is believed to be a fragmental, water-laid tuff.
30067284|A study of zoarial form in the cheilostomatous Bryozoa has shown that a definite relationship exists between the various zoarial types and their habitat. A percentage estimate of the various zoarial types present in an early Cenozoic bryozoan faunule gives a moderately accurate conception of the conditions under which the matrix bed was deposited.
30056201|This is a descriptive report. It presents hundreds of beach profile measurements-many taken daily. Measurements are given in graphic form. The data are processed to show daily changes in the volumes of the beaches studied and daily changes of cut or fill at points across the beaches. During the span of a year or two the beach surface will oscillate within an eight to ten foot vertical envelope as cut and fill occurs along the beach profile. The foreshore may approach 150 feet in width or be less than 50 feet wide. Daily net fluctuations of cut and fill are different for different parts of the beach. Daily net fluctuations are greatest near low water and the mid-foreshore, being 0.2 and 0.3 feet there. Although numerical data in the nearshore zone are scant, the writers believe that cut and fill is similar to the foreshore and mean low water zones. Maximum variation is perhaps less because at times the entire covering of sand is removed and erosion of the underlying fluvioglacial deposits does not take place as fast as that of the loose sand on the beach.
30067042|The Cycladic blueschist unit (CBU) in the central Aegean Sea comprises a preAlpidic crystalline basement that is overlain by thrust sheets of a metamorphosed volcanosedimentary sequence. Mlanges are widespread and enclose a wide variety of metaigneous rock fragments in a serpentinitic and/or metasedimentary matrix. Previous geochronology has documented the general temporal framework for the Alpidic metamorphic history but did not produce wellconstrained protolith ages for the main volcanosedimentary succession and for mlange blocks. This issue is addressed here in an ion probe UPb zircon study focusing on the islands of Andros, Sifnos, and Ios. The new results indicate a consistent regional pattern of Triassic ages (ca. 237245 Ma) for the magmatic precursors of metatuffaceous and metavolcanic rocks, which occur as intercalations within metasediments. This narrow range of igneous crystallization ages records an important period of volcanic activity in the larger study area. On Andros, such ages were also determined for a disrupted tabular body of metaacidic gneisses (several hundred meters in length) that has been considered an olistolith within a metaolistostrome. Field observations are compatible with the interpretation that this fragment represents a layer of the main succession that has been disrupted by largescale boudinage. A metagabbro and a metaacidic gneiss from a highpressure mlange on Andros yielded Jurassic
30056654|It has been known for about thirty-five years that a fossil-bearing sedimentary series is interstratified with the Columbia River basalt throughout eastern Washington and northern Idaho. It has been observed and described in print by several geologists of the United States Geological Survey, as well as by workers on state surveys. In 1926, it was named the Latah formation in the Spokane area by Pardee and Bryan. Fossils collected by the writers from Russell's localities and from many new stations make certain that the Idaho localities represent exposures of the Latah series. In Idaho, usually two or more layers occur separated by basalt flows. This offers persuasive evidence that the Latah is a series, rather than a formation. Although the lake beds are believed to be of local origin, and comparatively disconnected, the area in which outcrops occur is approximately 175 miles long and 75 miles wide. The type locality, near Spokane, appears to be abnormal when its characteristics are compared with those of a large number of the widely distributed Idaho localities. This article is the result of only a preliminary study, and future work will no doubt yield new localities and more complete collections of the flora.
30065531|Late Cenozoic fluvial deposits and erosional landforms in the New Jersey Piedmont record two episodes of valley incision, one in the Late Miocene and one in the Early Pleistocene, separated by periods of planation and fluvial deposition. The upland erosion surface and a fluvial gravel are the remnants of a lowrelief Late Miocene landscape. Late Miocene incision was followed by deposition of a fluvial plain and cutting of straths in the Pliocene. Early Pleistocene incision produced the present valleys, which contain Middle to Late Pleistocene fluvial deposits. The two incisions correspond to permanent glacioeustatic lowering during expansion of the Antarctic ice sheet in the Middle to Late Miocene and development of Northern Hemisphere ice sheets in the Late Pliocene. Bordering Coastal Plain marine deposits indicate that the upland erosion surface was formed during a rising sealevel trend between the Late Oligocene and Middle Miocene. The Pliocene plain and straths formed during a period of rising sea level in the Early Pliocene. The stratigraphic record indicates that the oldest preserved landforms are no older than Late Miocene, that landscape planation in coastal regions of lowrelief passive margins can be achieved in <20 m.yr., and that these surfaces can be incised and dissected in <5 m.yr.
30060902|Crystallization of a magma can occur adiabatically if dissolved water is removed from the melt by a reduction in pressure. Thermodynamic calculation of the adiabatic ascent of a parcel of water-saturated
30068223|Six new U-Pb ages for Avalonian plutonic and volcanic rocks from the eastern Caledonia Highlands, southern New Brunswick, indicate that magmatic activity occurred between 625-600 Ma ago with another, probably separate, major episode at ca. 550 Ma. This gap in igneous activity is consistent with differences in the metamorphic and deformational character of rocks from the two episodes. The 625-600 Ma activity was calc-alkalic and probably occurred in an Andean-type magmatic arc; it correlates with most volcanism and plutonism in the type Avalon Terrane of Newfoundland. The ca. 550 Ma activity formed bimodal volcanic rocks and high-level plutons, probably in an extensional setting, U-Pb ages of xenocrystic zircons from Avalonian igneous rocks indicate both Archean and Proterozoic components at depth in Avalonian basement, an observation consistent with Pb isotopic signatures which suggest an old, radiogenic crustal source (the African craton?) for the magmatic products.
30055918|Middle ton Island, lying 70 miles off shore in the Gulf of Alaska, was visited by airplane, but no landing could be made. The island is apparently composed of northwestward-dipping Tertiary beds that have been wave leveled, and covered by coarse foreign gravels. As it was elevated above sea level a well-developed set of terraces was formed upon it. The gravels and boulders upon its surface are believed either to have been transported directly to the island by an ice shelf that in Pleistocene times pushed well out to sea from the mainland glacier or to have been carried to sea by bergs.
30081017|The pressure and temperature at which the alkali feldspar-plagioclase boundary curve intersects the
30084802|Deep core borings and deep open-cut excavations at numerous localities in the Tennessee Valley disclose the presence of solution cavities at considerable depths below the beds of the master-streams. At localities where structural and lithologic conditions are favorable, cavities are present at depths in excess of 100 feet below the water table. As the streams are flowing on bedrock in the deepest channels excavated at all localities, except four on the lower portion of the Tennessee River, it is concluded that the solution of carbonate rocks within the zone of saturation is a normal geologic process.
30068748|Recent investigations of crystal settling in convecting magma have suggested that crystals may be spatially sorted according to both size and mineralogy. For a basalt magma simultaneously crystallizing plagioclase, clinopyroxene, and olivine, a possible result is the selective removal of mafic minerals and the preferential retention of plagioclase crystals along the intrusion margin. This represents a possible mechanism for generating plagioclase-phyric magmas of high-alumina basalt composition. In this study, a combined basalt crystallization and convection model has been developed to assess the extent to which crystallization and convection leads to mineralogic sorting and preferential plagioclase retention in a primitive mantle derived calc-alkaline basalt intrusion. The model assumes a simple rectangular chamber geometry, steady-state non-turbulent single cell convection, and spatially uniform crystallization. The results indicate that over a narrow range of convective velocities: (1) crystal sorting by size should occur, with progressively smaller crystals concentrated near the intrusion margin; (2) mineralogic sorting should also occur, with a pronounced region of plagioclase enrichment and mafic mineral depletion near the intrusion margin; (3) regions of plagioclase enrichment contain magmas of high-alumina basalt composition; and (4) the depth range over which high-alumina basalt formation occurs is a function of the convective velocity. Though specific to calc-alkaline basalt, these results have general application to late stage tholeiitic basalt, and plagioclase-bearing alkaline basalt systems. For this model to have application to natural high-alumina basalt magmas, actual convection must be non-turbulent, convective velocities must be appropriate for preferential plagioclase retention, and crystallization must extend at least 0.5 km inward from the intrusion margin. At two high-alumina basalt occurrences in the Aleutian Islands, observed variations in bulk chemical composition, mineralogy, and texture agree fully with those predicted by the model, thus suggesting that the required conditions exist. An important consequence of the model is that, if correct, high-alumina basalts are restricted to magmatic arc environments not by virtue of a special source component, but rather by unique thermal characteristics conducive to the appropriate conditions of convection and crystallization.
30062005|A new technique of quartz c-axis fabric analysis is described. The technique is based on the direct correlation between the optic orientation of quartz grains in an aggregate and the changes in interference colours as a thin section of the aggregate is rotated on a microscope stage. Using monochromatic incident light the interference colour variations are measured by a photometer. The resulting transmission spectra are input to a computer program for analysis. The analysis depends upon the decomposition of large numbers of superpositions of transmission spectra for several observation planes of different orientation. A sequential decomposition procedure is described and comparisons are made between conventionally measured c-axis fabric patterns and patterns derived from this photometric analysis. The photometric method proves to be a creditable alternative to the other methods of fabric analysis with distinct advantages in some circumstaces.
30079801|Swells of the Cameroon Line, a 1000kmlong line of 10 volcanocapped swells, resemble other volcanocapped topographic and bathymetric swells on the African plate. However, individual swells of the Cameroon Line are about 10 times smaller in area and distinct in being arranged in a straight line, half on the continent and half on the ocean floor. These peculiarities are here interpreted as related to an underlying mantle plume (the 711 plume) at lat 7N, long 11.5E, and to the location of this plume area on the bisector of a rightangled bend in the continental margin. I suggest that circumstances that led to the development of the Cameroon Line included (1) the stress field in the neighborhood of the rightangled bend in the continental margin, which favored extension normal to the bisector, and (2) formation of a zone of extension, aligned with the bisector, that joined a point in the lithosphere over the 711 plume to the continental margin. The rightangled bend in the continental margin has existed since ca. 125 Ma, and the ages and alignment of a line of intrusions cutting the continental crust in Cameroon indicate that the 711 plume has been in its present position with respect to the continental margin for the past 65 m.yr. Nevertheless, the Cameroon Line of swells formed only at 30 Ma. Some change at 30 Ma appears to have triggered formation of the line. A new, platewide pattern of shallowmantle convection developed under the African plate at 30 Ma. For that reason, I suggest that the trigger for formation of the Cameron Line was the establishment, as part of the new platewide convection system, of shallowmantle convection localized under the zone of extension that joined the 711 plume to the rightangled bend in the continental margin. Changes at 30 Ma fostered rapid propagation of that zone of extension, which had been established in the continental lithosphere at 65 Ma, into the Gulf of Guinea for a horizontal distance of 650 km.
30062163|A syncline of Devonian Palmerton Sandstone exposed in a quarry in the fold-thrust belt of eastern Pennsylvania contains a set of fractures that are perpendicular to bedding and strike parallel to the fold axis. Fracture spacing is between 0.25 and 30 cm. These fractures are zones of cataclasis that have striated shear surfaces. Displacement on fractures, where measurable, is less than 1 cm. Sparse kinematic evidence suggests that slip on fractures could have contributed to growth of the fold. Petrographic evidence shows that slip is in part localized along pre-existing mineralized fractures which probably formed during burial, lithification, and diagenesis of the Palmerton Sandstone in an extensional structural setting. The unusual shear-fracture pattern illustrated by the Palmerton Sandstone may result from slip on these early fractures during thnist-sheet displacement along a thrust ramp. This exposure also illustrates the operation of contrasting deformation mechanisms in sandstone and in vertically adjacent limestone and shale units. Evidence of pressure-solution deformation, in the form of spaced cleavage, is present in limestone and shale, whereas in the Palmerton Sandstone, deformation was accomplished by pervasive macrofracturing and microfracturing.
30066162|Seven high-level granites in Donegal got into position by various mechanisms involving reactive emplacement, radial distension of the country rocks, lateral wedging and horizontal stretching of the latter, and permitted emplacement through cauldron subsidence. The aureole rocks display an appropriate variety, depending on the time relations between deformation and crystallization and shown by differences in texture and mineral composition. In reactive emplacement, andalusite- and sillimanite-bearing hornfelses are produced; in weakly forceful intrusions, andalusite-schists and hornfelses; in strongly forceful intrusions, contact schists of regional aspect bearing kyanite, staurolite, garnet, and andalusite; the permitted intrusions produce only feeble contact effects. The aureoles show a varying trespass of the metasomatic zone of fibrolitization upon the truly metamorphic zones, the width of the trespass depending again on the emplacement mechanism, being broad in the reactive aureoles, and narrowing with the increase of stress during emplacement. In the Donegal aureoles, andalusite and kyanite are considered to be independent phases not derived from one another, and fibrolite-sillimanite of slightly later, independent, metasomatic origin.
30081215|The Arequipa volcanic landslide deposit (Peru) displays a pseudotachylyte (or frictionite) at its basal contact with an older ignimbrite. The pseudotachylyte consists of a dark 1cmthick vitreous layer that shows striations on its upper surface. It contains small mineral clasts from both the landslide rocks and the underlying ignimbrite embedded in an optically isotropic matrix. TEM observations revealed a clastmelt suspension with a lower black obsidianlike vein made of chemically heterogeneous glass. The pseudotachylyte is interpreted as the result of partial melting due to frictional heating during landslide emplacement. This is the third pseudotachylyte reported at the base of a landslide deposit and the first in a volcanic environment. Calculations show that basal melting only accounts for a small proportion of the total energy released during landslide emplacement, indicating that landslide transport was dominated by dissipative stresses affecting the whole landslide body and not concentrated only in a narrow basal layer. Melting most likely occurred during a short frictional episode that marked the transition from nondepositional to depositional conditions.
30071551|A total of 130 invertebrate species is recorded from three localities on the fourth, fifth, and sixth terraces at Palos Verdes Hills, California. The two lower-terrace faunas include extra-limital species, suggesting a different climatic regime than at present. However, changes in regime may have been local, controlled by the interplay of topography and hydrography on the flanks of the rising hills.
30068860|Our new SHRIMP UPb zircon ages from the Western Kunlun Orogen allow us to constrain the history of an active continental margin developed on the southern boundary of the Tarim block from the Ordovician to the Triassic. A
30066083|Fine-grained sediment delivered to the continental margin of central and northern California is dominated by input from coastal rivers. Suspended sediment from northern California rivers (the Eel, Klamath-Trinity, Mad, Smith, and Mattole Rivers, and Redwood Creek) amounts to 81% of the sediment produced between Point Conception and the Oregon border. Steep and uns Table hillslopes combined with high rainfall and land use alterations produce average annual sediment yields up to nearly
30057042|The Funzie conglomerate in northeast Shetland is a very large body of deformed metaconglomerate of pre-Middle Old Red Sandstone age. Its elongated and flattened pebbles, which are mostly of quartzite and occasionally of marble, lie in a subgraywacke matrix. A plot based on the measurement of 548 quartzite pebbles shows that the shapes of the pebbles vary systematically over the area. A minimum value for the deformation of the conglomerate at any point is found by comparing the average pebble shape at that point with the average pebble shape in the area of least deformation. Compression in the plane normal to the elongation direction has forced the pebbles to elongate by flow (Einengung). It is shown that the consistency of direction of the pebble axes is related to the elongation of those axes and is due to differential flow of the matrix against the pebbles. During the deformation of the pebbles their constituent quartz grains, the clastic quartz grains in the matrix, and the calcite grains in the marble pebbles developed forms and orientations similar to those of the pebbles. At the same time, the quartz, calcite, and micaceous grains of the pebbles and the micaceous grains of the matrix all developed preferred lattice orientations which give partial girdles of the poles of the c-axes [or of (001) of mica] in the plane perpendicular to the elongation direction, while the clastic quartz grains in the matrix show no preferred lattice orientation. Later ruptural deformation gave rise to fracture cleavage in the quartzite pebbles, tension veins, and calcite twinning.
30071159|Near Delmas, in the Transvaal, a paleoweathering surface is developed beneath the Black Reef on hydrothermally altered granite (HAG). Au in the weathering profile averages 10 ppb, compared with 5 ppb in the HAG. The hydrothermal alteration converted all plagioclase to muscovite and K-feldspar, removing Na and Ca from the rock, and converting ferromagnesian minerals to chlorite. Discontinuous zones in the core were enriched in As, Sb, Co, Au, and La. Superimposed on this hydrothermal alteration was a weathering event that penetrated to about 15 m. K, Rb, Cs, Sr, and Ba were leached. Mg and Fe were depleted in about equal proportion, whereas Ti and Al were conserved, consistent with weathering under a low-
30055972|New Carboniferous lungfish material is described and Figured, including Prosageno-dus? castrensis sp. nov., founded on a tooth plate from the Chester; a skull roof from the Pennsylvanian of Illinois assigned to S. serratus; a tooth from the same period and region described as Proceratodus carlinvillensis, gen. et sp. nov.; and S. ciscoenis sp. nov., from the summit of the Cisco of Texas. Prosagenodus gen. nov. is proposed, with Ctenodus interruptus Barkas as genotype. The North American Pennsylvanian and Permian dipnoans are reviewed.
30062620|Fossilized columnar stromatolites and other microbialites, when heliotropic, incline toward averaged incident solar radiation and preserve information useful for plate reconstructions. Some fast growing small diameter living heliotropic microbialites form sinusoidal columns by recording seasonal changes in solar inclination. Others simply incline toward the equator. Fossilized heliotropic stromatolites have the same potential for recording information about past positions of the sun relative to the strata they are preserved in, and can be used to infer lines of paleolongitude (plane of column inclination and/or sinusoidal oscillation) and paleolatitude (amount of net inclination). To reconstruct past configurations of continents using heliotropic stromatolites the apparent deviation from vertical growth in individual columns is measured, corrected for refraction and strain, and used as a minimum paleolatitude. The plane perpendicular to beds and containing the inclined stromatolite columns is equated with a great circle of paleolongitude. The paleogeographic poles are located along this great circle using paleolatitude information or independently using the intersection of the paleolongitude of two separate but contemporaneous specimens. Paleolatitudi-nal and paleolongitudinal data extracted in this way produce paleoheliotropic apparent polar wander paths. The method has the advantage of yielding true lines of paleolongitude and information about true paleolatitude, because heliotropism refers to the earth's rotational poles, and not an assumed stationary magnetic pole. Stromatolites are abundant in the geological record, and analysis for heliotropism may yield information about plate rotations and correlate paleomagnetic and geographic pole positions for most of earth history.
30063626|Most Neoproterozoic ophiolites of the ArabianNubian Shield show compositions consistent with formation in a suprasubduction zone environment, but it has not been clear whether this was in a forearc or backarc setting. Ophiolitic serpentinites are common in the Eastern Desert of Egypt, but their composition and significance are not well understood. Here we report new petrographic, mineral, chemical, and wholerock compositional data for serpentinites from Wadi Semna, the northernmost ophiolitic serpentinites in the Eastern Desert, and use these to provide insights into the significance of other Eastern Desert serpentinite locales. The Wadi Semna serpentinites are composed essentially of antigorite, chrysotile, and lizardite, with minor carbonate, chromite, magnetite, magnesite, and chlorite, and they were tectonically emplaced. The alteration of chrome spinel to ferritchromite was accompanied by the formation of chloritic aureoles due to the release of Al from spinel. Majorelement compositions indicate that, except for the addition of water, the serpentinites have not experienced extensive element mobility; these were originally CaO and Al
30061181|Rocks were abraded by a sand-laden air-jet in the laboratory to examine the quantitative relationships between wind abrasion and wind velocity, quantity and grain-size of windblown sand particles, and physical properties of the target rocks. The results of 101 runs are expressed by an experimental equation with dimensionless constant, which indicates that the rate of abrasion is directly related to the kinetic energy of the sand projectiles and inversely proportional to the compressive strength of the target rocks. A tentative extension of the experimental equation to field condition leads to an equation for the wind abrasion in fields. An application of the latter equation to the natural settings is preliminarily examined by comparing it with Sharp's (1964) field experiments, and a plausible result is obtained.
30078289|Electron spin resonance (ESR) dating of sea shells has been made using the paramagnetic defects produced by natural radiation. The total dose of natural radiation of the materials, termed the archaeological dose, has been determined from ESR signals of defects in sea shells from northern Japan whose ages are known from the sediments or from the radioisotope dating. An annual dose of about 0.03-0.04 rad/yr explains the age of shells from a few thousand to a million years. The new method of ESR dating will be useful for sediment age determination and for other geological studies.
30066370|Frosting of quartz grains is thought to be due in minor degree to mechanical action (1) by wind and (2) by water, but mainly to chemical action (3) by corrosive solutions and (4) by alternate solution and deposition of matter, especially in desert areas. Defrosting under water is likewise a physico-chemical process involving incipient crystal growth or solution. These physico-chemical actions, in contrast with mechanical attack, affect the whole surface of the grain equally, even in deep indentures. The typical circular markings of 3-10  diameter described by Cailleux as percussion cones are shown to be diffraction images of the light source. They can be observed also on the etched surface (e.g., by hydrofluoric acid) of crushed quartz, while electron micrographs of frosted grains fail to show any circular pattern of a few microns in diameter. Because of the diffraction effect, the resolution of the microscope is insufficient to distinguish chemical and mechanical action readily. True percussion cones occur on a minor proportion of well-rounded large quartz grains. Roughly speaking, the diameter is one-fifteenth or less of the long axis of the grain. On pebbles and cobbles this ratio is one-tenth. Experiments on wind abrasion and defrosting confirm these conclusions. On the one hand, mechanical aeolian abrasion is limited to corners and edges. It results in a coarser finish than natural chemical frost. On the other hand experimental fluviatile transport does not defrost but tends to frost polished grains on their protruding parts. Dry rolling in a bottle produces an ideal polish on protruding parts. The action of dew is invoked as the cause of desert frost by alternate solution and deposition. The chemical frost (noted by Sorby, Tricart, and others) is evidently a result of solution, possibly combined with deposition. The mechanical frost of aeolian action is somewhat suppressed in the desert by the healing over by dew action. Mechanical frost, both aqueous and aeolian, and chemical frost can be removed under water by solution or deposition according to the nature of the water involved. Experimental defrosting of sandpapered alum crystals in a saturated solution strongly supports the latter deduction. Experimental solution can lead to a polished finish and to rounding. The important solvent action of sea water will be treated in a later paper. A distinction is emphasized between reaction solution, in which case regrowth by evaporation is excluded, and non-reaction solution, in which case regrowth is possible. It would appear that the latter process produces smoothly rounded, polished surfaces, whereas the former tends to etch and cause frosted finish. In a short note (Kuenen and Perdok, 1961) the main points of the present paper were already recorded.
30080978|The Finero complex is a lens of interlayered peridotite and hornblende-garnet gabbro, occurring in a regionally metamorphosed basement. From a regional geological study and from gravity surveys it has previously been interpreted as an alpine-type peridotite or as an upthrust slice of uppermost mantle. The geochemical data presented here are not compatible with either model, and it is suggested that the complex formed by fractional crystallization from a hydrous magma. Pyroxene and amphibole analyses from the peridotite suggest conditions of crystallization of 800-1,100C (depending on the method of calculation) and approximately 5 kb water pressure. The unusual chemistry of the hornblende-garnet gabbros may also be interpreted as the result of crystal fractionation with accumulation of amphibole, plagioclase, and calcic pyroxene.
30061267|Pillows commonly grow when newly introduced lava causes the pillow to expand and crack its outer crust. As the crack opens, lava solidifies and attaches itself to the trailing edges of the outward spreading crust. This process produces three characteristic features on the new crust: small scarps, filamented texture, and corrugations. The scarps are parallel to the spreading crack and face toward it. They form at the onset of spreading and mark the outer limits of crust associated with a new spreading crack. They are also formed by fracture of the new crust as it is uplifted some distance from the crack axis by rising melt. Adjacent to the crack axis, the melt moves out horizontally rather than rising. The filamented texture results from gently outward dipping fine glass fibers and vesicles elongated perpendicular to the spreading crack. These features are formed by shearing of vesicles as viscous melt solidifies on the edge and bottom of the diverging crust plates. Corrugations are small ridges and troughs on new crust (matching across the crack axis) oriented perpendicular to the spreading crack. They probably result from secondary convective rolls in the melt beneath the crust generated by viscous drag of the outward-moving plates of new crust.
30075134|Dikes of granite crowded with rounded masses of diabase are described in detail and their origin discussed. Where diabase masses are closely packed, outcrops appear as diabase dikes cut by a network of granite veins or may resemble pillow lava insinuated by thin veins of granite. Veins appear non-dilational and of replacement origin. Margins of diabase masses are very fine grained and resemble diabasic magma chilled against granite. These "pseudochill" zones are explained as secondary features formed largely by recrystallization of solidified diabase. Skialithic bodies are locally numerous within the dikes and resemble the diabase masses in size, shape, and disposition. They are considered to represent metasomatically transformed diabase. Many contain abundant small mafic patches, petrographically identical with the pseudochill zones, which are interpreted as diabase relicts. Angular gabbro xenoliths, locally derived, are common and may be enclosed by granite, diabase, or skialithic rock. A few are enclosed partly by granite and partly by diabase. Gabbro xenoliths and wall rock maintain sharp, straight contacts and have not been encroached upon by the granite. It is concluded that originally simple diabase dikes with angular gabbroic xenoliths cut gabbro wall rock on Mount Desert Island. Subsequently material was introduced metasomatically, principally along fractures in the diabase, to form granite net veins and produce a pillow-like structure. As granite encroached upon diabase, the veins were enlarged and diabase masses disintegrated and reduced. A more local effect was the selective replacement and recrystallization of certain diabase masses and their transformation to skialiths.
30066372|Riebeckite,
30060992|The aims of the institute, "Senckenberg-am-Meer," on the shore of the North Sea at Wilhelmshaven, and its equipment and collections available to visitors, are first set forth. Then the contents of 120 papers issued in connection with the institute are briefly summarized as a guide to a large number of data of great value to the student of sedimentation, under five major headings: "I. Modern Marine (Shallow-Water) Sediments"; "Ia. Quaternary Stratigraphy and History of the German North Sea Coast"; "II. Modern Marine (Shallow-Water) Life"; "III. Interpretation of Fossil Marine Sediments"; "IV. Interpretation of Fossil Marine Life."
30056108|Armored mud balls similar to those described from river deposits in California by Bell (1940) are found on the coasts of Trinidad, West Indies. Among the Recent examples has been found one fine specimen of a fossil armored mud ball derived from Miocene Cruse sediments. Ellipsoidal, with a long axis of about 6 inches, it is composed of hard, dense mudstone with an armor of chert, quartz, and quartzitic sandstone pebbles.
30071133|The longevity of landscapes on cratons has set them apart from those in other tectonic settings. This is exemplified over much of the North Australian Craton where landscapes that have for over half a century been argued to be largely the product of cycles of erosion throughout the Cainozoic are in fact composed mainly of ranges, valleys, and plains which pre-date the Cretaceous; valleys incised into upland plateaus, and graded to lowland plains, are in numerous places filled with Cretaceous sediments. Many of the lowland plains are exhumed Proterozoic and pre-Late Jurassic features, and appear to be older than neighboring areas of upland plateaus, which were likely graded to the Cretaceous sea. The antiquity of these landscapes and the disparity in age between higher and lower elevation planation surfaces highlights the inadequacy of global applications of existing models of long-term landscape evolution and theories concerned with the preservation of paleoforms in cratonic settings.
30080151|The very high P/T metamorphic belt in China's Shandong and fiangsu provinces, which has drawn much attention because of its numerous coesite-bearing eclogites, also contains little-studied massifs of garnet peridotites. Three samples, a chromite-bearing garnet peridotite (DZ01), a spinel-free garnet peridotite (DZ02) and a garnet websterite (DG01) from northeastern Jiangsu are studied here. Olivine compositions in peridotites are restricted to
30060233|High pressure experiments have been carried out on two synthetic ultramafic compositions and also on natural mineral mixes at 30-40 kbar and 950-l,500C. Olivine, orthopyroxene, clinopyroxene, and garnet coexist in the majority of runs. Because of the close similarity in chemical systems, the experimental results can be directly applied to natural garnet lherzolites. The natural garnet lherzolites show wider variety in mineral chemistry than the run products, indicating very wide ranges of pressure-temperature for their equilibration. However, mineral compositions found in some runs closely reproduce the compositions of corresponding minerals in some natural garnet lherzolites from Lesotho and Montana kimberlites and from Alpe Arami lherzolite. Thus, the phase equilibria observed in some natural lherzolites can be successfully duplicated in laboratory at appropriate P-T conditions. As a consequence, pressure and temperature estimates for these rocks would be most accurate. Though the equilibria among the four minerals are not inconsistent with general features found in simplistic chemical systems, the estimates often differ significantly from those based on geothermometers and barometers obtained in the simple systems; the Lesotho pyroxene geotherm should be located, at least in part, at lower temperatures and pressures than the previous proposal. It was also found that Fe-Mg partition coefficient among the four minerals is most sensitive between garnet and clinopyroxene and least between olivine and orthopyroxene.
30055617|Dilatancy, the expansion of granular masses when deformed due to the rearrangement of the grains, was described and illustrated with many interesting experiments by Osborn Reynolds, an English physicist. In this paper the term is used in a broader sense to include all volume increase due to deformation. The consequences of dilatancy by deformation have far-reaching geologic significance. It is suggested that dilatancy is important in inducing faulting and jointing in unconsolidated sediments, in the movement of fluids-oil, water, and gas-contained in rocks, in initiating magmas and in certain of the processes accompanying intrusion and crystallization of magmas. The factors controlling the manner of deformation of unconsolidated granular masses are applied by analogy to a consideration of the manner of deformation of solid rocks by fracture and by rock flowage.
30063061|Reactions involving the phases quartz-calcite-dolomite-talc-tremolite-diopside-forsterite-enstatite-fluid have been studied experimentally in the system
30067411|Continuous sediment core samples and groundwater were collected in the northern part of Sonargaon, central Bangladesh, to document the hydrogeological constraints on Ascontaminated aquifers. The study area spans the alluvial plain of the Old Brahmaputra River and a Pleistocene terrace, the Madhupur Tract. The Quaternary sequence comprises PlioPleistocene sand, Upper Pleistocene mud, and Holocene sand units. Highly Ascontaminated groundwater (501000 g/L) is found in the upper aquifer, corresponding to the Holocene sand unit that underlies the alluvial plain, and it plausibly appears to be closely related to the distribution of lenses of silt to fine sand. Asfree (<1 g/L) groundwater occurs only within sediments coarser than medium sand. Highly Ascontaminated groundwater is characterized by low concentrations of Cl
30079968|The nature of deformation of the deep continental roots beneath the ArcheanEarly Proterozoic terrains opens the question whether these ancient terrains have had stable roots since the Precambrian or whether recent plate motions have deformed them. In view of this, we make an attempt to study the thermal structure beneath the cratonic regions of the Indian shield, which vary in lithospheric thickness from 65 km in the Singhbhum craton to 148 km in the Archean Dharwars. The average depth of 104 km to the top of the underlying asthenosphere is consistent with other termination methods and is in fact less than half the 200400km depth found in other stable areas of the earth. Similarly, the average reduced heat flow of about 35 mW/m
30065501|Pyroclastic fall and flow deposits occupy two distinct fields on an
30070582|There are given here some modern ideas concerning the nature of clay, which is shown to be a very complex material whose physical properties are greatly influenced by such variables as adsorbed ions, organic matter, particle size, and many others.
30071568|The completeness of a sedimentary section of known timespan may be assessed qualitatively by comparing its thickness with the average accumulation for that timespan. Average accumulations may be estimated from sediment volume and continental area data. Quantitative completeness estimation methods based on data compiled from the geological literature have been proposed, but we argue that the literature data are significantly biased and cannot support such methods. Interestingly, however, a comparison of the literature data and accumulation averages computed from sediment volume data suggests that the thickest known sections may be extremely complete.
30065813|Santa Barbara Basin is one of the most interesting of the fourteen submarine basins off southern California because of the high organic productivity of its surface waters and the low oxygen content of its bottom waters. In its deep central area the sediments contain hydrogen sulfide and few benthic animals. Long cores of the sediment show that, during the past, there were many alternations between periods when benthic animals were rare and periods when they were relatively abundant. During periods of rare benthic animals, the wintertime deposits of detrital silts and clays and the springtime deposits of diatoms were preserved as laminae, a type of varve. During periods of more abundant benthic animals, the laminae became so thoroughly mixed by burrowing and other animal activities that homogeneous deposits were produced. Interrupting both kinds of deposits are silt and clay layers, formed by turbidity currents which spread throughout the basin but which seem to have had little effect on benthic life.
30065040|K-feldspar Pb and whole rock Nd isotopic analyses from 25 Mesozoic and Cenozoic plutonic rocks and two gneisses from NE Washington and northern Idaho are used to elucidate the age and nature of the concealed cratonic basement. The plutons form two highly distinct isotopie groups: Group I (hornblende-biotite and two-mica plutons of all ages) have Pb isotopie compositions suggesting derivation from rocks of the Belt Supergroup or their metamorphosed equivalents, although Nd isotopie data can only support this model if there was a significant input of juvenile mantle-derived or ancient light REE-depleted material. Group II (hornblende-biotite of Eocene age) have highly retarded Pb isotopie compositions relative to the present day crustal average and require a source region with long-term U (and other LIL) depletion, characteristic of cratonic lower crust. A U-Pb zircon upper intercept age of ca. 2600 Ma obtained from one of the Group II samples, together with Sm-Nd data from the gneisses, indicates possible late-Archean crust at depth, which acted as a source region for Eocene extension-related plutonism. Isotopie compositions and apparent geochemical evolution do not support a direct correlation with the nearest exposed North American Craton in the Wyoming province. If it represents attenuated pre-Mesozoic craton, then it must have been accreted to the craton prior to development of the miogeocline in the Late Proterozoic. Alternatively, it may be part of the Cordilleria terrane accreted to the craton in the Early Cretaceous.
30056416|A soda pegmatite occurs in Ontario, one part of which is bent, squeezed, and metamorphosed to a schist. Mineralogically the chief difference in the two rocks has resulted from an addition of chlorite. Additions of water, magnesia, and ferrous iron, and losses of alkalies, lime, alumina, and silica, are indicated by chemical anaslyses.
30068560|Maximum thicknesses for modern peats have been documented only up to about 20 m, whereas coal beds can often be as much as 90 m thick. Since peat is expected to compact appreciably during burial, there appears to be no modern analogue for the processes which formed thick coal beds, and this seems to challenge the Law of Uniformitarianism. However, the conundrum of coal bed thickness can be resolved by identification of discontinuities in coal beds. Coal beds are generally treated as single entities, created by a continuous process of peat deposition. It is more likely, however, that most thick coal beds are composed of multiple paleo-peat bodies, stacked one upon another, rather than a single paleo-peat body. It is suggested that there are three types of bounding surfaces seen in modern peat bodies that can be used to distinguish individual paleo-peats in coal beds; these bounding surfaces can be recognized both in the field and microscopically. Each of these surfaces represents cessation, or at least extreme slowing, of peat deposition. The presence of these surfaces, and thus stacked mire sequences, in modern and ancient equivalents shows that processes in peat bodies have been similar through time and therefore do not challenge the Law of Uniformitarianism.
30056103|The potassium content of the natural plagioclases has been investigated. Plagioclases from amphibolite facies, granulite facies, and volcanic rocks were chemically analyzed for potassium. A definite trend of increasing potassium content with increasing temperature of formation has been found. The following effects are considered by way of explanation: (a) increasing "openness" of plagioclase structure, (b) strengthening of Si-O bonds by accepting K, and (c) facilitated co-ordination of K by oxygen with increasing Al-Si disorder in plagioclase. The antiperthitic plagioclases occurring in relatively high-temperature rocks (granulite facies, volcanic, contact metamorphic) have been interpreted as products of exsolution. Antiperthites of replacement origin have also been recognized.
30066180|The LaBlache Lake titaniferous-magnetite deposit was studied to determine, first, the cause of oxidation-exsolution of ilmenite from titaniferous magnetite in plutonio rocks and, second, the effect of oxidation on oxygen-isotope exchange, application of the magnetite-ilmenite geothermometer-oxygen barometer, and the distribution of manganese between titaniferous magnetite and ilmenite. The compositions and modal proportions of coexisting titaniferous magnetite and ilmenite (determined by electron-probe X-ray microanalysis and by weighing mineral separates) correlate closely with that predicted according to progressive oxidation-exsolution of ilmenite from titaniferous magnetite in a system open only to oxygen. The igneous titaniferous magnetite probably contained up to about the equivalent of 5 weight per cent of
30062003|Previously, field relations in the Butte District, Montana, have been interpreted to indicate a regional, 40-60 or greater westward tilting of the Late Cretaceous Butte quartz monzonite (BQM), the host rock to mineralization. The tilting was inferred to be Eocene or younger in age, based upon structural features in the overlying Eocene Lowland Creek Volcanics. Extensive paleomagnetic data reveal a more complicated picture. For surface exposure BQM, the in situ mean direction of characteristic magnetization of 13 site means is D = 1.5, I = 73.3 (K = 27.6,
30068842|The eruption of Sentinel Bluffs Member lava flows at approximately 15.5 Ma marked the end of Grande Ronde Basalt volcanism, the most voluminous period of the Columbia River Basalt Group. More than 10,000 km
30084969|A structural classification of sulfide minerals is proposed. This proposal includes, in particular, the complex sulfides and some new results on structure determinations. In particular, these results are used to help derive all the known complex sulfide structures from the galena type in different ways. In addition, an attempt is made to classify all those sulfides having a hexagonal, cubic, or any other close-packed arrangement of their sulfur atoms. These structures are differentiated on the basis of metal atoms occupying octahedral or tetrahedral holes. The "formula factor" that is introduced controls the number and the kind of the occupied holes. A "structure criterion" is defined for the complex sulfides (Spiessglanze), giving a value for the size of that portion of any structure which is similar to amore or less distorted galena type. An interesting relation between the "formula factor" and the "structure criterion" is shown graphically.
30070567|Locally, metamorphism by the Duluth gabbro has caused progressive changes in texture and mineralogy of the Knife Lake slate, producing a granulitic and granoblastic rock very similar to the gabbro in composition. Several metamorphic zones may be roughly delineated. These zones are characterized by mineral suites different from those developed in zones surrounding granite and especially by the rather abundant development of orthopyroxene in some zones. This mineral development is attributed to the influence of the gabbroic magma and is thought to represent a characteristic type of metamorphism produced in argillaceous rocks by such magma.
30057043|Sharp edges of small, late Pleistocene, wind-eroded pebbles (or ventifacts) embedded in bedrock at Ocean Cove, California, have an average trend oblique to inferred Pleistocene wind direction. This and other features suggest that abrasion was produced chiefly by a stream of suspended or partly suspended particles following local deflections of the wind stream. That such material would be capable of producing ventifact shapes is suggested by previous studies on wind flow over obstacles. Consideration of wind-flow deflection suggests that currently accepted concepts of ventifact abrasion by saltating sand grains must be modified, and it further suggests that source and size distribution of wind-transported abrasive material, more than size of ventifacts, may determine whether abrasion will result largely from scour by suspended material or from impact by saltating grains. Occurrence of three- and four-edged ventifacts strengthens the view that orientation of faces may be partly controlled by original pebble shape in cases where abrasion is dominantly by suspended material.
30071574|A table of water solubility in albite melt at pressure up to 8 kbars is presented. These data have only been published previously in graph form; the weight-loss method was used to determine these solubilities. A recent paper by Dingwell and others critical of the weight-loss method is discussed.
30067345|The intrusion of the Cassia batholith in Idaho was accompanied by clearly denned contact phenomena expressed by the impregnation of "igneous" material into quartzite, and in such a manner as to make it resemble granitic rock. While the magma crystallized as granodiorite, it sent forth emanations into the invaded rock and by progressive replacements produced therein a broad zone of porphyritic granite. As a result of the progressive granitization of the quartzites in the contact zone, the batholith is now about three times as large as it would have been had "replacement" not been a factor in its intrusion. It is altogether likely that the changes noted in the contact zone of the Cassia batholith may also be expressed in the crystalline schists in extensive metamorphic regions. The replacement origin of the microcline phenocrysts in the hybrid porphyritic granite also directs attention to the probability that the microcline phenocrysts in normal granitic rocks also may have been formed late by replacement.
30080234|The Altai Mountains are a key area for understanding the development of the Altai Tectonic Collage and accretionary orogen. However, the orogenic processes, particularly their early stage, have not been well understood. In this work, we undertake zircon UPb dating of six Paleozoic synorogenic plutons in order to better define the early magmatic and tectonic evolution of the Chinese Altai Mountains. The results revealed three Paleozoic granitic plutonic events at ca. 460, 408, and 375 Ma. These ages, along with the structural patterns of the plutons, suggest two periods of regional deformation, 460410 Ma and 410370 Ma. The granitoids mainly follow the tholeiitic and calcalkaline trends and are mostly I type. SrNd isotopic analyses indicate that the sources of the granitoids contain both old continental and younger (juvenile) mantlederived components. Chemical, isotopic, and structural features suggest that the plutons were formed mainly in continental arc settings and that the subduction and accretion processes began at ca. 460 Ma and culminated at ca. 408 Ma. Thus, the Altai orogen was mainly built up during earlymiddle Paleozoic time, rather than during late Paleozoic time. Furthermore, the southern Altai terrane comprises not only Silurian to Devonian island arcs but also old continental fragments. With these new constraints, we present a new model to account for the tectonic evolution of the Altai orogen. This model proposes that earlymiddle Paleozoic Altai orogenic processes could have experienced formation of an active continental margin, the splitting of this margin to form a backarc oceanic basin, and the final closing of the backarc basin. Consequently, the opening and closure of backarc basins along active margins is probably a common process in the central Asian accretionary orogen.
30056304|Structures produced by plastic flow in a recent large landslide near Gilroy, California, are strikingly similar to certain structures produced on a larger scale in the deformation of rocks. Fracture patterns along strike-slip faults, and successive normal faults due to tension and rotation, are especially well displayed. Well-defined grabens were formed where the slide overrode small hills. Local compression has produced fractured anticlinal ridges. Relations of these structures to the slide's movement and to the original topography are discussed with the aid of detailed maps.
30075221|The importance of crystallization during compaction of an 800 m section of cumulates in Olivinebearing zones III and IV of the Stillwater complex is assessed using wholerock and mineral compositions. Two sets of calculations provide estimates for the liquid fraction that crystallized in each sample. The first relies upon the effect that crystallized liquid has on the wholerock Mg#, and the second is based on the proportion of compatible and incompatible trace elements contributed by the crystallized liquid. Estimates based on traceelements vary with their bulk distribution coefficients (
30069403|Armored mud balls and friable sand megaclasts occur in exposures of a complex Early Pleistocene sand and gravel alluvial fill which caps a strath terrace in southwestern Morrill County, Nebraska. The mud balls are limited to a tributary arroyo. The sand megaclasts occur in sediments deposited along a trunk stream. It is possible that the sand megaclasts were transported to the site in a frozen condition.
30080218|Investigations of backbarrier, opencoastal plain settings have been used to establish minimum inundation distances of prehistoric tsunamis produced by great subduction zone earthquakes in the central Cascadia margin. Distinctive sand sheets were characterized at four localities within the central Cascadia margin, a shoreline distance of about 250 km. The sand sheets vary in thickness from 0.2 to 25 cm. They thin in the landward direction and consist of wellsorted beach sand that fines upsection. Many of the sand sheets include capping layers of organicrich detritus, as well as assimilated mud ripup clasts and soil litter. Marine diatoms and bromine (i.e., marine tracers) were used to confirm marine surge origins for the anomalous sand sheets. Radiocarbon dating of the sand sheets demonstrates correspondence with reported great Cascadia earthquake events at 0.3, 1.1, 1.3, 1.7, and 2.5 Ka. One sand sheet mapped at all four localities is dated at 600950 calibrated radiocarbon years before present. This interpreted paleotsunami event does not correspond to a central Cascadia rupture, so it is tentatively assigned to a farfield source. Minimum overland inundation distances of the near field (Cascadia tsunami) at the four study localities range from 0.3 to 1.3 km, with a mean inundation for all sand sheets of 0.5 km.
30061988|Composite acidic-basic dikes near Winnsboro, South Carolina, consist of cuspate pillow-like masses of basic rock surrounded by granite with no chilled margins or gradational boundaries. These dikes are similar to the net-veined complexes observed in other parts of the world. Most workers agree that these complexes represent coexisting acidic and basic liquids. Explanations of origin fall into two general classes: liquid immiscibility or commingling of miscible liquids. In the first, a homogeneous magma has unmixed to form two contrasting magmas. In the second, mixing was prevented because of high viscosities and rapid crystallization. The origin of these coexisting magmas in the second case has been variously explained by: coincidental intrusion of magma from different sources; melting of acidic rocks by the basic magma; or successive fractional melting of a common parent. These models are tested in the Winnsboro composite dike on the basis that the light REE's are partitioned in favor of the liquid in liquid-crystal equilibrium. In the Winnsboro dike, the light REE's are enriched in the basic rocks and relatively depleted in the granitic rocks. Thus, fractional crystallization of the basic rock or partial melting of the wall rock must be rejected.
30068709|Data from Macedonia (Greece), correlated with those reported from the Pontides (Turkey), indicate that the Pelagonian zone of the Hellenides represents a fragment of the Cimmerian continent which separated the Paleo-Tethys and Neo-Tethys Oceans. A Permo-Triassic age is suggested for separation of the Paleozoic continent and initial rifting in the two oceanic basins. As the Pelagonian zone represented the northwestern (European) end of the Cimmerian continent, the Paleo-Tethys and the northern branch of Neo-Tethys would have been very close to each other on either side of this zone. Thus both oceans at their European end closed within a short time of each other in the Late Jurassic-Early Cretaceous. The sequential development of the two oceans outlines a model for the geotectonic evolution of the Internal Hellenides in which a correlation of thrusting and folding phases is also given.
30061129|Many quartzite pebbles in the Tertiary Beaverhead Formation in southwestern Montana are scarred or deformed in two distinctive ways: (1) at points of mutual pebble contact, dents (or depressions) have been formed as a result of squeezing of the strata; and (2) at localities where deformation has been the greatest, individual pebbles have been sheared (and commonly rehealed), in some instances showing ten or more shear planes in a single stone. The direction of motion inferred from sheared pebbles supports the hypothesis of pronounced lateral (strike-slip) displacement in the area. Drag folds yield the same result. Vertical offset, although more spectacular, must be relatively minor. Sandstone lenses and beds within the conglomerate show little evidence of deformation. If resistant pebbles in contact with each other had not been common in the Beaverhead, the large-scale horizontal displacement would have gone unnoticed, and only the vertical motion would have been recorded. The width of the zone of shattered pebbles indicates that much of the displacement was taken up in the strata, rather than by dislocation along an adjacent fault plane. These observations tend to confirm the hypothesis that, in deformed regions, measurements of offset produce results that are conservative by one or more orders of magnitude.
30068868|Highgrade gneisses from Mt. RiiserLarsen, East Antarctica, have been dated by wholerockmineral SmNd and SHRIMP zircon and monazite UPb to help define the thermal history of ultrahigh temperature (UHT) metamorphism in the Napier Complex. Both the monazite and youngest zircon yield a range of apparent ages (2.512.47 Ga), consistent with crystallization during an extended period of metamorphism. Some zircon also preserves an isotopic record of earlier events, placing an upper limit of a few million years on the duration of peak metamorphic conditions. The similarity of the monazite and zircon UPb ages implies rapid initial postpeak cooling to below the blocking temperature of these minerals (900C). Consistently lower SmNd wholerockmineral isochron ages (2.38 Ga) indicate that cooling slowed before the temperature reached 650C. The history of the UHT metamorphism is interpreted to be (1) protracted hightemperature (800C) conditions 2.512.47 Ga, (2) peak conditions (up to 1100C) for at most a few million years, (3) rapid cooling (1060C /m.yr.) immediately after peak metamorphism, and (4) very slow cooling (4C/m.yr.) at midcrustal levels (30km depth) to a steady state geotherm by 2.38 Ga.
30063791|Tidal inlets and washover fans are genetically related. The resulting feature is dependent upon barrier configuration, depths in the lagoon adjacent to the barrier, and the direction from which the storm surge came, either from the sea or the lagoon. Attack on barrier islands from the seaward side by waves overtopping the barrier will result in washover fans on wide barriers where extensive adjoining tidal flats are present. Inlets can be cut by this type attack on narrow barriers where no tidal flats are present. Storm surge from the lagoonal side, if channeled along tidal creeks, can easily cut inlets through a barrier.
30078349|There are three geothermometers based on reversed experimental data and applicable to granulites: the two-pyroxene, two-oxide, and garnet-clinopyroxene thermometers. All have apparent closure temperatures below those of the granulite facies. This casts significant doubt on the concept that "peak" temperatures are routinely obtained from ion-exchange thermometers, particularly those that are empirically calibrated. The best way to recover high temperatures in granulite terrains is through the reintegration of exsolution lamellae or the use of relict mineral assemblages; we call these features fossil thermometers. Because fossil thermometers can be destroyed by deformation, in many terrains it may be impossible to tell whether the temperature they record is a true maximum or whether it is a temperature locked in during cooling. Low closure temperatures also affect the oxygen fugacites obtained from two-oxide equilibria. Compilation of the available data indicate that a number of granulite terrains either crystallized on the graphite saturation surface or underwent re-equilibration until they intersected this surface. Subsequent oxyexsolution appears to have taken place on the graphite saturation surface by the reaction:
30082472|Quarrying in Vermont and Tennessee shows spontaneous expansion of marble as new surface is produced. Measurements in Vermont show an elastic expansion and a prolonged or hysteresis expansion. Compression of the marble is believed to have occurred when the rocks were folded during the Taconic disturbance.
30079502|The Wabash sluiceway between Huntington and Peru is characterized by numerous moundlike rocky hills which are composed of the unreduced portions of Niagaran coral and stromatoporoid reefs. Hills of a similar character on the Island of Gotland are called "Klintar," and that name is adopted in this paper. The upstream end of the northern Indiana klintar is always abrupt, but the downstream portion is frequently concealed by long low tails of inter-reef bed rock or of glacial drift. Some of the klintar were in existence in preglacial times, while others were formed during the excavation of the Wabash sluiceway by the escaping glacial-flood waters. Attention is called to klintar elsewhere in this country and also in Europe.
30059090|Accelerated soil erosion, resulting from agriculture, has increased the rates of sedimentation in many streams and valleys in various parts of the United States. In the Galena River Valley, in southwestern Wisconsin and northwestern Illinois, the effect of soil erosion is complicated by sediment produced by mine wastes and tailings of the lead- and zinc-mining industry. A previous survey did not find an appreciably greater total volume of modern sediment (deposited since commercial mining and intensified soil erosion began) than in near-by valleys affected only by the influence of soil erosion. The present studies, by contrast, show that comparisons of the carbonate content and texture of the mine wastes and stream-bed materials indicate that mining wastes do furnish a major part of the stream-bed sediment. This difference is probably due in part to the comparative coarseness of the mine wastes, which are mostly of sand size or larger and hence are not spread over the valley flood plain as freely as the silts and clays, which are derived chiefly from soil erosion. Rough comparisons indicate that the mine-waste materials formed something like two-thirds of the stream-bed deposits in the lower two-thirds of the Galena River in the summer of 1941.
30062197|Plutonic rocks intrusive into the late Paleozoic Tetelna Formation of southern Alaska are the underpinnings of the late Paleozoic Skolai arc of the Wrangellia Terrane. There are four groups of intrusive rocks within the Skolai arc: (1) Gabbro-diorite plutons that contain gabbroic to anorthositic cumulates along with a differentiated series of gabbros and diorites of basaltic to andesitic composition; (2) Silicic intrusions including tonalite, granodiorite, and granite; (3) Monzonitic to syenitic plutonic rocks of the Ahtell complex and related dikes and sills; (4) Fault-bounded bytownite anorthosite of uncertain age and association. These anorthosites may be related to post-Skolai, Nikolai Greenstone magmatism. The silicic rocks yield discordant U-Pb zircon ages of 290-320 Ma (early to late Pennsylvanian). Relative age relations suggest that the oldest intrusive rocks are the gabbro-diorite plutons, the youngest are the monzonitic rocks, and that the silicic rocks span this range. The gabbro-diorite plutons are similar to gabbroic plutonic rocks in modern and other ancient island arc complexes. They record the differentiation of calc-alkaline basalt to andesite by the fractionation of plagioclase, pyroxene, olivine, and Fe-Ti oxides. The silicic rocks do not appear to be related to either the gabbros or the monzonites. They may represent partial melts of Skolai arc crust. The monzonitic rocks of the Ahtell complex have shoshonitic chemistry. Similar shoshonitic rocks are widespread in both the Wrangellia terrane and the neighboring Alexander terrane and intrude the contact between the two. In modern oceanic arcs, shoshonitic rocks are typically associated with tectonic instability occurring during the initial stages of subduction or just prior to or during termination or flip of an established subduction zone. The nature of any tectonic instability which may have led to the cessation of subduction in the Skolai arc is unclear. Possibilities include collision of the arc with a ridge, an oceanic plateau, another arc, or a continental fragment. One possibility is that the shoshonitic magmatism marks the late Paleozoic amalgamation of Wrangellia and the Alexander terrane. The scarcity of arc rocks predating the shoshonites in the Alexander terrane supports this possibility, but structural corroboration is lacking.
30081303|The crystalline complex of the southern Sierra Nevada is composed of remnants of rocks of Calaveras (?) age or older, which were intruded by gabbros, quartz-diorites, and granodiorites. The remnants of older rocks are irregular and septa-shaped residuals. The relations of the crystalline units are discussed, and the thesis advanced that deformation of the older rocks was practically completed by the time of invasion of the magmatic units. The central Sierra, where studied by Mayo and Erwin, is compared and contrasted in petrologic condition with the southern Sierra Nevada.
30071518|The
30068503|The nature of magma bodies associated with the formation of Cr-poor megacryst suites included in kimberlites is considered with particular regard to the possibility of a virtually isobaric body containing crystals at widely varying temperatures. A model is proposed in which a complex of magma sheets and other apophyses exists in a temperature gradient, thereby allowing the simultaneous existence of different states of magma differentiation and crystallization.
30071590|Several recent studies have suggested that there is a negative log-linear relationship between sedimentation rates and the time span over which they are measured; i.e., measured sedimentation rates are slow when measured over long time spans and rapid when measured over short time spans. This relationship may be due to the inclusion of more and longer hiatuses over long time spans. This paper proposes a mathematical model, consistent with this relationship, that is based upon the fractal "Cantor bar." This model allows the estimation of the relative number and durations of stratigraphic hiatuses within a given section.
30070737|Fifteen stereoviews of intermediate and deep focus earthquakes are presented. They provide a concise three-dimensional description of the structure of subduction zones.
30056413|Imprints of leaves of dicotyledonous plants appear in the Paluxy sands of Erath County, Texas. Three species only have so far been recognized, a Cinnamomum, a Sapindopsis, and an Araliaephyllum. The last named form is remarkable for its highly developed structure and for its variability.
30067282|An amygdaloidal and porphyritic lava flow occurs at the base of the Lower Cambrian series along the west slope of the Blue Ridge in northern Virginia. This flow, which is here described from exposures between Luray and Port Republic, rests upon either the pre-Cambrian Catoctin greenstone or hypersthene granodiorite. It is overlain by, or grades into, the basal beds of the Loudoun formation of early Cambrian age.
30080144|An inconsistency in the James and Krumbein link-length model is pointed out which implies an error in the initial substantive assumptions. A modification of the model is suggested in the form of a new assumption based on the proposition that the stochastic link-generating process which produces the exponential distribution for interior link lengths is not concluded until a drainage network attains maximum extension (full development). The proposition is supported by empirical data from an incompletely developed drainage network in northeastern Australia.
30068453|At Hale Gap, Georgia, are found, in the basal Pottsville, unusual epigenetic concretions consisting of ellipsoidal cores, surrounded by increasingly rectangular concentric laminations out to the margins of the joint blocks in which they have developed.
30081087|Devonian-Mississippian black shales apparently were deposited in foreland basins formed in response to deformational loading in the Acadian orogen. These black shales were deposited in a succession of partially overlapping basins separated from each other by coarser clastic units, which migrated episodically south-westward in time parallel to the orogen. If foreland basins are results of an isostatic response to deformational loading in the orogen, migration of successive basins along the orogen must reflect concomitant shift of orogeny, and hence relative plate motion in the same direction. These black-shale deposits, then, not only demonstrate the diachronous nature of the Acadian orogeny, a fact previously indicated by other lines of evidence, but also enable approximation of rates of relative plate motion to be made. Using three different dating schemes, the black-shale deposits indicate Late Devonian plate motion along an 800 km segment of the orogen during approximately 11 Ma, for an average rate of relative plate motion slightly greater than 7 cm/yr. The facts that the black-shale basins do apparently track plate movement and resulting orogeny and that the along-strike component of basin migration exceeds the perpendicular-to-strike component suggest that at least Late Devonian parts of the Acadian orogeny are related to episodes of oblique convergence involving major strike-slip movement with substantial amounts of transpression.
30058739|Streams of large volume with high gradient, flowing over closely and vertically jointed rock, pluck rather than abrade. They erode rock basins in mid-channel without waterfalls or eddies. The channels are multiple and anastomose very irregularly. Flat-topped, vertically-walled rock islands are left among the channels. The type is the Dalles of Columbia River. Homology between the present Dalles channels and great areas of "scabland" on the Columbia Plateau north of Snake River is indicated. The "scablands" are the channels of enormous Pleistocene rivers across the plateau.
30057882|Because of the supposed occurrence of an important angular unconformity at the top of the Monterey shale, most writers on the Tertiary geology of the central Coast ranges have inferred that mountain-making occurred in this region during the Miocene. A re-examination of all the localities that have been cited as showing the unconformity, and of many others in all parts of the region supposed to show it best, proves that the unconformity is purely erosional. Other types of evidence are discussed and the conclusion is reached that no mountain-making took place in this area at the close of Monterey shale deposition.
30062118|Cenozoic potassium-rich volcanism, characterized by
30058036|If a thrust fault breaks from an overturned fold in a zone of tear faulting, the movement of the walls of the tear faults shows the direction of movement of the adjacent thrust block and thus indicates whether underthrusting or overthrusting has taken place. Similarly, a marked swing of formations toward or away from the axis of the overturned fold as a thrust fault is approached suggests underthrusting or overthrusting, respectively. Application of these criteria to the Seminoe Mountain thrust fault and to the Williams Range thrust fault indicates that the first is an overthrust and that the second is an underthrust.
30070779|Melt inclusions are widely believed to represent melts from which host crystals grew. Melt inclusions represent melt adjacent to growing crystals, where compositional gradients exist due to preferential incorporation or exclusion of components by the crystallizing mineral. The possibility arises, therefore, that melt in inclusions may differ significantly from melt which was more remote from growing crystals at the time the crystals grew. We have tested this possibility by analyzing 45 major, minor, and trace components in 50 to 400 (m diameter melt inclusions in phenocrysts from the rhyolitic Bishop Tuff, California. The following observations indicate that the effects of compositional gradients on chemical compositions of melt inclusions are negligible: (1) melt inclusions in quartz and sanidine phenocrysts have indistinguishable compositions; (2) no correlation is observed between sizes of melt inclusions and their chemical compositions; (3) ten melt inclusions in four quartz phenocrysts from a single pumice clast display well-defined negative correlations between the concentrations of U and La, Ce, Ca, Mg; and (4) melt inclusions have the same major element compositions as the matrix glass and whole rocks. Melt inclusions >50 m can, therefore, be used to represent the melt from which their host crystals grew. The most likely explanation for the negligible compositional gradients is that a modest gradient of a major component would suppress local supercooling and constrain the crystal growth rate. For components that have diffusivities greater than or similar to the major component which controls the rate of crystal growth, the effect of chemical gradients on compositions of trapped melt inclusions is likely to be negligible.
30060431|This paper contains a general review of the six types of plains that are ordinarily found in deserts, considering them especially from the viewpoint of origin. The list includes pediments, bajadas (compound fans), lake bottoms (including playas), dip slopes, graded river flood plains, and aggraded river flood plains. Of these the first two are particularly characteristic of deserts and are far more widespread than the others. On account of the confusion which prevails in recent geologic literature regarding these dominant types, the author has outlined the characteristics of pediments and bajadas more fully and explained the means of distinguishing them from each other. Pediments are the normal results of erosion under stable conditions in the desert. The formation of Bajadas is induced by diastrophic movements, climatic change, and other interruptions of the normal cycle. Combinations of pediments and bajadas are rather common and require more care for their identification.
30068041|The Uchee belt of the southern Appalachian Piedmont consists of a sequence of amphibolite, amphibolitic gneiss, and gneissic calc-silicate surrounded by highly strained mylonitic rocks associated with motion along the Bartletts Ferry-Goat Rock fault system. Amphibolites from three major localities within the belt, the Hudson Mill Rapids, Davis Mill, and Lindsey Creek localities, have been analyzed for their major-and trace element chemistry. The mafic amphibolites are concluded to have been derived from intrinsically basaltic protoliths, as determined by the presence of patchy zoning in relict igneous plagioclase, normative mineralogy, Niggli trends, and a variety of diagnostic geochemical criteria. Davis Mill amphibolites are characterized by high REE abundances and flat REE pattern [
30068295|Studies of thin sections of sedimentary rocks, in investigations of rock fades, reveal that there is no available grade scale designed especially for two-dimensional measurements of grain size, roundness, etc. It is not possible to secure the same results from thin sections, which are random sections, as from loose grains or fragments. Igneous-rock petrographers and metallographers well recognize this fact. In developing a new scale for this growing need, grade scales in general were studied and the principles for their construction evaluated. Upon these, with the convenience of the resulting scale constantly in mind, a metric grade scale has been devised which avoids most of the difficulties of three-dimensional scales. This scale is for thin sections of sedimentary rocks. It is not a competitor to the grade scales now in use for loose grains, such as the Wentworth scale with which sedimentary petrographers are familiar. The relationships between measurements of three-and two-dimensional material are not here discussed. The problems are too complex for the present. The proposed scale is given in Table 8 and in Figure 3.
30059313|The theory of plate tectonics implies greatly different continental geographies in the past which can be reconstructed from a variety of geophysical, structural, petrologic, and stratigraphic evidence. Platetectonic processes affect relative sizes, the relative emergence, and the latitudinal and longitudinal patterns of continents. These factors affect the patterns of trophic-resource regimes in shallow marine water and also determine the patterns of provinciality of the shallow-water biota, and these patterns are probably chiefly responsible for the regulation of species diversity in shallow waters. The diversity patterns are partially the products of the adaptive strategies followed by populations in different resource regimes; high diversities correlate with stable regimes and low diversities with fluctuating regimes. The proportions of feeding types vary among types of regime also, resulting in qualitative differences in the faunas. Precam-brian and Cambrian radiations from which the higher invertebrate phyla developed may have been primarily adaptive responses to changes in trophic-resource regimes, brought about by changing land-sea natterns.
30070745|Folding of isograd surfaces during metamorphism must occur with sufficient rapidity that thermal equilibrium is not first reached between the limbs of a fold. A maximum estimate of the duration of folding obtained by solving the heat equation is proportional to the square of the wavelength of the fold and inversely proportional to thermal diffusivity. The thermal maximum is reached late in folding in the cooler regions of a fold and early in folding in the hotter regions. Application of a simple analytical model indicates that Acadian folding in eastern Vermont, western New Hampshire, and central Massachusetts occurred in less than 1 m.y. at plate tectonic velocities, if geological studies which indicate that isograds were folded while hot are correct.
30071241|Highpressure (HP) granulite facies rocks are associated with eclogites in the PanAfrican Dahomeyide orogen, West Africa. The HPgranulite and eclogite facies mineral assemblages occur in mafic gneisses within the suture zone exposed in southeastern Ghana and the adjoining part of Togo. Thermobarometric calculations and phase equilibria considerations indicate that the HP metamorphic rocks preserve a record of: (i) prograde garnet crystallization during eclogite facies metamorphism as temperature increased to a maximum of 600C and pressure reached >18 kbar, followed by (ii) HPgranulite facies metamorphism when temperatures reached 800900C at P 14 kbar, resulting in partial melting to produce leucocratic veins. Decompression along a retrograde path is inferred from granulites that yield temperatures down to 700C at 10 kbar. The inferred PT path of the metamorphic record defines a clockwise loop in the kyanite stability field, compatible with orogeny involving subduction during the PanAfrican assembly of Gondwana.
30057027|In the first part of this paper (1952, pp. 436-450), the structural states of the pure compounds KAlSi3O8 and NaAlSi3O8 have been discussed. This part considers the mixed-crystal series of these compounds and their unmixed states.
10.1086/681624|Distal ejecta from meteorite impacts are rare and hard to spot in the field because of their thinness (<1 m). This article suggests looking for distal ejecta in association with larger sedimentary structures, seismites, slope failure features (slumps, turbidites, and submarine landslides), and offshore tsunamites (water depths 25 m) in former epeiric seas. Distal ejecta tend to overlie seismites and slope failure features because seismic waves travel faster than ejecta. In epeiric seas, impact-generated tsunamis travel slower (2585 m/s) than ejecta, so the tsunamis rework ejecta deposits. However, if a tsunami moves from shallow to deeper water, then it buries the ejecta deposit, preserving it, as observed for Acraman. Impact-generated offshore-tsunami deposits (25 m water depths) are potentially distinct from those generated by cratonic earthquakes. The impact tsunamis can transport >5-mm-diameter sediments and produce high-flow-regime bedforms, megaripples, dunes, upper-plane beds, and possibly antidunes, whereas earthquake tsunamis cannot produce these features in an offshore environment. The last section of the article discusses the relationship of the physical character of the ejecta (thickness, accretionary lapilli diameter, and maximum grain size of shocked quartz) and distance to and size of impact. This information could be used (1) to link a particular ejecta layer to a particular crater, (2) to put constraints on where to look for a crater associated with a particular ejecta layer (Alamo, 250325 km from the center of the crater; Stac Fada, 225300 km from the center of the crater), and (3) to provide constraints on the size of a crater, which may have been destroyed by erosion and tectonics (Alamo, 4070 km diameter; Stac Fada, 80150 km).
30080972|A new inlet was opened 4.5 miles north of Cape Hatteras, North Carolina, during a great storm March 5-9, 1962. Aerial photographs permit the determination of the rate of growth of a new tidal delta built by sediment carried into the lagoon through the new inlet 5 days, 2 months, and 10 months after the opening of the inlet. Areal extent of the delta at these intervals was respectively 0.11, 0.2, and 0.35 square miles. Time-lapse photography provides an excellent basis for measuring rates of growth of depositional land forms.
30061968|Although turbidity currents can erode the deep-sea floor, deep ocean currents must not be neglected in considering the origin of submarine unconformities.
30056468|The crustal upwarpings upon decrease and removal of the load of the last Labradoran ice sheet appear to have occurred spasmodically and intermittently during ages of several hundred to a few thousand years' duration, separated by somewhat longer ages of quiescence. The most important uplifts took place prior to, and during, the first stages of the glacial lakes Algonquin and Iroquois, during the Champlain Sea age, and during the early and the late Postglacial. With the exception of that during the Nipissing age, the long quiescences were caused by increase of the ice or by a balance between supply and wastage; and, when established, they prevailed until the accumulating stresses had increased to the yielding point. The most important quiescences were those during the deglaciation of New England (perhaps regionally equal uplift); during the three-outlet stage of Lake Algonquin, Lake Iroquois proper, and Lakes Vermont and Frontenac; during the Ottawa Sea (possibly some land sinking); and during the Nipissing Great Lakes. Even with quiescence during the uncovering of New England, the contemporaneous retreat of the shoreline, indicated by the weak development of all elevated marine shorelines, can have been produced by a lowering of the sea-level, for the Patrician, Keewatin, and Cordilleran ice sheets were still growing. The Algonquin and the Nipissing quiescences are well proved by exceptionally strong beaches connecting respectively three and two outlets. The Ottawa Sea, whose shore stands at 240 feet altitude at Ottawa, is now believed to be the water body in which the upper marine clay of that region was deposited. The stage was established by a transgression of about 50 feet, produced by rise of the sea-level during quiescence and possibly some sinking of the land. The Ottawa Sea climaxed during the transition from the late Glacial to the Postglacial. The upwarpings appear to have proceeded in accord with R. A. Daly's hypothesis of flow at great depth.
30070759|A unique occurrence of lithified, fluvial armored mud balls has been found in the Lower Jurassic Turners Falls Sandstone of north-central Massachusetts. The long axes of the 55 examples range from 2.5 to 30 cm, which agrees with previous studies of modern armored mud balls. Their triaxial ellipsoidal shapes differ from the usual spheroid shapes of modern examples. It is inferred that they formed quickly, after only a few hundred meters of transport in a distal fan environment.
30057044|The morphology of Pur-Pur dune, a large sand dune on the coastal desert of north-central Peru, is described, and the rate of movement of the dune from 1942 to 1955 is shown to be about 0.5 m/year. On the basis of archeological data, the minimum age of the dune is estimated to be about 1,250 years.
30060073|The term granofels is proposed for medium- to coarse-grained, granoblastic, metamorphic rocks without, or with only indistinct, foliation or lineation. Existing terms such as granulite, hornfels, leptite gneiss, and leplynite gneiss are unsatisfactory for such rocks. Granofels is primarily a field name on a par with such terms as gneiss, schist, and slate. Granofels is transitional with hornfels in grain size and with gneiss in structure.
30057395|In the Palos Verdes Hills an ancient complex landslide affects several hundred acres of seaward-dipping tuffaceous Miocene shales. In 1956 about one-fourth of the area of this slide began moving again along 6 to 7 degree slope by earthflow and shifting of large blocks. Movement is continuing at a rate which increases in the winter and decreases in the summer and ranges from 0.03 to 0.1 foot per day. Information derived from studies aimed at stabilization include data from 62 drill holes, survey records of horizontal and vertical movements, and results of soil tests. Possible causes of the present movement suggested by various investigators are (1) loading of landslide head by highway fill and (2) accumulation of excessive ground water derived from cesspools, surface watering, and natural precipitation. Attempts to control sliding by placing 25 four-foot-diameter caissons 20 feet long across the rupture surface were unsuccessful. A plan to accomplish stabilization by removing material from the head and placing it as a rock-protected earth fill at the toe is under consideration. Damage to roads, houses, and other structures is estimated at more than ten million dollars.
JG116505|Columnar joints, resembling those in igneous rocks, are present in Devonian and Early Carboniferous sandstones at two localities on the Island of Bute in southwestern Scotland. New data concerning field relations and geochemical changes constrain processes responsible for generation of columnar fracture patterns in sedimentary rocks. The columns are mostly normal to bedding and occur at several discrete stratigraphic levels. The host rocks are cut by Early Carboniferous volcanic necks or plugs, which acted as heat sources, but development of columnar jointing was strongly controlled by small sills and dikes of a recessive, purple, fine-grained rock. Geochemistry of these rocks points to an igneous origin. Where contacts are exposed, columnar joints appear above subconcordant intrusions and disappear upward. The lowest parts of the columnar-jointed sandstones are Si depleted and enriched in Ca, Mg, Fe, Al, rare earth elements (REEs), and some base metals. REE patterns from columnar-jointed sandstones near contacts with intrusions resemble those of the igneous rocks, probably as a result of hydrothermal activity. Because most of the columns are approximately normal to bedding, intrusion probably took place before folding of the host rocks and possibly before complete consolidation.
30080967|The solid solubility and order-disorder relations in the systems
30058761|Slissmilch and others have maintained for many years that tectonic scarps in eastern Australia, mainly fault scarps, are prominent in New South Wales, and more recently they have described the eastern ranges of Queensland as made up of elongated fault-block features. Alternative explanations recognize a prevalence of multicycle relief forms in New South Wales and attribute the features of the Queensland ranges to subsequent erosion on an ancient structure. In Victoria, South Australia, and parts of Western Australia, large block-faulted relief forms are recognized; but in the first-named state some scarps formerly regarded as tectonic have been more recently relegated to the fault-line scarp category. In Tasmania relief is dominated by fault scarps which are in a sense also structural escarpments; and survival of these in a single cycle from a Lower Miocene tectogenesis is claimed on the strength of paleo-botanical evidence.
30067369|The Kern Canyon fault, described in general terms in two early papers by Professor Lawson, is shown to be an important fault within the southern Sierra Nevada. The scarp is shown to be one of the few known cases of true fault-line scarps. Certain features of the "crustal-rift" hypothesis proposed by Lawson for the region are discussed and shown to be inconsistent with the facts. The peculiar geomorphic discordance of the Kern River with the fault line is pointed out and its significance briefly indicated.
30058661|A new genus of anomodont, Brachyprosopus brootni, is described and figured. The genus is based on a skull from the Tapinocephalus zone of the Karroo System, South Africa. The extreme breadth of the skull in the temporal region and the dentition consisting of six or seven molars and a large canine are diagnostic of the genus. The form appears to be quite primitive in nature.
10.1086/649893|The Nanxiong Basin (Guangdong Province, China) preserves the most complete Asian stratigraphic record of the CretaceousPaleogene (K/Pg) boundary extinction and the subsequent Paleocene mammalian radiation. Despite extensive study, the precise placement of the K/Pg boundary in the Nanxiong Basin sequence has been controversial, and the timing of subsequent mammalian turnover is poorly constrained. We present new paleomagnetic and geochemical data from the Late Cretaceous Pingling Formation (Nanxiong Group) and the overlying Paleocene Shanghu, Nongshan, and Guchengcun formations (Luofozhai Group). Our samples are directly correlated with previous geochemical and paleontological sampling localities, allowing for easy comparison with other local proxy records. Results indicate that the traditional placement of the K/Pg boundary at the base of a chaotic channel sandstone bed marking the highest stratigraphic appearance of dinosaur eggshell fragments and lowest stratigraphic appearance of Paleocene mammalian fossils lies about twothirds of the way up Chron C29R, consistent with the placement of the boundary in all other welldocumented sections. The average carbon isotope composition of paleosol carbonates decreases by >2 in the Early Paleocene, consistent with a major disruption to global carbon cycling after the K/Pg boundary. Constraints on the age of the first major Cenozoic mammalian turnover event in Asia (the ShanghuanNongshanian Asian Land Mammal Age boundary) support its placement near the top of Chron C27N, which coincides with a similar turnover in North America and geochemical changes recorded in several deep sea cores.
30068021|The formations of central and east-central Vermont are exposed as a series of parallel belts that strike nearly north. Most of the rocks dip steeply, and many are overturned. With one possible exception, there seem to be no major repetitions within the sequence, and the order of formations from west to east appears to be the same as the order of their deposition. The formations are dominantly schist or phyllite, with varying proportions of arenaceous material. One thin formation, the Shaw Mountain, contains quartz conglomerate, calcareous tuff, and crinoidal limestone. The third-from-highest formation, the Waits River, is very thick and contains a large proportion of calcareous beds. The distance from the base of the lowest formation to the top of the highest, measured normal to bedding, is more than 100,000 feet; this large apparent thickness is believed to be not very much greater than the original thickness. The metasediments have been intruded by granitic dikes and plutons, mafic dikes, and small ultramafic plutons. Two principal stages of deformation are distinguished. During the earlier stage the rocks were folded, and a schistosity was developed nearly parallel to bedding. Throughout the area the minor folds of this stage indicate a consistent upward movement of rocks on the east with respect to those on the west. The folds plunge at low to moderately steep angles, typically northward. Phenomena associated with the later stage of deformation decrease in intensity both eastward and westward from the belt underlain by the calcareous Waits River formation. At a distance from this formation, the rocks have prominent slip cleavage, and the earlier schistosity is folded. The minor folds plunge moderately to steeply northward on the western side of the area and more gently northward on the eastern. As the Waits River formation is approached, slip cleavage passes gradually into a schistosity that obliterates the earlier schistosity, and the intensity of later folding increases. In both the eastern and the western parts of the area the later minor folds indicate that the rocks of the Waits River formation have moved upward with respect to the formations on either side. The central part of the belt underlain by the Waits River formation is marked by a huge arch, 10-20 miles across, whose axis is more or less parallel to the belt and plunges gently northward. This is shown to be an arch, not in bedding, but in the later schistosity and in the axial planes of large isoclinal folds that were formed during the later stage of deformation. The axial planes of three of these large isoclinal folds can be correlated across the crest of the cleavage arch at Strafford Village.
30058648|Excess precipitation averaging perhaps 17 per cent from 1928 through 1931, over a large collecting ground with a narrow discharge lane, may account for the remarkable average advance of about 115 feet per day which the front of the Black Rapids glacier appears to have maintained between September, 1936, and February, 1937, resulting in an increase of about 5 per cent of ice-covered area.
30056105|The knoll-reefs of Lancashire, Yorkshire, and Derbyshire are original mounds of fossiliferous calcite-siltstone up to 300 feet or more thick. They contain thin layers and irregular masses of coarser calcite, known as reef "tufa" or "fibrous calcite," which are identical with the Stromatactis of Belgian and American Paleozoic reefs. The coarse mosaics in two reefs near Clitheroe, Lancashire, are shown to be drusy infillings of postdepositional cavities. The cavities were formed in a sediment made coherent by a sediment-binder, and later were complicated by compaction and internal erosion and solution. On the floors of many of the cavities are internal sediments different in appearance from the host sediment but presumably derived from it-possibly by some organic process. There are two kinds of drusy mosaic-equant and fibrous. The latter has, in most fibers, a pattern of subgrains radiating away from the wall, allied to optic axes which converge away from the wall, as well as curved cleavages and irregular intergranular boundaries. As this type of fibrous mosaic may have important environmental significance, it is named "radiaxial fibrous mosaic." The grain-size range of the primary siltstone (2.5-14 ) is markedly different from that of the standard calcite-mudstone (0.5-4 ). An original difference of environment is indicated. A sediment-binder is considered necessary for the maintenance of steep slopes and cavity roofs. Bryozoa, algae, decomposing organic tissue, and carbonate cement are all regarded as unsuitable. An organic origin for Stromatactis is offered as an alternative. Consideration is given to the formation of the cavities by a combination of erosion by migrating pore water (during compaction) and the decay of a hypothetical organism associated with Stromatactis.
30056345|The study of some pegmatites of the Black Hills, South Dakota, has led to the conclusion that metasomatic replacement played a significant role in their formation. Microcline microperthites of these pegmatites were not products of magmatic crystallization but were formed by complex processes of perthitization. The hypothesis of the metasomatic origin of the perthites is supported by chemical analyses and microscopic features of the perthites and country rocks and by field observations.
30063941|A gravel and sand sequence at Calgary, Alberta, resting unconformably on Paskapoo sandstone and overlain by a late Wisconsin till, has within it two distinct horizons of structures attributable to periglacial activity. The lower horizon shows involutions and deranged and frost-shattered pebbles, while the upper horizon shows fossil ice wedges. A periglacial environment probably existed in southwestern Alberta at least twice during the gravel and sand deposition, and the sequence is probably of Pleistocene age, although predating the earliest Laurentide ice advance in the area. The average annual temperature in the Calgary area was approximately 9-14 C. cooler than at present.
30081162|U-Pb TIMS analyses of zircon, monazite, titanite, and apatite combined with SHRIMP U-Th-Pb analyses of zircons from magmatic and metasedimentary rocks of the Jimperding Metamorphic Belt in the southwestern part of the Yilgarn craton (Western Australia), provide reliable information on the evolution of this belt. SHRIMP analyses on single detrital zircon grains suggest the sediments originated from Archean sources similar in age to the Narryer Gneiss Complex. Deposition of the clastic metasediments is bracketed by the youngest concordant grain (
30068552|In Indian plate rocks defining the footwall of the Indo-Asian suture in the Upper Kaghan Valley (UKV) of northern Pakistan, we resolve four phases in a continuum of Himalayan metamorphism and deformation, with peak metamorphic pressures of 7.2  0.7 kbar and a minimum estimate for peak temperature of approximately 540C. To attach an absolute age to Himalayan metamorphism, we used the SHRIMP ion microprobe to obtain U-Pb ages on the rims of zircons from granites metamorphosed during the earliest phase of Himalayan orogeny. Four granite samples give a mean U-Pb age of 47  3 Ma. Zircons from the Malakand Granite of the Swat region (200 km west of the UKV) have rims that also give a mean U-Pb age of 47  3 Ma. Cores of these zircons yield U-Pb ages of 254-291 Ma which approach the previously published Rb/Sr isochron age of 297  4 Ma for the Peshawar Plain Igneous Province, suggesting an expanded areal extent of this Carboniferous igneous suite. The metamorphic ages of 47  3 Ma document that the thermal culmination of Himalayan metamorphism must have developed within, at most, only a few million years following Indo-Asian collision, commonly dated at 50 Ma, or that the continental crust of the Indian plate was undergoing thickening well before 50 Ma. We favor the latter, viewing our data as corroborating previous suggestions that initial contact between India and Asia was established in the NW Himalaya by 65 Ma.
30056978|Grimes Creek, a tributary of the Boise River, flows in a narrow, groove-like valley parallel to the South Fork of the Payette River for nearly 3 miles apparently along the upper canyon slope and about 1,800 feet higher than the river. The stream was originally a tributary of the Payette River. After tilting of the peneplaned surface, it was captured by a tributary of the Boise River, which worked headward toward the axis of the uplift. Following this stream capture, the region has undergone further uplifting, accompanied by warping, faulting, and tilting of crustal segments; and the present intricate deep canyon system has been carved thereon. Tilting of a segment of the old erosion surface in the downstream direction of the Payette River greatly increased that river's cutting power and permitted it to entrench far below the level of Grimes Creek. The divide between the parallel portions of river and creek has been shifted nearly to the creek, and thus the south side of Grimes Creek valley has become essentially the upper slope of the Payette canyon. Grimes Creek thus flows within the Payette River canyon, but at a much higher level and not in topographic conformity with the major stream.
10.1086/598948|Greenstones of early Permian age occur extensively in the Mino terrane of the east Takayama area. Greenstones are mainly tholeiitic basalt and subordinately alkalic basalt. Tholeiitic basalt comprises a lava sequence, about 1000 m thick, and tectonically contacts alkalic basalt. Fusuline fossils in associated limestones show that alkalic basalt is slightly younger than tholeiitic basalt. Chrome spinel occurs locally in tholeiitic and alkalic basalts. It is occasionally aluminous and similar to spinel in tholeiitic and alkalic basalts of oceanic ridge regions. Basalts in the lower portion of the tholeiite sequence are depleted in TiO
30058662|The Round Valley contact-metamorphic deposit is located in the Tungsten Hills 9 miles west of Bishop, California. It consists of an elliptical-shaped roof pendant of altered sedimentary rocks entirely surrounded by granite. The sediments were originally limestones, argillaceous sandstones, and relatively pure sandstones. As a result of contact-metamorphic action by the granite, however, the sandstones have been changed to hornfels and the limestones to complex lime-silicate rocks and marble. The paragenetic relations are similar to those in certain other contact-metamorphic deposits.
30062323|Over 300 published and unpublished analyses of calcrete (caliche), together with additional data generated by the author, have been processed to obtain an indication of the nature of world calcrete chemistry and the variability between major regions. Calcium carbonate, in the calcitic form, is the dominant constituent (over 79%), silica is second in importance, with its concentration varying inversely with that of the calcium carbonate, and magnesium carbonate is only exceptionally quantitatively important. Ses-quioxides, manganese, gypsum, and phosphates are locally important. The insoluble residue consists of aeolian sand grains in tropical deserts, silt and clay, particularly in subtropical examples, and amorphous silica in the form of opal, or chalcedony. Palygorskite (attapulgite) is often a major clay mineral. The data enable comparisons with recent analyses of American caliches, and particular reference is made to samples from the Kalahari of southern Africa, Libya, Cyprus, Kenya, and South-West Africa.
30070472|Remnants of late Wisconsin drift on bedrock benches 800-1,500 feet above Wolf Creek are the oldest evidence of glaciation recognized. Deposits of very latest Wisconsin and possibly, in part, earliest post-Wisconsin drift are the product of a limited advance or extended pause in recession from the late Wisconsin climax. Wolf Glacier was then at least several hundred feet thicker, and its terminus was not less than 4 or 5 miles beyond the present snout. Post-Wisconsin xerothermic conditions caused extensive ice shrinkage, and the glaciers become smaller than at present. During this period an extensive valley train was formed, alluvial cones and fans were built, and a mature white spruce forest developed up-valley to its natural tree line. A subsequent expansion and readvance culminated between 1840 and 1890. Large raw lateral and terminal moraines and a trim line in the mature spruce forest are the principal manifestations of this advance, which is believed to be of climatic, rather than of orogenic or seismic, origin. Subsequently shrinkage, recession, and stagnation have ruled. The lower 9 miles of Wolf Glacier are stagnant, and this section has experienced 350-500 feet of vertical ablation, with terminal recession of only a few hundred yards. Degradation was interrupted by expansion and advance of certain favorably situated ice streams, starting in the late 1930's and extending into the 1940's. Slight rejuvenation also occurred in the uppermost stagnant part of Wolf Glacier. This reactivation was on the wane by 1947 and appears to have been but a minor interruption in the general shrinkage and degradation of the last fifty to a hundred years. Analysis of records suggests a climatic, rather than a seismic, cause for this recent rejuvenation.
30060385|Upon the basis of geologic occurrence and properties, natural gases are classified as (1) those of igneous or inorganic origin and (2) those of sedimentary or organic origin. This paper treats of the variation in chemical constituents of natural gases of igneous origin with their mode of geologic occurrence. The gases occur with mineral waters from volcanic rocks, granite, and sedimentary formations, and having direct or indirect relations to the igneous activity. Hydrogen, hydrogen sulphide, carbon dioxide, and nitrogen contents of volcanic gases have close relations to the stage of volcanic activity. Oxygen and carbon monoxide are generally negligible. Helium content has no direct relation to the igneous activity, but it may have some relation to the conditions of sedimentation of the gas-bearing formations. No definite relation between helium content and radioactivity of gases is found.
30066273|The Permian lungfish, Gnathorhiza, has been of particular interest to paleontologists because of its possible relationship to the modern lepidosirenid lungfish and because of its burrowing habits. New localities in the Wellington Formation of north-central Oklahoma have yielded numerous estivation burrows containing the articulated skull bones of these lungfish. The skull of Gnathorhiza serrata is described and a phylogeny is proposed for the post-Permian lungfish. The phylogeny, based primarily on skull roof bone patterns, proposes Gnathorhiza as an ancestral type leading to the modern Protopterus and Lepidosiren, with a second line, separate since the start of the Mesozoic, leading to Neoceratodus. The sectioned Permian estivation burrows show a number of features similar to the burrows of modern lepidosirenids. The burrow form and lithology suggest that Gnathorhiza used its mouth in burrowing and that it stood on its tail in the burrow during estivation. Different modal sizes of the burrows at different sites indicate the segregation of the burrowing fish into brood groups. Intersecting burrow structures show that certain localities were the sites of repeated cycles of burrowing, indicating alternating wet and dry seasons during Wellington time.
30060120|The development of a statistical distribution of proper entrances among proper caves in a limestone karst is considered as a geomorphic process and described with stochastic geomorphic models. The models assume that entrances form and close independently at entrance sites and that the sites are randomly distributed among caves. Analysis of 820 caves in 10 regions on this basis finds that the best model is one assuming a proportional length dependence for mean site frequency on each cave. This model is used to obtain a constant which is characteristic of a karst and to predict the number and length distributions of entranceless caves and the length distribution of all caves in each region. The karst constant varies from about 0.0001 to 0.01
30059284|The Coos Synclinorium of southwest Oregon contains an exceptional suite of late Eocene coal-bearing sediments. The synclinorium, however, was not an Eocene depositional basin but was formed later, apparently as the result of intense faulting in the coastal region. A California Coast Range structural style was superimposed upon a northeast-trending Klamath arcuate style chiefly in the late Tertiary. It was related to widespread post-Oligocene faulting and volcanism in the entire Cordillera (the Cascadan orogeny). Eocene sedimentation occurred in an open embayment of the Pacific rather than a narrow, north-south gulf as postulated by Weaver. Minor volcanic islands existed near the present northern Oregon coast. The embayment lay adjacent to a low, swampy subtropical coastal plan; beyond that lay forested uplands with volcanoes. The Klamath provenance for the Coos Bay Eocene comprised approximately 50 per cent volcanic, 30 per cent sedimentary, and 20 per cent metamorphic rocks. A delta complex developed at Coos Bay and prograded northward. Through analogy with modern sediments, several subenvironments are inferred on the basis of fossils, sorting, sedimentary structures, paleocurrents, and stratigraphic relationships. Coos Bay deltaic deposits are particularly notable for many well-exposed scour channels, associated gravity-defor-mational structures, mudstone conglomerates, and liquefaction structures. The deposits possess great compositional immaturity and heterogeneity, yet have moderate textural maturity; most of the sandstones are lithic (volcanic) arenites. Large deltas are not generally considered characteristic of unstable mobile belts, particularly volcanic eugeosynclines. Yet they existed in the Pacific Northwest during the Eocene when extensive volcanism occurred both offshore and onshore. Furthermore, flyschlike deposits accumulated offshore simultaneously with deltaic, coaly molasse-like ones onshore. Apparently deltaic sedimentation will occur inevitably where sufficient sediment is delivered. Cyclic patterns may result therein simply due to the fluctuating rates of sedimentation even without vertical relative changes of sea level. In such a setting, textural maturity may develop even in compositionally very immature sands.
30081152|Baselevel is the imaginary horizontal level or surface to which sub-aerial erosion proceeds. It is sea level. Controversy surrounds the effect of baselevel change on river behavior, the rejuvenation of landscapes, and the delivery of sediment to the shelf-slope depositional system. The effect of baselevel change depends upon many factors, such as rate of change, amount of change, direction of change, river character, and dynamics and erodibility of the sediment source area. In most cases the effects of baselevel change will be moderate, and they can be accommodated by changes of channel pattern, width, depth, and roughness. Therefore, the delivery of large amounts of sediment to a shoreline or continental shelf probably reflects not only baselevel lowering, but significant uplift of the sediment-source area and perhaps climate change.
30080982|Synthetic sapphirine prepared by sintering oxide mixes at high temperatures and 1 atm has been microanalyzed. Individual grains yielded compositions in weight percent averaging MgO, 20.0; A1O, 68.1; and SiO, 11.9 with small scatter. This is near the theoretical composition 7MgO:9AlO:3SiO but somewhat richer in A1O, being related to it by the substitution of 2Al for Mg + Si. Unit cell dimensions of the present sapphirine and other synthetic and natural sapphirines lying along the substitution line 2A1  Mg + Si show a regular variation. The most aluminous sapphirine, the present synthetic, has the smallest unit cell volume. The aluminum content of sapphirine may be useful as a geobarometer: tetrahedral Al progressively decreases with the Crystallization pressure.
30081150|Current models predict that the early atmosphere consisted mostly of
10.1086/605994|U(Th)Pb dating of zircon, monazite, and xenotime from metamorphic and igneous rocks at two outcrops along a northsouth transect in the Mount Everest region of southern Tibet provide new constraints on the timing and duration of thermal events associated with channel flow and the ductile extrusion of the Greater Himalayan Series (GHS). At the southernmost outcrop in the Kangshung Valley, ThPb ages from monazite indicate that prograde metamorphism associated with crustal thickening following the IndiaAsia collision occurred at least as early as
30060429|The portion of the Canadian Rockies along the line of the Canadian Pacific Railway has been much studied, but recent work allows the presentation of a section which shows some information additional to what has been previously published. The section is described, with a brief rsum of the geological history of the region.
30066312|Fifty million years of erosional history of the early Paleozoic orogen in the Central Andes are documented in the 12kmthick Ordovician siliciclastic sedimentary section from south Bolivia. Transport directions in the northsouthtrending basins allow a distinction between sediment sources from the Proterozoic Brazilian Shield to the east and the early Paleozoic mobile belt to the west. Major and trace element and isotopic (Nd, Sr, Pb) compositions of stratigraphically welldefined samples of Tremadocian to Arenigian ages have been studied. The element patterns and isotopic composition of the Ordovician sedimentary rocks (Nd
30078369|The Enoree melange is exposed in the central Piedmont of South Carolina near the boundary between the Piedmont and Carolina terranes. The melange is composed of ultramafic and mafic blocks in a highly deformed matrix of biotite-feldspar-quartz gneiss which has a composition consistent with a felsic-to-intermediate volcanic precursor. The mafic and ultramafic blocks are separated chemically and petrographically into four compositional groups: melagabbro-clinopyroxenite, websterite, orthopyroxenite, and metasomatized (steatitized) orthopyroxenite. Based on their chemistry and mineralogy, the blocks are clearly exotic relative to their metavolcaniclastic(?) matrix and likely originated as parts of a plutonic suite from the basal or forward part of the Carolina arc terrane. If the Piedmont terrane-Carolina terrane boundary is a continent-arc suture, then the Enoree melange probably formed in the accretionary prism at this convergent margin. The matrix gneisses are interpreted as reworked volcanic debris shed by the Carolina arc terrane edifice and accumulated as graywacke in the accretionary deposits. West-vergent structures in the matrix suggest that the melange was emplaced to its present tectonostratigraphic position either during docking of the Carolina terrane or during widespread Alleghanian thrusting.
30068676|This classification of spinel facies ultramafic xenoliths is based on thin-section criteria, and encompasses rocks of all modal compositions. It distinguishes textures which are unambiguously igneous or metamorphic and divides metamorphic textures into four distinct types: porphyroclastic, cataclastic, foliated and equigranular mosaic. A separate category, allotriomorphic-granular, refers principally to coase-grained textures that are of unclear origin. In addition, textures that are dominated by partial melting are distinguished from igneous types. Interpretation of xenolith textures by reference to textures formed under experimental conditions is limited by lack of information about many of the factors which control xenolith textures. Until the effect of these factors is better understood, there can be no reliable completely genetic classification of xenolith textures.
30079981|Small rivers draining highrainfall basins and mountainous terrain west of the Cordilleras in South America have disproportionately high water discharge and sediment load. Fifteen rivers in western Colombia discharge a combined 254 km
30067412|New isotopic data from OBrien Peak, Antarctica, provide constraints on the timing of deformation within the Ross Orogen in the Queen Maud Mountains. UPb data, in conjunction with structural data from a mylonitic granite, indicate that sinistral, orogenparallel ductile shearing occurred after 489 Ma, the granites crystallization age, and
30062574|The intensive geologic investigations during the past few years in connection with the design and construction of dams and other engineering works have established the common existence of deep bedrock solution, which has occurred well below the water table. Although this deep flow and solution are entirely harmonious with hydraulic principles, an important aspect of the problem of the optimum depth of ground-water flow and solution is the matter of adjustment of the subsurface circulation. As this adjustment becomes more perfect, deep flow and solution progressively diminish and flow and solution in the upper levels of the zone of saturation increase correspondingly. In the latter stages of the cycle, cave formation probably occurs at higher levels by the concentration of lateral flow through high-level master-conduits. In the earlier stages, flow is not concentrated but is distributed throughout the entire vertical section, oriented along arcuate paths which descend deeply before recurving upward to the point of discharge.
30057956|A skeleton of Dicynodon Hgriceps from the Upper Permian of the Murraysburg District, Cape Province, South Africa, has been mounted in the Walker Museum of the University of Chicago. The specimen is briefly described in the present paper. The large dicynodonts, which were prey of contemporary large carnivores, appear to have lived in a region of moderately warm, moist climate.
30075118|A detailed study of many dikes in the Pacific Northwest, ranging from basalt and diabase to aplite and pegmatite, shows evidence for two contrasting mechanisms of dike formation: (1) dilation concomitant with magmatic injection and (2) replacement. Criteria for the recognition of both dilation and replacement dikes are presented. For the replacement type, transitional facies are emphasized, since in the final stage definite characteristics of an earlier stage may be partially or wholly obliterated. The implications of simple magmatic injection are very different from those of the complex processes of metasomatism.
30056453|A small stocklike mass of quartz-diorite intruding feldspathic schists reacted with schist inclusions producing plagioclase phenocrysts more calcic than those indigenous to the uncontaminated magma. All stages in the development of these crystals from their initiation in the xenoliths to their occurrence as phenocrysts in the hybrid magma are clearly shown. The irruption of this magma into a fissure formed what is termed a "reaction porphyry dike."
30056249|A mineralized and silicified zone which dips more gently than the wall rock and is accompanied by reverse faulting or thrusting is denned as a "mother-lode structure." The western border of the Sierra Nevada batholith is accompanied by a belt of such structures. A tripartite arrangement which coincides with three distinctly different portions of the batholith can be recognized in this belt: (I) a southern portion of scattered lodes within the boundaries of the widest portion of the batholith; (2) a medial continuous zone (the Mother Lode proper) west of the batholith; and (3) a northern extension of scattered, rich lodes which are closely related to the contacts of scattered and small massifs. The divisions of the batholith are believed to be accidental and due to a northward plunge of the mass; lower levels are exposed in the southern region and higher levels in the north. Gold production and mining values increase from south to north and seem to be highest where the shallowest levels of the batholith are encountered. The plunge of the pluton would explain why the southern area is almost devoid of paying gold deposits. The first appearance of a uniform Mother Lode trend is indicated by a series of intrusions which accompanied a post-Carboniferous and pre-Jurassic orogeny.
30063825|The displacement history of the Brevard zone, a linear, orogen-scale structure in the metamorphic core of the southern Appalachians, has been controversial. Geological and seismic data indicate that the Brevard zone and the Taconic/Acadian metamorphic rocks in which it resides are contained in a huge crystalline thrust sheet that overlies relatively unmetamorphosed platform sedimentary rocks along a major Alleghanian thrust fault. Along a 100 km segment in South Carolina and adjacent states, the Brevard zone contains three separate structural features, all of which dip moderately SE: (1) the narrow Rosman fault, which contain tectonic breccia and slices of the buried platform sedimentary rocks; (2) the Brevard mylonite zone, which contains mylonitic rocks that extend about 3 km on either side of the Rosman fault and exhibits shear sense criteria which consistently indicate dextral strike-slip; (3) the Brevard fault zone, SE of the Rosman fault, which contains stratified metamorphic rocks that are repeated by faults which at least in part predate mylonitization. These features are best explained by a displacement history involving: (1) Taconic/Acadian nappe emplacement (part of the Brevard fault zone) which extended across the southern Appalachian core zone and is not unique to the Brevard zone; (2) earlier Alleghanian low-angle, dextral strike-slip shearing (Brevard mylonites) of the nappe assemblage, with the orientation of the zone strongly controlled by inherited Taconic/Acadian nappe structures; (3) later Alleghanian detachment within the metamorphic rocks, with substantial reactivation of the Brevard mylonite zone, and northwestward emplacement of the upper plate over platform sedimentary rocks (crystalline thrust sheet); (4) later reactivation of the shear zone in the crystalline allochthon as a thrust splay (Rosman fault).
30056829|Drowned river valleys, wave-cut cliffs, superimposed and diverted streams, residual gravels, as well as elevated and high-dipping Quaternary coral reefs, are common features along the Caribbean coast of Colombia, South America. The significance of these phenomena is discussed, and a brief outline of the succession of events (emergences and submergences) since Pliocene time is offered.
30060831|Working with plaster of paris in an experimental flume, the authors have simulated the formation of scallop patterns, an intriguing feature of eroded limestone, under controlled conditions of velocity and viscosity. Analysis of the resulting scallop lengths as a frequency distribution has shown that certain of the statistical parameters are well correlated with the hydrodynamic conditions. Length is inversely related to velocity and directly to viscosity. These results are similar to those found by Curl (1966) in a theoretical dimensional analysis of the simpler flute problem. Work in limestone caverns has confirmed that these results apply to scallops generated on limestone. Certain lithologic effects have been noted, however, and these are believed to be correlated with the physical structure of the material.
30064020|The Ogasawara Plateau bathymetry in the northwest Pacific Ocean is presented by U.S. Naval Oceanographic Office multi-beam sonar data. The plateau is significant in that it separates the Izu and Bonin Trenches and may be obducted onto the overriding plate and/or jamming the subduction zone. The high resolution bathymetry suggests morphologic evidence of faulting within and possible uplifting on the approximately
30060858|Four distinct post-Iroquois stillstands are recognized in the coastal and upland areas of the eastern Ontario basin: the Sandy Creek (10,150 years B.P.), Skinner Creek, Dune (5,000 years B.P.), and North Pond stages. The tilt rate for the Sandy Creek-Dune stage interval was five times greater than Dune stage to present. During the Sandy Creek-Dune stage interval, the water level fell along the eastern shore area due to erosion of glacial deposits in the Saint Lawrence Valley and rapidly rose in the western end of the lake due to differential tilting. From Dune stage to present, both the eastern and southern nearshore areas were slowly flooded due to differential tilting. Prior to Dune stage time, erosion of the emerging eastern basin produced much of the lake sand and gravel in that area. Following the Dune stage, local sediment contributions diminished because of flooding, but extensive erosion of the southern lake shelf contributed proportionally larger amounts of sand from submerged tills. Easterly flowing nearshore currents were responsible for producing lag gravels along the southern shore and transporting sands to the eastern shore.
JG80129|Zircon U-Pb ages from glacial clasts in Quaternary tills of the central Transantarctic Mountains indicate the presence of Grenville-age crust along the Ross Sea margin of East Antarctica. The polymict tills contain a variety of igneous, metaigneous, and metasedimentary clasts with Proterozoic ages not known from basement exposure. Four orthogneiss clasts have igneous ages of 10651100 Ma and Ross Orogen metamorphic overgrowths of 500550 Ma. The latter ages indicate that these clasts are not glacially far traveled. Grenville-like signatures also come from a paragneiss containing detrital zircons ranging from 925 to 1130 Ma, an early Ross granitoid (563 Ma) containing inherited zircons of 1020 Ma, and detrital zircons from Neogene and Quaternary glacial deposits with a composite age peak of 1045 Ma. Other igneous clasts with ages of 1460, 1580, and 1880 Ma provide further evidence of Proterozoic crust and corroborate earlier finding of an 1440-Ma A-type granite clast with isotopic signatures matching similar-age granites in Laurentia. Together, the glacial clasts indicate that 1.1-Ga Grenville-age igneous crust lies beneath the ice sheet along the Ross Sea margin of East Antarctica. The clast ages are similar to those of Mesoproterozoic relicts in other parts of East Antarctica, and they resemble the ages of basement rocks in western Laurentia, including igneous rocks in west Texas (10701120 Ma) where the Grenville Orogen (sensu stricto) terminates abruptly, or, alternatively, metamorphic assemblages within Proterozoic rift-margin strata of northern Idaho (10001150 Ma). The glacial clasts provide new evidence that an 1.1-Ga-age belt extends from western Laurentia into central East Antarctica inboard of the present-day Pacific margin, supporting both the SWEAT (southwest U.S.East Antarctic) fit of Rodinia cratons and the suggestion that a Mesoproterozoic orogen integral to Rodinia assembly crosses East Antarctica.
10.1086/661989|Three paleogeographic scenarios have been proposed for the Mesozoic volcano-sedimentary successions that compose the Guerrero terrane, western Mexico. In the type 1 scenario, the Guerrero terrane is an exotic Pacific arc accreted to nuclear Mexico by the consumption of a pre-Cretaceous oceanic basin, named Arperos Basin. The type 2 scenario considers the Guerrero terrane as a fringing multiarc system, accreted by the closure of pre-Cretaceous oceanic basin substrates at multiple subduction zones with varying polarities. In the type 3 scenario, the Guerrero terrane is interpreted as a North American west-facing para-autochthonous arc, which was drifted in the paleo-Pacific domain by the opening of the Cretaceous back-arc oceanic Arperos Basin. To test these reconstructions, we present here a combined study that includes geologic mapping, stratigraphy, U-Pb geochronology, and sandstone provenance data from the Arperos Basin in the Sierra de Guanajuato, central Mexico. Our data document that the Arperos Basin developed in a back-arc setting and evolved from continental to open oceanic conditions from the Late Jurassic to the Early Cretaceous. Sandstone provenance analysis shows an asymmetric distribution of the infill sources for the Arperos Basin: continent-recycled sedimentary rocks were deposited along its northeastern side, whereas magmatic arc-recycled clastic rocks developed at its southwestern side. Such asymmetric distribution closely fits with sedimentological models proposed for present-day continent-influenced back-arc basins. On the basis of this evidence, we favor a type 3 scenario for the Guerrero terrane, which is then considered to represent a detached slice of the Mexican leading edge that drifted in the paleo-Pacific domain during back-arc extension and subsequently accreted back to the Mexican craton.
30060407|Along the Owyhee River in southeastern Malheur County the rocks are of late Tertiary and Quaternary age, consisting of conglomerate, arkosic sand, and sandy shale, all derived largely from volcanic material and interbedded with volcanic tuff, basalt and, rhyolite. The stratigraphy and petrology of the igneous and sedimentary rocks are described in some detail. The structure simulates a northward-plunging anticlinal nose that has been considerably faulted, mostly parallel to the trend of the nose. Locally the basalt flows and the sedimentary beds immediately below the flows are colored red. Also, some of the basalts contain zeolites. The cause of the red color and the origin of the zeolites are discussed, and the hypothesis is advanced that some of the flows were erupted into standing water.
JG80192|The rarity of Devonian tetrapods and the absence of tetrapods during the first 14 million years of the Mississippian (Romers Gap) have inspired hypotheses of fish-tetrapod evolutionary transition as an escape from difficult habitats such as deserts or stagnant waters. These hypotheses and Romers Gap are tested here using depth to calcic horizon in paleosols of the northern Appalachians as a proxy for precipitation and vegetation changes during the Devonian and Mississippian. All tetrapod bones and trackways in this region, as well as fossil tree remains, were found at times of high precipitation (indicated by deep calcic paleosols), when subhumid woodlands expanded at the expense of semiarid shrublands in alluvial lowlands. No tetrapods or tree fossils were found in abundant paleosols with the shallow calcic horizons of aridland soils. The mean annual precipitation requirement of Devonian-Mississippian tetrapods and trees was at least
30070675|Fortysix miniature plate tectonic reconstructions are presented that can be assembled into a flipbook that illustrates the movement of the continents since the Late Precambrian, 750 m.yr. ago. Six principal lines of evidence have been used to reconstruct the past positions of the continents: (1) linear magnetic anomalies produced by sea floor spreading, (2) paleomagnetism, (3) hotspot tracks and large igneous provinces, (4) the tectonic fabric of the ocean floor mapped by satellite altimetry, (5) lithologic indicators of climate (e.g., coals, salt deposits, tillites), and (6) the geologic record of plate tectonic history. I discuss the probable uncertainties associated with the plate tectonic reconstructions and give an estimate of the uncertainty in the positions of the continents back through time.
30071220|A set of 40 polished sections of Silurian and Devonian conodonts with color alteration indices ranging from 1.0 to 8.0 was examined using Color Image Analysis. The color composition of each conodont specimen was determined by measuring the intensities of the red, green, and blue color components on several carefully selected areas. The data were evaluated using nested analysis of variance. The observed variance can be attributed to three different sources of error. Within the studied conodont population, the variance due to rank amounts to an average 90%. The variance due to taxonomic differences or type of conodont element is about 3% and, thus, of minor importance. The heterogeneity within single specimens amounts to 6% and is also a minor source of variance. The application of Color Image Analysis helps characterize samples of different rank but similar optical properties. Color Image Analysis helps reduce the subjectivity of conodont color alteration studies.
30055713|The Decorah formation of Ordovician age has been denned as a shale lying above the Platteville limestone and below the Galena limestone at Decorah, Iowa. Lithologic sections show a gradation of the sediments from limestone and dolomite in southwestern Wisconsin to clastic shales in northern Iowa and Minnesota. The fauna of the formation warrants its correlation with the uppermost Black River and lowermost Trenton of the eastern standard section.
30060954|Cenozoic basalts from both sides of the DaxinanlingTaihang gravity lineament that separates the SinoKorean craton (SKC) into western and eastern parts have been studied. In the western SKC, magmas evolved from xenolithbearing alkali basalts of Late EoceneOligocene age to coexisting alkali and tholeiitic basalts of Late MioceneQuaternary age. This change in basalt type is accompanied by a decrease in La/Yb and an increase in Yb content. SrNd isotopic ratios and relative abundances on incompatible elements are consistent with a prevailing asthenospheric origin, although lithospheric mantle may have also contributed to these basalts. This temporal variation in basalt geochemistry is interpreted as reflecting progressive lithospheric thinning in the western SKC during the Cenozoic. An opposite trend is observed for Cenozoic basalts from the eastern SKC, suggesting lithospheric thickening during this time period. This thickening was probably related to regional thermal decay following peak magmatism in the Late CretaceousEarly Tertiary. Such contrasting lithospheric processes may reflect diachronous extension in the SKC, with initial extension in the eastern part owing to the Late Mesozoic paleoPacific subduction and subsequent extension in the western SKC induced by the Early Tertiary IndianEurasian collision. An implication is that the lithospheric mantle in the western SKC is relatively old compared with that beneath the eastern SKC, which may be a mixture of old lithospheric relicts and newly accreted mantle. This predicted lithospheric architecture is consistent with SrNd isotopic data and recent ReOs age determinations from mantle xenoliths included in Cenozoic basalts.
30062262|Distinct bedrock hollows with a colluvial fill are common in soil-mantled hillslopes. It has been proposed that these hollows are sites of recurrent emptying by landsliding and subsequent slower refilling with colluvium. On a hillslope in Northern California we have quantified the time since emptying and the three-dimensional configurations of the underlying bedrock surface. Correlation of the pollen record in the colluvium with a nearby pollen core from a lake with an accurate age control indicates that the oldest colluvium was deposited 11,000 to 13,500 years in the bedrock hollow. Since then deposition of colluvium in the hollow has been equivalent to 1.5 m of landscape lowering in the surrounding source area and to a local lowering rate of about 0.1 mm/yr. The longitudinal profile of the hollow is concave upward, a form that causes the groundwater flow to rise toward the surface downslope, leading to saturation and possibly to landsliding.
30063981|Pebbles of volcanic rocks in the middle and upper Keweenawan sedimentary rocks appear to have been derived from volcanic rocks that are older than the Portage Lake Lava Series of middle Keweenawan age. The pebbles are predominantly felsic volcanic rock types. Some pebbles are porphyritic; these are derived from rocks that occur in the lower Keweenawan volcanic section but not in the Portage Lake. No pebbles are from the ophitic rocks that are common in the Portage Lake but lacking in the lower Keweenawan rocks.
30055907|The final reports of the Minnesota Geological and Natural History Survey thirty years ago contained several suggestions that igneous magmas in Minnesota were formed almost in place by hydrothermal fusion of earlier rocks. The suggestions did not have the positiveness of conclusions because there were not sufficient chemical analyses to check the compositions. Such analyses are now available and are here given. They do not to any extent support the early suggestion. Suggestions made elsewhere of such fusion of rocks in the earth's crust are briefly noted and an attempt is made to show about how far the idea of fusion in the crust can now be safely applied.
30058565|The Galisteo formation consists of from 900 to at least 4,000 feet of sandstone, sand, and clay, variegated in color, together with minor amounts of conglomerate, fresh-water limestone, and water-laid tuff, deposited by rivers in a broad, deep inland basin. The Galisteo was succeeded without interruption by deposition of the Espinaso volcanics. Fossil evidence indicates that the Galisteo formation is of Duchesnean (late Eocene or early Oligocene) age. At this time, north-central New Mexico had more rainfall than at present, but this may have been seasonal in nature. Forested highlands probably existed in the areas now occupied by the Sierra Nacimiento and the southern Sangre de Cristo Mountains. Large, perennial rivers flowed from the highland areas into and through the basin of deposition. Upper Cretaceous rocks were deformed and eroded prior to deposition of the Galisteo formation. Further warping occurred during Duchesnean deposition, but this deformation may have followed different lines. The southern Sangre de Cristo Mountains may have been rejuvenated at this time. The igneous rocks of the Ortiz Mountains and the Cerrillos Hills intrude the Galisteo formation and the Espinaso volcanics. These formations were deformed and eroded before deposition of the late Tertiary Santa Fe formation. The Rio Grande depression was not outlined until late Tertiary time.
30065722|The initial 25 to 35 Ma of oceanic arc volcanism in Fiji (the "early arc stage") was dominated by eruption of LREE-depleted, low-K tholeiitic basalts and andesites. The oldest volcanics include the highest-HFSE group, MORB-like in composition, plus high-Mg basalts and basic andesites with flat REE patterns as low as 4x chondritic concentrations. These erupted either within the volcanic arc during its first 5 Ma or in an adjacent backarc during its first Ma of formation. Subsequent volcanics of the early arc stage apparently erupted onto early backarc basin crust. Most are intermediate between earlier extremes in HFSE contents, but at least one volcano produced strongly LREE-depleted island arc tholeiites. In contrast, medium-K tholeiitic and calc-alkaline andesites erupted during the "mature arc stage." Parental basalts were enriched in LREE but depleted in HREE relative to earlier basalts due to a change in source composition. Counterflowing MORB-source asthenosphere within the mantle wedge dominated volcanism throughout the early arc stage. Reduced counterflow later allowed more enriched mantle sources to play a larger role, especially behind the volcanic front. In contrast, the South Fiji Basin experienced the opposite sense of evolution.
30078290|Nitrogen and phosphorus analyses from the limestones and floor deposits of Dixon Cave, Mammoth Cave National Park, Kentucky (a saltpeter cave), and New Cave, Carlsbad Caverns National Park, New Mexico (a bat guano cave), indicate that cave saltpeter derives from seeping groundwater and not from bat guano. Limestones at the surface and in sinkholes exposed to rainfall are leached of nitrate (a few ppm) whereas protected limestones in caves are enriched in nitrate (thousands of ppm). Groundwater dissolves nitrate in organic surface soils and transports it through the limestone bedrock and toward the dry cave.
30063935|The theory of canonical correlation analysis has been combined with that of trend-surface analysis in order to construct a multivariate trend surface that is called a canonical trend surface. A canonical trend surface is a parsimonious summarization of areal variations of a set of geologic variates. This trend has a property of maximum correlation between variates and geographic coordinates. It does not show the absolute value of each variate, but it shows the nature of variation of a linear function of the variates. By use of this type of trend, it is possible to reveal the underlying pattern of geographic variation common to a set of variates. The Permian system in western Kansas and eastern Colorado was studied as a numerical example to illustrate the general procedures in solving practical problems and also to demonstrate the validity of this technique.
30068856|Igneous zircons in felsic schist, or metatuff, infolded with mafic schist, calcschist, and quartz mica schist of the As Sifah lower plate window, NE Oman, have yielded a U/Pb SHRIMP crystallization age of
30060671|Four of the numerous dikes mapped on the areal geology sheet of the Franklin Furnace Folio cannot be included among those therein described as "mostly basic, including nepheline tinguaite, leucite tinguaite, and camptonite" of "post-Ordovician" age. Field and petrographic study and chemical analyses show that these four dikes form a closely related group, sharply distinguishable from all other known dike rocks of the area. They are in all essential respects similar to the Triassic diabases of other parts of New Jersey and the Atlantic seaboard states, and there is no reason to question their Triassic age.
30080954|The recently published radiocarbon dates of Lake Iroquois, a new date of early Lake St. Clair, and absence of unconformities between the early and the late Warren deposits in southwestern Ontario suggest that not only the early Lake Warren, but also the late Lake Warren, Lake Wayne, Lake Grassmere, Lake Lundy, early Lake Algonquin, and the initial phase of Early Lake St. Clair are older than the Two Creeks Interval.
30069380|The stabilized dunes of central and western Nebraska cover approximately 22,000 square miles and represent the largest dune area in North America. The dunes are of three different types, formed at three different times. The oldest dunes, classed as the first series, are broad, massive forms of great size, generally elongate, but with many variations in ground plan. They are interpreted as having originated as compound transverse dunes and related types under desert conditions when wind action was particularly strong, persistent, and widespread, probably during early Wisconsin time. When climatic conditions changed, they were stabilized by vegetation, and remained so long enough for soil formation, modification of topographic form by non-eolian processes, and initiation of a new consequent drainage system. The dunes of intermediate age, classed as the second series, are narrow, more or less symmetrical sub-parallel linear ridges of intermediate length, superimposed on the older dune topography, with varying degrees of divergence in trend from the latter. They are interpreted to have developed as non-migratory upsiloidal forms transitional into "longitudinal" types, in the presence of some vegetation, during an episode of moderately intense wind action under semiarid conditions, probably in late Wisconsin time. Wind direction was similar to that of today but different from that indicated by the dunes of the first series. The youngest dunes, referred to the third series, are blowouts of various sizes, shapes, and degree of freshness, omnipresent on all older dunes. They are believed to have been formed mainly during the Hypsithermal interval.
30063057|The origin of many mineralogically mature, marine sandstones can be related to paleotidal processes. The Cambrian Eriboll Sandstone of northwest Scotland is divisible into a prominently cross-stratified Lower Member and an Upper Pike Rock Member containing abundant Scolithus ichnofossils. The Lower Member consists of medium-grained, well-sorted, mature quartzarenite and subarkose. Sedimentary structures in this member include planar, herringbone cross-stratification, reactivation surfaces, interference ripples, and both current ripples and micro-cross-laminae superimposed at 90 on slip faces of cross-strata. The frequency distribution of set thicknesses are multimodal, whereas distributions of dip angles of cross-strata are bimodal. Cross-strata azimuth orientations are bimodal and multimodal. The Pipe Rock Member is massive-bedded with burrows of Scolithus and Monocraterion, the latter resembling "escape structures." Sedimentary structures in the Eriboll Sandstone are comparable bodies. Reactivation surfaces and bimodal distributions of both cross-strata set thickness and dip angles suggest a paleotidal flow mechanism characterized by time-velocity asymmetry. Escape structures of burrows combined with overlying intertidal and supratidal carbonate rocks also indicate a tidal depositional environment for the Eriboll Sandstone. The tidal sand body environment is characterized by intensive reworking, and by equilibrium sand transport patterns through alternate flood-dominated and ebb-dominated zones. Mineralogical and textural maturity is achieved by sediment transport over long distances combined with weathering at intermediate depositional sites. Other quartzarenites displaying similar structures were likely developed in tide-dominated depositional environments.
30060068|A review of the different ways in which more than one direction of folding has been thought to occur in one area and a classification of the different varieties of cross folding described in the literature are given. An area of complex folding in Moine metasediments is described. Consideration of the style of folding and the orientation of axial planes supports the view that an initial phase of homoaxial folding developed about axes plunging southeastward. This folding was accompanied by slide tectonics repeating the succession in large tectonic inclusions. The deformation was monoclinic and apparently in response to a regional sinistral movement (looking northward along the fold axes). A second phase of folding turned the folds of half the area through about 48, producing a dominant southwesterly trend and a sharp junction line with crossing (mainly east-west) structures at the boundary between the originally disposed and the rotated block. Dislocation of the line of junction proves the magnitude of the transcurrent Strathspey and Calder Valley faults.
30084990|Experimental model studies support the view that the mechanical process of magmatic flow differentiation may be a quantitatively important factor in causing a fractionation of rock types, mineralogical zoning, and chemical differentiation in nature. Scale models were constructed using homogeneous mixtures of solids in suspension and partly differentiated solids in solid-fluid mixtures in order to study the process of magmatic flow differentiation in ultramafic and mafic sills with thicknesses of 5-2,000 feet. Structures geometrically similar to some of the sills of north Skye and Soay, Scotland; the Leopard rock sills of Laborador trough; and the Palisades, New Jersey, were produced in quasi-scale models. Study of these models yields a more satisfactory explanation for many of the observed features than do other hypotheses. Conditions of magma flow in the presence of a discontinuity or magma floor and formation of sill by the intrusion of fluid between two parallel surfaces were simulated. In models, agglomeration of crystals and shear rotation appeared to produce structures geometrically similar to olivine nodules and mottled plagioclase. From experimentation, the volume concentration of intratelluric crystals in the crystal-melt mush during flow and the velocity-pressure relationship of the flowing melt have been found to be critical in determining the nature of differentiation producing chemical and crystal fractionation in nature. The wall effect and fluid slippage along the walls due to the continuity of flow imposed by the presence of a discontinuity or magma floor are considered significant in producing crystal-free or non-porphyritic margins and inward migration of intratelluric crystals to form central plug of phenocrysts.
30058830|Since Sharpe (1938) classified and denned the various gravitative movements, the term "soil creep" has become an indefinite, all-inclusive term surrounded by confusion as to meaning and the mechanics involved. This paper presents two alternative proposals in an attempt to resolve this current inexactness and concludes that redefinition of the process and increased emphasis upon perceptibility as a basis for classification of mass movements will clarify much of the confusion and inconsistencies concerning soil creep that presently exist.
10.1086/605777|The origin of the latitudinal diversity gradient remains one of the most significant, unresolved challenges in macroecology, yet it has received relatively little attention from paleontologists. A new database of brachiopod genus occurrences in space and time has been used to reconstruct the latitudinal diversity gradient from 530 million years ago to the present day in 10millionyear increments. A latitudinal diversity gradient has persisted continuously through time. Notably, peak diversity did not usually occur at or near the equator but drifted northward through time, beginning in southern midlatitudes in the early Paleozoic Era and culminating in northern midlatitudes today. This pattern remains even after various corrections for sampling bias. The shift in peak diversity closely parallels a concomitant shift in the latitudinal distribution of continental shelf area, suggesting that shelf area has exerted a strong control of firstorder spatial patterns of brachiopod diversity. The steepness of the gradient was controlled by the rise and fall of peak diversity, which was temporally more variable than diversity at higher latitudes. These results demonstrate the continuous presence of a latitudinal diversity gradient of brachiopod genera through most of the Phanerozoic, despite major changes in the global diversity and ecological dominance of the brachiopods.
30061272|Many authors have noted the near absence of oceanic volcanic rocks intermediate in composition between basalt and trachyte and many explanations have been proposed. Examination of the frequency of chemical analyses from oceanic islands clearly demonstrates that island lavas are bimodally distributed with respect to
30059074|The accepted sequence of Pleistocene shore lines southwest of Alexandria, outlined by F. E. Zeuner and Shukri, Philip, and Said, is questioned and considered as misleading on the grounds of insufficient field evidence. Profiles drawn on the basis of the topographic maps employed by these authors show the impossibility of assigning reliable altimetric values to most of the former sea levels responsible for the offshore bar and lagoon topography. That which is actually known about the sequence of sea levels is discussed, the accepted warping or folding of the area is negated, and the occurrence of NW.-SE. fracture zones in the Maryut is proposed. Although there are several submerged shore lines, no evidence points toward a so-called "Epi-Monastirian" level of 0 m.
30078521|Initiation of the Cordilleran magmatic arc in the southwestern United States is marked by intrusion of granitic plutons, predominantly composed of alkalicalcic Fe and Srenriched quartz monzodiorite and monzonite, that intruded Paleoproterozoic basement and its Paleozoic cratonalmiogeoclinal cover. Three intrusive suites, recognized on the basis of differences in high field strength element and large ion lithophile element abundances, contain texturally complex but chronologically distinctive zircons. These zircons record heterogeneous but geochemically discrete mafic crustal magma sources, discrete PermoTriassic intrusion ages, and a prolonged postemplacement thermal history within the longlived Cordilleran arc, leading to episodic loss of radiogenic Pb. Distinctive lower crustal magma sources reflect lateral heterogeneity within the composite lithosphere of the Proterozoic craton. Limited interaction between derived magmas and middle and upper crustal rocks probably reflects the relatively cool thermal structure of the nascent Cordilleran continental margin magmatic arc.
30062082|Semisopochnoi has erupted a tholeiitic suite of moderately evolved lavas (
30059301|Ancient turbidites have mostly been described from flysch sequences. This paper deals with an occurrence of non-flysch turbidites from ancient glacial-lake sediments belonging to the Talchir formation (upper Carboniferous) of the Raniganj coalfield, India. The turbidites occur, punctuating a long sequence of glaciolacustrine shales and siltstones, as sandy inter-beds, usually 40-50 cm. thick, having a graded base (often sole-marked) and laminated top with slump structures and parallel, current-ripple, and convolute laminations. The glaciolacustrine sediments also contain varve-like rhythmites containing current-generated structures like current-ripple laminations and sole marks in the sand laminae. These are also believed to have been deposited by turbidity currents. A number of pebbly mudstones, interbedded with the turbidites and the rhythmites, have been interpreted as deposits made by high-density turbidity currents. Available evidence shows that the oversteepened and overloaded front of an outwash delta built within the glacial lake caused slumps. These in their turn generated turbidity currents, which spread over the lake bottom causing deposition of the turbidites. Petrographic study of the turbidites and the rhythmites shows that these are very fine-grained, moderately to poorly sorted arkosic wackes with unimodal, nearly lognormal grain-size distributions.
30079728|Existing methods of examining the interrelationships among variables (R-mode) and among individual objects (Q-mode) demand measurements on an interval or ratio scale and are frequently not strictly applicable to many geomorphological studies where, for a variety of reasons, lower measuring scales are employed. By contrast, the information- and graph-theory methods use nominal scale data. Their use is illustrated by a discussion based on a 41 (objects) X 12 (variables) matrix relating to the cross-valley moraines of Baffin Island. The variables measure such factors as: moraine shape, location, till fabrics, and clast roundness. The information-theoretic approach generates a measure of distance (D) and computes the amount of shared information between the variables. Unconditional and conditional probability Tables are used to assess the stochastic dependence among states (i.e., small, medium, large) of two variables. Graphtheoretic methods are used to develop a measure of similarity that is then used in a classification of the moraines. The three characters that share most information are: two measures of clast roundness and the dip pattern of till fabric. Two classifications are developed that share considerable information with moraine shape and location within the valley. The study indicates that "hooked" and "asymmetric" moraines are quite different from each other. Since the techniques use nominal data, they should have general applicability in several fields of geology-specifically geomorphology, quaternary geology, and paleontology.
30059979|A rotating current or eddy tends to flow in an ellipse whose proportions are such that the ratio of the length of the minor axis to that of the major axis equals the sine of the latitude and whose axes exactly bisect the cardinal directions, the major axis extending N. 45 W. in the Northern Hemisphere or N. 45 E. in the Southern Hemisphere. This is so because the pressure of gravity resists the gyroscopic tendency of the plane of rotation to remain fixed in space (while the earth rotates) and causes it to precess about an east-west axis, the resultant motion being a rotation about an axis bisecting the cardinal directions at the same rate as the rotation of the earth. The plane tends to stand tilted to the zenith at an angle equal to the latitude but, being liquid, collapses into a horizontal position. The orbit of a drop, which would be circular in the tilted plane, becomes elliptical in the projection, which has the proportions specified. The inclination of the horizon to the axis of the earth determines the orientation of the ellipse. As the elliptical bays of the Carolinas are lake basins having the shape and orientation of an eddy at the same latitude, it seems probable that the lakes were subjected to circulating currents. The currents are ascribed to constant winds that blew during the early Wisconsin ("Iowan") stage, which is known to have been windy, soon after the region emerged from the sea.
30066412|A pressure solution process is proposed for the development of monomineralic folia of sillimanite needles that cross-cut and anastomose around feldspars and biotite in a weakly deformed, granitic pegmatite dike near Centerbrook, Connecticut. The truncation of pegmatitic feldspars by sillimanite folia provides strong evidence that these structures, and thus also the sillimanite, formed in the subsolidus, metamorphic regime. The universally strong preferred orientation of the sillimanite needles, the buckling of some of the folia into tight folds, and the truncation of some strands of sillimanite by others are strong evidence that the sillimanite growth was syntectonic. Textural relations and these high variance assemblages suggest that metasomatic reactions of the type:
30063623|The Chattisgarh Basin of east central India and many unmetamorphosed Proterozoic sedimentary basins of Peninsular India have been considered mostly Neoproterozoic (1000545 Ma) in age. A newly recognized succession of rhyolitic ignimbrite, ash beds, and volcaniclastic sandstones near the top of the 2.2kmthick sedimentary fill of the Chattisgarh Basin is a chronostratigraphic marker. Euhedral igneous zircons from these units give UPb SHRIMP ages of 9901020 Ma, indicating that the basin fill beneath this marker horizon is preNeoproterozoic. On the basis of newly reported zircon ages of
30071179|The Mayes formation consists of those beds of Mississippian age underlain by the Boone (Osagian) and overlain by the Fayetteville (Chesterian) in the outcrops in Mayes County, Oklahoma, and is generally considered to be equivalent in age to the Moorefield and Batesville formations. The name was proposed by L. C. Snider in 1915 and correlated as lower Chester. In 1927, George S. Buchanan applied the name to the dark, argillaceous, silty limestone of the subsurface Mississippian and correlated the lower part at least with the Meramec series. In 1930, Ira H. Cram introduced convincing evidence that the subsurface "Mayes" was a facies of the Boone and was therefore of Osage age. Since that time the name has persisted, as has the confusion and controversy. Much new evidence, by deep drilling in western and northwestern Oklahoma, supports the general opinion of subsurface geologists that the "Mayes" of the subsurface is of Osage age and is not a correlative of the Mayes formation of the outcrop section in northeastern Oklahoma.
30060924|When rocks deform in response to changes in stress, the small variations in pore volume that occur affect the pore fluid pressure. The changes in fluid pressure can be significant if the rate of change of stress is large relative to the rate at which pressure perturbations are dissipated by flow. It has been proposed previously that the gradually increasing loads on sediments undergoing burial can cause excess fluid pressures. We hypothesize that the opposite effect, depression of pore pressure resulting from rebound during erosional unloading, also may occur in certain geologic settings. Simple theoretical treatment of the problem indicates that rocks with small hydraulic diffusivity, such as some shales, could experience significant pore pressure decreases when unloaded by moderate rates of erosion. The analysis further indicates that decreases sufficient to produce negative pressures can occur. No theoretical bar to this condition exists, and it has been achieved in the laboratory. However, in subsurface environments, it is perhaps more likely that degassing of the pore fluid and resulting increase of gas volume, or desaturation, would occur. Thus it appears that a mechanism exists for generating significant underpressuring and unsaturated conditions below the water table in thick sequences of poorly permeable rock. The analysis also shows that in formations with depressed fluid pressures the groundwater flow is inward from the permeable boundaries for long periods of time. These results may be of importance if toxic materials are to be isolated in "tight" rocks.
30062400|Textures produced by the partial recrystallization of aragonite to calcite in the blueschist facies show that heterogeneous, topotactic nucleation is rapid enough to permit growth kinetics to dominate the overall geologic rate of transformation. Both grain boundary velocities, measured microscopically between 375C and 455C, and analysis of topotactic relations predict a growth mechanism involving only small atomic displacements near a highly coherent boundary between the two phases. The kinetic equation of Turnbull for interface-controlled growth, based on that mechanism, accurately describes the experimental results. When calculated rates are integrated over geologically plausible pressure-temperature-time paths for convergent plate margins, even the most extreme values lead to the conclusion that aragonite-bearing rocks enroute to the surface must enter the calcite stability field between 125C and 175C. The widespread occurrence of aragonite along the Pacific margin of North America, and by contrast, its absence in other blueschist terranes, may thus reflect in part very slight differences in temperatures encountered by the rocks during upward transport.
30075239|Sedimentologic analyses, subsidence history interpretation, and a new gravity survey are synthesized to interpret basin evolution in a region of large strikeslip offsets and oblique crustal convergence within the northern Caribbean plate boundary zone. We investigate the midMiocene to midPliocene Yaque Group, which accumulated in the western Cibao basin of northern Hispaniola. Asymmetric subsidence of the Cibao basin was accompanied by southward transgression and deposition of an upwardfining succession from shallowmarine or brackish water conglomerate through subwavebase siltstone to deepwater calcareous siltstone and uncommon interbedded sandstone; bioclastic limestone is locally present and in most cases accumulated in a forereef location. In early Pliocene time (ca. 4 Ma), finegrained sediment deposition was briefly interrupted by widespread conglomerate accumulation; however, basin subsidence was uninterrupted, and water depths continued to increase. At this time, basinal subsidence accelerated as the Cordillera Septentrional was uplifted along the Septentrional fault zone at the basin's northern flank. The acrossstrike gravity profiles require a Svergent thrust component along most of the Septentrional fault zone. Gravity variations indicate that the Septentrional fault zone dips northward (50) in the central part of the basin, adjacent to the Septentrional fault zone, where the basin is deepest, and steepens eastward and westward. Contrasts in sedimentation patterns between the Cibao basin and elsewhere in northern Hispaniola reveal a complex history of dominantly strikeslip faulting modified by varying amounts of convergence.
30069333|This paper includes a discussion of altimetric curves, hypsographic curves, and tabulated data on the relation of topography to bedrock. Interpretation of the curves and other data leads to the following conclusions: (1) Within the limits of weak rocks the Harrisburg peneplain is well developed in the Harrisonburg quadrangle, fairly well developed in the Staunton quadrangle, and poorly developed in the Monterey quadrangle. (2) No peneplain above the Harrisburg is evidenced by the methods here used. Lack of clear evidence of the Schooley and/or other upland peneplains in this region indicates either that (a) they were never developed here or that (b) they have been destroyed by subsequent erosion. (3) Considering the close relation between topography and bedrock and the inevitable truncation of deformed strata by long-continued erosion without peneplanation, the present topography can be satisfactorily explained without recourse to former planation of weak and resistant rock alike.
30059272|Recent potassium-argon age determinations of 48 and 50 m.y. for biotite in rocks of the Lowland Creek Volcanics in southwestern Montana agree with previous K-Ar age of 49 m.y. for biotite of a dike rock correlated with lavas of the upper part of the volcanics. Together, these determinations establish the age of the volcanics as early Eocene rather than late Oligocene, as they had been tentatively designated.
30068646|A geological and geophysical study of the Samoan Passage in the west equatorial Pacific (168-170W; 7-10S) was carried out in 1971, utilizing underway seismic reflection profiles (3.5 kHz and sparker), bottom photographs, bottom current measurements, bottom water temperature profiles, and sediment cores. These data and those of previous expeditions were synthesized in this study of dynamic sedimentation processes. Specific sedimentation processes were found to be associated with surface (12 kHz) and subsurface (3.5 kHz) morphology and composition of the sea floor. (1) Parabolic echo returns, rugged topography, some local conformable subbottom penetration (< 10 m); process- pelagic draping of sediment, infrequent slumping (Passage walls). (2) Highly reflective, smooth topography, no subbottom penetration, manganese nodules on semi-indurated sediment; process- continued fast (20-50 cm/sec) bottom current flow causing erosion or non-deposition (Passage axis). (3) Moderately reflective bottom with up to 20 m of subbottom penetration lying over (2) above, compact unfossiliferous zeolitic and ash-rich clay containing some manganese nodules; process-slow deposition of compact sediment from bottom currents (5-10 cm/sec), the "wind slab effect" (lee portion of Passage and in certain areas north of the Passage). (4) Very weakly reflective bottom with up to 80 m of subbottom penetration, watery abyssal brown clays interbedded with reworked and cross bedded biogenic ooze; process-rapid accumulation of sediment from waning sediment-laden bottom currents (north of Passage). The sedimentary record in and around the Passage indicates that relatively intense current flow through the Passage was initiated at some time between the early Eocene and early Oligocene, and continued through most of the Tertiary. Lithologic data suggest significant periodic fluctuations in corrosive effects of bottom currents during the Quaternary.
30062450|A new fracture model is applied to the problematics of structural development of ring-complexes. This model is derived from the Hertzian fracture theory. According to this concept the quasi-oval pattern of isochromatic bands obtained in glass when pressed by an indenter may be regarded as a visual analogy to the fracture system which develops in the crust when pressed (indented) upward by magma, and passes successively into a zone of horizontal tensional stresses and one of vertical tensional stresses. Common occurrences of fractures and dikes with inward, outward and vertical dips in close proximity, as well as related structural features, may be explained by this model as modified by various indentation and erosion histories. Various field cases are cited: the ring fracture zones of the Valles and Lake City are Hertzian fractures that have not been intruded. At Glen Cand Khibina, oblique indentations and fracture preceded the intrusions. It is postulated that saucer-shaped stratified intrusions are basically a consequence of intrusion into fractures prior to a completion of the indentation process. Nigerian, Irish and other ring-complexes demonstrate that at greater depths cone-fractures have lower dips and gradually approach a vertical trend at shallow depths, as expected from the Hertzian quasi-oval fracture model. A distinction is made between primary and secondary fractures.
30068834|The spatial relations between outliers of Huronian metasediment and the current outline of the Sudbury Igneous Complex (SIC) have been used previously to constrain the original size of the meteorite impact crater, despite uncertainty regarding their structure and origin. The outliers are tight to isoclinal, gently plunging synclines with northeastsouthwesttrending axes, slightly overturned to the northwest. Major deformation of the Huronian Supergroup preceded the 1849Ma Sudbury meteorite impact event by sufficient time to permit peneplanation of the region. Impact occurred in a foredeep related to the subduction of the Laurentia plate under the Wisconson Magmatic Terranes. Faults truncate the northwest margins of most of the outliers. Where examined, at several localities, the northwest marginbounding faults are invariably occupied by pseudotachylite. Structural considerations provide evidence for thousands of meters of slip along these surfaces, each of which was apparently accomplished in a single event, providing strong support for the contention that motion along these faults coincided with the collapse of the transient cavity after bolide impact to form the Sudbury Structure. The outliers, thus, owe their overall forms to preimpact folding long before the Penokean Orogeny. They owe their continued existence to largescale normal fault motions related to collapse of the transient cavity during the Sudbury impact event. The current mapscale structural relations between the outliers and the outcrop area of the Sudbury Igneous Complex are largely due to the deep exhumation of a series of regional open folds that were formed during postimpact deformation, possibly at the termination of the Penokean Orogeny ca. 1840 Ma or during a later event ca. 1450 Ma.
30080904|Examples of boudinage and pinch-and-swell structures are described and the mechanisms of formation discussed. One-dimensional plastic compression and compensating one- or two-dimensional expansion of layered cakes of putty, plasticene, and cheese result in structures strikingly similar to the natural boudinage and pinch-and-swell structure. Studies of boudinage and related structures give information about relative plasticity and relative strength of rocks. The commonness of boudinage structures in gneiss-crystalline schist regions shows that one-dimensional compression and compensating elongation in other dimensions is a very common mode of deforming crystalline rocks. The tension which this kind of plastic flowage creates in competent rock layers not only produces boudinage, or pinch-and-swell structure, but is also important in localizing the growth of minerals during metasomatism. Mathematical analysis of the boudinage evolution shows that field measurements combined with data for tensile strength of rocks and their viscosity are sufficient to estimate pressure gradients and rate of flowage connected with the formation of boudins.
30061123|Optical and X-ray studies of large, clear flakes of synthetic fluorophlogopite reveal that approximately 29 per cent are not single crystals as has been previously assumed. Instead these are composed of two or more 1M polymorphs that possess a common (001) direction but are twinned about the [310] axis or, much more rarely, about [110]. The composition surface is irregular, and the boundary between twinned individual crystals of successive splittings generally cannot be superposed. Layers of the 3T polymorph are infrequently present either interleaved between layers of the much more abundant 1M type or sometimes, in single cleavage flakes, as islands surrounded by the 1M type. The direction of layer stagger probably varies even within a single phlogopite layer. Variations of 60 or 180 in this direction are attributed to irregularities in the location of the magnesium ions. The far more frequently observed variations of 120 in the layer-stagger direction for phlogopite are the result of irregularities in the location of the fluoride (or hydroxyl) ions.
30061086|The Itsaq Gneiss Complex of the Nuuk region, southern West Greenland, is dominated by 38503690 Ma tonalites intruded into and intercalated with lesser amounts of different 38503700 Ma supracrustal units. Published wholerock Sr and Nd isotopic studies demonstrate that the tonalites are juvenile crustal additions from a depleted mantle source. From our field studies and SHRIMP U/Pb zircon dating, we argue that this juvenile crustal accretion was spread over ca. 170 m.yr. (38503690 Ma). Following 38503690 Ma juvenile crustal accretion events, the evolution of the Itsaq Gneiss Complex continued with numerous crustalreworking events between 3670 and 3500 Ma. Examples of these reworking events are as follows: (1) there is intrusion of several generations of geochemically diverse granites (sensu stricto) with subordinate gabbros and diorites; (2) there are superimposed, multiple episodes of amphibolite to granulite facies metamorphism (illustrated with Akilia Island samples by detailed dating of metamorphic zircon overgrowths in several rocks); (3) part of the complex around Amiitsoq and the hills to the north contains the youngest tonalitic gneisses at ca. 3660 Ma, indistinguishable in age from the oldest recognized granites (sensu stricto) elsewhere; and (4) the hills north of Amiitsoq also contain tectonized remnants of volcanosedimentary basins that were still being filled between 3650 and 3600 Ma (from dating youngest detrital zircons) and that had been inverted and metamorphosed by ca. 3570 Ma (dating of oldest in situ metamorphic overgrowths). These 36703500 Ma events are interpreted as reflecting a complex orogen (tentatively collisional and/or strike slip) superimposed on the products of the earlier (38503690 Ma) juvenile crustal accretion regimes. Implications for early crustal evolution studies are discussed.
30061314|"Sudburite" is the name applied to a rock composed essentially of plagioclase and pyroxene, with hornfels texture, occurring in proximity to the nickel intrusive near Sud-bury, Ontario. Evidence is given to show that it is due to the recrystallization of greenstone and other rocks, older than the nickel intrusive, and that the instrusive was the cause of its formation.
30058750|Potholes produced by fluviatile abrasion, subaerial solution pits, both subaerial and marine flat-bottomed pans produced by possibly several processes, and marine potholes-all occur in Hawaii. Each is found in a certain typical combination of variety of rock and physical and chemical condition. In some places two or more of these sorts of depression are found together or there is indication of transition from one to another. In their character and their occurrence these potholes, pits, and pans illustrate the principle that a locally dominant process may, with change of either place or time, lose its dominance by transition from a favorable to an unfavorable type of rock, by weakening of a part or all of the physicochemical factors under which it operates, by being overmatched by some other locally dominant process, or, more commonly, by some combination of these occurrences. This is true despite the fact that under present knowledge we cannot always accurately or even approximately predict the result of a new combination of factors and rocks.
30069382|Les vnements qui, vers la fin du Tertiaire et au Quaternaire, se sont drouls dans la rgion d'Adlaide ont laiss leurs traces dans des dpts alluviaux parmi lesquels sont venues s'intercaler, ci et l, des couches d'origine soit olienne soit marine. Les sdiments se trouvent dans des fosses d'effondrement mais, dans la plupart des cas, ils se sont accumuls aprs que les dformations tectoniques se sont produites. Les dpts ont commenc  se former  la suite d'un important relvement eustatique du niveau de la mer qui, avant mme la fin du Pliocne, a atteint + 180 mtres; ces dpts ont ensuite subi l'influence d'une srie d'oscillations glacio-eustatiques du niveau de la mer, le premier mouvement positif atteignant une valeur de + 110 mtres. Ces donnes permettent la mise au point d'une courbe eustatique dj publie. Quatre grandes regressions marines sont reconnues et sont mises en corrlation avec les quatre grandes glaciations de l'hmisphre boral. Les changements de climat qui ont accompagn les variations du niveau de la mer pendant le Quaternaire rcent sont indiqus par la rpartition et les caractristiques des sdiments contemporains. L'aridit gnrate qui a rgn pendant la dernire priode interglaciale a t interrompue  plusieurs reprises par des pousses de temps orageux tandis qu'un climat plutt doux et humide a prsid  la dernire glaciation. Il est considr comme admis que des vents d'une certaine violence ont domin la transgression flandrienne. /// Late Tertiary and Quaternary events in the Adelaide area are recorded by an alluvial sequence, locally with intercalated marine and eolian beds. The sediments occur in fault-angle depressions but are essentially postdeformational. Deposition began with a major eustatic rise of sea level which reached 600 ft. before the close of the Pliocene, and was controlled during the Pleistocene by a series of glacio-eustatic oscillations of sea level, the earliest positive movement attaining a level of 370 ft. The data permit revision of a published eustatic curve. Four major regressions of the sea are identified and correlated with the four major glaciations of the northern hemisphere. Late Quaternary climatic changes which accompanied the changes in sea level are indicated by the distribution and character of the contemporary sediments. Periods of storminess interrupted the generally arid conditions of the last interglacial, and mild humid conditions prevailed at the time of the last glaciation. Increased wind velocities at the time of the Flandrian transgression are postulated.
30065524|Coesite eclogites and diamondbearing ultrahighpressure (UHP) metamorphic rocks along ancient plate boundaries were mostly derived from quartz and carbonatebearing rocks originally formed close to the earths surface. Their mineral assemblages and
30060275|The Fossmill and the North Bay drainages and the resulting Petawawa and Mattawa deltas correlate the late Wendat Lakes in the Huron basin with the early Champlain Sea in the Ottawa lowland. The large drainages are now regarded as the cause of the erosion surfaces and of the sands which occur between beds of stiff glacial Yoldia-bearing Champlain Sea clays in the Pembroke-Ottawa region. These correlations-Iroquois deltas deposited by a drainage of Lake Algonquin, Algonquin beaches in the northern Michigan basin postdating the Valders glacial maximum at Milwaukee-these and other facts and features prove that several Wendat and Algonquin lake stages intervened between the Champlain Sea and the Valders maximum, and they refute radiocarbon-based conclusions that the early Champlain Sea was contemporaneous with the Valders maximum and the Two Creeks stage, and that Lake Iroquois was of Mankato age. Since the radiocarbon age of 10,850 years of sample Y-216 from Uplands south of Ottawa is compatible with the known forest history and may be almost, though not entirely, correct, the main source of the controversy is the C14 age of 11,200 years of the Two Creeks bed. To test inferred
30056599|Late Tertiary basaltic flows in southeastern Oregon show locally a surface depletion and a basal concentration of olivine above a chilled basal zone containing scattered phenocrysts of that mineral. Field and laboratory evidence indicates that the mafic grains gradually accumulated in a manner somewhat analogous to the deposition of sand at the delta of a river.
30059196|Isotopic temperatures determined from Oligocene and Miocene sections of Atlantic deep-sea cores indicate rather uniform temperatures. Periodic temperature changes similar to those of the Pleistocene did not occur during the Tertiary, apparently because of the unfavorable topographic pattern. Temperatures of an Oligocene core are similar to the modern ones in the area where it was raised, but temperatures of two Miocene cores are lower. This suggests, for the latter, less importance of the Florida current than at present, and polar displacement.
30068286|The structures in the Berea sandstone and the Bedford shale described in the past as "concretionary" or "disturbed" layers are shown to result from contemporaneous mass movements on the free surface of deposition. The top of the disturbed rock was generally truncated by erosion before the overlying undisturbed beds were laid down. Lateral movements are evident in many instances and at many levels in the formations. These movements and others in which lateral movement is not readily apparent are interpreted as surface flows and slides. The causes of subaqueous flows are reviewed in an attempt to find the reason for the flows. The conclusion is reached that they may have started spontaneously in the soft sediment as it accumulated under the conditions which obtained. Important causes of such flows include an increasing weight of sediment, a slight surface slope, and occasional beds or seams of clay which flowed readily and also acted as a lubricant between sand layers, permitting them to slide past one another.
30056999|A strange pipe-like mass of black shale and limestone in dolomite is exposed on U.S. Route II about 4 miles south of Lexington, Virginia. This mass is probably a tectonic intrusion caused by intense folding.
30080887|The stream valleys of the Driftless Area in southwestern Wisconsin show a marked coincidence in their strike with the known jointing pattern of the area. This is true for the valleys of small, unbranched, first-order streams as well as larger valleys, including the valleys having incised meanders. It is inferred that joints play an important role in valley development. Asymmetry of valleys is marked in the area. It varies in nature and origin. Some is due to the development of ingrown meanders along a meandering valley, some is due perhaps to bedrock structure, and some to differing exposure. In the last instance, north-facing slopes are steeper than south-facing slopes.
30065683|In this paper an attempt is made to examine the foundations of the concept of geologic time. The temporal ordering of geologic events is based upon generalizations or laws which point to causal relations among classes of events. The measurement of geologic time entails serious theoretical and practical problems related to the fact that it is difficult to demonstrate that estimates of duration based upon successions of geologic events are in accord with estimates based upon standard physical clocks. Correlation is regarded as an attempt to extend the temporal ordering of events beyond the local section by means of causal chains or signals. It is not possible to confirm hypotheses regarding the simultaneity of geologic events because confirmation depends upon knowledge of the velocity of a particular signal, knowledge which, it is held, cannot be obtained. It is proposed that intervals of geologic time be defined by sets of events closed at one end.
30065703|This paper provides a simple method to analyze orientation density diagrams. Angular and density distributions of a given set of directional data about the "principal preferred orientation axes" are studied regardless of any theoretical distribution law assumptions. These axes are defined and computed as the nearest ("best axis") and the farthest possible ("pole to the best plane") from the data-vector set; the distribution is studied by computing the radii of nested annuli, each containing 5% data-vectors; illustration is provided by automatically prepared angular deviation histograms. The method applies to simple preferred orientation patterns and to some of their combinations; these seem to cover most geological cases. The three elementary patterns are presented: point-maximum, girdle-maximum, and cone-maximum. Typical geological examples demonstrate how this method can help in solving structural geology problems, such as determining the sense and the angle of shearing in rocks deformed by plastic flow, and defining fold axes by various means.
30080787|The purpose of this paper is to describe and attempt to explain the structure and origin of a large occurrence of anorthosite in Los Angeles County, California. Several theories of the origin of anorthosite advocated by petrologists are considered in their application to the occurrence, and comparisons are made with anorthosites of other regions.
30060921|Present-day hurricane belts are confined to 5-45 latitude along the western edges of oceans, whereas winter storms occur ubiquitously above 25 latitude. Both hurricanes and winter storms occur between 25 and 45 latitude in some areas. Storm zones can be identified on global paleogeographic maps with the assumption that this latitudinal zonation of storm systems existed in the geological past. Evaluation of 69 previously-recognized Paleozoic and Mesozoic storm depositional systems on such maps showed that only 70% of them occur in ancient hurricane, mixed hurricane and winter storm, and winter storm belts. The remainder occur on the western sides of continents and/or at low paleolatitudes, and therefore well may be of different origin. Mesozoic storm depositional systems containing hummocky stratification tend to occur in counterpart paleo-winter storm belts, whereas hummocky stratification in suggested Paleozoic examples occur in both winter storm and hurricane belts and in paleolatitudes where we infer storm activity did not occur.
30063920|The phase relationships of four specimens from the Farrington Complex ranging in composition from granite to tonalite, and of four specimens from the Star Mountain Rhyolite, have been determined in the presence of 15-20 weight per cent
30056204|Differences between the polymorphs of MgSiO3 consist essentially of different ways of stacking slabs of
30061944|The active portion of the Portuguese Bend landslide complex is approximately 3 km2 in area and 30-50 m thick. Measured displacement rates range from less than 1 to greater than 30 mm/day on different parts of the landslide, with total displacements over the last 30 yrs ranging from about 10 to greater than 150 m. Six types of breccia, each locally with a foliated matrix, were recognized in the active landslide complex and are absent outside the landslide complex. Slide-body breccias are of two types, the first formed by extensional fracturing during bulk "pure shear" at the top of the landslide (slide-top breccia) and the second by flow of tuffaceous shales and fracture of embedded siliceous shales during simple shear deep in the landslide to the basal decollement (slide-bottom breccias). Slide-margin breccias, also in simple shear, are produced on the lateral margins of individual slide blocks accompanying wrench-fault motion. Other breccias (fault-ramp breccias) are formed during motion over ramps. Colluvial deposits within tension gashes (crack-fill breccias) and at the toe of the slide (slide-toe breccias) represent a fifth breccia type. Diapirs originating from over-pressured zones at the slide base also contain breccia. Recognition of different breccia types in ancient rocks would be difficult, because fabrics in the different types are similar. Foliations are defined by: scaly cleavage, compositional banding and color banding (in shear zones), stretched mud clasts, and aligned hard grains. Foliated breccias are synonymous with melanges. We regard the six breccia types described herein as representing the principal types of melange that occur in ancient accretionary settings. Furthermore, we argue that previous classification of melanges into "olistostromal" and "tectonic" types is artificial, because the Portuguese Bend landslide is clearly an olistostrome type that is currently producing structures indistinguishable from those produced tectonically.
30066415|The Middle Eocene to Lower Miocene Setogawa Group consists of pelagic, hemipelagic, and terrigenous sediments with volcanic intercalations. The sediments were deposited in and below the lower bathyal zone. The Setogawa Group is a wedge-shaped volcano-sedimentary pile, deformed by reverse faults and asymmetric folds at the landward edge, and constitutes a subduction complex. The reverse faulting and asymmetric folding took place abruptly, accompanied by tilting, uplifting, and gravity sliding of strata, and dewatering and consolidation of sediments. This was followed by the Lower Miocene Mikasa group, which consists of (in ascending order) debris flow deposits, terrigenous, and volcano-terrigenous sediments. The basal debris-flow deposits were mostly derived from the upper part of the Setogawa Group. They buried the structural depressions formed by the reverse faulting and asymmetric folding and eroded the underlying strata over the short timespan included in the Stichocorys delmontensis Zone. The Mikasa Group sediments were deposited in the middle bathyal zone. They were involved in normal faulting and open-to-gentle folding.
30078509|Mesoproterozoic metamorphic rocks exposed in the Llano Uplift, central Texas, were involved in a 1.151.12 Ga Grenvilleage collisional orogenic event along the southern margin of Laurentia. This event is characterized by polyphase ductile deformation synchronous with transitional amphibolite, granulite to eclogitefacies metamorphism. Results of detailed structural mapping in the southeastern part of the Llano Uplift show that these rocks record a deformational history involving northeastdirected ductile thrusting and regionalscale polyphase folding, all related to northward collision of a southern continent and an arc with the southern margin of Laurentia. We use the structural, metamorphic, and kinematic history of the southeastern Llano uplift to critically evaluate collisional models for the Grenville orogen in Laurentia and discuss the implications for reconstructions of Rodinia.
30057398|The Citronelle formation of the eastern Gulf Coast region extends northward across the coastal plains of Georgia, South Carolina, North Carolina, and Virginia as a gravelly sand formation 100 feet thick, covering 30,000 square miles of upland area. These deposits were shown on early geological maps as the "Lafayette" or "Altamaha" formation, of Late Pliocene or Early Pleistocene age. In more recent geological reports the deposits have been ignored or included in the underlying Tertiary and Cretaceous formations; miscorrelations at state boundaries are involved in these later interpretations. Determinations of "older than (Nebraskan) Pleistocene" made on plant fossils found in the surface Citronelle in Alabama and the presence of Calabrian index fossils, the cold-water Foraminifera, Hyalinea balthica, and Globigerina inflata, in the subsurface Citronelle in southern Louisiana, indicate an Early Pleistocene (preglacial) age for the formation. Deposition of the formation in the Atlantic Coast region occurred on a peneplain developed during a technically quiet time in the Late Miocene and Pliocene and was caused by the first of a series of uplifting and warping movements which affected the coastal and adjacent mountain regions. These movements, which separate the present cycle of erosion and deposition from the preceding period of peneplanation, provide a sounder geological basis for the division of the Tertiary and Quaternary periods than does the post-Citronelle initiation of Pleistocene glacial climate.
30080835|The erosion surfaces of eastern Pennsylvania and adjacent areas are analyzed, and a correlation with the erosion surfaces of western Pennsylvania, eastern Ohio, eastern Kentucky, and southern New York is proposed. Three erosion surfaces and an extensive strath are found in both the eastern and the western areas. The Upland surface, common to both regions, is the only true peneplain. The younger erosion surfaces and the straths are correlated by their position below the Upland surface. The age of the surfaces is considered.
30058994|The rare earth content of alkali-rich, silica-undersaturated basalts erupted onto oceanic and continental plates is consistent with their derivation by slight amounts of partial melting of hydrous garnet peridotite at the top of the asthenosphere, within the low-velocity, low-Q zone of the mantle. The rare earths are fractionated during partial melting by retention of heavy rare earths relative to light rare earths in garnet and clinopyroxene in the mantle residue. We conclude from a melting model that the amount of melting of hydrous peridotite at the top of the asthenosphere and its clinopyroxene-garnet ratio increase with decreasing thickness of the overlying dry lithospheric plate. Thus, potassic basalts derived by 0.5% melting of peridotite with a clinopyroxene-garnet ratio of 0.3 come from deeper than nephelinites (1% melting, ratio of 1), and alkali basalts (2% melting, ratio of 5). Convection within the partly molten asthenosphere establishes an adiabatic geothermal gradient and localizes renewable magma sources into updwelling plumes, or hot spots, that remain relatively stationary with respect to the overlying lithospheric plates. Unlike the source regions of midoceanic ridge tholeiite basalts, the peridotite source regions of the alkali-rich basalts do not appear to have been previously depleted in large cations (Ba, Rb, light rare earths) and generally have more radiogenic Sr and Pb. If the peridotite source regions of the alkali-rich basalts have chondritic proportions of the rare earths, the partial melting model indicates two to five times chondritic abundance of the rare earths in the peridotite.
30062579|An attempt has been made to collect information covering all doctorates in geology granted by American universities during the decade 1931-40. Tables have been prepared to present facts obtained.
30079731|Acid volcanic or hypabyssal rocks from the Bertrab and the Littlewood Nunataks in Coats Land have been dated by the whole-rock Rb-Sr method. Five specimens from the Bertrab Nunatak define an isochron indicating an age of
30068677|Samples of 26 successive lavas from the high composite volcano of Santa Mara in southwestern Guatemala, demonstrate variations in magnetic declination and inclination which can be roughly-correlated with similar data from cores in the Gulf of Mexico and lake sediments near Tlapacoya, Mexico, and suggest that Santa Mara's constructive history goes back to approximately 30,000 years B.P. The basaltic andesites and associated pyroclastics, which make up this volcanic succession and comprise the latter 40% of the volcano's eruptive output, show systematic increases in
30057000|This paper describes primary current lineation of fluvial sandstones, a type of structure thought to be produced through the streaming of sand grains under the influence of shallow, smoothly flowing water. Field occurrence, validity, and use of the feature are briefly discussed.
30068797|Although sedimentary hiati of variable magnitude are abundant in most stratigraphic sections, quantification of the degree of completeness for individual sections has proven difficult. A new method of estimating stratigraphic completeness is developed for sections that preserve a detrital remanent magnetic reversal history. Because the timing of geomagnetic reversals is independent of sedimentation events, the distribution of reversals in a stratigraphic section can be used to evaluate completeness. The most direct method, in which sections are sampled at the top and base of each stratigraphic unit, evaluates the frequency of reversals within units versus at unit contacts. The more complete a section, the greater the probability that reversals occurred during depositional events and are recorded as within-unit reversals; the less complete a section, the greater the probability that reversals occurred during depositional hiati and are recorded as unit-contact reversals. Monte Carlo simulations suggest that, under favorable conditions, completeness estimates fall within
30063048|Some experiments-the first of a proposed series-were made to study the crystallization of calcium carbonate. Attention thus far has been directed mainly to the precipitation of calcium carbonate. It has been learned that agitation and aeration are mainly important in bringing about precipitation, and it is thought that circulation is a prominent factor in crystallization.
30080170|Evidence was found of four glacial advances in the Michigan River Basin in the southeastern corner of North Park, Colorado. The earliest of these advances (Owl Mountain) is considered to be pre-Wisconsin, probably Illinoian. The three later glacial advances-named Gould, Silver Creek, and American Lakes, respectively-likely represent substages of the Wisconsin. A still later period of more rigorous climate is evidenced by cirque moraines, protalus ramparts, and rock streams found at the head of several of the tributary valleys, some of which were occupied by ice during the American Lakes glaciation. Two terraces, 35-50 feet and 20-25 feet above the Michigan River, can be directly correlated with the Gould and Silver Creek moraines. A still lower indistinct terrace may have been deposited during the American Lakes advance. No terrace can be definitely correlated with the deposits of till of Owl Mountain age.
30057883|In the Coast Range 40 miles southeast of San Francisco, California, are north-northwesterly dominant faults, west-northwesterly branch faults, and northwesterly folds. Faults and folds independently prove that the axis of greatest total shortening has the bearing N. 42 E. Since Miocene times the southwestern block of the Sunol fault (dominant) has moved 12 miles northwesterly with respect to the northeastern block. Folding has occurred since the fault pattern was established. Dragged structures along dominant faults, local variations in axes of greatest total shortening, and reversed motion on branch faults in the southwest prove deformation under rotational stress by northerly and southerly forces.
30065794|Surficial and partial melts of Tertiary sandstones overthrust by a nappe adjacent to the Alpine Fault have crystallised several high-temperature minerals, presumably derived from combustion metamorphism. Mineral assemblages include clinoenstatite (
30081016|The Ajjaj shear zone of the Njad fault system of northwestern Saudi Arabia was a conduit for Pan-African (500-700 m.y.) calc-alkalic and peralkalic magmas. Ductility contrasts between the wall rocks and the deformed rocks of the shear zone were responsible for differences in size, intrusion mechanism, and degree of deformation of the granites. A quantitative strain analysis across the Ajjaj shear zone reveals a finite oblique strike-slip displacement of
30079651|Marine fossil assemblages in the Californian Pleistocene frequently contain mixtures of species that have lived in separate biotopes. From 225 assemblages, selected molluscan species that are bonded by significant numbers of mutual occurrences, as defined by
30080950|A 200-meter long section in a Carboniferous limestone-shale sequence was measured and for each 20-cm. interval a limestone percentage was calculated. Methods of statistical time-series analysis were used to investigate the data. A persistent oscillation of approximately 300 cm. was found, superimposed on a long-range trend. A high-order auto-correlation is present in the sequence of data, and various mechanisms are discussed which could have generated the oscillation. The analysis makes it likely that the environmental changes which led to the sediment variation have been strictly cyclical in time. Periodic variations in the earth's orbit could be suggested as the ultimate cause of the oscillation. The trend variation can be described by a stochastic process of a moving average. Linked random disturbances such as irregular tectonic uplifts could be responsible for this type of change.
30060100|Lunar breccia 15445, collected near the rim of Spur Crater, contains iron-rich olivine and ortho-pyroxene mineral clasts and two types of white lithic clasts. The dominant type (Type A) is composed principally of anorthite - magnesian orthopyroxene and appears to be a low-pressure cumulate from a magnesian, high-Al basalt. A minor type (Type B) is composed of olivine + chrome pleonaste + aluminous orthopyroxene + minor plagioclase. Type B clasts have affinities to terrestrial spinel peridotites and have a REE pattern unique for the moon. Considerations of the observed mineralogy and the trace element geochemistry suggest that garnet was originally a phase in this peridotite but was subsequently lost during subsolidus reequilibration. Hence, Type B clasts provide indirect evidence for the existence of garnet in the lunar interior.
30062182|Cyclic stratigraphic sequences in shallow marine records are commonly characterized by a condensed transgressive lag at the base of thicker, shallowing-upward facies. The standard actualistic model for these thin fossiliferous lags, by which most of the shelf is starved owing to coastal trapping of sediment and fossils are suspected of being reworked because of the association with an erosional ravinement, is contradicted by detailed stratigraphic and taphonomic analysis of Miocene examples in the Maryland coastal plain. The four major shell deposits in the Miocene record are condensed (i.e., demonstrably thin relative to coeval strata), transgressive records of intertidal to subtidal environments (to storm wavebase) and are composed of shells produced locally as transgression proceeded. The complex internal stratigraphies of the shell deposits and the mixture of soft- and shell-bottom faunas indicate condensation under a regime of dynamic bypassing rather than complete sediment starvation; bypassed fine sediments accumulated in deeper water environments below storm wavebase. Deeper, even more basinward parts of the shelf were starved of all sediment size fractions and accumulated shell-poor, bone-rich condensed deposits that lie mid-cycle (bracketing the time of maximum water depth). The base-of-cycle shell deposits and mid-cycle bone bed differ not only in composition and in environment and dynamics of condensation, but also in chronostratigraphic value: the onlapping shell deposits must be diachronous to some degree, whereas the mid-cycle bone bed approximates an isochronous marker for correlation. Thus, in some settings at least, transgressive shelves present a spatial mosaic of condensational and depositional regimes. Regardless of origin, all condensed intervals can time-average assemblages and telescope biostratigraphic datums. They otherwise differ widely, however, in paleontologic attributes and are characterized by highly variable and complex stratigraphic anatomies.
30059230|A thick sequence of quartz latitic volcanic rocks of late Oligocene age crops out in the region north and west of Butte, Montana. The formation, here named Lowland Creek volcanics, comprises six major units whose aggregate thickness is nearly 6,000 feet, and whose areal extent is more than 600 square miles. During the earliest phase of volcanism a mixture of tuff and detritus from older rocks accumulated on the lower parts of an erosion surface having a relief generally of 1,000 to 1,500 feet, but locally of 3,000 or 4,000 feet. Rocks of this basal unit were slightly tilted and eroded before the extrusion of a thick sequence of ash flows, most of which are now sheets of welded tuff. These eruptions were followed by block faulting and tilting, and subsequent erosion produced a surface of moderate relief upon which a breccia unit accumulated. The basal part of the breccia unit commonly consists of moderately well-sorted sandstone and granule conglomerate, which grades upward into breccias that contain boulders and blocks of quartz monzonite and other pre-Tertiary rocks, and rocks of the welded tuff unit. Higher up, instead of these, the breccia contains blocks of porphyritic quartz latite as much as 20 feet in diameter. Some of the breccia is probably vent agglomerate. Block faulting recurred during deposition of these coarse deposits. The breccia unit and older rocks are overlain by two unconformable successions of quartz latite lava, locally separated by a perlitic crystal-rich quartz latite vitrophyre. Many small intrusive bodies, and a few large ones, were emplaced after and perhaps during the extrusion of the lower lava unit. These intrusives, and the lavas which they cut, were eroded before the eruption of the vitrophyre and the lavas of the upper unit. In some places, the lavas of the upper unit are unconformably overlain by rhyolite of a still younger unnamed volcanic formation.
30066215|Electron microprobe analyses of glass shards from 31 volcanic ash layers in three cores from the Fiji Plateau, southwest Pacific, indicate that half of the layers have an
30064717|Glaciers produce boulder trains, ore trails, and element fans when they override ore bodies or distinctive lithologies. Their utilization as two-dimensional map features has promoted the erroneous perception that maximum concentration of ore in till should be immediately above the ore body. Available studies of lithic, mineral, radioactive, element, and magnetic distributions in till, away from known sources, indicate that these are frequently three-dimensional configurations, with shapes resembling smoke plumes drifting laterally. The significance for surficial prospecting is that the measured maximum ore concentration may be thus some distance from the ore body (frequently 1-10 km) and only at depth it extends back to the bedrock source. Literature review shows that such maximum surficial concentrations, well away from sources, have been considered anomalies. In areas with thin or truncated tills or a high relief bedrock surface, the plume may approximate a two-dimensional fan or become irregular. The enigmatic "K" values of eskers may simply reflect the mix acquired when subglacial streams traverse the surfaces of existing plumes in till. Mechanisms which may contribute to evolution of ore plumes are directional dissociation and stacking of shear planes, possibly controlled by cycles of erosion and deposition. However, plumes with a well developed surface expression may have required the special condition that subglacial erosion continue at the ore source while till deposition prevailed in the surrounding area.
10.1086/675667|A Triassic granodioritic pluton with mafic microgranular enclaves (MMEs) in central South China provides an important insight into crust-mantle interaction. Here we present a comprehensive study of fieldwork, geochronology, geochemistry, and Sr-Nd-Hf isotopes for the Taojiang granodioritic host and the MMEs in central South China. The host granodiorites (218  3 Ma) are high-K calc-alkaline I-type granites (SiO
30065696|Three models that specify allowable branching events during the growth of stream channel networks through time are introduced. These models identify the possible topologie "growth paths" that may be followed as a network grows from a single link to one of magnitude n. The probability of occurrence of channel networks is calculated for magnitudes 2 to 6. One model has probabilities identical with those for Shreve's model of topologically random channel networks. The three models are compared with published data on 12 topologic studies of stream networks of magnitudes 4 to 6. The model with Shreve's probabilities fits 7 of the 12 data sets, a second model also fits 7 of them, and the third model does not fit any. Only one data set is not fit by at least one model. The results suggest that network growth by branching of exterior links alone is not adequate for development of the topologie diversity observed in natural stream channel networks. This conclusion conflicts with the prevalent view of contemporary geomorphology that headword growth is more rapid than sideward growth in dendritic drainage basins of small magnitude.
30070722|Diagrams of superior quality may be produced speedily and at low cost by the use of Ben Day screens, multitone papers, transfer patterns, and set type. Descriptions of these manufactured aids, of their uses and limitations, are here outlined.
30068674|Tullis and Tulls (1972) demonstrated that mechanical Dauphin twinning forms in response to differences in elastic strain energy and predicted that these twins should be very common in deformed rocks. Dauphin twinning, which is undetectable in thin section, is found to be a prominent feature in a quartzite mylonite from the Moine thrust zone of Northwest Scotland. The presence of Dauphin twinning is demonstrated statistically by scanning the orientation distribution function (ODF) determined by Riekels and Baker (1977) to obtain the differences in orientation density between twin pairs and matching the resulting difference diagram with a calculated diagram for the difference in elastic strain energy between twin pairs. The principal strain axes, obtained by matching these two difference diagrams, are orthogonal with the foliation and lineation. The moderate monoclinic symmetry of pole figures observed by Riekels and Baker (1977) must be due to deformation mechanisms other than Dauphin twinning. The orientations of observed twinning are not consistent with sub-horizontal compressive stresses associated with thrusting. The observed relationships are interpreted as showing that in highly deformed rocks Dauphin twinning patterns correlate with the total strain rather than stress and that the observed twinning pattern is consistent with heterogeneous simple shear as the mode of flow. Pole figures derived from the strain energy difference diagram support this interpretation.
30066414|In the Scandinavian Caledonides, eugeoclinal terranes represented in the Kli Nappes were thrust >500 km onto the Baltoscandian platform during the early to middle Paleozoic. Immediately underlying thrust sheets of the Seve Nappe complex are suspected to have been derived from the outer margin of continent Baltica. Contrasting tectonothermal histories are recorded in Seve and Kli Nappes exposed in the Gd-dede area, northern Jmtland County, Sweden. Eclogite-bearing Seve rocks underwent an initial amphibolite-grade regional metamorphism (SMI) with different structural units experiencing contrasting high-to intermediate-pressure conditions. Subsequent ductile imbrication (SM2) of high-and intermediate-pressure structural units occurred prior to 460-470 Ma cooling through temperatures required for intracrystalline retention of argon in hornblende. A later thermal overprint (SM3) everywhere rejuvenated Seve biotite and muscovite (and locally hornblende) argon systems at
30080122|The effect of temperature on skeletal carbonate mineralogy is investigated. The mineralogical determinations are based on X-ray analyses. Organisms marked by a large increase in aragonite over calcite with increases in temperature are more widely distributed than previously reported and are linked by a series of stages to those groups which Jack signs of mineralogic responses. Primary attention is given to trends at the genus and species level, where a temperature effect can be discovered. Growth series from local populations are shown to exhibit seasonal variations Evidence for species-determined control is presented, and types are pointed out. The possibility of a "salinity effect" in waters of low salinity is suggested to explain certain deviations. The aragonite-calcite ratios of a number of the Bermuda pelecypods are correlated with mean temperatures determined from isotopic analyses. Consideration is given to the mode of life of species in which temperature affected skeletal mineralogy. Some taxonomic questions and animal geographic implications are discussed. The volume relations of biochemically secreted aragonite in toto as a function of climatic distribution are considered in conjunction with strontium-calcium ratios of ten sea-water samples analyzed, and some paleoecologic implications are considered.
30071149|We present new geochronologic (magnetostratigraphy, fissiontrack and
30080016|A coherent granulite complex has been discovered in the central part of the Korean Peninsula, formerly regarded as the eastern Imjingang belt. This granulite complex (Hwacheon granulite complex [HGC]) experienced two cycles of tectonometamorphic events. The first event corresponded to crustal thickening, followed by peak granulitefacies metamorphism and associated partial melting. The quasiisobaric cooling path, suggested by the occurrences of secondary garnet mantling orthopyroxene and secondary kyanite in mafic and pelitic granulites, respectively, indicates substantial residence time at midcrustal levels prior to exhumation of the HGC. The timing of peak metamorphism was dated from the unzoned overgrowth rims on zircons in a migmatitic granulite at
30057396|Stepped erosion surfaces are a widespread feature in Australia (as in other parts of the world) and suggest a phased lowering of relative sea level without deformation of the land during the later Cenozoic. A hypothesis is put forward that the stepped erosion surfaces are ultimately caused by continental "shift'' induced by deep convection currents. New ocean capacity is created in the "oceanogenic" zone, while a smaller ocean capacity is lost in the orogenic zone, leading to a eustatic drop of sea level. This causes rejuvenation of erosion in the non-orogenic land masses, which tend to rise isostatically. But as the young folded mountains also rise isostatically as compression ceases, they suffer extreme erosion, and the consequent sedimentation in the oceans leads to a eustatic rise of sea level. The isostatic adjustment of the loaded ocean floor and unloaded land, assumed to act with appreciable time lag, leads to a long-continued drop of relative sea level, eustatic insofar as sea level drops with the sinking ocean floor, epeirogenic insofar as the land rises. In older and higher erosion surfaces the epeirogenic component predominates. In lower and younger erosion surfaces the eustatic component may be more significant, but it can never account for more than about 800 ft. of their elevation above present sea level. The adjustment is spasmodic, but other factors may also operate to give the periods of stability of relative sea level which lead to the initiation of erosion surfaces. An erosion surface will continue to work upstream long after it has been once or several times removed from direct control by sea level/base level, and it will indeed do so today if still recognizable, even though it may have been initiated millions of years ago; we must be aware of this "age duplicity." The work particularly of Baulig (1935) and Du Toit (1937) must be thought to have foreshadowed the present hypothesis. Quantitative estimations of the effects of "shift" on relative sea level show results in reasonable agreement with the elevations of actual erosion surfaces, and so give some support to the hypothesis.
30063415|Present methods for describing the size distribution of sediments include the use of graphic measures, functions of the percentiles obtained from the cumulative size frequency distribution curve. In estimating the mean size and sorting of sediments, most graphic measures used are linear combinations of the percentiles. Considering a specified percentile as a random variable, the distribution of the values observed for this percentile tends to a normal distribution as the sample size approaches infinity. A similar relation exists for any graphic measure which is a linear combination of percentiles. On the assumption that the logarithm of the grain diameter is normally distributed, the statistical efficiency of a graphic measure as described above can be calculated. The statistical efficiency of a graphic measure is the ratio of the variance of the distribution of the corresponding efficient estimate and the variance of the limiting distribution of the graphic measure. Regarding the efficiency of a graphic measure as an index of precision, graphic measures with greater efficiencies are preferable to those with lower efficiencies. Efficiencies of graphic measures currently in use to estimate mean size are:
30053573|The chemical composition of the fluid that could exist in the Si-Mg-Fe-C-H-O system has been calculated at various pressure and temperature conditions in a growing mantle of carbonaceous chondritic composition. The results show that the fluid in such a primitive mantle was dominantly methane, with subordinate amounts (<10% by volume) of hydrogen and water. Such a composition is stable over a broad range of pressure and temperature. The phase equilibrium assemblage consisting of olivine, pyroxene, graphite or diamond, and iron is an appropriate model composition of the present earth in its undifferentiated form. The possibility that primitive mantle fluids were dominated by methane requires a reconsideration of the composition of the core and the role of methane in understanding the process of differentiation and evolution of the mantle.
30067246|The correlation of events in the Pleistocene on the two sides of the Atlantic is a matter of great interest, and the belief that Swedish varves should be comparable with American varves as recording the retreat of the last ice sheets led Baron de Geer to attempt such a correlation. A series of 400 varves at Toronto was found to correspond to the extent of 80 per cent with the varves of Sweden, and De Geer deduces from this a chronology which dates Niagara Falls as beginning only 9,500 years ago. In this article it is shown that the Toronto varves belong to an earlier ice invasion than the last one and must be many thousands of years older than those of Sweden. The conclusion is drawn that great caution is necessary in correlating varves from widely distant regions.
30063062|The long profile of a representative natural stream is composed of segments, each of which is exponential, or nearly so. Each segment tends to plot on semilog paper (distance vs. log elevation) as a straight line, with a faint upward convexity near the upper end of the segment, and a faint upward concavity near the lower end of the segment. These small, but real, departures from the straight-line plot require that we undertake a refinement of the classical profile equation, dA/dz = kA. Several modifications are proposed, and are explored mathematically. One attempts to separate dynamic sorting of bed load from attrition effects. Another (expressed initially as Lagrange's linear equation) treats the development of the two-dimensional profile with time-varying uplift. A third is the Leopold-Langbein random-walk model. A fourth is a modified random-walk model which specifically includes the upstream convexity and which can be altered to include the downstream concavity. A fifth is Devdariani's heat-flow analogy, which seems to be too general, but which can be forced, arbitrarily, to describe (without explaining) many anomalies of curvature. Three more are nonlog profiles based on reasoning associated with precipitation or discharge effects. No one of the attempts is completely successful, but each sheds a little light on the overall problem.
30056158|The Lanton meteorite is one of the usual type of nickeliferous irons. It is an outstanding example of the way in which large masses of meteoritic iron may be broken up by differential oxidation. The subsequent scattering of the pieces may give the impression that the mass was broken by the force of impact at the time of the fall.
30057940|Fault scarps of at least three ages are found on the eastern side of Pleasant Valley, Nevada. Of these, the most recent were formed in 1915, when a displacement occurred along the western base of the Sonoma Range. Two fault blocks rose relative to the adjacent valley, producing low scarps at the foot of the mountains. The movement was a dip-slip displacement on normal faults which trend north and northeast.
30059055|Gibbs Island, Antarctica, consists of an Alpine-type ultramafic complex composed of dunite and serpentinized dunite, which structurally overlies a presumed upper Paleozoic-lower Mesozoic metasedimentary-metavolcanic sequence. The dunite complex has undergone two distinct periods of deformation and serpentinization under contrasting metamorphic conditions. The first period was episodic and occurred prior to final emplacement of the complex into its tectonic position. It resulted in the formation of a distinct serpentinite (dominantly antigorite) layering throughout the complex. The later period of deformation resulted in the formation of a thick basal serpentinite (dominantly chrysotile) schist zone, along which the complex was emplaced. This emplacement accompanied the main deformation of the underlying rocks. A third, post-emplacement, period of deformation coincided with the metamorphic "peak" in the metasediments-metavolcanics. Structural and petrographic evidence suggests that the dunite complex represents mantle intrusion into a transform fault or fracture zone which subsequently underwent ocean floor deformation and in situ metamorphism. Emplacement of the dunite complex into the supracrustal rocks occurred during a metamorphic "low" and may have taken place within the fracture zone or in the upper Paleozoic-early Mesozoic trench that was present along the Pacific margin of Gondwanaland.
30061150|The conclusions of Jones and Galwey (1972) on the significance of changes in the length/thickness ratio of metamorphic biotite grains are discussed in the light of some new results. It is suggested that imposed or inherited anisotropy due to deformation are equally likely controls on grain shape.
30081311|Turbidite bed thickness distributions from deepwater settings result from the interaction of an initial magnitude/frequency of sourcederived flow volumes, modified within the receiving basin by (1) variable flow rheologies, (2) environmental controls such as channels and lobes, and (3) basinfloor topography. This study attempts to isolate the effects of basinfloor topography on turbidite bed thickness distributions using outcrop examples where the ancient seafloor topography has been reconstructed and is thought to dominate the signal. The Eocene and Oligocene Taveyannaz and Annot Sandstones of eastern Switzerland and France were deposited in confined intraslope basin and baseofslope settings. The deposits of the confined basin record flow ponding and flow stripping; the baseofslope deposits record the amalgamation of turbidites. Bed thickness data for both the confined basin and proximal baseofslope settings are best approximated by an exponential distribution; the data from the more distal baseofslope setting are better described by a power law. Statistical experiments presented here demonstrate that these distributions can be generated by the modification of an input signal with a powerlaw distribution. In the case of the confined basin, flow ponding causes dramatic thickening of beds. However, flow stripping counteracts this, particularly for the thicker beds, and may account for a very large proportion of the input volume of sediment bypassing the basin even before the basin is filled. For the baseofslope setting, erosion and nondeposition of beds will result in the preferential preservation of thicker beds; the thickbed population is also enhanced in the data by the unidentifiable amalgamation of beds. Differentiation between distributions that characterize these settings requires careful analysis of the thinnest and thickest portions of the populations and is aided by plotting the data as the log of cumulative number against bed thickness.
30068582|The development of new techniques for the rapid measurement of the temperature of deposition of pyrite and the degree of filling of two-phase fluid inclusions has made it possible to determine temperatures and pressures of deposition of hydrothermal minerals. These techniques are applied to some of the minerals from a system of pegmatite dikes. Pressures existing in the solutions at the time of deposition of pyrite have been calculated and found to be of the order of 3,000 bars. Temperatures of crystallization of pyrite, quartz, fluorite, and oligoclase have been found in the range 450-550 Anomalous decrepitation of calcite is discussed.
30066380|Interstitial waters were squeezed from several hundred samples of modern oceanic sediments in twenty-two cores from six general areas: the central equatorial Atlantic Ocean, the southwest Atlantic, the northwest Atlantic, the continental shelf off Cape Cod, Massachusetts, the Gulf of California, and the Experimental Mohole (Guadalupe site). Samples were analyzed for Ca and Mg (versene titration), Na and K (cationic glass electrodes), Cl (
30079622|The Black Butte till is described and tentatively correlated with the Ridgeway and Gunnison tillites of Colorado. It underlies mid-Tertiary volcanics and rests upon upturned truncated Lower Cretaceous sediments.
30080193|Oxygen isotopic compositions of quartz and feldspar in greenschistgrade mylonites from the Blue Ridge thrust and the Brevard zone in the southern Appalachians were analyzed by laser microprobe to examine the effect of deformation on isotopic behavior. In mylonites, texturally homogeneous polycrystalline quartz ribbons have a constant isotopic composition (
30067327|If a "Spokane Flood" ever occurred, and if the valley system of eastern and central Washington was already in existence, these valleys must have become channels and abnormal deposits of great magnitude must have been formed. This paper calls attention to such deposits along the western margin of the scabland-both in Columbia Valley, a main discharge route, and in Yakima Valley, a capacious tributary valley entering from an area unaffected by the flood. Three extraordinary situations are given especial attention: the mouth of Moses Coulee, the Columbia Valley deposits near Trinidad, and the truly astounding features in lower Yakima Valley. The conclusion is reached that nothing short of a catastrophic flood can explain these features. Skepticism can be justified only by the construction of workable alternatives.
30067367|It has long been recognized that Natural Bridge and Natural Tunnel-two of Virginia's most famous natural wonders-are similar in origin. The details of this similarity and the extent of the parallelism in formation have not been fully appreciated. Not until recently has any adequate theory been submitted for the origin of this type of phenomenon. This article discusses the close relation between these two scenic features and suggests a common mode of origin.
30055893|A fresh-appearing skull of a camelid, from a cave in Utah, is described and figured. It is referable to the genus Camelops, and indicates the survival of the native "camel" until comparatively recent times.
30055880|The writer believes that the process of albitization, now known to be a common accompanying feature of granitic intrusion, furnishes a key to the genesis of alkaline rocks. The passage of emanations rich in soda and alumina, which albitization phenomena show have occurred, may in favorable instances have desilicated a granitic magma and so enriched it in soda and alumina that nephelite would crystallize, and after consolidation, soda-rich deuteric minerals form.
30060695|The sequence of Paleogene igneous and tectonic events in western Britain is discussed in the context of an underlying mantle hot spot. It is assumed that the hot spot was associated with an anomalous zone in the upper mantle similar to that which exists beneath Iceland at the present day. The initiation of such a zone and the later reestablishment of a normal upper mantle structure as Britain drifted away from a fixed underlying hot spot offer an explanation for the igneous episode and some of the contemporaneous and later tectonism in western Britain. Comparisons are drawn with other parts of the North Atlantic Tertiary igneous province, and recent views on the origin of Iceland and active mantle processes in the North Atlantic are briefly considered in the light of the proposed model.
30060922|Xenoliths of garnet-plagioclase clinopyroxenite, garnet websterite, olivine websterite, and garnet anorthosite are relics of an igneous suite of olivine-normative alkali gabbros metamorphosed into granulites under Lashaine, Tanzania, at ~1200 K and 14 kb. Most clinopyroxene megacrysts recrystallized into polygonal clusters of small grains, and plagioclase laths exsolved from the cores. Clinopyroxene (CATs 11 mole %, Jd 15) and plagioclase (
30066246|Eclogitic lenses of metabasaltic composition-some units as much as 4 km in length and more than 200 m in thickness-are surrounded by and interlayered with deformed, completely serpentinized Beigua peridotite of the Voltri Massif. Relict primary textures indicate that most of the mafic layers were originally gabbros, but some units may represent finer-grained diabasic dikes; a few apparently were converted to rodingites prior to the high-pressure metamorphism. The mafic rocks have been subjected to a complex recrystallization history which involved both an earlier stage (A) and a later stage (B) production of the eclogitic assemblage garnet + omphacite + rutile, separated in time by a period of severe cataclasis. Subsequent recrystallization led to the formation of (C) garnet + glaucophane rocks, then (D) barrositic amphibole-bearing assemblages, and finally, through a stage of prasinitization (E), to the typical greenschist assemblage of albite + chlorite + epidote + actinolite + sphene. Some outcrops preserve evidence of the entire paragenetic sequence; green -schistic assemblages characteristically occur along the contact of the metagabbros with serpentinite, and more eclogitic assemblages are preserved in the interior portions of the mafic lenses. Of 95 specimens studied in detail, XRF bulk rock analyses have been obtained for 83. Combined with petro-graphic data, it is clear that most of the mafic units are especially titanium- and iron-rich compared to common terrestrial rocks of metabasaltic composition. The greenschists and barroisitic amphibo-lites exhibit much greater chemical diversity than do the parental eclogites. This means that either a more heterogeneous leucogabbro protolith was present in addition to the ferrogabbroic layers, and that this more magnesian rock type was selectively converted to the more hydrous, prasinitic assemblages, or that intense metasomatism has affected the later stage, lower grade assemblages. The 37 analyzed eclogitic rocks are relatively homogeneous in terms of their major element chemistry (e.g.,
30067384|The Nimrod Group in the central Transantarctic Mountains and the Lanterman Metamorphic Complex in northern Victoria Land of Antarctica constitute internal metamorphic basement terrains of the Ross orogen that share many first-order similarities in lithology, structure, and metamorphism. However, new
30067913|Most non-ferrous metal deposits are formed at convergent and divergent plate boundaries because these are areas of major magmatic and geologic activity. Within plates magmatism is largely related to hotspot activity. The tectonic, igneous and sedimentary processes that accompany subcontinental hotspot activity provide favorable environments within which ore-generating systems can operate, and a spectrum of resultant ore deposit types can be identified. Certain tin deposits are associated with crustal melting during the early stages of hotspot activity. Many hotspot controlled geologic regimes exhibit copper mineralization, and some contain important hydrothermal and/or stratiform copper deposits. In addition some lead-zinc deposits of Mississippi Valley-type can be related to hotspot activity. Other metal deposits that may fit into this general scheme are those associated with some layered mafic intrusives, and certain stratiform lead-zinc deposits in shales. Analysis of the geologic record suggests widespread hotspot activity in association with the fragmentation of Pangea and an earlier (1 b.y.) period of widespread hotspot activity that resulted in the fragmentation of a postulated proto-Pangea. The age of many of the non-ferrous ore deposits that have formed in intracontinental environments can be closely fitted to either the first or second of these major fragmentation events. The relationships, between geologic environments that can be correlated with variable degrees of confidence with hotspot activity and certain types of non-ferrous metal deposits, if valid, should provide important guidelines for the exploration geologist.
30067900|Sliding of a 200-ton granite boulder during heavy rain perhaps resulted from uplift pressure. This erosional process may be more common in the humid tropics than has been recognized.
10.1086/598945|The central highlands of Madagascar are characterized by rolling hills thickly mantled with saprolite and cut in many areas by dramatic gullies known as lavakas. This landscape generates sediment to rivers via diffusive downslope movement of colluvium and eventdriven advection of material from active lavakas; these two sediment sources have very different
30080161|Apatite fission-track dating in southwestern India yields Middle Triassic to Middle Jurassic ages that correlate with the breakup of eastern Gondwanaland and Africa. The later India-Madagascar split is not recorded in the apatite ages. The apatite ages are not a reflection of thermal events in the present location of this region but are associated with uplift and erosion in the Upper Paleozoic/Early Mesozoic eastern Gondwana-Africa separation. Track length measurements indicate that cooling through the 100C isotherm began in the Upper Paleozoic. Time-temperature modeling suggests that a period of slow cooling during the Mesozoic was followed by relatively rapid cooling to the present.
30060860|An instructive example of the effect on slope stability of a geologically rapid increase in moisture content is described. The wall of a coulee in southern Alberta underlain by glacial debris and probably stable during much of postglacial time was recently activated by infiltration from an irrigation ditch; in only 8 years it has developed impressive landsliding of the slump variety.
30060101|Among the minettes occurring in the Central Bohemian Pluton, two diverse differentiation series are distinguishable: one trending to peralkaline types, the other to rocks oversaturated with alumina. In the first series, the ratios K/Na, Mg/Fe, and the oxidation ratios of iron steadily increase with progressing differentiation: in the other, the opposite trend exists. The differences observed can be interpretated on the basis of Bailey and Schairer's differentiation scheme of syenitic magmas. As to genesis, it is probable that at least some minettes are differentiation products of the magmas forming the Central Bohemian Pluton.
30078302|Alleghanian continental collision across the Southern Appalachians resulted in northwestward over-thrusting in the Blue Ridge and Valley and Ridge and emplacement of a large crystalline nappe in the Piedmont. However, fault patterns in the Eastern Piedmont fault system are consistent with the geometry expected in a strike-slip fault network. Formation of the Eastern Piedmont fault system mainly postdates the last regional metamorphism in the Piedmont and is interpreted to be an Alleghanian structure penecontemporaneous with thrusting in the western part of the Appalachian orogen. This discrepancy in tectonic style across the orogen is attributed to lateral movement of parts of the Raleigh and Kiokee belts and of the Precambrian (?)-Paleozoic basement of northern Florida out of the principal collision zone during latter stages of the Alleghanian collision. A modern analogy for such lateral movement is the present strike-slip regime in Turkey, which represents post-collisional lateral escape of the Anatolian plate from the intracontinental zone of convergence between Arabia and Eurasia.
30068452|Airplane photographs of the Wisconsin drift plain in Iowa disclose a pattern of light and dark streaks on the ground surface, suggestive of the changing outline of the ice lobe. The streaks are believed to reflect differences in soil composition and texture which probably developed as the result of the slight topographic inequalities of gentle swell and swale. Seasonal fluctuations of the glacial front are thought to have caused the arrangement of swells and swales in the described pattern.
30058704|The abrupt scarp forming the eastern boundary of the Sabana de Bogot in Colombia appears to be of considerable geologic significance. Detailed mapping up the face of Monserrate, immediately east of the city of Bogot, discloses the fact that Cretaceous rocks overlie probable Tertiary beds, with a crushed zone of some 15 meters in thickness at the contact. It is the opinion of the writer that the scarp is the direct result of overthrusting, with differential erosion having played some part in its further development. The feature is here named the Monserrate-Guadalupe scarp, and the overthrust, the Bogot fault.
30062250|This paper reviews the outstanding evidence for (1) repeated catastrophic outbursts of Montana's glacially dammed Lake Missoula, (2) consequent overwhelming in many places of the preglacial divide along the northern margin of the Columbia Plateau in Washington, (3) remaking of the plateau's preglacial drainage pattern into an anastomosing complex of floodwater channels (Channeled Scabland) locally eroded hundreds of feet into underlying basalt, (4) convergence of these flood-born rivers into the Columbia Valley at least as far as Portland, Oregon, and (5) deposition of a huge delta at Portland. Evidence that the major scabland rivers and the flooded Columbia were hundreds of feet deep exists in (1) gravel and boulder bars more than 100 feet high in mid-channels, (2) subfluvial cataract cliffs, alcoves, and plunge pools hundreds of feet in vertical dimension, (3) back-flooded silts high on slopes of preglacial valleys tributary to the scabland complex, and (4) the delta at Portland. Climatic oscillations of the Cordilleran ice sheet produced a succession of Lake Missoulas. Following studies by the writer, later investigators have correlated the Montana glacial record with recurrent scabland floods by soil profiles and a glacial and loessial stratigraphy, and have approximately dated some events by volcanic ash layers, peat deposits, and an archaeological site. Several unsolved problems are outlined in this paper.
30065608|Sediments may acquire magnetic remanence upon deposition and shortly after deposition. Hence, the paleomagnetic record of sedimentary rocks may provide a chronostratigraphic framework for rates and patterns of depositional and post-depositional processes over time scales intermediate between those of modern observation and those of the dated geologic record. Two applications of high-resolution magneto-stratigraphy in Miocene, alluvial rocks of Pakistan illustrate this point. (1) Transition stratigraphy-the dense sampling of a magnetic reversal-of correlated sections in the Dhok Pathan Formation revealed high variability in sediment accumulation rates (over several thousand to 10,000 yr), time-transgressive strata representing a paleosol and a floodplain marsh, and a pervasive post-depositional record mainly from pedogenesis. (2) Lateral tracing of paleomagnetic reversal boundaries in the Chinji Formation revealed a secular change in sediment accumulation rate and evidence for increased accumulation rate associated with extensive sandstones and the time-transgressive nature of certain sandstone units. Both studies demonstrate the significant lateral component to accumulation of lithological units, indicating that individual strata may embody considerably greater time spans in their lateral extent than in any vertical transect. Hence, stratigraphic completeness should be evaluated in the lateral as well as the vertical dimension.
JG80166|The Indian Shield includes the Singhbhum, Bastar, and East and West Dharwar cratons. Proterozoic sedimentary basins formed on these cratons have preserved rocks with a range of degrees of metamorphism and deformation. In the Chhattisgarh Basin, within the Bastar Craton, the ca. 22002500-m-thick Chhattisgarh Supergroup has been preserved in nearly pristine condition. Previous work has shown that the Sukhda Tuff, located about 2200 m from the base of the section, was formed ca. 1007 Ma. New U-Pb SHRIMP age determinations show that the Singhora Tuff, located about 100 m above the base of the basin, is not older than
30066410|The effect of pressure on the rate of Al/Si disorder in microcline has been determined at temperatures from 750C to 900C and at pressures up to 28 kbar using samples dried at 850C in Pt capsules prior to sealing. The presence of any water would induce melting, and none was observed. The effect of pressure in the presence of hydrogen is profound in experiments done in piston-cylinder devices using NaCl pressure medium, as has also been observed with albite. The enhanced Al/Si diffusion is even more marked than in albite, although a somewhat higher threshold pressure is necessary to attain fairly rapid rates of Al/Si interchange; disorder is very slow in this temperature range at pressures below 9-10 kbar. At 1050C and one atmosphere, an authigenic microcline from the Kona dolostone is hardly changed in six weeks. At 900C and 28 kbar it is disordered in less than two hours. As in the case of albite, the presence of hydrogen is essential for the enhanced diffusion at high pressures; if deprived of hydrogen by replacing the NaCl pressure medium with (anhydrous) glass, or by surrounding the sample with a hydrogen getter such as
30066295|Observations on a push moraine now being formed at the margin of the advancing glacier Hfdabrekkujkull in Iceland provide a background for interpreting the geomorphic and paleoclimatic significance of Pleistocene push moraines. This moraine, up to 10 m high, consists partly of unfrozen thrust slabs of glaciofluvial sand and partly of debris derived from the glacier surface. During the present advance (10 to 12 m/yr: 1982), thrust planes intersect the glacier foreland, and recurrent thrusting produces an imbricate structure as the moraine grows in height. Folds and faults are produced as the first-formed slabs are rotated slowly backward up the glacier front, and the whole moraine deforms under its own weight. Simultaneously the moraine receives a cover of supraglacial debris from the glacier surface above. During the summer of 1982, the push moraine moved forward at a rate averaging about 4 cm/day.
30080924|We review critically the Rayleigh test for uniformity as used by Curray. After discussing the test in Curray's form, we propose modifications: when the preferred orientation is known a priori, when the asymptotic formula must be corrected for small sample size, and when the natural range of angles is not 360 but 180. When the preferred orientation is known, we use the statistic V', which is the component in the preferred direction of the vector sum used by Curray, and we discuss the circumstances under which a test based on V' may be regarded as unequivocally a best test for uniformity. We give formulas, a table, and charts for applying the Rayleigh test and the V-test to samples of all sizes that occur in practice. In an appendix we expose the relations between Rayleigh's test and a test proposed by Tukey.
30082471|A new explanation is offered for the "glacial boulders" in the so-called "Caney shale" of the Ouachita Mountains. Their glacial character is disputed. They are considered exotic blocks in the frontal nappe of the Ouachita structure, comparable, in particular, to the Flysch blocks of the frontal Alpine thrust sheets.
10.1086/648533|The South China craton was formed by collision of the Yangtze and Cathaysia blocks during the Neoproterozoic Jiangnan orogeny (also termed the Jingnin or Sibao orogeny in Chinese literature). Basement rocks within the Yangtze block consist mainly of Proterozoic sediments of the Lengjiaxi and Banxi groups. UPb ages of detrital zircons obtained by the laser ablation inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry dating technique imply that the deposition of the Lengjiaxi Group continued until the Neoproterozoic. The youngest detrital zircons suggest a minimum deposition age of 830 Ma for the Lengjiaxi Group and an initial deposition age of
30059053|Strata of the upper part of the Onverwacht Group (3.4 b.y.), Transvaal, South Africa, are composed mainly of chert representing silicified quartz-poor volcaniclastic detritus. Layers of carbonate, silicified carbonate, volcaniclastic debris, and possible primary silica make up minor parts of most sections. Deposition took place largely in shallow water, but no evidence was found to indicate whether the water was marine, fresh, or of some other composition. Turbidites are locally well developed but there is no compelling evidence for deposition in deep water except in northernmost areas. Some units were lithified, and possibly silicified, at the sediment-water interface whereas others remained soft long after burial. The Onverwacht Group accumulated in an anorogenic basin unaccompanied by major tectonic uplift or subsidence. The lower volcanic part of the sequence was deposited subaqueously and apparently contains little interstratified sediment because subaerial exposures were absent. Subsequent pyroclastic volcanism associated with the construction of subaerial vents provided abundant volcaniclastic detritus for the initiation of significant sediment accumulation. The uppermost unit, the Zwartkoppie Formation, reflects early tectonic instability including local uplift, shallow erosion, and the deposition of eroded intra-formational debris in adjacent shallow-water basins. The suprajacent Fig Tree Group represents an orogenic phase of sedimentation in which major tectonic uplift and exposure of deep-seated plutonic rocks to the south was coupled with subsidence and rapid flysch-like sedimentation in the north. The paucity of shale in the Onverwacht Group probably reflects the relatively limited extent of subaerial exposures and the continued eruption of fresh volcanic material. There is no suggestion of a cold climate, but some evidence that it may have been warm.
30066098|The megabreccia of the Ship Mountains is part of a sedimentary sequence displaying characteristics of a catastrophic landslide deposit: (1) fractured clasts; (2) a graded, fine-grained upper mantling layer; (3) sandstone dikes injected from below; (4) fine-grained, massive matrix; and (5) local, monolithologic character. Its presence downslope from the headwall of a large Miocene normal fault, and correlation of breccia clasts with basement lithologies in the headwall area, further support the landslide hypothesis. This interpretation has important implications for the structural evolution of the area, suggesting two major phases of fault block rotation associated with extensional stresses along the western flank of the Old Woman Mountains structural horst.
30068197|Tree trunks are often curved as a result of external factors including catastrophic events, the availability of light, and soil creep. Where trees with curved trunks due to soil creep can be recognized, they may provide a useful indication of slope instability. Trees with trunks which are curved downslope to resemble catenaries probably owe their shape to downslope soil creep. Sharp curves in tree trunks are usually the result of catastrophic events, but snow/ice pressure may cause trees to bow with gentle curves. Also, phototropism may cause shade-intolerant trees to grow with gently curved trunks. Such curves are quite distinct from those induced by soil creep.
30063792|Existing theories of slope development are questioned in that changes over time are not supported by direct evidence. Field data are presented which relate changes in the slope characteristics of recessional moraines to a time scale controlled by actual dates. Recently exposed moraines have irregular surfaces and show a wide range of slope angles. Frost-heaving and surface runoff create smooth slopes of 25-30 inclination. These changes take place uniformly with respect to time. No significant changes take place after 35 years.
30063036|Certain porphyry dikes related to a batholithic intrusion in the Blue Mountain area of northeastern Oregon contain irregular segregations of magmatic residuals and veins which are believed to have been caused by the action of the dike magma upon schist inclusions. Many large-scale occurrences similar to this have been recorded, but it is believed that the small size of this magmatic system, dikes less than 2 feet in width, makes it a rather noteworthy occurrence.
30071572|Mineral inclusions have been recovered from 40 small (<1.5 mm) diamonds from the Sloan 1 and 2 kimberlite pipes in northern Colorado. Primary inclusions (i.e., proto- or syngenetic) are olivine, clinopy-roxene, sanidine, rutile, and possibly native Fe and some phlogopite. Phases interpreted as epigenetic are acmite, richterite, most phlogopite, perovskite, Mn-ilmenite, Cr-spinel, magnetite, calcite, serpentine and possibly Mg-ilmenite. Acmite, richterite, and perovskite have not previously been reported in diamond. The epigenetic minerals commonly occur as inclusion assemblages such as phlogopite + richterite, phlogopite + perovskite + ilmenite + magnetite + serpentine, and phlogopite + clinopyroxene + spinel + magnetite + calcite. The majority of the primary inclusions have an eclogitic suite affinity, which is uncommon but similar to diamonds in the Premier, Orapa, and Mbuji Mayi kimberlites of southern and central Africa and from a few sites in Russia and Western Australia. Secondary inclusions reflect extensive alteration by, and crystallization of, kimberlite fluids and at least some post-intrusive ground water induced alteration. The abundance of epigenetic assemblage inclusions is related to the cracked, fractured and broken nature of large numbers of the Colorado diamonds. Some epigenetic inclusions may be products of a metasomatic event in the upper mantle in which MARID-type minerals may have been introduced into diamonds along cracks generated by primary inclusions. Most cracks and fractures probably formed during a shallow, early or pre-emptive event.
10.1086/605776|U/Pb LAMCICPMS zircon ages and wholerock geochemistry from a biotite granitoid, recovered at 2.1 km depth from the Ranchera2 well in the Baja Guajira basin, southern Caribbean region, reveal the existence of a ca. 70 Ma silicic plutonic event. This granitoid intrudes ca. 7680 Ma intraoceanic arc fragments and continental margin sediments that experienced continental subduction and collision since ca. 76 Ma. The major compositional shift recorded by this granitoid, including light rare earth element (LREE) enrichment (
30065499|The growth forms and internal structure of living coralline algal nodules (here termed rhodolites) from a shallow Bermuda bay contain a surprisingly sensitive record of the frequency of their movement by wave action. The growing rhodolites of Whalebone Bay are pebble to cobble-sized spheroids found at depths of 1-2 m. In section, a nucleus (either algal or foreign) is surrounded by a laminated shell or coralline algae with two different growth forms: laminar and columnar. In almost all the larger rhodolites the nucleus is invariably succeeded first by laminar and then columnar structure. Growing spheroidal and ellipsoidal rhodolites with smooth surfaces (laminar structure) are concentrated in sandy channels; those flattened ones with bumpy surfaces (columnar structure) are half buried in skeletal sand or trapped in rock-floor depressions. Evidently, the spheroidal form and laminar structure indicate frequent movement, while the flattened form and columnar structure indicate immobility. The frequency of movement recorded by the laminar structure was determined by observation of marked rhodolites. Specimens of 80 mm were moved 3 m in the sandy channels by waves generated by winds of 15 knots. Winds of 15 knots or more occur monthly throughout the year and much more frequently during the fall and winter. The relationships between form and internal structure and frequency of movement observed in these shallow-water rhodolites may also prove to be useful for interpreting the growth conditions of other Recent rhodolites from deeper water, 10-100 m, as well as those of fossil rhodolites.
30058253|The pelitic envelope of a basic and ultrabasic intrusion, together with the pelitic xenoliths, have been studied by field and microscopic examination, and 14 chemical analyses of the hornfelsed pelites are given. Eighteen chemical analyses of unhornfelsed pelites from the region are available for comparison. There was every gradation from biotite-acid andesine-quartz-fibrolite-garnet "regional" schist through cordierite-prismatic sillimanite-labradorite-magnetite-biotite hornfels to spinel-magnetite-cordierite $\pm$ corundum $\pm$ orthopyroxene hornfels as desilication and dealkalization occurred. The $SiO_2$ content, 46.2 per cent, and $Na_2O + K_2O$ content, 6.2 per cent, in the average unhornfelsed nearby pelite fell in the xenoliths to less than 10 per cent $SiO_2$ and less than 0.25 per cent alkali, while the $FeO + Fe_2O_3$, 12.0 per cent, and MgO, 3.4 per cent, rose to over 40 per cent and 9 per cent, respectively. It is suggested that the composition of the material removed from the xenoliths to the ultrabasic magma had a composition resembling, but not identical with, that of Daly's average subalkaline granite, which result supports Bowen's theory of the interaction of basic magma and petlite.
30056718|A recently mounted skeleton of Labidosaurus is figured and described. Inferences drawn from the skeleton indicate that this animal was a heavily muscled form with certain specializations not known in other North American cotylosaurs. A brief discussion of the habits of the animal is presented.
30060085|Phase-equilibrium relations have been determined in the system
30068815|We present a synthesis and a new account of the geological and tectonic history of the terranes of the Chinese Paleozoic Altai orogen together with new, single zircon ages for granitic and rhyodacitic rocks. A central terrane consists of Neoproterozoic to Silurian, amphibolite facies, metasedimentary rocks, and abundant DevonianCarboniferous granites. The presence of Precambrian basement is indicated by Sinian fossils, our xenocryst ages, and published Nd mean crustal residence ages of granites. Felsic arctype lavas on the southern margin of the terrane have a mean
30064984|Formation of the Idaho batholith is thought to have been promoted by prolonged injection of high-temperature mantle magmas that caused partial melting of continental crustal rocks to form granitic magma. The mafic magmas are now represented at the surface by numerous synplutonic mafic dikes in the batholith and by early tonalite and quartz diorite plutons forming the western part of the batholith and scattered elsewhere around its margins. Variable degrees of mixing between the mafic magmas and the granites produced quartz diorite complexes, intermediate and composite dikes, and mafic-rich, inhomogeneous parts of the main-phase granites and granodiorites.
30071564|Siluro-Devonian magmatism in the Southern Uplands (Scotland) and Northern Ireland includes a hitherto neglected regional SW-NE zone, c. 10 km wide and >300 km long, of calc-alkaline lamprophyre dykes. Lamprophyres were locally emplaced contemporaneously with small (<400 X 200 m) subvolcanic vents of greywacke/mudstone agglomerate, themselves intruded by kersantites, primitive biotite-bearing olivine-basalts, igneous breccias, and tuffisites. The lamprophyres and basalts are among the most primitive (
30067330|Thick, radiately-columnar lava masses, which include large ovoid bodies as much as 80 ft. in length, are believed to represent giant "pillows" of submarine flows. Evidence suggestive of such origin is afforded by dykes nearby, which pass upwards into large spheroidal masses indistinguishable from the pillows of normal pillow-lavas.
10.1086/663875|Contrasting tectonic reconstructions of the westernmost Mediterranean have been proposed to explain the origin of the Alboran marine basin contemporaneously with Cenozoic convergence between the African and European plates. Cr-rich pyroxenites in the Ronda massif record the geochemical processes occurring in the subcontinental mantle of the Alboran domain in the Late Oligocene, thus constraining the geodynamic scenario of Cenozoic extension in the western Mediterranean lithosphere. Clinopyroxene in intrusive Cr-rich websterite dikes crosscutting the Ronda peridotite is strongly depleted in Nb-Ta and enriched in light rare earth elements, as typically observed in arc magmas, and is in trace element equilibrium with Neogene subduction-related lavas from the western and central Mediterranean. Sr-Nd-Pb radiogenic isotopes indicate that the mantle source of the Ronda pyroxenite dikes was contaminated by a subduction component released by detrital sediments likely deposited in passive continental margins. Rather than convective removal or delamination of the lithospheric root, our data strongly support Alboran geodynamic models that envisage slab rollback as the tectonic mechanism responsible for the Miocene lithospheric thinning. The Ronda Cr-rich pyroxenite dikes represent the earliest unambiguous manifestation of subduction-related magmatism in the western Mediterranean and testify to the involvement of terrigenous sediments in the primitive stages of subduction.
30058175|The relationship between average size (phi median) and sorting (phi percentile deviation) in sediments is explored empirically by means of statistical analysis of data from over twelve hundred individual samples taken from Miocene and Oligocene horizons in southern Trinidad, the Eocene Scotland series from Barbados, and the Pliocene Superficial Gravels of British and Dutch Guiana. The association between size and sorting is estimated by means of the correlation coefficient, and the relationship is reduced to linear equations of the form
30060945|Downstream fining in the Cosumnes River is partially controlled by longitudinal variation in sediment mobility linked to changes in crosssectional morphology. Strong fining occurs where the channel is selfformed with sectionaveraged bankfull dimensionless shear stress (
30068613|Two types of fringing coral reefs are found along the coast of Mah: windward reefs exposed to the South East Monsoon, on whose slopes buttresses and grooves are well developed, and sheltered reefs protected from this monsoon, on which buttresses and grooves are not found. The sheltered reefs are dissected by a network of deep channels and depressions which originate in one of three ways: the influx of fresh water from streams, the mechanism by which these reefs advance seaward, and as gaps between fringing reefs around adjacent granite islands. Active linear reefs occur seaward of the sheltered reefs. Two submarine terraces can be recognized: one at about -10 m. and the other at around -20 m. These may result from Pleistocene fluctuations in sea level. The different levels and linear reefs in the forereef environment of the sheltered reefs lead to a complex bottom topography which controls the nature and distribution of the associated unconsolidated sediments.
30058245|In some minerals that have ordered after existing in a disordered state, a condition is found in which the basic structure is essentially a single crystal, while the superstructure is divided into small domains whose orientations, although bearing a rational relation to the more highly symmetric basic structure, are dissimilar. The presence of these domains can be detected by X-ray diffraction and can be used as an indication of the previous temperature history of the mineral. Bornite (CuFeS), chalcopyrite (CuFeS), and acanthite-argentite (AgS) are used as examples to illustrate this phenomenon.
30068728|Field evidence consisting of: (1) rotated, foliated xenoliths, (2) country rock foliation truncated by isoclinally folded igneous intrusions bearing granulite facies assemblages document one, or more, early dynamothermal event(s) of regional scale and high grade. Early metamorphism resulted in pronounced linear and planar fabric throughout the Adirondacks and preceded the emplacement of the anorthosite-mangerite-charnockite-granite-alaskite (AMCA) suite which contains xenoliths of the metamorphosed rocks. Olivine metagabbros, believed to be approximately contemporaneous with the AMCA-suite, also crosscut and contain xenoliths of, strongly foliated metasediments. These intrusive rocks caused contact metamorphism in the metasediments which locally exhibit both anatectite and restite assemblages. Subsequently, this already complex framework underwent three phases of folding, including an early recumbent isoclinical event, and was metamorphosed to granulite facies P, T conditions. The age of the early metamorphism cannot yet be narrowly constrained, but isotopic results suggest that it may be as young as ~1200 Ma or older than ~1420 Ma. U-Pb zircon ages indicate emplacement of the AMCA-(metagabbro)-suite in the interval 1160-1130 Ma and place the peak of granulite facies metamorphism between 1070-1025 Ma. The anorogenic character of the AMCA-suite, and the occurrence of metadiabase dike swarms within it, are further evidence of the separate nature of the metamorphic events that precede and postdate AMCA emplacement.
30066166|Sea gullies that furrow the continental slope off the coastal town of San Clemente, California, are morphologically similar to many sea gullies common on segments of the continental and insular slopes of the California continental borderland. Sounding records usually show these small features near canyon heads, which is to be expected; but more puzzling is their presence on slopes that do not immediately appear morphologically related to existing topography, either submarine or terrestrial. The local studies off San Clemente center primarily around continuous acoustic reflection records produced by the Marine Sonoprobe, a high-powered bottom-penetrating sonar. Used at San Clemente in conjunction with a precision navigation system, these records establish that the sea gullies have heads cut in Tertiary bedrock at the shelf break, but do not continue across the narrow continental shelf. Bedrock continuity is established by tracing, with subbottom echoes, outcrops in the heads of gullies to exposures shallow enough to be observed directly by diving. The shelf is primarily sedimentary bedrock with only a thin lens of Recent sediment over its outer portion. The conclusion is that the San Clemente sea gullies are probably submerged subaerial erosional forms where they originate at the shelf break. They appear to be in the process of burial, and their topographic continuations farther down slope from the shelf break may be constructional and due to differential deposition. The sequence of events suggested for formation of the sea gullies accounts for five locally recognized terrace levels plus the eustatic rise and fall of sea level during the Pleistocene. Local or regional tectonism of relatively modest proportions is further invoked in the explanation. It is possible that many continental slopes, apparently smooth, will prove to have buried bedrock surfaces corrugated by gullies.
30062149|The amphibolite-facies to granulite-facies transition at the southern margin of the Dharwar craton has been studied in the Krishnagiri, Satnur-Halaguru, and Kushalnagar areas of southern India. In all three areas the transition appears to be a progressive metamorphic overprint on cratonal gneisses and their mafic and metasedimentary enclaves, without major structural interruption. In the Kabbal-Satnur-BR Hills section of Karnataka, a high-grade charnockite massif with pronounced Rb depletion is the culmination of an apparently continuous increase of metamorphic grade southward. In this and the Kushalnagar areas, increase of paleopressure from near 6 to near 8 kbar with increasing grade indicates a depth-zone relationship of the amphibolite and granulite facies. Incipient charnockite replacing Peninsular Gneiss first appears along N-S shears parallel to the regional grain of the craton. Low-P(
30080951|Laboratory measurements of the effect of a confining pressure on the strength and the stress-strain characteristics of a number of distinct coals are described. It is shown that the application of a confining pressure produces considerable changes in the measured characteristics and that the strength, with the exception of Pentremawr Anthracite, varies little between the coals tested at a confining pressure of 5,000 1b/sq in even though there is a 14:1 ratio between the strongest and weakest coals at atmospheric pressure. The results are shown to be in reasonable agreement with three criteria of failure, Mohr's theory assuming that the observed angles of fracture are not influenced by local edge-stress concentrations, an extension of Griffith's theory where allowance is made for the closure of the cracks during compression, and the constant elastic strain energy of distortion criterion assuming that lateral movement of the coal is hindered by end restraints.
30070504|A unique and hitherto unknown intrusion of micaceous ultrabasic rock similar to alnoite in the Sierras Subandinas zone of northern Argentina is described. The sheet-like intrusion extends over at least 10 km and was emplaced into various sedimentary horizons during the Early Carboniferous. The mineralogy of the rock consists of plates of phlogopite (35% mode) that enclose serpentinized olivine (20%), and minor Ti-magnetite (4%) and apatite (1%). Other major minerals are diopsidic clinopyroxene (8%), perovskite (10%), and calcite (5%). Accessory andradite garnet is either Ti-rich (red) or Ti-poor (orange). The rock is mineralogically similar to dike material from the Marathon area, Ontario and referred to as ultrabasic lamprophyre with alnoitic affinity. The presence of a tinguaite (peralkaline phonolite) in the same general area of Argentina, plus the occurrence of other alkaline rocks to the north in Bolivia may indicate the presence of an important alkalic province in this region.
30078352|Tholeiitic amphibolites in the circa 2700 Ma Kolar Schist Belt, south India, are intimately interlayered with minor komatiitic amphibolites. The tholeiitic amphibolites, which are similar to other Archean tholeiitic rocks, are Fe-enriched, with
30061950|The purpose of this investigation is to extend methods of orientation analysis to fine-grained clastic sediments in order to determine the character of their last depositional environment, including the nature and direction of movement of the depositing agent. A two-dimensional method, based upon statistical analysis of measurements of the projections of grains on the bedding plane, is developed. Two measurements are made on each grain projection: (1) elongation azimuth and (2) end position (defined as the position of the larger end of the grain with respect to the smaller end). Grains from laboratory fluvial and eolian environments exhibit a pronounced preferred elongation parallel to the direction of flow of the depositing agent and a marked tendency to lie with their larger ends upcurrent. Results of this study indicate that the source direction of fine-grained fluvial and eolian sediments can be determined uniquely by use of the two measurements and suggest that the agent of deposition of a sediment may be determinable from its orientation pattern.
30071106|Some types of graded bedding, especially minor or isolated occurrences and varved "clays," can be readily accounted for by normal processes of sedimentation. Volcanic eruptions, dust storms, annual and longer climatic rhythms, rejuvenation of relief at the source or filling in of the sedimentary basin, churning up of sediment by storm waves, are among the more obvious potential causes of graded deposits. But the majority of occurrences cannot be explained by any of these processes. The authors believe turbidity currents of high density may be invoked to have supplied the sediment and deposited it in graded beds. The absence or insignificance of current bedding and ripple marking in graded deposits, the deposition of coarse material on the unconsolidated fine-grained top of the preceding bed, the enormous extent of each individual member without apparent change in thickness or character, and the frequent inclusion of angular fragments (even composed of clay) and of redeposited fossils are among the chief characteristics opposing transport and deposition by normal agents. All these and several other features, such as the often observed combination of grading with slumping, are explained by turbidity currents of high density. The graded graywacke series of some geosynclines, coarse graded conglomerates and breccias deposited in deep water, and some deep-sea sands can be accounted for in this manner. Experimental investigations on the nature of turbidity currents and the production of graded bedding are described, and the formation of certain graded rocks from the Apennines are treated in detail. Finally, an attempt is made to give a general elucidation of the formation of graded sediments by the action of turbidity currents of high density.
30056273|Three widely contrasted types of sand structures are discussed in this paper-strand-line ripples, ridge and trough structures, and sand waves. The first is allied to but distinct from ordinary oscillation ripple marks. The third is analogous to ordinary, asymmetrical ripple marks but has crests rising above the troughs a foot or more instead of an inch or two. The ridge and trough structures are approximately symmetrical like oscillation ripple marks but are spaced at intervals of many feet instead of one or two or a very few inches. They are considered to be the product of the joint action of on-shore waves and undertow.
30067382|A positive
30070632|The Panama Basin in the eastern equatorial Pacific is bordered by the continental margins of Central and South America and by the Cocos and Carnegie Ridges. A series of banks divides it into an eastern and a western basin. The distribution patterns of the sediments are the product of complex interactions between biological productivity, dissolution of calcite at depth, influx of continental debris, and dispersal and reworking of sediments by deep currents. Detailed grain-size analyses provide insight into the reworking-dispersal portion of this system. The coarsest grain-size modes in the sand and coarse-silt range are concentrated on banks and ridges by winnowing, while the chaff is deposited on ridge slopes and in the western basin. Approximately one-half of the sediment in the deep western basin is the product of reworking. In contrast, the finest silt and clay modes have been dispersed by near-bottom currents and show transport of continental and fine biogenous material from the eastern to the western basin through gaps in the dividing ranges.
30068783|Recent theoretical studies of mid-ocean ridge (MOR) accretion have shown that the density differences between silicate melt and solid phases and between fertile and residual mantle may be important controls on the upward flow of upper mantle and separation of melt from the upwelling matrix. Both compositional and thermal buoyancy may play an important role. To assess quantitatively the magnitude of these effects, we have compiled the available data for calculating densities of silicate melts and solid phases as a function of composition, temperature (1000-1500C), and pressure (1 atm to any pressure where the solid phases of interest remain stable ). We include measured and calculated values of thermal expansion and compressibility for both solids and liquids. Our calculations for mantle material undergoing decompression-induced melting show that density differences between instantaneous melt and residual solids increase toward the surface, implying an increasing melt migration rate with continuing upwelling and melting. However, the density difference is significantly less than the value of
30079799|Mesoproterozoic intrusive and granulitegrade metamorphic rocks in southern California have been inferred to be exotic to North America on the basis of perceived chronologic incompatibility with autochthonous cratonal rocks. Ion microprobe geochronology indicates that zircons in granulitegrade gneisses, dated at 1.4 Ga using conventional methods, are composed of 1.681.80Ga cores and 1.19Ga rims. These Early Proterozoic gneisses were metamorphosed at extremely high temperatures and moderate pressures during emplacement of the 1.19Ga San Gabriel anorthosite complex. The lack of a 1.4Ga metamorphic event suggests that Proterozoic rocks in this region, rather than being exotic to North America, may in fact be a midcrustal window into Mesoproterozoic crustal evolutionary processes in southwestern North America.
10.1086/669249|The deformation in the central part of Al Jabal Al Akhdar, NE Libya, is dominated by E-W right-lateral strike-slip fault zones that form a conjugate system with the N-S left-lateral strike-slip faulting. The dextral wrench-dominated transpression is responsible for the formation of strike-slip duplexes, en echelon folds, and thrusts that deform the Cretaceous-Eocene sedimentary sequences. The strike-slip duplex is formed by the progressive linkage of horsetail-like structures at the western tip of the Al Bayda strike-slip fault that joined splays coming from other dextral strike-slip faults. The master linear fault branches into second-order dextral or sinistral faults that regroup into a linear single fault. Faults started from arrays of en echelon extensional/extensional-shear fractures that then coalesced into throughgoing strike-slip faults. Shortening was accompanied by significant N-S-striking left-lateral strike-slip displacements, with the development of NE- to ESE- and SW-plunging major folds, N-directed thrusts, and NW-striking normal faults. These major folds are C-system wrench-related folding, of the sort that usually play an important role in oil and gas accumulation. Three major compressional events occurred in the Santonian, Campanian-Maastrichtian, and early Late Eocene, alternating with extensional periods in the Oligocene, EarlyMiddle Miocene, and Pliocene. These events developed the folding of the Syrian Arc and strike-slip faulting along the NE Africannorthern Arabian margin, including Al Jabal Al Akhdar.
30059017|The anhydrous crystallization of an alkali basalt from the Azores was studied at 1 atm. total pressure and under
30060693|Beach forms, such as crescentic bars and cuspate shoreline, manifest a three-dimensional structure of rhythmic topography characterized by periodic longshore undulations of both the surf zone bed and the subaerial surface. The three-dimensional structure and the tendency for migration of rhythmic topography cause distinctive modes of beach change. Since crescentic outer bars tend to migrate parallel to shore, profile changes involving an outer-bar system generally reflect two unrelated processes, one arising from net transformation of individual profiles and the other from longshore displacement of a whole rhythmic system in response to currents. Crescentic inner bars exhibit a tendency for predominant shoreward migration during the time of swells. Under this condition, a subaerial beach will initially assume a ridge-and-runnel-type structure and eventually a uniform two-dimensional profile when full accretion is reached. Beach changes involving crescentic inner bars can produce a beach cycle in response to a succession of random storms. A model predicts the most likely cycle length, which agrees with the field observation. Crescentic bars forming between headlands appear to be generated by a standing edge wave continuously excited by an incident seiche of beat frequency, whereas rhythmic topographies on an unbounded coast appear to be caused by sand-wave trains which result from instability of the surf zone bed perturbed by longshore currents and waves.
30084828|The "Diabas-Hornstein Formation" of Hammer occurs in the Ophiolite belt and in the outer and central Vardar zone of the Inner Dinaric region, characterizing this area as an "eugeosyncline." We interpret this formation as a mlange of olistostrome origin. The mlange originated in deep troughs over a plate-consuming margin by accumulation of sediments from the oceanic bottom, continental rise, and continental shelf, with intermixing of the oceanic crust and mantle ultramafic material as mechanical fragments, cold diapiric bodies, or warm crystal mush. It marks the boundary between the Serbo-Macedonian continental element and part of the Tethys, a margin active also during the Hercynian orogeny. The Ophiolite belt ocean is explained as a secondary ocean, opened by differences in velocity between the marginal and inner parts of the Dinaric microcontinent (probably in the Middle Triassic), and possibly closed without a regular Benioff zone. The Upper Cretaceous-Tertiary magmatic activity beyond this complex ophiolitic scar is explained as a high-temperature result of the processes in the consumed plate.
30055922|Many lava flows cannot properly be classed as either aa or pahoehoe. Obsidian flows and highly silicic lavas commonly are made up of distinct blocks without aa characteristics. More rarely basalts exhibit such block structure. The term "block" should take its place along with aa and pahoehoe as a type of lava flow.
30065753|An occurrence of convolute laminations is described from Devonian sediments exposed along the south coast of New South Wales, Australia. In many of the folds there is an axial plane cleavage which developed prior to consolidation of the sediment and closely resembles the cleavage commonly found in tectonites of low metamorphic grade. The style of individual folds, even to their fabric, is indistinguishable from that of many tectonic folds. From a discussion of the criteria used for distinguishing between penecontemporaneous and tectonic deformation structures, it is concluded that the folds are convolute laminations formed by load deformation of a semifluid sediment. The axial plane cleavage has probably developed by rotation of preexisting inequant grains, rather than by recrystallization of layer silicate minerals in a stress field.
30059285|The number of isotopically dated zircons from the basement complex of the Karelian belt has been doubled to include six samples. The ages are all discordant and are compatible with loss of lead by a continuous diffusion mechanism. Two possible mechanisms are that diffusion took place at a constant value of the parameter,
30070513|Nd, O, and Pb isotope data from southern New Brunswick suggest that 625 to 360 Ma granitoid plutons contain a major juvenile component and small amounts of Middle Proterozoic or older crustal material. Plutons fall into four major age groups: 600-630, 540-560, 422-430, and 367-396 Ma. The first and third groups can be related to subduction in other parts of the Appalachian orogen, but most of the second and fourth magmatic pulses have lithologic associations and chemistry not readily reconciled to subduction. The timing and volume of magmatism, presence of mafic end-members, and juvenile signatures in the plutons suggest that crustal delamination may have been involved. Little evidence exists for extensive Middle Proterozoic or older continental crust beneath the Avalon Zone, which consists mainly of Late Proterozoic continental margin arc material intruded by younger granitoid plutons that include a major mantle component. This differs from contiguous Gander and Meguma Zones in which plutons contain a major volume of recycled old (>1.5 Ga) crust. A region with a greater old crustal component in the northwest part of Avalon Zone (Brookville Terrane) may represent a link to the enigmatic "Central Crustal Block" beneath Gander Zone.
30080140|The earth's major tectonic features-orogens, island-arc complexes, and midocean ridges-have formed in response to tangential compression, principally in the lithosphere, but partly in the asthenosphere. This compressive stress field is a response to minor thermal contraction. As the lithosphere accommodates its lower surface to the upper surface of the underlying middle mantle (400-1,000 km), a "surface" called the level of no strain develops between the zone of tension (in the mantle) below and the zone of compression (lithosphere) above. We believe that this surface actually is the "plastic" asthenosphere (low-velocity zone) of the upper mantle. The near absence of this zone beneath the Archean shields implies that the shields are "welded" to the underlying mantle. Cooling and contraction have decreased exponentially through time. Today contraction is limited to two approximately great-circle fracture systems-the Tethyan and the circum-Pacific-and to very mild tectonic activity at and near the midocean ridge crests. Contraction also explains the magnetic anomaly patterns of the ocean basins and continents. The ocean-basin anomalies are roughly concentric around Archean shields. Where they continue into the continents, they "ignore" middle Proterozoic and younger features. Formation of the linear anomaly patterns around shields and in the ocean basins was accomplished by thermoremanent magnetization in a magnetic field of alternating polarity, and in the tangential stress field of the lithosphere and upper asthenosphere. The geometric relations between the magnetic lineations and the Archean nuclei and increasing numbers of Precambrian age dates from the ocean basins provide strong corroboration for the hypothesis presented here.
30055715|The area about the outlets of the French River serves as a connecting link between the Huronian area proper and the regions east of Georgian Bay containing the Grenville and Laurentian rocks. The major structures of these areas are connected in French River area by a unifying but peculiar major fold. It is fan shaped with its apex to the north, to which converge anticlines, synclines, and fault lines. The batholiths conform to the country gneisses of this structure, and appear to bear very close relationships to the gneisses themselves. The gneisses are ultimately of sedimentary origin, and together with the associated batholiths appear to illustrate the conditions which prevail at great depth during times of major diastrophism, and perhaps to indicate how batholiths are formed. In any case the batholiths are subordinate in shape and distribution to the structure of the country gneisses, the major structure of the area.
30060824|Data on the compressed state of garnet included in diamond are used to place restrictions on the pressure (P)-temperature (T) conditions of inclusion. To do this we first locate a P-T point or region within which the relative compression between host and inclusion is eliminated. Then we use comparison dilatometry of the two minerals to 7 kbar to determine a set of P-T curves of constant difference in natural strain. From that set we then select a subset encompassing the P-T condition(s) found in the first step. Extrapolation of such curves to plausible geotherms shows that the probable source of many diamonds associated with garnets of the type found in eclogites lies within the stability field of diamond somewhere between 145 km and 300 km beneath the surface, consistent with independent inferences from chemical petrology.
30075237|Mountain front morphology is used to assess the relative role that tectonic and/or climatic processes play in shaping topography in the Sierra Nacimiento, a Laramide uplift in northern New Mexico. Rates of fault offset (0.013 mm/yr) in the adjacent Rio Grande rift are an order of magnitude slower than locally calculated rates of fluvial incision (0.17 mm/year) and regional denudation (0.120.84 mm/yr). Thus, although Quaternary fault offset may be locally important in increasing relief and driving fluvial incision, it is subordinate to high rates of regional fluvial exhumation in defining the geomorphic expression of the mountain front. The geomorphic youthfulness of the Sierra Nacimiento landscape is attributed to recent and rapid erosional exhumation facilitated by fluvial processes as streams have become increasingly well adjusted to structure and rocktype. Repeated capture events throughout the Quaternary have increased drainage basin area as stream networks have become well integrated. To test the idea that epeirogenic uplift, perhaps associated with Quaternary volcanism of the Valles caldera and the Jemez Lineament, may have driven the increase in regional denudation, largescale GISbased analysis of digital topography (DEM) was used for the Taos range, the Colorado Front Range, and the Sierra Nacimiento. The GIS analysis also allowed us to estimate the relative residence time of topographic forms in the Southern Rocky Mountain landscape. The GIS results support our conclusions that drainage integration and accelerated denudation rates in the middle to late Pleistocene have played the dominant role in defining the characteristic relief and geomorphic expression of Sierra Nacimiento and related Laramide uplifts.
30079762|The Late Archean crust south of Krishnagiri, Tamil Nadu, consists of tonalitic-trondhjemitic-granodioritic (TTG) gneisses with mafic and sedimentary enclaves, formed between 2.7 and 2.5 Ga and metamorphosed at amphibolite facies in the north to granulite facies in the south close to 2.5 Ga. Migmatization occurred at all grades, and numerous small granite bodies were emplaced near the amphibolite-to-granulite facies horizon. This nearly syn-accretion meta-morphism affected the entire crust and left a chemically differentiated section later exposed by uplift and erosion. Detailed chemical and petrographic study of >60 samples across a 90 km traverse provides evidence for an essentially unbroken crustal cross-section: Paleopressures range from 4 kbar (corresponding to 12-14 km paleodepth) in the north to 8 kbar (corresponding to 24-28 km paleodepth) to the south. Corresponding paleotemperatures vary between 650 and 800C across the section. Mineralogic grade monitors, particularly increasing
30059264|Late Cenozoic glaciation as a whole can be attributed to the present near-polar position of North America. The continent had undergone no extensive previous glaciation for about
30064942|Abundant microcline-perthite megacrysts mantled by plagioclase (
30084974|Grabens and horsts between transcurrent faults in New Zealand, currently explained by normal faulting, are shown to be caused by lateral displacement. The mechanics of the formation of such features is explained.
30064988|Compressive strength profiles through continental and oceanic lithosphere show, under all likely conditions, continental lithosphere to be significantly weaker than oceanic. Manifestations of this include subduction initiation within continental lithosphere (North Africa, eastern Japan) and the existence of continental large-scale, strike-slip faults. These latter are associated with the production of displaced (exotic) terranes. Once failure has begun and crustal shortening occurs through thrusting, reduction of the geotherm causes an increase in total compressive strength and burial of the strength maximum in the thickened section. This result leads to a mechanistic view of flake tectonics such that the modified strength profile of the overriding (thickened) plate enables it to act as a chisel and strip the upper crust from an encroaching continent. The increase in total strength leads to a horizontal-strength gradient, such that the most recently thrust-shortened section is stronger than the as yet undeformed foreland. Thus the footwall/foreland begins to deform internally until eventually it collapses and becomes imbricated into the hanging wall. This newly thickened section cools, becomes stronger, and deformation spreads to the new footwall/foreland. This is recognized as foreland migration of thrusting, documented in both active and inactive orogens. Thus mountains get wider through time because of a thermally induced horizontal strength gradient.
30059426|Examination of thousands of records from wells in western Ohio has made it possible to ascertain the topography of the bedrock surface beneath the glacial drift. Many pre-glacial or interglacial valleys, hitherto unknown, are now recognized. The most important are the preglacial or interglacial Maumee, Sandusky, Huron, and Teays. According to Tight, the Cincinnati River was a tributary of the old Teays in preglacial time and drained the Miami basin of southwestern Ohio. However, the slope of the bedrock in this area indicates that the drainage in interglacial time, and possibly in preglacial time, was to the southwest, as at present. The course of the Teays (in Ohio) was in a northwesterly direction from Pickaway County, through Madison, Clark, Champaign, Shelby, Auglaize, and Mercer counties into Indiana. The course of the Teays northward through Delaware and Marion counties was impossible, as the bedrock altitude is too high for it to have flowed in that direction. The old surface beneath the glacial drift in northwestern Ohio is remarkably even and not so rough as might be expected. The Worthington (Lexington) and Parker erosion surfaces, well developed in eastern and southeastern Ohio, are represented on the buried lowlands of western Ohio. The preglacial valleys were deepended during the Deep (interglacial) stage preceding the Illinoian, after much disturbance of the drainage by earlier glaciations.
30071077|Because gravity influences chemical equilibrium, consideration of the thermodynamics of our globe requires understanding of chemical processes and stability in the gravitational field. The influence of gravity on stability of mixed condensates (crystals or magmas) and of stoichiometric crystals is analyzed. The theoretical analysis supports the hypothesis of granitization and metasomatism by upward diffusion of some elements.
30056251|Analyses and brief petrographic notes are here given for twenty-one large intrusives from the African shield. These, with about as many earlier tests, indicate that the core of the continent is not abnormal in composition, as might be supposed from the numerous analyses made on alkalic and basic rocks near the coasts.
30081033|A comparative study is made of a late Pleistocene shingle beach complex and a modern shingle beach complex on Margarita Island, Venezuela to determine the nature of the climate when the older complex was deposited. An analysis of pebble size and shape distributions on the old and new complexes indicates that the wind and wave directions and energy levels on each were virtually the same. From this it is concluded that climate of the period in which the old ridge originated is quite similar to that of today.
30080190|Although parasequence and sequence are scaleindependent terms, they are frequently applied only to specific scales of cycles. For example, meterscale cycles are commonly assumed to be parasequences or PACs. In the Upper Ordovician Kope and Fairview Formations of northern Kentucky, we examined a succession of 50 meterscale cycles that have been variously interpreted as deepeningupward, shallowingupward, or showing no relationship with water depth. Our analysis shows that these cycles, characterized by shifts in stormbed proximality, are highly variable in their thickness and internal construction. Most cycles are best considered highfrequency sequences, because deepeningupward intervals are common, and many cycles contain evidence of abrupt basinward shifts in facies as expected at sequence boundaries. A minority fit the parasequence model of shallowingupward cycles bounded by flooding surfaces. Larger, 20 m scale cycles are defined by systematic thickening and thinning trends of meterscale cycles. However, meterscale cycles do not display any systematic trends in cycle anatomy as a function of position within the 20 m cycles or position within the Kope and Fairview Formations. The high cycle variability and the lack of systematic stratigraphic organization with respect to longerterm cyclicity reflect either the irregularity of relative sealevel changes, the poor recording of sealevel changes in this deepwater setting, or the generation of these cycles by climateinduced cyclicity in storm intensity. These three mechanisms would generate similar patterns at the outcrop scale, so it is not possible at the present to distinguish between them.
30063936|The Hasvik gabbro was intruded during the interval between two major deformation phases at theacme of the regional amphibolite fades metamorphism. During the F-2 folding, different strain patterns were produced dependent upon the predeformational rock fabrics. In the metasedimentary envelope, with markedly anisotropic fabrics, abundant minor fold structures were produced. In the gabbro and its immediately adjacent hornfelses, which have fabrics approximating to isotropic, conditions of brittle deformation obtained and the rocks yielded on a pattern of small wrench faults of varying order. As these structures formed during the regional metamorphism, the shear zones, associated with the faults, were subjected to annealing recrystallization and grain growth. Analogies are made with recent experimental work on rock deformation and recrystallization.
30070581|The researches on the clays are of great importance in the chemistry, physics, and genesis of soils. Formerly inorganic soil colloids were thought to be composed largely of uncombined oxides and hydroxides of silicon, iron, and aluminum, and soil clay was looked upon as being amorphous. During recent years it has been shown that clay minerals are important constituents of soil colloids generally. The phenomena of base exchange, absorption in general, and the structure and tilth of soils are all greatly influenced by the clay minerals of soils. Investigations on these subjects have already been considerably influenced by the researches on the clays. The discovery that the clay minerals are widely distributed in soils and that certain soils contain kaolinitic clay minerals, others contain montmorillonitic clay minerals, and still others contain mica-like clay minerals, has stimulated interest in the question: What are the essential conditions for the formation of the different clay minerals? The researches on the clays have served to show the close relationship between soil science and geology.
30064106|Twenty-five continuous seismic reflection profiles across the outer shelf southeast of New England show, within the first kilometer of sediment, a conformable or locally prograded veneer about 0.1 km. thick, unconformably overlying two prograded sequences. All three units dip gently seaward. The deepest sequence crops out locally on the continental slope, or else is unconformably overlain by as much as 0.4 km. of the intermediate sequence or the shallowest sequence. The continental rise is an apron as much as 1.6 km. thick of generally conformable layers which lap up on the slope between 1,200 and 2,000 m. below sea level. The progradation of the edge of the shelf, the onlap of the sediments constituting the rise, and the broad geo-syncline in the crustal rocks (known from earlier refraction observations) indicate that the portion of the ocean basin beneath the rise and the edge of the shelf has been depressed since the deposition of the Upper Cretaceous sediments which make up the lower portion of the slope presently exposed. The eroded character of the continental slope and the onlapping layers of the upper rise indicate that sediment has not, in this area, built the slope seaward significantly since Cretaceous time but accumulated on the rise. The volume of unconsolidated sediment on the rise is more than five times greater than could have resulted from eroding the slope back 20 km. The dip of the seafloor in the zone of accumulation is less than 11/2, whereas the declivity of the slope is 1-6. The present slope is probably a degraded scarp which formed between Late Cretaceous and mid-Tertiary times.
30070502|An example of a recently active delta-front fjord landslide has been extensively studied using side-scan sonar, subbottom profiler, piston coring, and submersible observations. The resulting sea-floor morphology and sediments have many characteristics similar to terrestrial debris flows. Analysis of cores, including physical properties and X-ray radiographs, is correlated with survey data to interpret the debris flow deformational processes and to categorize the debris flow sediments. Deformational mechanisms include delta-front sliding, downslope loading and mixing, translational shearing and remolding, and distal-lobe block gliding over weak, high-water-content fjord bottom sediments. A major part of the debris flow apparently involves remolding and deformation of fjord bottom sediments. These mechanisms result in distinctive sediment properties and structures. The data and interpretations provide a basis for comparison with other marine sedimentary sequences where slope instability processes are suspected.
30058429|In south-central Wisconsin, outcrops of pre-Cambrian igneous rocks occur as monadnocks and ledges surrounded by Paleozoic sediments of Cambrian and Ordovician age. A careful study of such features as flow structures, chilled zones, inclusions, spheroids, gash veins, and an apparent sill leads to the conclusion that there is a minimum of eight separate flows, which were later subjected to stress in a horizontal shearing movement, which resulted in the development of an overturned anticline and syncline. During the field seasons of 1938 and 1939 the writer made a detailed study of the Utley meta-rhyolite, about 17 miles south of Berlin, Wisconsin, and a reconnaissance survey of the other igneous rocks in the area. A map of the quarry at Utley was made by a pace-and-compass survey, no other maps being available.
30061967|Unconformities usually imply subaerial erosion. It is suggested, from submarine geological data, that turbidite sequences may contain unconformities which do not indicate subaerial erosion but are due to turbidity-current scour. Included rock fragments and derived fossils in such sequences may not indicate that the source rocks were being subaerially eroded. Criteria involved in the drawing of inferences from observational data may not be valid for both traction-current and turbidity-current deposits.
30059300|A new definition is proposed for peat that is co-ordinate with a definition for coal that has been previously discussed. Moisture relationships are most important for differentiation of coal and peat. Graphite formed by metamorphism of coal probably can be distinguished by the amount of graphitic carbon present and might be called "graphocite."
30060145|In the western part of the Great Basin region many thousand feet of marine strata lie conformably beneath the earliest Cambrian faunal (time) horizons. Along the trends of transgression these basal deposits disappear progressively until Lower Cambrian and, finally, Middle Cambrian faunas occur in the beds which lie directly upon pre-Cambrian rocks. Thus Cambrian sedimentation began much earlier in some places than in others; and, if we regard a basal unconformity as the lower limit of the Cambrian system, this limit will vary in time from the age of the strata at places where the faunal and physical bases coincide to the earlier but uncertain age of the lowermost stratum conformably underlying the recognized Cambrian. This variable duration of the "Lipalian interval," together with other similar Cambrian relationships, proves the inadequacy of physical criteria as a satisfactory basis for the establishment of time-rock boundaries. Since faunal correlation generally is much more precise than diastrophism as a time index, the time-stratigraphic units of that portion of the geological record in which diagnostic faunas occur (Paleozoic and higher) should be delimited biologically. In the interest of local and interregional precision of definition and of validity of stratigraphic concept, the base of the biozone of the trilobite genus Olenellus is proposed as the base of the Cambrian system.
30071569|Joint spacings for two mutually perpendicular joint sets were measured in each of five sample sites in gabbronorites and anorthosites. Joint density ranges from
30056866|Ground-water studies in the area of the Carolina bays have revealed a singularly consistent set of subsurface conditions when considered collectively. These conditions, apparently related to the origin of the bays, are (1) the presence of distinctly bedded clays in which at least one bed of limestone occurs, the limestone being generally less than 25 feet thick and less than 150 feet below land surface; (2) a remarkably simple homoclinal structure, ideally suited for artesian conditions, especially in the uppermost beds; (3) solution under artesian rather than water-table conditions in the near-surface bed of limestone, resulting in slow but regular removal of mineral constituents during the long periods since deposition of the soluble beds. The hypothesis advanced is that solution in a near-surface artesian aquifer composed of limestone resulted in subsidence of overlying clay into this aquifer, thus forming a normal sink. This condition was followed by streamline ground-water flow around this relatively impervious clay obstruction, leading to increased rate of solution and subsidence in the down-gradient side of the area. The slow, continuous streamline flow of ground water around the impermeable clay enlarged the dissolved area into an ellipsoid or, more generally; into an ovoid, the more pointed end of which is down-gradient. The hypothesis of streamline origin apparently accounts for genetic features of the bays. Sand rims that characterize parts of some bays are shown to be superimposed features, not requiring explanation under this hypothesis.
30060097|Upper Paleozoic strata in the eastern Alaska Range consist of a submarine volcanogenic complex over 2,800 m thick (Delta River sequence) overlain by at least 1,300 m of terrigenous sediments, limestones, and black shales (Mankomen Formation). The volcanic complex is calc-alkaline in character, and more than half are andesitic to dacitic in composition. Terrigenous sediments in the Delta River sequence and in most of the Mankomen Formation were derived from volcanic sources. However, in the middle part of the Mankomen Formation near Gulkana Glacier, terrigenous sediments appear to have been derived largely from a chert-quartzose metamorphic source. The calc-alkaline character of the upper Paleozoic volcanic rocks suggests the existence of a late Paleozoic volcanic arc-subduction zone in the eastern Alaska Range. Large amounts of siliceous volcanic material in the Delta River sequence and clasts of quartzose metamorphics in the Mankomen Formation further suggest that the late Paleozoic arc developed on continental crust. If this tentative conclusion is correct, then the late Paleozoic volcanic arc may be a northerly continuation of the late Paleozoic continental arcs thought to exist in southeastern Alaska and westernmost Canada.
30058740|The paper describes a supposed river channel deposit in the Permian Red Beds of southwestern Oklahoma. The rock differs much in lithology and primary structures from the associated strata. It contains a good many fossils, which are discussed not paleontologically, but as sedimentational data: i.e., for the light they may throw upon the conditions of deposition of the rock in which they occur. Its petrographic characteristics, especially the relations of the rarer detrital minerals, are discussed in some detail. The results of the study are considered to show that the rock was probably deposited by a river which flowed northwestward from the Arbuckle Mountains. The abundant calcareous cement is held to have been deposited mechanically as a lime mud. The suggestion is made that the peculiar lithologic features may be due to deposition under somewhat unusual conditions; perhaps by one of the cloud-bursts that occur at long intervals in most arid regions.
30058751|The major structural features of Ohio are the Cincinnati arch, the Parkersburg-Lorain syncline, the Cambridge arch, and a few other related folds in the eastern portion of the state. The general alignment is north-south. The faults in Ohio have small throw, and strikes which vary little east or west of north. They are chiefly normal and apparently related to the major warping. The minor folds have considerable diversity of trend, but the axes of more than two-thirds of them fall within the quadrant, N. 0-90 W., with the largest number approximately northwest-southeast. They show a shift in direction from almost north-south in northeastern Ohio to east-west in the southern portion of the state. A corresponding change is noted in the orientation of the jointing in the coal beds, although, in general, the joint sets are not parallel to the axes of the folds. Those in the coal are more regular than those in the other rocks. Apparently the forces which produced the folded Appalachians were mainly responsible for the structural features of Ohio.
10.1086/682288|The South Fork slide (SFS) is exposed over an area of 800 km
30060261|Grenville gneisses from a metamorphic terrain in Quebec contain specific combinations of the major constituent minerals: quartz, potassium feldspar, plagioclase, sillimanite, garnet, biotite, hornblende, calcium pyroxene, and rarely hypersthene. Garnet, biotite, and hornblende from 29 rocks have been analyzed by spectrochemical methods; 62 mineral analyses are presented. The lithologic units associated with the gneisses are briefly described. An examination of mineral assemblages of Grenville gneisses has shown that certain minerals were found not to coexist. These relationships are discussed in terms of chemical equations. For example, the combination sillimanite-hornblende can be chemically equated to the combination garnet-anorthite-quartz-
10.1086/669979|Along the Serra Azul (Blue Mountains) in Brazil, a large (600-m) incision surface cuts into post-Marinoan cap carbonates and into the underlying glaciogenic diamictites of the Puga Formation. The paleovalley is filled with glaciomarine sediments, notably, massive diamictite with multiply striated sandstone and mudstone lonestones of the Serra Azul Formation. Using preexisting mapping, satellite imagery, isotopic data, and new stratigraphic sections, we delineate a paleovalley that we infer to be related to a combination of isostatic rebound due to glacial erosion and sea level fall at the time of the Gaskiers glaciation. The hypothesis that a significant glaciation at this time can be observed in the geological record is consistent with global evidence presented here.
30055892|That effective wind abrasion depends upon a combination of favoring conditions seems to be illustrated at the mouths of certain canyons in the Sierra Nevada. Winds sweeping along the glacial troughs used the glaciers as floors along which they drifted the finer rock debris against the opposing hills that were not then protected by vegetation. Conspicuous effects are still preserved, although the conditions have ceased to exist.
30081026|Fossil algal balls are abundant in limestones of the Pleistocene Ryukyu Group in the Ryukyu Islands, southwestern Japan. Their concentration forms a characteristic lithofacies, the algal ball limestone, which is an important component of the Ryukyu Group. Textural and paleontological examination indicate that these algal balls originated in a moat or lagoon, growing while they rolled about on the floor of a sandy channel, and finally accumulated on a gentle fore-reef slope. In places, algal balls are found in the deeper water facies of the Ryukyu Group into which some of them were brought by slumping or gravity flows to be included in biogenic detrital limestone accumulated on the fore-reef slope, together with those which originated in deeper water. The present paper exclusively deals with the algal balls of the algal ball limestones.
30075135|An optical and single-crystal X-ray study has been made of some thirty feldspars, mostly plagioclases, of the marginal facies, the laminated and unlaminated series, and the late granophyres of the Skaergaard Intrusion. This study was undertaken so that data on the structural states of the feldspars could be used, together with information from the associated minerals, in any interpretation of the cooling history of the complex. It is found that there are appreciable variations in the structural states of the feldspars within the layered series, and at other points in the intrusion, which can be correlated generally with the changes in the ex-solution and inversion textures of pyroxenes and other minerals. Nevertheless, while it is found that this work can confirm and extend a little many of the earlier ideas of the cooling history of the Skaergaard Intrusion, limitations have become apparent in that the present data on the dynamics of the inversion and unmixing processes are far too meager to allow any detailed assessment of the physico-chemical conditions obtaining during any stage of the crystallization. It is clear that, before any major progress in the field of geological thermometry can be made by utilizing processes of this kind, much more experimental data will be needed on the nature of the processes involved and on the factors which control the process at all points within the composition fields of the major mineral groups.
30061983|Measurements of the global abundance of barrier islands indicate that 49% occur along coastlines of trailing continent margins; 24%, along collision plate margins; and, 27%, along coasts of marginal seas. Based on 2619 shelf width measurements, evidence is presented to show that for only trailing margins is shelf gradient related to barrier island abundance. Of those barrier islands situated along trailing margin coasts, 75% occur along Amero-trailing margins (average gradient 0.57 m/km); 19%, along Afro-trailing margins (average gradient 2.4 m/km); and, 6% along Neo-trailing margins (average gradient 5.9 m/km). Because sediments supplying barrier islands today are generated mainly on the inner shelf and shoreface in response to both nearshore processes and to rising sea level, barrier islands occur in greatest abundance where broad, low-relief coastal plains lie adjacent to the inner shelf and where both are comprised of abundant uncon-solidated detritus. Elsewhere, barrier island occurrence is sparse to absent along very low gradient shelves where the coastal plain-continental shelf sedimentary prism is absent. The tectonic setting of the continental margin is fundamental in controlling factors governing barrier island abundance.
30081031|Mantle pyrolite differentiates at mid-oceanic ridges to form a layered lithosphere consisting of a basaltic crust, immediately underlain by harzburgite and further underlain by pyrolite which has experienced depletion only of highly incompatible elements (e.g., Rb, light REE). The body forces driving subduction are concentrated mainly in the upper cool, brittle layer of lithosphere, comprised of basalt and harzburgite. The lower layer of relatively ductile pyrolite is stripped off during subduction and resorbed into the upper mantle. This material, which is depleted in highly incompatible elements, provides a future source region of mid-ocean ridge basalt magmas on a timescale of 10 years. The Nd, Sr, and Pb isotopic characteristics of MORBs are explained on the basis of this model. The slab, which sinks to ~600 km, is comprised mainly of former basalt and harzburgite. These differentiated layers undergo a significantly different series of phase transformations to those experienced by mantle pyrolite. The characteristics of these phase transformations and their influence on the density contrast between the slab and surrounding pyrolite are reviewed in detail. They cause the cool subducted lithosphere to remain denser than surrounding mantle to 600-650 km. Below 650 km, former basaltic crust remains denser than surrounding mantle, whereas former harzburgite becomes relatively buoyant. The resulting non-uniformity in stress distribution causes the slab to buckle and to accrete to form a large, relatively cool, ovoid "megalith" of mixed former harzburgite and basaltic crust, sitting on the seismic discontinuity at 650 km. The megalith (dimension >300 km) is heated mainly by thermal conduction, and thermally equilibrates with surrounding mantle on a timescale of 1-2 b.y. Partial melting of entrained former basaltic crust ensues. The resultant liquids contaminate surrounding regions of former harzburgite, rendering them fertile in the sense of future capacity to produce basaltic magmas. As the megalith warms up, its viscosity falls, and large dense blocks of former oceanic crust (now depleted in incompatible elements by partial melting) sink into the lower mantle. Newly fertile, former harzburgite is now buoyant. Diapirs of this material separate and rise into the upper mantle, becoming incorporated in the lithosphere, and experience small degrees of partial melting to produce the alkaline basaltic suite. In oceanic regions, the rising diapirs are responsible for "hot-spot" alkaline volcanism whereas, in continental regions, the upwelling diapirs cause doming and rifting, also accompanied by alkaline activity. The residual components of the diapirs become permanently incorporated into the sub-continental lithosphere. This is a cumulative process and is ultimately responsible for the development of the chemical, physical, and isotopic characteristics of the sub-continental lithosphere. The U-Pb, Nd-Sm, and Rb-Sr characteristics of alkaline (and calcalkaline) associations can be explained in terms of the model. The geochemical evolution of the continental crust and its formation from the mantle by multistage irreversible differentiation processes are also examined within the framework of the model. The extraction of highly incompatible elements (e.g., Rb, K, Ba, U) is essentially decoupled from the extraction of the major elements of the crust (Si, Al, Ca, Fe, Mg, Na). The incompatible elements derive via MORB source regions from a reservoir comprising the upper 650 km of the mantle. The sialic elements, on the other hand, are derived from much more localized reservoirs within this region, namely the mantle wedges overlying subduction zones. The final products of long-term irreversible differentiation of mantle pyrolite are the sialic continental crust, the sub-continental lithosphere of depleted peridotite, and the former oceanic crust, which is consigned ultimately to the lower mantle.
10.1086/660086|X-ray diffraction (XRD) analysis of the illite to muscovite transition in pelitic rocks has been widely used in regional studies of low-grade metamorphism. Variations in detrital muscovite content of sediments are also measurable with XRD and may, in fact, be difficult to distinguish from metamorphic gradients. We utilize field transects to isolate detrital muscovite versus metamorphic reaction components of illite-muscovite variations in Paleozoic rocks of the western United States. One transect focuses on a single stratigraphic interval (Middle Cambrian pelites) and extends from Death Valley in the west to the Grand Canyon in the east. Detrital muscovite content is roughly constant along this 500-km-long transect, so illite-muscovite variations are ascribed to differences in low-grade metamorphism. In terms of both illite crystallinity and polytype composition, there is an overall increase in metamorphic grade to the west along the transect, from the diagenetic metapelitic zone at the Grand Canyon to epizone-low anchizone conditions near Death Valley. Most of the regional variation in illite parameters occurs between Frenchman Mountain and the southern Nopah Range, corresponding to the transition from cratonic to miogeoclinal facies and also to the leading edge of the Sevier thrust belt. In contrast to this horizontal transect that highlights metamorphic reactions, a vertical transect through the Paleozoic stratigraphy of the Grand Canyon targets temporal variations in the flux of detrital muscovite. In the Grand Canyon, illite crystallinity reaches a maximum at the base of the Pennsylvanian Supai Group before decreasing upsection. Deposition of the Supai Group was coeval with formation of basement-cored uplifts during the Ancestral Rocky Mountains orogeny, and we suggest that the upsection change in illite composition at the Grand Canyon reflects input of detrital muscovite eroded from these uplifts.
30068553|The role of sub-aerial processes in the development of coastal configurations and related rock landforms in tropical regions has in the past been largely ignored. Formation of the Darwin coast and environs in the seasonally dry tropics of northern Australia has been strongly influenced by deep weathering processes. Substantial lengths of this coast have derived their present configurations as a result of the style of land surface lowering and weathering processes operating here. Individual landforms such as shore platforms and offshore rocky reefs also owe their origins largely to the same cause. While marine processes cannot be overlooked, the origin of rocky coasts and their landforms in tropical cratons with highly weatherable substrates is best sought in the landscape evolution of the coastal hinterland. A previously unrecognized style of etchplanation, here called land surface refraction, involves subsurface structural and lithological controls that influence surface topography and explains the development of many coastal landforms.
30065689|A non-fossiliferous, concretionary plastic clay found submerged under 300 feet of water in Block Island Sound, 3 miles south of Fishers Island, is believed to be a remnant of the Pleistocene freshwater lake deposits postulated by earlier investigators to have formed when sea level was lower. The occurrence of this material in Block Island Sound requires a re-examination of the clay deposits on Fishers Island and the propinquitous landmasses which have been placed in the older Gardiners Formation mainly on the basis of their inferred stratigraphic position.
30068497|The present paper suggests that if the paleomagnetically-derived maps of Scotese et al. (1979) are right, the implication is that in the Mediterranean region Hercynian folded chains may be the result of a continental collision between Africa and north Europe. South Europe is considered as a part of the Gondwanaland. Nevertheless, the affinities of the Devonian faunas suggest that the Carnian block must be considered a fragment of the northern continents (Laurussia). Consequently, in the Devonian paleogeographic picture, the Italian peninsula should have been separated from the Iberian-Provence region and placed eastwards along the northern margin of Gondwana, so as to join the Carnian block during the Hercynian orogeny and thus form the Apulian microplate. The collision model adopted excludes an early (Devonian-Carboniferous) opening of the Tethys between southern Europe and Gondwana, that being in conflict with the evidence for large-scale Hercynian deformations in Mediterranean western Europe. As regards to the Upper Paleozoic and the Permo-Triassic evolution, Irving's (1977, 1979) and Westphal's (1977) models are assumed to be more useful.
30080147|Flat, disc-shaped calcareous concretions are found in unconsolidated Pleistocene fine sand and silt of glaciolacustrine origin in Laurentides Park, north of Quebec City, Canada. About 40% of the concretions are faulted, the faults passing into surrounding sands. It is suggested that faulting took place in frozen sediments (ground temperature close to 0C), and that cementation also occurred after displacement.
30069096|Maximum stable heights of steep, friable loess slopes of western Iowa and western Tennessee were found to relate to the soil density and shear strength in accord with the sliding-wedge method of analysis. Shear strength was determined in situ with the borehole shear test, which allows a rapid field determination of the Mohr-Coulomb failure envelope. Tests at six sites in Iowa showed no consistent difference between horizontal versus vertical shear strength, except that horizontal strength was more variable. The frequently cited vertical cleavage of loess appears to be a result of tension in the surface layer in accord with Rankine theory and is not unique to loess. Vertical slab or cleavage failure should result in an average slope angle of about 77, which coincides with an observed modal frequency in western Iowa loess. Failure of a 77 cut in shear should then result in an average slope of 51 dependent in part on the angle of internal friction,
30064019|Preservation of sediments as a function of their geologic age can be described by stochastic models for the following cases: (1) fixed sediment mass with constant probabilities of erosion and preservation; (2) fixed sediment mass with erosion and preservation probabilities that vary with geologic age; and (3) growing sediment mass with constant probabilities of erosion, preservation, and removal from the sedimentary cycle. For geologically long periods of time, the stochastic models can be transformed into such models of sediment preservation as the exponential or compound decay of a fixed sediment mass and a continuous growth of the sediment mass. Several of the statistical distributions arising out of the stochastic models- the geometric, exponential, compound decay, and inverse hypergeometric-produce mass-age distribution curves for the Phanerozoic and Late Proterozoic sediments that agree reasonably well with the actual masses reported in the literature. A general characteristic of the stochastic models is that for any mass-age distribution of sediments when the mass decreases with an increasing geologic age, there always exist sets of preservation and erosion probabilities that describe the process of sediment aging.
30068477|Paleomagnetic studies from sedimentary and volcanic rocks of the northern part of the Adelaide Geosyncline spanning the (?) 850-570 my period are described. The data are derived from coherent stratigraphic sequences where absolute isotopic age control is lacking, but fold tests and field relationships allow the construction of a relatively simple and consistent APWP segment for this time interval. Probable primary magnetizations have been isolated in four units ranging in age from oldest to youngest as follows: Wooltana volcanics ( = 62S,  = 142E, dp = 16, dm = 18); Merinjina tillite ( = 45S,  = 346E, dp = 06, dm = 11); Angepena Formation ( = 33S,  = 344E, dp = 09, dm = 16); Brachina Formation ( = 33S,  = 328E, dp = 12, dm = 20). Secondary magnetizations of probable early Cambrian to Cambro-Ordovician (Delamerian) age have been identified in the Wooltana volcanics ( = 36N,  = 087E, dp = 13, dm = 26), Copley quartzite ( = 36S,  = 010E, dp = 07, dm = 15), Merinjina tillite ( = 01S,  = 065E, dp = 08, dm = 14), Tapley Hill Formation ( = 33S,  = 344E, dp = 08, dm = 15), and Bunyeroo Formation ( = 07S,  = 017E, dp = 09, dm = 14). Secondary magnetizations of probable Tertiary or Mesozoic age are present in many of the units studied. When combined with paleomagnetic results from the southern part of the Adelaide geosyncline, the new data show that no significant bending of the geosyncline has occurred since middle Proterozoic times, and that the characteristic sigmoidal structural trends in the geosyncline are original features. Apart from refining and clarifying the late Precambrian APW history for this southeastern structural block, the new data show that sedimentation in the Adelaide Geosyncline occurred in low to moderate paleolatitudes during Adelaidean time; thus a low latitude for late Precambrian glacial (or glacio-marine) deposition is indicated for this region.
30079625|In the preparation of this paper twenty thousand well records were examined and six thousand of the significant ones were plotted. The average thickness of the drift in western Ohio is 69.5 feet. Great thicknesses up to more than 530 feet are recorded along the buried valley of the old Teays, which passes in a northwesterly direction through Madison, Champaign, Shelby, Auglaize, and Mercer counties into Indiana. The preglacial Maumee, Portage, Sandusky, Huron, Cuyahoga, and Ohio rivers were tributaries of a large stream which flowed eastward draining the valley now occupied by Lake Erie. A preglacial divide separated western Ohio into three drainage areas-the Erie lowland, the southwestern basin, and the area drained by the old Teays River. In preglacial time the valleys of western Ohio were broad, such as would exist in a region worn down to an advanced stage of erosion. During the Deep stage, which preceded the Illinoian stage, they were deepened considerably.
30060396|Directive features in the Kekequabic granite of northeastern Minnesota were mapped for the purpose of determining the relation of the intrusion to the tectonic forces responsible for the intense regional folding of sediments intruded by the granite. The results indicate a lateral movement of the magma from the southwest, paralleling the trend of the regional folding, during the existence of pressures from the northwest and southeast. The structure of the sediments shows that these pressures were responsible for the regional folding, and the granite is assumed to have followed shortly after such folding and to be directly related to the same period of diastrophism.
10.1086/670721|Within the McQuesten area of the central Yukon region of the Canadian Cordillera, the >100-km-long Willow Lake fault juxtaposes two crustal domains: (i) on the northeast, the Reid Lakes complex, an unmetamorphosed and predominantly undeformed Devono-Mississippian assemblage of plutonic and volcanic rocks; and (ii) on the southwest, typical Yukon-Tanana terrane (YTT) with deformed greenschist to amphibolite facies metamorphosed prelate Devonian to late Permian rocks. In this study we investigate the tectonic history of these two crustal domains and present sensitive high-resolution ion microprobe U-Pb ages that delineate middle to late Paleozoic arc magmatism and fit key units into the YTTs regional lithotectonic framework. Notably, magmatic zircons possess ca. 193 Ma overgrowths, and patches of recrystallized zircon with low Th/U ratios occur in samples proximal to the fault. Mississippian (ca. 349325 Ma) biotite and hornblende
30056301|After the final deformation of the sediments accumulated in a geosyncline, four parallel, genetically associated tectonic belts are believed to occur: (1) deformed hinterland, (2) intensely faulted and folded anticlinorial mountainous belt, (3) folded syn-clinorium, and (4) a complementary arch which consists of a succession of domelike swells connected by arches or saddles. The occurrence, relationships, origin, and distribution of complementary arches in eastern United States are discussed. Based upon several lines of evidence, a complementary arch is postulated to have connected the Nashville and Ozark domes before it sagged and was covered by sediments of the Mississippi embayment.
30059100|The formation of quartzo-feldspathic rocks-principally pegmatites-is discussed from the viewpoint of thermodynamic stability of minerals and mineral associations. Most quartzo-feldspathic rock bodies, migmatites, and pegmatitic veins encountered in folded chains exhibit mineral associations which indicate a formation at temperatures below which silicate melts cannot exist. Data from a granulite facies area in western Greenland show that, even at the relatively high P-T conditions that prevailed there, the granitic component in the system was unable to form melts. Furthermore, pegmatites and quartzo-feldspathic massifs usually possess mineral associations in harmony with the degree of metamorphism prevailing in the surrounding region. In high-grade areas the pegmatites-independent of their bulk chemical composition-show high-temperature mineral assemblages; in low-grade areas low-temperature assemblages occur in the pegmatites. Because the melting curve of a magma is definitely determined by the bulk composition of the system (at constant pressure), the logical conclusion must be that most pegmatites, veined gneisses, migmatites, and several acid massifs were formed by some metamorphic-metasomatic processes in which silicate melts were unable to co-operate.
30075188|The flow rate of sea water through sub-sea-floor hydrothermal systems at mid-ocean ridges has been estimated at
30056213|Pillow lavas are of widespread occurrence in the formations of the Lower and Middle Ordovician, Middle and Upper Devonian, Permian, Upper Triassic, and to a minor extent of the Upper Silurian in Southeastern Alaska. Evidence is given to show that they all originated under submarine conditions. Tertiary volcanics are present in large volume, but were formed under subaerial conditions and show practically no pillow lavas. These data all support the hypothesis that pillow lavas, where developed in quantity over a wide area, are of subaqueous origin.
30078339|The Kennett Formation is a unit of intra-arc sediments which was deposited during the final stages of Early to Middle Devonian island arc construction in the Eastern Klamath Mountains, California. Nearshore bioturbated volcaniclastics with a shallow marine fauna also contain rare debris of land plants, indicating island source areas. These sediments grade to volcaniclastic turbidites of slope origin which in turn grade to thin-bedded siliceous mudstone representing a basin floor environment. Limestone lenses at the top of the Kennett are debris deposits with matrix-supported intraclasts and overturned colonial skeletons which were derived from shallow carbonate banks. Sedimentary facies of the Kennett indicate a mature arc topography of islands, submerged highs and intra-arc basins. Basins were probably developed by tectonic extension of the arc during the Early Devonian.
30059704|There appears to have been a concerted effort on the part of certain glacial students and their followers to give in textbooks and other publications an air of finality to the interpretation that the Iowan drift is an early Wisconsin product and to practically exclude the alternative interpretation, held by certain other glacial students, that it is a late product of the Illinoian stage of glaciation. The present paper aims to present for consideration evidence which seems to the writer to favor the view that the Iowan represents a dying-out phase of glaciation rather than an opening phase, and also that at the place where the Iowan and Illinoian drift come together, in southeastern Minnesota, there appears to be no evidence of a difference in age shown by weathering or by overriding of the Illinoian drift by the Iowan.
30055919|The formation of glacial tables is a cyclic process which when repeated indefinitely causes superglacial boulders to move across the surface of the ice in a downslope or southward (or intermediate) direction. Such "boulder migration" is independent of glacial transportation (which is the transfer of boulders due to movement of the glacier) and may take place in a totally different direction from it. Principles governing boulder migration and data bearing on the rate at which it occurs, based on studies made in 1931 on Teton Glacier, Wyoming, are summarized.
30058176|Because the volume of Glacial Grand River varied by several ten thousands of second-feet between the maximum discharge during a retreat of the Saginaw, Huron, and Erie lobes and the minimum discharge during a readvance, the erosional and transportational ability of the river varied. An advance of the ice front, accompanied by slackened erosion in the Grand River outlet for ponded water in front of these lobes, was marked by essentially static lake levels, which are recorded by shore lines. A retreat was marked by erosional deepening of the outlet and falling lake levels. Seven successively lower shore lines were made in the Saginaw Basin while six moraines were being laid down. The seventh moraine, to correspond with the lowest shore line, is presumed to lie submerged in Lake Huron.
30059197|Five substages of glaciation, all probably Wisconsin, on the west side of Iztaccihuatl in Mexico are evidenced by series of great lateral moraines at altitudes of 3,100-3,500 m., by higher, relatively insignificant moraines, and by prominent moraines at 4,270-4,450 m. Small moraines above 4,400 m. within upper valley heads represent 3 and possibly 4 periods of refrigeration after the Thermal Maximum; three small separate hanging glaciers exist today on the west side.
30056714|The problems of the Sudbury irruptive are approached here mainly from two points of view: (1) the nature of the zone intermediate to the acid and basic portions and (2) the place of these rocks in the general Keweenawan petrographic province of Ontario. It is considered that the nature of the rocks of this intermediate zone does not support the theory of gravitational separation of the basic member but indicates rather the formation of hybrid types at the contact of two separate magmas-one, the more basic, well crystallized; the other, the more acid, still mostly liquid. From an analysis of the now excellent chemical data and a comparison with the allied bodies elsewhere in the province, it is concluded that the basic member represents the product of fractiona-tion of the liquid of the parent diabase magma of this petrographic province and an early separating olivine-diabase component, probably through some filter-pressing action, and that much of the heterogeneity of the rock is primary in the sense that it was brought about by this process of evolution.
30060232|A synthesis of radiometric data from continental volcaniclastics and volcanics that are tied to mammalian faunas reveals that an acceptance of recently revised age estimates on Eocene glauconites results in an offset in correlation between Eocene marine and continental stratigraphies by as much as an entire stage. A unified Eocene geochronology is maintained by retaining the earlier age estimates of the marine scale. The recent modification to the Paleogene part of the Cenozoic time-scale by Tarling and Mitchell (1976) is rejected.
30063868|The dramatic changes in climate and physiography following the retreat of the last glaciers are reflected in the record of forest succession as gleaned from pollen studies made chiefly in the Great Lakes area. Fairly rapid deglaciation began about 8500 B.C. while spruce-fir forests still dominated (Valders Retreat). Soon the pine came in, and spruce-pine forests took over (about 7000 B.C.). At the time of the Terminal Glacial (Cochrane, 6000 B.C.) pine was the dominant forest tree, whereas spruce-fir forests had migrated north. During the following three thousand years, while the climate was warmer and drier, pine forests were dominant. Then broad-leaved trees (oaks) made their appearance. First came an oak stage that extended until about 1000 B.C. It was followed, during the next five hundred years, by an oak-hickory stage. The period from 7000 to 600 B.C. is now known as the "hypsithermal interval" rather than by its former, but less suitable, designations (postglacial climatic optimum, thermal maximum) and as such has been correlated with corresponding stages in the European sequence and postglacial chronology. The various radiocarbon dates based oil different sites and carried out in different laboratories have not yet been completely aligned but show considerable agreement with other sources of evidence. Events during Late Glacial and postglacial times apparently had a more far-reaching effect on present-day distribution patterns of plants and animals than did those of the various Glacial and Interglacial periods. These pronounced postglacial changes in climate and physiography definitely affected the mode of life of various paleo-Indian groups living in this region.
30064204|In the York area, Maine, the Agamenticus alkaline ring-dike complex cuts the enclosing Kittery formation. The rock types of the ring-dike complex are, from oldest to youngest, hybrid alkaline granite, alkaline syenite (nordmarkite), alkaline granite, and granodiorite. The nordmarkite and the alkaline granite contain numerous inclusions of the Kittery formation. These inclusions show mineralogical and chemical zoning caused by the influence of the surrounding melt. The Kittery formation is a rhythmically bedded sequence of alternating light-colored and dark-colored beds. The light-colored beds were originally of impure limestones and tuffaceous limestones, which have now been metamorphosed to a fine-grained rock containing diopside-hedenbergite, tremolite-actinolite, plagioclase, and orthoclase. The dark-colored beds were originally subgraywackes and tuffaceous subgraywackes which have now been metamorphosed to a rock containing quartz, biotite, muscovite, orthoclase, and andesine. When fragments of these two rock types were introduced to the ring-dike melt, there occurred a reaction, caused by a concentration gradient which existed between inclusions and melt. Mineralogical and chemical changes were produced by this reaction in both the inclusions and the melt. During the early stages these changes are represented within the inclusions by concentric zones of contrasting mineralogy and chemistry. The mineralogy of each of the early-formed zones is characterized by development of the following minerals: aegirinaugite (exterior zone), microcline, hastingsite, typical Kittery formation (at center). The chemistry varies greatly, depending on which zone is sampled. Generally speaking, the oxides of the elements show one of the following trends: geochemical depression in a specific zone, geochemical culmination in a specific zone, a gradual increase from the center of the inclusion outward, a gradual decrease from the center of the inclusion outward. During the later stage of alteration the earlier-formed zones are obliterated, and the inclusion approaches the mineralogical and chemical composition of a syenite. Throughout the history of alteration the basic constituents and silicon move outward toward the borders of the inclusions, and the alkalies all move into the inclusions from the surrounding melt.
30079595|Pegmatitic perthites have been studied to a far greater extent than plutonic types. The terminology and theories adequately applied to intergrown feldspars in pegmatites have been indiscriminately transferred to similar kinds in deep-seated igneous rocks with resulting confusion. The present paper is the result of a study of plutonic perthites. Definite relationships exist between bleb shape-sizes and origin. The small ones are due to exsolution; the large, irregular blebs which occur close to and on the margins of the grains, and obviously cut the host, are due to replacement. There are, however, many types that are the result of both processes. Exsolution, at relatively high temperatures, produces small, well-oriented blebs, which at lower temperatures are redistributed, enlarged, and replaced by introduced solutions. Comparison with bleb shape-sizes in pegmatites is made. Complete correlation is not possible at the present time. It may be it does not exist. Criteria for the recognition of various types are given.
30080947|The progressive metamorphism of amphibolite interlayers in the Adirondack gneiss complex is reflected in the complete transition between the following mineral assemblages: (1) green hornblende-andesine-quartz-ilmenite, stable at an estimated 525 C. at Emeryville, New York, and (2) brown hornblende-labradorite-clinopyroxene-orthopyroxene-ilmenite, stable at approximately 625 C. at Colton, New York. The hornblende in the Emeryville assemblage is bluish-green, and averages about 70 volume per cent of the amphibolite rock. With increasing grade of metamorphism, the color, density, and composition of the hornblende changes toward a hydroxyl-deficient, brownish-green, denser variety, relatively enriched in Ti, Na, K, F, Cr, V, Sc, Co, and Ni, and depleted in Mn, Zn, and OH. Both FeO/FeO, and Fe/Mg decrease with increasing grade of metamorphism. The coexisting plagioclase increases in An content from
30060833|Relative quantitative estimations of clay minerals in samples from twelve profiles of caliche deposits of eastern New Mexico are presented. These profiles represent: High Plains (6), Sacramento Plain (1), Mescalero Plain (1), and Orchard Park (2) and Blackdom (2) Terraces of the Pecos River. The typical clay mineral association is illite, montmorillonite, kaolinite, and chlorite. Randomly mixed layers of illite and montmorillonite; illite and chlorite; and illite, montmorillonite, and chlorite are present in small amounts. Based on mature profiles, the following conclusions are drawn: (1) illite is the most abundant clay mineral and markedly increases toward the top of the profiles; (2) illite content varies inversely with both kaolinite and montmorillonite; and (3) the variations of kaolinite and montmorillonite are approximately parallel. In half of the samples, kaolinite is slightly more abundant than montmorillonite, and the contrary occurs in the other half. In profiles of deposits with a low degree of calichification, illite again is the most abundant clay mineral, but the other relationships do not apply. By comparing the clay minerals present in caliche profiles with published results for various soil types, analogies with chernozem and desert soil are noted.
30081116|Pleistocene speleothems of the Soreq Cave, Beth Shemesh, Israel, situated within karstic Cretaceous dolomitic rocks, consist of two major mineralogical types: (1) monomineralic, low-magnesium calcite (LMC; 0.5 and
30065158|Two possible models are available for the generation of komatiitic melts from upper mantle sources: (1) large extents of melting at relatively low pressures and (2) low extents of pseudoinvariant melting at high pressures. For the partial melting of olivine-dominated upper mantle and generation of komatiitic magmas, the [Mg]-[Fe] diagram calculated from olivine-melt
30079658|The presence of sole markings on a single turbidite bed indicating two or more directions of current flow is explained in a new way. The shale surface of which the turbidite sole is a cast may have been exposed and covered more than once through repeated deposition and erosion by turbidity currents moving in different directions. Repeated exposure is likely, since the shale was probably more resistant to such erosion than the turbidite layers which temporarily covered it.
30059249|Hydrothermal alteration of early Tertiary dacite, andesite, and latite has produced the following miner-alogical zones which flank a complex system of gold-bearing veins: (1) propylitic zone farthest from the vein; (2) argillic zone, divided into a montmorillonite subzone in the outermost part, and an illite-kaolinite sub-zone in the innermost part; (3) alunite-quartz zone, immediately adjacent to the vein. The boundary between the alunite-quartz zone and the relatively thin illite-kaolinite subzone is sharp. The latter subzone grades into the relatively wide montmorillonite subzone. The degree of crystallinity of kaolinite increases and the polymorphic form of the 9.9  mica varies from lMd (illite) to 2M (K-mica) as the alunite-quartz zone is approached. The propylitic zone is characterized by chlorite (14 ) and calcite. The gradational transition to the argillic zone is marked by the occurrence of a 1:1 mixed-layer chlorite-vermiculite. Alunite is believed to have formed by reaction of sulfuric acid and K-mica and the chemical reaction is believed to be
30057601|A method is presented for writing molecularly, volumetrically, and electrically balanced equations for replacement reactions. Two general situations obtain: (A) enough is known of the chemistry of the particular reaction to write a complete equation, or (B) only enough is known to permit the setting-down of the essential facts of the reaction in skeleton form. In the first case a simple, molecularly balanced equation for the reaction in question will show that there are three different possibilities: (1) that too much guest is furnished for the volume left by the departing host; (2) that too little guest is produced to fill the volume of host removed; and (3) that the volumes involved are approximately equal. In the second case the balanced skeleton equation will show that (1) there is a deficiency in the host of the large ions (sulfur, oxygen) needed in an equal volume of the guest; (2) there is an excess of these large ions in the host over the amount that can be used in an equal amount of guest; and (3) the number of large ions in equal volumes of host and guest are the same. In both cases the third category is relatively rare. Methods by which the additional material needed can be provided or the extra material can be removed are suggested. In supergene sulfide replacements the main problems in achieving complete balance are (a) a mechanism for the oxidation of excess
10.1086/649817|The tectonic evolution of southeastern South America from the Middle Ediacaran to the Early Cambrian is marked by a series of small faultbounded siliciclastic and volcaniclastic basins and voluminous coeval granites traditionally associated with the compressional or transpressional tectonics of the late stages of the PanAfricanBrasiliano orogeny. Most existing models consider these basins separately, with distinct tectonic evolutionary histories according to local geological settings. However, new and recently published age constraints, lithological similarities, and structural aspects point to the correlation of all Ediacaran to Cambrian basins in southeastern South America within a common basin system more than 1500 km long. The interpretation of a common origin for all Ediacaran to Cambrian basins of southeastern South America implies that all the different terranes of the Brasiliano orogenic collage in the region were already united in a single plate at approximately 600 Ma. An extensional origin for this basin system is interpreted from the recognition of basinforming normal faults (later reactivated as strikeslip or inverse) feeding alluvial fans and from expressive basic to acidic volcanic successions in several basins. The occurrence of basic, intermediate, and acidic volcanic rocks and voluminous coeval granites indicates that mantle and crustal fusion were simultaneous with the extensional event. Raised temperatures may have caused the thermal weakening of the lithosphere, enabling both extensional deformation and recurring strikeslip deformation that formed major shear zones in the region. This strikeslip deformation has been mistaken for basinforming tectonics, but it occurred in the Early Cambrian, after the formation of the basins, and most probably was the result of the farfield propagation of compressional stresses originating in younger collisional orogens at the plate margins.
30071238|Tertiary basin development, volcanism, and structural tilting at the west edge of the Colorado River extensional corridor is examined using singlecrystal
30082342|Physical models and numerical simulations offer alternative approaches to developing a mechanical understanding of deformation histories. This contribution (1) compares results from two independent studies (one employing the finite element method, the other using dynamically scaled physical models) of blind thrusting and (2) discusses the implications that these results have for the role that boundary conditions play in thrust system mechanics. The finite element models were designed to assess roof sequence response to duplex emplacement, whereas the physical modeling focused on triangle zone evolution. Despite this difference, both studies address the same fundamental question. How does a roof sequence respond to the propagation and displacement of blind thrust faults? The emplacement of thrust horses leads to a deformation partitioning in the overlying roof sequence. Deformation is partitioned between translation and internal distortion. Our results show that one of the controls on deformation partitioning is the strength of the dcollement. The numerical and physical models demonstrate that roof sequences above weak dcollements develop distributed shortening with thrusts dipping either toward or away from the foreland. Strong dcollements favor localized deformation by the formation of early backthrusts that accommodate horse displacement via underthrusting. In terms of roof sequence response, our results demonstrate that a strict end member response of simple forethrusting or underthrusting is an unlikely kinematic scenario. Rather, an underthrustingdominated response is favored for strong dcollements, whereas weak dcollements lead to roughly equal amounts of forethrusting and underthrusting. Our interpretations are independent of modeling approach and variations in particular boundary and initial conditions.
30062339|Metagabbros with a transitional greenschist-amphibolite-facies mineralogy are exposed on the lower slopes of the eastern wall of the axial valley of the Mid-Atlantic Ridge at 06N. These metagabbros are associated with metabasalts in the greenschist facies and with only mildly or nonmetamorphic basalts. Among the metagabbros some are finely banded, consisting of alternating amphibole-rich and plagioclase-rich zones, each about 1 mm thick. Specimens showing gabbro-basalt contacts are interpreted as representing the margins of basaltic dikes originally crossing through the gabbroic lower oceanic crust. The chemical composition of the metagabbros appears to be nearly unchanged from that of their parent rocks, which probably were gabbros with intermediate Fe/Mg ratio, and with olivine tholeiite normative composition and low K content characteristic of abyssal tholeiites. One of the metagabbros was dated at between 2 and 3 m.y. by the fission-track method on zircon crystals. The metamorphic processes which gave rise to the metagabbros probably took place not deeper than about 1.5 km, and in some cases just a few hundred meters beneath the axial valley; given probable regional conductive heat gradients below the Ridge axis, they cannot be accounted for solely by "regional" burial metamorphism; in fact, the classical concept of "regional" burial metamorphism is considered not applicable within the axial zone of an actively spreading ridge. Contact, dynamic, and hydrothermal metamorphism beneath the axial zone of frequent basalt injection and of intense faulting can account for the formation of the metagabbros. The banding of some metagabbros is explained by analogy with observations in the Appennine ophiolites, where basaltic dikes crossing gabbros are exposed; fine banding, observed in the gabbros within narrow zones at each contact with a dike, probably developed within the lower oceanic crust in shear zones along faults and fractures, locus of dike injection.
30060032|Surface runoff and the suspended and dissolved solid loads carried from two similar watersheds are expressed in kinetic energies for a variety of rainfall events. One watershed is rural, the other urbanized, so comparison of their responses is used to determine the effect of urbanization on energy distributions. In the rural watershed, an average of only 0.053% of the gravitational potential energy of rainfall is converted to kinetic energy of runoff. The conversion in the urban watershed is 7.8 % on the average, meaning substantially more of the rainfall's energy is transformed into a form which can perform erosion within the watershed. Transport of material in suspended or dissolved form from the urban watershed is tremendously higher as a consequence. In addition, urbanization changes the erosion pattern from one where dissolved loads predominate over suspended loads to one where both loads are of equivalent magnitude. Kinetic energies are also considered as functions of the recurrence interval of the events, called energy spectra. In the rural watershed for the range of runoff events monitored, significantly more kinetic energy is present in the outflow during baseflow conditions than in that from surface runoff events. Baseflow kinetic energies are 100-1,000 times larger than their runoff counterparts. After urbanization, however, the energy spectra for runoff and suspended and dissolved loads are all dominated by surface runoff. Surface runoff has from 4-200 times more kinetic energy than baseflow. Within the range of event recurrence intervals monitored, 0.02-0.15 years, dominant energies in the urban watershed generally occur at a recurrence interval between 0.07 and 0.08 years.
30080133|The control by the nucleus or crystal on the composition of the added material during crystal growth is explained in terms of the bonding characteristics of the constituents. The interraction of kinetic energy and bond energy to crystallize complex polycomponent compounds is discussed. A chemical-mechanical model for crystal growth is proposed. The distribution of elements between different phases and between different parts of the crystal is explained on the basis of the ionization potentials of the cations and the polarizabilities of the anions. The character of some of the metal-O bonds in some silicates is considered as being equivalent to metal-F bonds. An attempt is made to estimate the minimum size and composition of the nuclei of crystallization and of growth units. In the estimated sizes of the nuclei, there is a large difference between the end members of a solid-solution series and different but related minerals.
30056047|The isotopic composition of five samples of lead from the radium mines of Great Bear Lake indicates that the lead within the pitchblende veins is all of radioactive origin, even including that which now exists as galena, though a galena occurring close to a pitchblende vein is composed of ordinary lead contaminated with radioderived lead. The data raise unusual problems.
30071100|Statistical studies of zircons from ten samples of garnetiferous sillimanite gneisses (khondalites) from parts of Orissa and Andhra Pradesh, India, indicate elongation-frequency maxima at 1.1-1.2. Only 2-9 per cent of the grains have overgrowths around rounded nuclei; the overgrowths themselves are rounded. The zircons do not show any recrystallization or formation of fused aggregates (cf. Poldervaart and von Backstrm, 1949). The present studies confirm that the morphology of zircons can be used to distinguish paragneisses (cf. Eckelmann and Kulp, 1956) from metasomatic gneisses. The studies also indicate that recrystallization, transformation of zircons, and formation of new zircon crystals as described in the Quad Creek area of the Beartooth Mountains (Ecklemann and Poldervaart, 1957) are not achieved even at the high temperatures and (?) high pressures prevailing under the granulite facies conditions of metamorphism (as represented by khondalites), unless aided by metasomatism.
30055712|This article comprises an attempt to solve the problem of the anomalous occurrence of fossil remains of cold- and warm-water species of mollusks, etc., together in the three Pleistocene formations on Deadman's Island, California. Solution comes from the discovery of two new groups of facts. First, the occurrence of the cold- and warm-water species in separate zones. Second, wherever species belonging to the two climatic extremes are associated, only one is autochthonous, the other is derived. Conclusions on the interpretation of the sedimentary record of Deadman's Island are reached, especially with regard to the temperature represented by each deposit. The bearing of the results on correlation of the beds and of California Cenozoic deposits in general is considered.
30068881|The Middle Jurassic Entrada Sandstone, exposed near the town of Escalante, southern Utah, consists of largescale crossbedded eolian deposits that are interbedded with horizontally laminated sand sheets and thin sets of eolian crossstrata, representing periods with a moister climate. The flatbedded units contain numerous tracks and trackways from small to largesized theropod dinosaurs. These tracks are today exposed in several distinct erosional states, allowing detailed studies of track and undertrack formation in eolian deposits. Tracks that originally were emplaced on sloping surfaces show, in their presentday erosional state, a morphology distinct from those originally emplaced on horizontal surfaces. Further, the range of eroded track morphologies can help identify badly eroded tracks from nonbiogenic structures in similar deposits.
30060069|The wasting Wisconsin glacier left predominantly till deposits in western Canada and only subordinate amounts of stratified drift. In the final phases of wasting, the ice separated in places into a large number of small, dead, ice blocks: it disintegrated. This disintegration caused the preservation of many different land forms, some of which were initiated during the time of ice flow, others originated after flow ceased. Those features that show the influence of the previous live ice are said to be "controlled." Such control may be exerted by crevasses and thrust planes which are the response to stresses operative in a living glacier. Uncontrolled deposits do not reveal the influence of former flow. All gradations between controlled and uncontrolled disintegration can be observed. The depositional disintegration features include hummocks, moraine plateaus, round and irregularly shaped closed ridges, linear ridges, and washboard moraines. Ice-walled channels are an erosional form. The hummocky terrain and the closed ridges are regarded as the dominant product of uncontrolled disintegration. The linear and washboard ridges developed along inherited lines of weakness in the disintegrating ice and are regarded as controlled disintegration features. Both uncontrolled and contolled deposits resulted from the sloughing of ablation material into cracks and cavities in the ice and from the squeezing of till upward into openings at the base of the ice.
10.1086/663983|The provenance of the Permo-Triassic series of the Talayuelas anticline (Iberian Ranges) have been studied using U-Pb geochronology (laser ablation inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry) of detrital zircons. These intracontinental siliciclastic series were formed by extensive sandy braided fluvial systems associated with ephemeral lake deposits and aeolian sediments, with paleocurrents suggesting constant NW-SE transport directions. Upper Permian reddish sandstones from the Upper Alcotas Formation (Lopingian) contain a dominant Variscan zircon population (290360 Ma), which indicates source areas located in the axial zone of the Variscan belt, in the core of the Ibero-Armorican arc. However, in the Lower Triassic sandstones of the Caizar Formation (Olenekian), the Variscan zircon population is almost completely replaced by Cadomian zircons (520750 Ma), with important Avalonian (390520 Ma), Mesoproterozoic (9001750 Ma), Eburnian (1.782.35 Ga), and post-Eburnian and Archaean (>2.4 Ga) zircon populations. This detrital zircon content now suggests source areas located more to the NW, in the Avalonian microcontinent, although a limited supply coming from the southern part of Laurentia cannot be ruled out. Finally, in the Middle Triassic (Anisian), the source areas returned to the Variscan axial zone, since the Variscan zircon population is again highly dominant during this period. The changes detected in the source areas of the Permo-Triassic series are related to the development and propagation of the Iberian rift, one of the large extensional structures that determined the generation of the sedimentary basins and finally caused the breakup of Pangea. The methodology followed in this article is very useful to understand the generation and evolution of these intracontinental basins and also the relationships between the different rift systems generated in the North Atlantic realm during the Permo-Triassic times.
30056954|Evidence is presented to prove that the dike rocks of Corbaley Canyon represent a series of intrusions injected at intervals during the differentiation of an original lamprophyric magma. A very complete series of differentiates, with a quartz-hornblende kersantite and a spherulitic granophyre as the poles, has been found. That differentiation did not proceed by the splitting of a magma of intermediate or of granitic composition into acidic and basic poles to form "complementary dikes" is proved by the fact that the basic dikes were intruded earlier than dikes of intermediate and granitic composition. It is thought possible that the original lamprophyric magma from which the differentiates were formed may represent one of the lamprophyric offshoots of the Mount Stuart Batholith which lies about 20 miles to the southwest.
30063385|Cave-in lakes resulting from ground caving following the thawing of permafrost have developed in areas underlain by fine-grained sediments in the Nabesna, Chisana, and Tanana River valleys of eastern Alaska. It is suggested that the vegetal cover has an important control over the presence of permafrost and that a cave-in lake is initiated by a break in this cover. Once a lake is formed, the banks retreat at a rate indicated to be of the order of a few inches a year. The recession of lake banks thus enlarges the lake and is responsible for a typical sequence of areal patterns of the cave-in lakes.
30063435|Soils of playa-like depressions in South Dakota develop desiccation cracks and microrelief features with characteristics which are determined by soil texture, depression flooding rate, and depth of drying and wetting. Major cracks are wider in clay soils than in coarser-textured soils and increase in size with the depth of drying. Swelling of soil below cracks that collect rapid runoff helps to widen the crack and cause small circular slump pits on nearly level surfaces or open-crack striped patterns on sloping edges of depressions. Drainage of the depression slows down flooding, and the soil moistens gradually from the surface downward so the cracks are closed by swelling and do not collect water. With drainage, gilgai microrelief forms only if the depression has clay soils.
30067370|Calvert and Reeves have reported that Mississippian limestones rest directly upon Cambrian rocks, and that Devonian sediments are absent in the Big Snowy Mountains. In connection with a recent field investigation near Half Moon Pass, approximately 250 feet of Devonian limestones and dolomites were found resting upon an eroded surface of Upper Cambrian shales and limestones. These Devonian rocks contain poorly preserved corals (Favosites? and Pachyphyllum), brachiopods (Athyris, Atrypa, and Spirifer), and hydrozoans (Stromatopora), and are overlain by 2 feet of limestone and black, fissile, conodont-bearing shale. The Devonian limestones in the Big Snowy Mountains are tentatively correlated with the Upper Devonian Three Forks shale.
30067041|Postcollisional Eocene magmatism in northwestern Anatolia produced two EWtrending linear belts of plutons along and north of the IzmirAnkaraErzincan suture zone (IAESZ), whose geochemical features and age relations support a slab breakoff model for their petrogenetic oinevolution. The suture zone granitoids (SZGs) in the southern belt have ages around 5448 Ma, are intrusive into blueschist rocks of the IAESZ, and are composed of diorite, quartz diorite, granodiorite, and syenite. The Marmara granitoids (MGs) in the northern belt are slightly younger (4835 Ma), intrusive into the PaleozoicMesozoic crystalline basement rocks of the Sakarya continent, and composed of monzogranite, granite, and granodiorite. Both SZGs and MGs have moderately to highly evolved medium to highK calcalkaline compositions and are predominantly metaluminous Itype granitoids. NdSr isotope systematics (
30058215|It is shown on theoretical grounds that the electronegativity of oxygen in silicates depends upon the Si-0 structure as well as upon the Al/Si ratio in the (Si/Al)O tetrahedra. The more Si-O-Si links in a silicate structure, the larger the electronegativity of the oxygen atoms attached to metallic ions. That is, the effective electronegativity value of oxygen increases stepwise through the sequence: orthosilicate  pyrosilicate (
30079749|Most of the iron in banded iron formation (BIF) was deposited during the period 2.7-1.8 Ga. Within this period, Fe deposition rates were at least as high as
30062576|The magnitude of recent glacier recession in this area has been brought to light by means of detailed mapping of several of the larger glaciers and examination of many-others. Results indicate that since the beginning of the present century some of the principal glaciers have been reduced 40-75 per cent in area and more in volume. Several smaller glaciers have nearly or entirely disappeared during the same interval; and in a warm, dry summer all snow from the previous winter is dissipated from the firn areas or zones of accumulation on nearly all the glaciers.
30067365|A series of experiments was performed to investigate the physical processes underlying rock deformation. The apparatus used took advantage of recent developments in high-pressure technique by Bridgman to carry the range of pressure investigation to four times the amount of confining pressure available in the apparatus of F. D. Adams. Also, an entirely different technique was used, which obviated some of the inherent defects of Adams' apparatus. The relation between strength and confining pressure was investigated up to 11,000 atmospheres confining pressure. Strength was also investigated as a function of time. The effect of confining pressure on fracture and flow was particularly studied. The effect of deformation on the fabric of a rock is briefly described in the case of marble. Quartz was tested under pressures up to 12,000 atmospheres. Tension and torsion tests under high pressure gave paradoxical results. Plans for future work are discussed.
30081288|In the Wasatch Mountains and on several of the islands in Great Salt Lake, Utah, there are outcrops of rocks which are believed to be of glacial origin and are probably parts of a single widespread formation. They comprise tillite, fluvial conglomerate, varved slate, and graywacke. The tillite is over 300 feet thick and contains boulders as much as 20 feet long. A few of the erratics are striated. The varved slates are much thicker, and some of the beds contain scattered pebbles thought to have been dropped by floating ice. The formation has yielded no fossils, but it underlies Cambrian terranes, in several places disconformably but in others perhaps conformably. Like the Paleozoic strata, it has suffered strong folding but not much metamorphism.
30058216|In the field, dikes formed by replacement show such features as lack of offset on transecting an earlier dike at an acute angle, bridgelike septa across the dike, an irregularity of form with a tendency toward lenticularity, and both sharp and gradational borders. Large thin sections show a prevalence of crystallo-blastic textures and structures and a complete lack of flow structure or chilled borders or increase in grain size from the border inward. Some dikes at Cornucopia, Oregon, although exhibiting crystalloblastic textures and structures, also show marked fluxion textures indicative of mass movement. These conflicting data are interpreted as follows: A continuance of more active emanations following static metasomatism may be one of the factors that caused the newly formed material to flow as a neomagma and form a rheomorphic dike.
10.1086/665794|In this study, we describe the structural diagenesis of diluted turbidite and abyssal lutite deposits of the late Albian Black Flysch (western Pyrenees, northern Spain). We analyze and interpret an association of brittle and ductile soft-sediment deformation structures. To our knowledge, some of them are described for the first time, although they are known in other tectonic settings. We reconstruct a diagenetic history that commenced with a generalized siderite cement precipitation after siliciclastic turbidite deposition. Siderite replaced the finer-grained, diluted uppermost turbidite parts. Siderite precipitation was followed by calcite cementation in turbidites and by soft-sediment brittle (thrust planes, shear veins, and microveins) and ductile (fault-bend folds and culminations developed in relation to thrust-ramp strain) deformation structures. This occurred before hosting lutite lithification by dewatering and compaction.
30061130|The remains of 400 or more Permian amphibians were found in a series of siltstone channels confined to an area 50 feet square. The fossils include 90 per cent Diplocaulus, 8 per cent Trimerorachis, and 2 per cent other types. The channels are thought to be the remnants of a drying watercourse in which aquatic amphibians were concentrated by drought. The absence of fish remains suggests that the fishes died at an earlier stage of the desiccation of the stream. Absence of Eryops and amphibians of more terrestrial habits indicates that these forms left the water for more suitable habitat. The fossils are mostly or entirely of heavy-bodied, weak-limbed forms that probably could not walk about on land.
30066081|A multicomponent melting-mixing model for the origin of volcanic arc basalt magmas implies signifi cant recycling of K, Rb, Ba, and other elements in the crust-upper mantel system. The model accounts for chemical differences in alkali, alkaline earth, and rare earth content between arc basalts and a wide range of oceanic and intraplate basalt types. In essence, the differences are due to modification of mantle peridotite by recycled continental components (derived from sediment and sea water) at convergent plate margins. In a specific model tested by mass balance calculations, residual periodotite (partly depleted in a basalt fraction) in a subducted lithospheric plate thermally equilibrates with the surrounding hotter mantle at depth beneath island arcs, and being less dense, rises as kilometer size diapires. The diapirs are modified by addition of small proportions of melt or saline supercritical fluid from the denser oceanic basalt (eclogite) and sediment. The diapire serves as a source for arc basalts. Mass balance calculations show that large proportions of the K, Rb, Pb, Ba and to a lesser extent Sr and light REE in "island arc tholeiites" are recycled continental crust materiaL Proportions are less for high-alumina basalts and shoshonites. High La/Sm basalts from volcanic arcs may be quite similar to their oceanic and intraplate counterparts, whereas low La/Sm basalts are distinctly different. The model does not apply to magmas that have been chemically modified during migration through the crust (e.g., some Andean andesites). Mass and element recycling rates can be calculated from the volcanic arc model, which gives the relative contributions of the melting components, and the magmatic production rates of arcs. Mantle-derived magmatism is forming new continental crust at arcs at a rate exceeding subduction of crustally-derived sediment at arcs. Thus, the crust appears to be growing, but at a rate that is perhaps half of the mean past rate. The K content of newly added continental crust, when corrected for recycling, is very much lower than the mean K content of the crust. Thus the dominant present mechanisms of crustal formation appears to yield a very different composition than past mechanisms which were responsible for formation of the bulk of the crust.
30078384|To examine the nature and origin of fluids that caused widespread diagenetic alteration and remagnetization of the Appalachian foreland during the late Paleozoic, we first examined the evidence for metamorphic fluids originating from beneath the Blue Ridge and Piedmont, causing extensive alteration along the Linville Falls fault in the Grandfather Mountain window, North Carolina. These fluids were hot (310 to 400C), enriched in radiogenic strontium, and had
30059066|Despite elevations of 50006800 m, modern glaciers occur along the southern Puna Plateau and the northern Sierras Pampeanas in the southern central Andes. The modern snowline rises from 5100 m in Sierra Aconquija to 5800 m in the Puna as a result of a westward decrease in precipitation from 450 to less than 100 mm/yr. During the Pleistocene these arid highlands experienced multiple cirque and valley glaciation that likely postdate the last interglacial period, although lack of age control prevents an absolute chronology. Glaciation in the Puna and along the eastern Puna edge produced a 300m Pleistocene snowline (PSL) depression, while in the Sierras Pampeanas the PSL depression was at least 900 m. The greater PSL depression in the Sierras Pampeanas is best explained by a combination of cooling and increase of easterly moisture, whereas the PSL depression in the Puna appears more sensitive to moisture increases than temperature. Previously, glaciations in this region have been explained by increased precipitation, with a westward depression of the snowline caused by a northward shift of the Pacific anticyclone and equatorward shift of the westerlies. However, these PSL results require an increase of moisture from the east rather than from the west. Further, analysis of topographic data indicates that drainagebasin relief decreases north of 28S. The regional landscape response suggests that the circulation patterns currently observed have persisted at least during the Pleistocene and perhaps during the past several million years.
30060185|Attention is called to the importance of the concept of cylindroidal folds and their stereographic analysis. Dip data for the Cretaceous rocks of the Isle of Wight are analyzed stereographically and reveal a single cylindroidal-fold axis. Attention is drawn to the value of such analyses in interpreting "soft-rock" areas.
30075164|The thesis is developed that the Island of Cyprus in the eastern Mediterranean has a distinctive morphology controlled by two important east-west wrench faults bordering the central Troodos massif. Evidence is given for their existence and for their being of right lateral type. Their relationship to a much larger dextral shear zone is indicated.
30063826|The apparent thermal and baric structures of metamorphosed terranes are expressed in the map patterns of isograds and bathograds. Potential controls on such map patterns include: (1) thermal properties of the lithosphere, (2) mechanism, amount, and history of crustal thickening, and (3) variation in the rates of uplift and erosion. Simplified tectonic models of a single burial and uplift event, combined with one-dimensional models for the conductive transfer of heat, have been used to examine the effect of these controls on the relationship of apparent isotherms and isobars of peak metamorphic conditions in hypothetical mountain belts. Intersecting apparent isotherms and isobars are difficult to explain unless there are important variations in uplift times or thermal parameters across a metamorphic belt. Differences in original burial depth alone are unlikely to produce such intersections. Variation in thermal parameters across an orogen may lead to large variations in peak metamorphic temperature with little variation in the pressure at peak metamorphism. Differential uplift across a metamorphic belt is capable of producing profound differences in the pressure at the same peak metamorphic temperature and should be considered as a potential control on the baric type or bathozones of metamorphism. Testing whether differential uplift rates or variations in thermal parameters were dominant controls on the geometry of apparent isotherms and isobars is difficult, because most isotopic methods record post-peak metamorphic cooling history whereas uplift prior to and at peak metamorphism has the most important effect on the pattern of apparent isotherms and isobars. The available isotopic data do not suggest that differences in uplift rates across the Appalachians or the Scottish Highlands were the most important controls on the metamorphism. In the Pennine domain of the Alps, however, differential uplift may have been important.
30066092|We determined the solubility of ikaite from 0 to 25C to model its saturation state in natural waters and test the hypothesis that it is the precursor of the calcite pseudomorphs in thinolite tufa of Quaternary Lake Lahontan. Reversible solubility at buffered $P_{CO_{2}}$ yields the following expression for the dissolution constant of ikaite: $log K_{ikaite} = 0.15981 - 2011.1/T$. Where $T = ^{\circ}K$, and $0^{\circ}C \leq t \leq 25^{\circ}C$. Derived standard state properties are $\Delta G_{ikaite}^{\circ} = -2541.9 kJmol^{-1} \pm 0.66; \Delta H_{ikaite}^{\circ} = -2973.4 kJmol^{-1} \pm 1.02; S_{ikaite}^{\circ} = 306.6 JT^{-1}mol^{-1} \pm 1.2$. Modeling shows that ikaite is undersaturated at all temperatures in seawater and in alkaline lakes, but that it rapidly approaches saturation near 0C. Its precipitation in near-freezing marine sediments requires large additions of $HCO_{3}$ to pore fluids from the diagenetic decomposition of organic matter. Its crystallization in tufas of alkaline lakes, however, requires only small additions of Ca from springs. Simple kinetic experiments show that ikaite is stabilized in natural environments by orthophosphate, which prevents the crystallization of the more stable anhydrous forms of $CaCO_{3}$ but does not interact with the ikaite. Therefore, the presence of ikaite or its pseudomorphs is an indicator of near-freezing conditions in environments with high concentrations of orthophosphate. If ikaite is the precursor of thinolite tufa, then the thinolite likely grew below the sediment-water interface at the site of sublacustrine springs during prolonged cold periods.
30081074|Although an earlier study of Wolf Creek Crater (Australia) showed evidence of a positive gravity anomaly, new data merely confirm the expected negative gravity anomaly at the Crater.
30082343|In this article, we report on the modification of an intertidal beach surface by processes connected with the generation and redistribution of foam during a coastal storm. Foam generated by breaking waves initially accumulated at the swash line but was reworked across the beach by onshore winds. A distinctive suite of sedimentary structures, capable of preservation in the geological record, was produced that displayed a distinctive crossshore arrangement from the zone of foam generation to the zone of foam deposition and also varied according to tidal level and wind speed. Foam marks with windtransverse linear elements characterized the upper sections of the beach. Other distinctive features formed during this storm include foam swash lines, windparallel foam stripes, mud drapes, and sand drapes on the upper beach and supratidal zone. These features formed a surface veneer on a highenergy dissipative beach; their formation began during a high tide and continued during the subsequent falling tide. During the later stages of the falling tide, stillforming foamdriven features were in places being modified by (and themselves modifying) surface features characteristic of latestage emergence runoff (e.g., doublecrested ripples, rill marks, microdeltas).
30058861|The Lincoln sill extends from Squirrel Island, just off Boothbay Peninsula on the central part of the Maine coast, inland in a northerly direction for some 50 miles, with nearly continuous outcrops. The mineral composition of the sill is unusual, consisting of large dark-colored alkalic feldspars generally with euhedral to subhedral outlines set in a matrix of biotite, hornblende, and augite with minor feldspar and quartz. The sill is nearly vertical throughout most of its extent, and its structure is essentially concordant with regional trend lines. It has been suggested that the origin of the magma which produced this unusual rock type with the attendant unusual chemical composition is through hybridization. Late- or post-magma tic alterations, the intrusion of granitic material, and dynamic metamorphism superimposed on the original intrusive account for the rock in its present condition.
30075165|In a Devonian crinoidal quartz graywacke from Lindlar, northeast of Cologne, Germany, crinoid stem disks, each composed of a single crystal of calcite, are elliptical in outline and show distinct dimensional preferred orientation. The crinoid fabric of one specimen has been examined in detail. There is a distinct preferred orientation of c- and a-axes of the calcite lattice. Most of the disks are strongly twinned on two of the three {
30066096|Sm-Nd investigations of Hyde School Gneiss yield $T_{DM}$ ages only slightly older than U-Pb zircon emplacement ages thus indicating substantial addition of juvenile, calcalkaline crust to the Adirondack lowlands at ca. 1300 Ma. Juvenile crust of similar age has been recognized within the Adirondack highlands, the Elzevir terrane further to the northwest in Canada, and in the Green Mts. of Vermont suggesting the presence of an extensive magmatic arc at that time. While the precise nature of the arc remains uncertain, an Indonesian analogue is favored. U-Pb zircon ages of ca. 1150-1160 Ma are reported for lowlands samples of syenitic and granitic rocks belonging to the anorthosite-mangerite-charnockite-granite (AMCG) suite that also occurs in the highlands, as well as in the Canadian sector of the Frontenac terrane. The regional occurrence of these anorogenic intrusions indicates that the Adirondack highlands and Frontenac terrane, including the Adirondack lowlands, constituted a single, contiguous entity by ca. 1160 Ma. Monazite ages from AMCG rocks and metamorphic zircons from Hyde School Gneiss indicate that the last high grade metamorphism (i.e., upper amphibolite facies) in the Adirondack lowlands occurred at ca. 1150 Ma. The presence of 1050 Ma granulite facies assemblages east of the Carthage-Colton mylonite zone (CCMZ) in the highlands indicates the presence of a discontinuity across the CCMZ, which may manifest ca. 1050 Ma downfaulting of the lowlands block along the northwest dipping CCMZ in response to verthickened crust during the Ottawan orogeny.
30061236|At least
30067896|An investigation of the detailed morphology of Wilmington and Baltimore canyons reveals that their salient features and inferred history are very similar. Both canyons trend predominantly southeastward, but the heads display a north-trending hook termination on the shelf. Abrupt alterations in the axial trend of each canyon occur at roughly equivalent axial distances and are accompanied by sharp changes in axial gradient and in the geometry of the canyon profile. The shorter length, lower axial gradient, and less acute profiles of Baltimore canyon indicate that it is morphologically more mature than Wilmington canyon. Continuous seismic reflection profiles in this region have penetrated more than 1 km of sediment, Tertiary and Quaternary in age, but including reflector zones of probable Upper Cretaceous age near the base. Axial faulting, detected only in the north-trending part of Wilmington canyon head, may be linked with Quaternary marginal downwarping. Buried channels occur below the shelf adjacent to tjhe heads of Wilmington and Baltimore canyons and indicate that southeast-trending portions of both canyons were initiated by drainage emanating from the vicinity of Delaware Bay during a late Tertiary lowstand. The north-hooked, shallow portion of each canyon head was subsequently excavated by a glacially enhanced, south-flowing drainage system during Pleistocene lowstands. The subsequent history of the canyon heads involves episodes of filling and reexcavation, including the formation of two widespread erosional benches which correspond to the Nicholls and Franklin shores first recognized in the Hudson canyon region. Large slumped masses on the lower continental slope involve the three groups of reflectors detected below the slope and the upper continental rise. The deepest of these reflector zones-of probable Upper Cretaceous/lower Tertiary age-represents an ancestral abyssal plain or lower continental rise surface, and onlap by upper rise sediments has shifted the slope-rise junction westward by at least 12 km since the lower Tertiary. In the same period, the margin of the continental terrace has been moved to the east by at least 8 km. Subbottom reflectors on the lower slope and upper rise are involved in a number of undulations superimposed upon a basal interface which is itself broadly undulatory. Originating during the Tertiary epoch as a topographic depression on the upper rise, Baltimore valley has acquired its present form through several cycles of erosion and deposition but is at present inactive. Wilmington valley displays a similar complex history, but the presence of a narrow, active channel within the valley suggests that this feature is currently funneling sediment downslope from the shelf and across the upper rise.
30062321|A new method of strain determination, based on a consideration of the symmetry of three-dimensional arrays of inclusions within syntectonic porphyroblasts, is applied to schists in the Sulitjelma region of the central Norwegian Caledonides. The method depends on the hypothesis that only under certain conditions will spherical syntectonic porphyroblasts rotate about one single axis during growth and contain inclusions whose arrangement has 2/m symmetry. Many of the garnets investigated show this symmetry, and the consequent restrictions on the circumstances of deformation are discussed in relation to other features of the metamorphic fabrics.
30064036|Basal sediments overlying the Late Jurassic Josephine ophiolite consist of interbedded siliceous argillite, radiolarian chert, and rare graywacke overlain by a thick flysch sequence; together the pelagic rocks and flysch comprise the Galice Formation in northwestern California. The transition between pelagic rocks and overlying flysch is comprised of radiolarian argillites containing abundant silt-size detritus. Deposition of many of the argillites and cherts by turbidity currents is indicated by sedimentary structures such as graded bedding. Some of the cherts are tuffaceous. Metalliferous rocks (up to 22%
30071160|The piedmont slopes on the west side of Rich and Snake mountains in the Blue Ridge province are composed of dozens of fans and fan remnants of various ages. The fans consist of a few meters of flood and debris flow deposits overlying saprolite and deeply weathered bedrock. The deposits are rich in amphibolite clasts, the weathering rinds of which allowed fan surfaces to be classified into six relative-age categories on the basis of rind thickness. The presence of reversed remanent magnetism in one old fan deposit indicates an age of at least 780 ka. However, the magnetization appears to reside in secondary hematite produced by weathering rather than in original magnetite grains, so that a minimum age on the order of 1 Ma is more likely. Transverse profiles surveyed across 15 fans and fan remnants show that old surfaces may attain heights as great as 30 m above younger surfaces, but that a better index of age is the convexity of the profile. Young surfaces show only slight transverse convexities but old surfaces show pronounced ones. Map patterns, stream locations, and transverse profiles of fans suggest a cycle of fan development not previously described, in which narrow drainageways expand laterally to become young fan surfaces, eventually becoming fan remnants that may survive several million years before being removed by lateral erosion.
30058630|The glacial features of the Medicine Bow and Park ranges of Wyoming and Colorado record two stages of Pleistocene glaciation. In both areas well-developed Wisconsin moraines have been mapped. Records of pre-Wisconsin ice have been found in the form of old drift deposits located above and beyond the reach of Wisconsin glaciers. A restoration of the late Pleistocene landscape is shown in the color plate accompanying this report. In addition to the record of two glacial stages found in both mountain regions, the Park Range presents an interesting contrast between east- and west-slope glaciers. The tongues of ice which descended the west side of the range were longer than those on the east and terminated approximately 1,000 feet lower. These differences are due in part to favorable exposure to moisture-bearing westerly winds.
30065039|The junction between the Ryukyu and southwest Japan arcs was formed by the opening of the Japan Sea. Before and during the opening, an accretionary complex grew across the site of the arc junction, but the growth process was complicated owing to differential movement of the island arc. As a consequence of differential movement, strata of the northern Shimanto and Hyuga Belts underwent regional bend folding in conjunction with clockwise rotation of the southwest Japan Arc about a rotational axis near Kyushu. Overthrusts and nappes formed contemporaneously with bending, and the metamorphosed part of the accretionary complex was uplifted to the surface, especially near the Hitoyoshi bend. An unusual type of forearc basin formed seaward of the overthrusts and nappes, which gravitationally collapsed, causing huge gravity slides or sheets to accumulate near the trench. The slide sheets accreted to the margin with a different trend and formed the Nichinan Belt. Based on paleontologic evidence from within the forearc basinal sequences, it is evident that the Japan Sea initially opened at about 30-32 Ma.
30056777|In former classifications of shorelines emergence and submergence have been used as the most important elements. However, the shifting sea levels of Quaternary time with the present intermediate condition could have left indications of both emergence and submergence along almost any coast. Furthermore, the criteria commonly used to classify coasts are in part open to question. A new system is introduced in this article which attempts to overcome many difficulties of the older classifications. While this system is entirely genetic, it was devised so as to allow its ready application to many coasts merely from the information which is contained in maps and charts.
30060030|Spinel lherzolites of the xenolith population of Nunivak Island, Alaska, may be classified on textural criteria into the categories: coarse-equant, coarse-tabular, and granuloblastic-equant. This textural variation is correlated with increasing titanium and aluminum in the lherzolite pyroxenes and decreasing Cr/(Cr + Al) in coexisting spinel. This correspondence between chemical composition and texture resembles that frequently documented in garnet lherzolite suites from kimberlites. Unlike the latter, however, there is no systematic relation between temperature and texture in the Nunivak suite. The change from the coarse-equant to coarse-tabular lherzolite is gradational in both texture and chemistry and is interpreted to reflect progressive deformation and metasomatism. The granuloblastic-equant xenoliths are distinct and may represent annealed, highly deformed, coarse-tabular lherzolites. Both the coarse-equant and coarse-tabular textural categories can be divided into two common sub-groups. Lherzolites of the first are characterized by equant interstitial spinel, relatively magnesium-rich silicates, and jadeite-poor clinopyroxene; while in lherzolites of the second, the spinel is interpreted to have been inclusions in pyroxene, the silicates are iron-rich, and the clinopyroxene is jadeitic. Xenoliths of the latter sub-group are visualized as garnet-bearing lherzolite which rose as a diapir and partially re-equilibrated in a spinel lherzolite upper mantle; represented by lherzolites of the first sub-group. Deformation and metasomatism associated with this diapirism are believed responsible for the observed textural and correlated chemical variations in the Nunivak xenolith suite.
30079766|A rhyolitic volcanic flow included in the Holenarsipur greenstone belt, South India, has a simple igneous population of zircons which has a SHRIMP
30063865|A model is presented which relates the differentia] pressures in a dynamic system to the ensuing differentiation and temperature differences progressing under non-equilibrium conditions. A method is developed for subdividing the heat of formation of silicates among the constituent oxides, in order to trace recrystallization under shearing stress, leaving a residual depleted mass deposited under endothermic conditions in one area and a contemporaneously developed enriched mass formed under exothermic conditions in the adjacent lew-pressure area. The mobile material is shown to create the thermal gradient against which it migrates. The "stability" of a crystal is considered in relation to the proportional
30078511|We analyze the possible contribution of climate change or tectonics on fluvial incision from the study of a case example along the northern flank of Tian Shan. The rivers that exit the high range fed large alluvial fans by the end of the last glacial period. They have since deeply entrenched the piedmont by as much as 300 m. We have surveyed several terraces that were cut and abandoned during river entrenchment, providing information on intermediate positions of the riverbed during downcutting. They suggest a gradual decline in river slope during a major phase of incision throughout the Holocene. Tectonic uplift affects only a zone about 5 km wide, corresponding to a growing anticline, and is shown to account for about 10% of total incision. Incision was therefore most probably driven by climate change. From observed fluvial incision, we estimate the water discharge in excess of that needed to carry the sediments supplied by hillslope erosion in the headwaters. We used a model based on a transportlimited erosion law. The model predicts relaxation process with entrenchment in the upper reach, downstream progradation of the incisionsedimentation line, and a progressive decrease of river slope during incision consistent with our observations. According to this model, river slope might be used as a proxy for specific discharge and then for volumetric discharge, provided that an assumption is made about river width variations. We conclude that river incision in the study area has resulted from dynamic adjustment of the hydrological system to the settlement of wetter conditions in the early Holocene, when water discharge might have been about three times as high as at present. Then, a rather arid climate with enhanced seasonality has likely prevailed from the midHolocene (6 ka B.P.) until now.
30058258|The major problems of pillow formation are: (1) the cause of lava globulation, (2) the slow deposition of the globules as shown by the supporting crust on underlying pillows, and (3) the presence of pillows in some lava flows and their absence in part or all of others. Because pillow lavas are so commonly interlayered with sediments and require rapid cooling conditions for their formation, most geologists now agree that they are subaqueous in origin. The lava probably breaks up into globules about in the same way that oil globulates when mingled with cold water. The delayed descent of the pillows, as pointed out by Reid and Dewey (1908), may result party from the buoyancy of the vesicular lava and partly from the uplift effect of escaping steam. The presence or absence of pillows may be related either to the temperature of the lava or the force with which it is extruded, or both.
30071075|"Ancient Arctica" is the name here applied to the lands and seas of the past in the Arctic region. A survey was made of the shields that face and partly surround the Arctic Sea, of the intra-shield orogenic belts that extend into and under the sea, of the troughs of deposition and orogenic belts of Alaska, and of the topography of the Arctic Sea floor. It is concluded that the region is underlain by continental crustal material chiefly of shield character; that appreciable changes have occurred in the distribution of land and water by epeirogenic and orogenic movements of the crust; that the present deep basin of the Arctic Sea began to sink in Carboniferous time; that the Alaska-northeastern Siberia region was one of nearly constant land connection during Mesozoic and Cenozoic time and probably also during the Paleozoic; and that the crust of the North Atlantic and Greenland Sea underwent movements in Tertiary time sufficient to provide land bridges for migration of animals and plants between Europe and North America, possibly on several occasions. Brief reference is made to the problems of biogeography, and the bearing that the theory of Ancient Arctica has on some of these problems. The lands of the Arctic hold good petroleum possibilities, and those of the Arctic archipelago are singled out for special discussion because of their particular promise.
30063944|The rare occurrence of cylindrical columnar jointing has been noted in Precambrian mafic dikes in the Bighorn Mountains, Wyoming. The cylindrical columns occur at random locations along the length of several steeply dipping dikes which range from 50 to 100 feet in thickness. They are circular or elliptical in cross section, 3 to 10 feet in diameter, and continuous across the width of the dikes. These columns contrast markedly with polygonal columns that have been secondarily rounded due to spheroidal weathering. Like polygonal columnar jointing, the cylindrical columns have their long axes oriented normal to the outer dike walls and are probably primary features formed by shrinkage attendant on cooling inward from the walls.
30063430|Examination of quartz monzonite residuals in the western Mojave Desert indicates that current weathering of exposed granitic rocks is not renewing the boulder mantles characteristic of this region. Boulder mantles are presently disintegrating to expose massive outcrops that change thereafter only by the detachment of exfoliation shells. The existing boulders were originally isolated as corestones by subsurface chemical weathering and have been exposed by the stripping of a thick weathered mantle formed during pre-Quaternary periods of greater moisture availability. North of the San Bernardino Mountains deep-weathering profiles characterized by brick red surface horizons, rubefied calcrete crusts, and the presence of core-stones in a grus matrix are widely encountered beneath basaltic remnants having radiometric ages in excess of 8 m.y. Continuity between these relict weathering profiles and present boulder mantles establishes the boulders as inherited features. The gradual onset of aridity during the later Tertiary terminated subsurface weathering and accelerated surface erosion, bringing about the massive exposure of Tertiary corestones and the joint-controlled Tertiary "weathering front." Slope retreat and pedimentation occurred here in the presence of a soil cover; thus the extensive granitic pediments of the region are also relict forms inherited from the Tertiary landscape.
30057399|Specimens of Dendraster excentricus, the common Pacific Coast sand dollar, were collected from 24 localities between Vancouver Island, British Columbia, and Santa Rosalia Bay, Baja California. These tests were analyzed for magnesium and strontium by X-ray techniques and the percentage of calcium calculated. The
30059151|Lunar Highland Basalt (gabbroic anorthosite) composition transforms with increasing pressure through assemblages of spinel + clinopyroxene + anorthite, and garnet + clinopyroxene + anorthite  quartz to eclogitic assemblages of garnet + clinopyroxene + kyanite + quartz (p = 3.51 - 3.52). Estimates of the lunar thermal gradient allow evaluation of the mineralogical variation with depth in the moon and thus allow calculation of mean lunar density and coefficient of moment of inertia for several models for the moon. These calculations show that the simplest models of Highland Basalt as the mean lunar composition and Highland Basalt as comprising the outer 250-270 km (formed as a partial melt from a Ca, Al-rich lunar interior) fail to meet the lunar density constraint but could do so if the hypotheses were modified towards more Fe-rich compositions. The geochemical constraints are much stronger and show that it is not possible for Highland Basalt to act as a source rock for mare basalt magmas under any conditions of melting in the lunar interior. It is further shown that Highland Basalt cannot be a partial melt from a mean lunar composition matching the Ca, Al-rich inclusions of the Allende meteorite (Anderson 1973) leaving the residual deep lunar interior of diopside + merwinite + spinel mineralogy.
30067027|UPb ages measured on zircons from the Tobacco Root Mountains and monazite from the Highland Mountains indicate that the northwestern Wyoming province experienced an episode of highgrade metamorphism at 1.77 Ga. Leucosome emplaced in Archean gneisses from the Tobacco Root Mountains contains a distinctive population of zircons with an age of 1.77 Ga but also contains zircons to 3.5 Ga; it is interpreted to have been derived primarily by anatexis of nearby Archean schist. A granulite facies mafic dike that cuts across Archean gneissic banding in the Tobacco Root Mountains contains two distinct populations of zircons. A group of small (<50 m) nonprismatic grains is interpreted to be metamorphic and yields an age of 1.76 Ga; a group of slightly larger prismatic grains yields an age of 2.06 Ga, which is interpreted to be the time of crystallization of the dike. Monazite from a leucogranite from the Highland Mountains yields a welldefined age of 1.77 Ga, which is interpreted as the time of partial melting and emplacement of the leucogranite. These results suggest that the northwestern Wyoming province, which largely lies within the western part of the Great Falls tectonic zone, experienced a metamorphic maximum at 1.77 Ga. This age is 100 m.yr. younger than the proposed time of WyomingHearne collision in the central Great Falls tectonic zone (1.86 Ga) and suggests that the northwestern Wyoming province may have been involved in a separate, younger collisional event at 1.77 Ga. An event at this time is essentially coeval with collisions proposed for the eastern and southeastern margins of the province and suggests a multiepisodic model for the incorporation of the Wyoming craton into Laurentia.
30057072|Three-dimensional fabric analysis of clayey tills in two ground- and end-moraine areas near Chicago, Illinois, is described. The fabric elements whose orientation was measured consist of disk-, blade-, and rod-shaped particles between 3 and 40 mm. in size and till joints. The particles measured were predominantly shale; the majority were 4-8 mm. in size. In samples of ground moraine and in samples of the cores of end moraines the disk- and blade-shaped particles tended to be preferentially imbricated upstream to former glacier-movement directions. In ground moraines the long axes of the blades tended to lie in the horizontal plane. Also in ground moraines the long axes of rod-shaped particles described a near-horizontal girdle (on a fabric diagram) but exhibited clear maxima dipping upstream to former glacier-movement directions. On the basis of kinematic analysis of the macrofabric, combined with several other lines of evidence (such as microfabric and englacial-debris studies), it is suggested that the bulk of the till fabric has been inherited from the transportational environment; i.e., it represents little-altered, remnant, englacial-debris fabric. The fabric-pattern maxima of disk- and blade-shaped particles are believed to define the vanished slip planes of the debris-charged basal zones of the glaciers which carried the till. Such relict slip planes are thought to be representative of distributive movements developed within heavily debris-charged basal zones of glaciers in response to extensive tectonic transport over roughly horizontal thrust planes or movement horizons. It is suggested that the bulk of the till was deposited by slow melting-out from the stagnant basal zones of the various glaciers which transported it. Deposition seems to have been confined in time almost entirely to the deglaciation phase of glaciation. Many till fabrics in end-moraine districts are related to postdepositional solifluction activity. This is determined by their similarity to known "mudflow" fabrics and by the fact that their preferred-orientation directions show slope control. Frost heave and disturbance by plants and man are responsible for modification of some of the fabrics found.
10.1086/682935|Basin and Range extensional structures in Trans-Pecos Texas have been interpreted to be strongly influenced by preexisting structures, including igneous centers in the Big Bend region. These igneous centers are interpreted to have deflected propagating faults, as they are rheologically strong relative to the surrounding rocks. We conducted detailed field mapping and analysis of fracture and fault data along the eastern segment of the Chalk Draw Fault in Big Bend National Park to evaluate its kinematic evolution and interaction with Paleogene plutons. Our primary results document the following key relationships: (1) the Rosillos Laccolith and other Paleogene plutons in the study area are pervasively fractured, dominantly by northwest-striking mode I fractures, which generally do not extend into adjacent sedimentary rock sequences; (2) throw on the eastern Chalk Draw Fault is strongly asymmetric, decreasing rapidly as it enters the Rosillos Laccolith; and (3) analysis of fault-slip data in the region documents dominantly N 52 Edirected regional extension along the northwest-striking segment of the Chalk Draw Fault and secondary structures. We interpret these relationships to indicate that the Rosillos Laccolith developed pervasive mode I fractures with a dominant northwest-southeast orientation during cooling under Basin and Range extensional stresses but that this occurred prior to extensional faulting within the region. We suggest that the highly fractured nature of the Rosillos Laccolith resulted in it being rheologically weaker than the surrounding Cretaceous sedimentary rocks, which resulted in (1) hindering southward propagation of the Chalk Draw Fault by dissipating stress at the fault tip within the highly fractured laccolith and (2) the strongly asymmetric distribution of slip due to a strong rheological contrast during fault propagation.
30056903|Anomalies in the order of crystallization, the inadequacy of hypothetical aqueous residual and "pore" liquids, the complexities and inconsistencies of the theories of differentiation, the insuperable problem of granite emplacement (the "space problem"), the problem of the gneissic zones and the gradation of gneiss into granite, are all taken as evidence that the theory that granite is a product of crystallization of a magma is inadequate. Evidence that granite originated by diffusion and reaction in the solid state is presented. Supporting this concept are the observed feldspathization of inclusions and country rock, double and reciprocal inclusions, digestion of transgressive dikes by the host rock, failure of "stoped" blocks to settle, microscopic evidence of replacement and corrosion, and the incomplete or arrested state of alteration of inclusions. The eruptive character of granite dikes is an anthropomorphic or subjective impression. Conclusive evidence that some dikes are replacement phenomena is presented. Though some authors admit granite to be polygenetic, it seems more probable that such a singular rock should be of one mode of origin, namely, diffusion and metasomatism in the solid state.
30079548|The present arrangement of the drainage of the St. Maurice Valley in the province of Quebec has little relation to the preglacial drainage. The modern St. Maurice River occupies parts of the valleys of several preglacial or interglacial streams and now flows up old valleys in two cases, and there are other examples of reversed stream courses. The pre-glacial drainage had a rectilinear pattern due to the geological structure, with the major streams flowing from northwest to southeast or from northeast to southwest. The upper parts of the St. Maurice, the Vermilion, and the Mattawin rivers have been turned from their former valleys by deposits of glacial drift and now flow northeasterly in parallel courses. Three lines of extensive glacial deposits indicate three halts of the ice sheet.
30057913|The terms "diabase" and "dolerite" are used with various meanings in different countries. In this paper the development of the terms is traced.
30068225|The dextral shear zones in the Hida belt, central Japan, show close temporal and spatial relationships with some of the Late Triassic to Early Jurassic Funatsu granitic intrusions. The Sr isotopic compositions of intrusions associated with the shear zones suggest large crustal contributions to the magma chemistries. In contrast, granitic intrusions not accompanied by shear zones show less crustal signatures. Various models could possibly explain the genetic relationship between shear zones and granitic magmas with crustal isotope characteristics, though it is not clear which model is most applicable. It is suggested that contrasting characteristics in the two types of intrusions reflect different stress conditions. The granitic rocks without large crustal contributions are likely to be the products of extensional stress conditions. Those with a larger amount of crustal contamination seem to be generated in compressional stress situations that accompanied the development of ductile shear zones along the contacts between the granites and their country rocks.
30068274|Sheet structure in New England granites tends toward parallelism with the exposed rock surface and is completely independent of all primary rock structures, commonly transecting contacts between the granite and xenoliths, roof pendants, the country rock itself, and minor postgranite intrusive bodies. In general the sheets become progressively thicker, flatter, and more regular with increasing depth. Evaluation of the possible causes of the structure indicates that relief, through removal of superincumbent load, of a primary confining pressure is chiefly responsible for the large-scale exfoliation phenomena involved. Insolation, the progressive hydration and formation of chemical alteration products in certain susceptible minerals, and the mechanical action of fire, frost, and vegetation are possible minor contributory causes. With insignificant exceptions, sheeting in northeastern Massachusetts and adjacent parts of New Hampshire, where detailed studies have been made, is preglacial in origin. Its attitude with respect to present topography therefore facilitates certain comparisons with preglacial topography and thus permits minimum estimates of the thickness of material removed by glacial ice from specific localities. Not only do the granite sheets or shells thicken with depth, but statistical data demonstrate a fair degree of quantitative consistency in this relation. The sizes of large granite boulders-and therefore of the respective sheets from which they were torn-thus furnish an additional clue to their original depth beneath the preglacial surface. Results of these studies suggest the removal of a blanket of rock and preglacial regolith at least 10-15 feet thick by glacial abrasion and plucking from the stoss, or north, slopes of most hills, and of a somewhat greater thickness from their east slopes, summits, and west slopes. Severe plucking and quarrying of the rock appears to have been responsible for strongly concentrated erosion on the lee, or south and southeast slopes of many hills to maximum demonstrable depths in excess of 100 feet.
30061128|Two types of wind ripples are distinguished; sand ripples composed of normal wind-blown sand with a median diameter roughly between 0.30 and 0.35 mm., and granule ripples composed in part of particles approaching granule size 2-4 mm. The planimetric patterns and facing directions of ripples on dunes indicate antecedent wind conditions and the microcomplexity of wind currents moving over a topographically varied ground surface under a unidirectional wind aloft. Misinterpretation of non-contemporaneous ripples has supported the fallacious concept of a lee-side eddy on sand dunes. Impregnation of sand ripples permits study of internal relationships. Sand ripples are asymmetrical piles of relatively coarse, homogeneous, essentially structureless sand resting on a smooth platform of much finer, thinly bedded sand. Internal foreset layering is rare. The underlying fine beds may represent material sifted out of the ripples as they travel across the surface. It is suggested that most of the grains composing a sand ripple are traveling by surface creep through saltation impact and only a limited number are experiencing exchange with the saltation curtain. Granting this point, it is argued that size of creeping grains and wind velocity can control the wave length, height, and index (wave length/height) of sand ripples. Thus, it is possible to account for ripple dimensions without recourse to Bagnold's concept of characteristic grain path. Ripple index varies inversely with grain size and directly with wind velocity. By contrast, the degree of asymmetry of individual sand ripples varies directly with grain size and inversely with velocity. Simple experiments with liquid smoke suggest that a flat eddy lies on the lee side of a sand ripple under gentle wind velocities of 2 or 3 mph, but under velocities strong enough to move sand no evidence of such an eddy could be seen. Repeated observations of sand-grain movement on active ripples in the field provide no evidence that a lee-side eddy influences grain movements or the shape, location, and development of sand ripples. The rate of movement of individual sand ripples was measured in the field at 0.35-3.2 inches per minute under wind velocities ranging between 16 and 40 mph. Over this velocity range the relationships are approximately linear. Ripples that move 1 wave length in 1 minute can obviously adjust rapidly to changes in wind regime. Granule ripples are much larger than sand ripples, attaining wave lengths up to 10 feet and heights up to 11 inches in the study areas. They form where lag concentrates of larger particles are developed by deflation under strong winds. Surface creep by saltation impact is clearly the transporting mechanism for these larger grains. Owing to a longevity of months or years and heterogeneous internal constitution, including considerable normal wind-blown sand, granule ripples have a prominent internal foreset structure. A mean index of about 15 seems representative for granule ripples compared to roughly 18 for sand ripples, but departures from these means are large. Relationships observed on granule ripples support conclusions drawn from sand ripples to the effect that wind ripples are composed primarily of creeping grains and that grain size exerts great influence on their dimensions and shape.
10.1086/651504|The Jericho fault is considered to be the main active fault in the northern Dead Sealower Jordan Valley. In previous studies it has been identified by a prominent linear topographic escarpment that is thought to be the surface expression of this fault on land north of the Dead Sea. In this study, the paleoseismic natures of the escarpment and the fault were examined. Seismic activity was investigated in a series of three trenches excavated south of the fault trace on the surface. These trenches show evidence for Late Holocene faulting. A fourth trench excavated 300 m farther to the south exposed continuous, finely laminated marl from the 80ka Samra Formation at a depth of 20.6 m below the surface, with no evidence of faulting. This could suggest that the fault on land is segmented and that the nature of its activity changes from north to south toward the lake. Indeed, the continuation of this fault under the waters of the Dead Sea reveals active faulting along a sharp, segmented, linear bathymetric break, where the steep margin slope on the west meets the flat lake bottom. Evidence of drastic climatic changes and erosion are present in all trenches that were excavated, indicating that the prominent escarpment may in part be an erosional feature, perhaps formed by incision of an ancient Jordan River or along a Holocene lakeshore. A channel fill of a lacustrine nature that followed a period of erosion is interpreted as a high stand of the Dead Sea, which is contemporaneous with the Younger Dryas cooling period.
30071186|Comparison of marine fossil assemblages known from deposits of Mississippian age in North America and Europe shows many striking similarities in the nature and distribution of faunas but also brings out some strongly divergent characters. The occurrence of identical or nearly identical types of highly organized invertebrates, especially among the echinoderms and cephalopods, in correspondingly arranged successions of rather narrowly restricted zones affords a good basis for recognizing approximate stratigraphic equivalents in the two continents. Zonation of the European deposits is more detailed and better defined, however, than in most Mississippian sections of North America. A conclusion of chief importance is that Mississippian deposits on both sides of the Atlantic are divisible in a similar manner into two main parts, classifiable as series. The Lower Mississippian rocks of North America, comprising Kinderhookian and Osagian beds, which have been called the "Waverlyan Series," correspond to the Tournaisian strata of Europe. Upper Mississippian formations, which are classed as belonging to the Meramecian and Chesterian portions of the American succession, collectively named the "Tennesseean Series," are judged on paleontological grounds to represent Visan and lower Namurian deposits of the European continent. Distinctive upper Namurian marine fossils are unknown from North America, either in youngest Mississippian or in oldest Pennsylvanian beds; inasmuch as the Namurian seems everywhere to be an essentially conformable succession, no strongly marked break in sedimentation, such as marks the Mississippian-Pennsylvanian boundary in most parts of North America, is found at the summit of deposits of Mississippian age in Europe.
30081232|Comparison of the major and trace element geochemistry of glaciogenic laminated deposits of Pleistocene and Paleoproterozoic age from an area north of Lake Huron, Ontario, has revealed differences and similarities that may provide insight into the erosional history of part of the Archean Superior province of the Canadian shield during the last 2 Ga and some aspects of the evolution of the earths atmosphere. Both the major element and trace element compositions of the ancient and recent glacial deposits are very similar. The Paleoproterozoic mudstones are, however, enriched in Fe and U, characteristics that may reflect the oxygen content of the Archean/early Paleoproterozoic atmosphere/hydrosphere system. Strong Ca depletion is exhibited by the Paleoproterozoic glaciogenic argillites but is absent from the Pleistocene samples. The Proterozoic argillites have slightly higher values for a Chemical Index of Alteration than those of Pleistocene muds. These characteristics may reflect the acid nature of meteoric waters associated with a CO
30081083|Calcite and copper-(iron) sulfide veinlets in the Kupferschiefer ore deposits in southwestern Poland display many characteristics of antitaxial veinlets, including trails of wall-rock shards from wall to wall. Cross-cutting relationships demonstrate a change from sulfate to sulfide chemical stability and an evolution of stress orientation during ore-formation. Bedding-plane sulfate veinlets and later bedding-plane sulfide veinlets are superseded by vertical sulfide veinlets, suggesting tectonic extension during ore-formation. Thin bedding-plane calcite-(sulfide) veinlets record a return to pre-ore stress conditions after ore formation ceased. The vertical veinlets are thin and lens-shaped, typically 1-3 mm thick, 30-35 cm high, and 50-70 cm long, with orientations similar to Kimmerian-age (Triassic-Jurassic) directions. Sulfide replacement lenses cut across and are cut by vertical veinlets, suggesting contemporaneous formation after lithification. A mid-Triassic paleomagnetic age and cross-cutting Alpine-age faults and dikes suggest that the veinlets and other mineralization formed during rapid subsidence in the Triassic, and not during Alpine-age uplift. A genetic model is proposed whereby the fractures originated by natural hydrofracturing caused by (1) aquathermal pressuring and (2) generation of water,
10.1086/598947|Central Mongolia represents a heterogeneous crustal domain of the Central Asian Orogenic Belt and is composed of contrasting lithotectonic units with distinct preorogenic histories. We report singlezircon evaporation and SHRIMP ages for highgrade rocks of the NeoarcheanPaleoproterozoic Baydrag block and for metaigneous rocks of the junction between the late Neoproterozoic Bayankhongor ophiolite zone (BOZ) and the Baydrag block. Zircon ages for metamorphic rocks of the Baydrag block indicate a major tectonothermal event between 1840 and 1826 Ma, coeval with the emplacement of granitic rocks at middlecrustal level dated at 1839 Ma. A granitegneiss yielded a much younger crystallization age of 1051 Ma, the first Grenvillian age reported for this region. Together with predominantly Mesoproterozoic detrital zircon ages for a quartzite lens from the Burd Gol accretionary complex, these data attest to the heterogeneity and long Precambrian history of the Baydrag block. Crystallization ages for granitegneisses from the northeastern margin of the Baydrag block indicate prolonged plutonic activity between 579 and 537 Ma, probably related to southward subduction of the Bayankhongor oceanic crust. A syntectonic granite vein yielded a crystallization age of 519 Ma, probably linked to accretion of the BOZ onto the northeastern active margin of the Baydrag block. Lastly, a felsic metavolcanic rock from the southeastern termination of the BOZ yielded a crystallization age of 472 Ma and suggests that punctuated volcanic centers developed during the early Ordovician in response to protracted convergence.
30060890|An apparent offset between the Marathon Mountains and the buried western extension of the Ouachita Mountains, and another between the Ouachita and southern Appalachian Mountains have been the subject of numerous and variable interpretations. Here, they are explained in terms of plate-tectonic theory, as previously applied to the Ouachita and southern Appalachian systems. The presently exposed tectonic belt lies somewhat north of the boundary between continental crust and upper mantle to the north and oceanic crust and upper mantle to the south. This boundary is interpreted as a Paleozoic plate margin. Apparent offsets in the boundary and in the tectonic belt are thought to represent the location of former trench-trench (or arc-arc) transform faults which allowed subduction and subsequent orogeny to take place in en chelon fashion along an irregular Precambrian-Paleozoic North American continental margin. The irregularity of continental-margin shape may be a result of supercontinent (Pangaea I?) fragmentation in late Precambrian or early Paleozoic time. This shape dictated the pattern of subsequent orogenic activity. Consequently, the apparent offsets were present from the inception of the belt. This transform fault model for the apparent offsets is consistent with the limited available geological evidence, with existing geophysical data, and with several earlier plate-tectonic interpretations of the Ouachita-southern Appalachian system. Furthermore, it avoids some of the difficulties inherent in previously proposed interpretations.
30059089|At Cornucopia, Oregon, a brecciated zone in granodiorite was recently intersected by one of the long mining tunnels. In this zone granodiorite fragments grade into an aplitic matrix. Structural and petro-graphic evidence indicates that, although tectonic forces formed the breccia, hydrothermal solutions rich in silica pervaded the coarse cataclastic zone with its innumerable associated fracture and shear planes as well as the finely crushed portions of the zone, which were especially susceptible to metasomatic replacement. The larger granodiorite fragments were either wholly or in part soaked with these solutions which effected an aplitic replacement.
10.1086/676478|The Tarim Basin, as the largest inland basin on the planet, provides a valuable opportunity to understand the mountain building of the northern Tibetan Plateau and its effects on basin development. Here we present a synthesis of sedimentology, zircon U-Pb geochronology, and bulk-rock geochemistry of Neogene sediments in the Qimugan section, southwest Tarim Basin. Spatial variation in zircon U-Pb age distributions from early Miocene clasts at Qimugan and Oytag suggest significant dextral strike-slip on the Kashgar-Yecheng transfer system likely commenced during the Oligoceneearly Miocene. Over time, age peaks of 20 and 107 Ma in a middle Miocene sample at Qimugan suggest significant headwater erosion of the ancient Yarkand River reached the southeast PamirKarakoram hinterland as it does today. This is coincident with a relatively steady decrease in chemical weathering of source terranes during the middle-late Miocene, suggesting a climate transition from warm and/or humid to cool and/or dry in the Pamir-Karakoram. Under global cooling, middle Miocene changes in both provenance and geochemistry at Qimugan require topographic growth of the Pamir-Karakoram interior at that time, coeval with initial formation of the fold-thrust system and doming of the Muztaghata massif in the eastern Pamir, in addition to a prominent depocenter shift and sediment load in the southwest Tarim Basin. Subsequently, stable sediment provenance and depocenters suggest the current tectonic-sedimentary configuration in the eastern Pamirsouthwest Tarim Basin has been established since the middle-late Miocene. These observations can be explained by a model of crustal contraction below the southeast PamirKarakoram and strain propagation to the Tarim Basin, possibly related to resumed Indian crust subduction. Our results thus support compressional deformation extended to all margins of the northern Tibetan Plateau by the middle-late Miocene.
30058690|The presence of Lyonothamnus in the Furnace Creek formation (undescribed) is discussed from the standpoint of plant distribution in arid regions. It is suggested that the Catalina ironwood may have lived in canyons adjacent to the Furnace Creek basin during late Miocene or early Pliocene time, when rainfall in these areas is considered to have ranged from 13 to 15 inches annually.
30080129|Red clayey till is found distributed generally as a patchy veneer on older red and brown sandy drifts in northeastern Minnesota, westward and northward from the head of Lake Superior. The drift is correlated with the Valders till of northeastern Wisconsin on the basis of similarity in lithology and stratigraphic position. It is interpreted as the result of the advance of the Superior lobe over lake beds which had deposited in the Lake Superior Basin during the Two Creeks interstadial interval. The Valders till and outwash is overlapped in its marginal area by buff silty till of the St. Louis sublobe of the Des Moines lobe, presumably of Mankato age. However, approximate contemporaneity of the Superior and St. Louis lobes is suggested by interbedding of the red and buff tills and outwashes in the overlap area. Contemporaneity is also suggested by the apparent bilobate form of the Superior lobe, as produced by the obstruction offered by the opposing St. Louis sublobe. The Valders subage therefore appears to have been essentially synchronous with the Mankato rather than separate, as had been previously suggested.
30059063|New apatite and zircon fissiontrack (AFT, ZFT) ages from Mesozoic sediments and adjacent crystalline rocks from southern New England reveal age gradients from Middle Jurassic to Early Cretaceous. These gradients reflect the rotation of crustal blocks after the setting of the youngest AFT ages (140 Ma). The AFT ages of 16898 Ma for 32 samples of Paleozoic metamorphic rocks east and west and within the Hartford Basin of Massachusetts and Connecticut indicate that unroofing in these regions occurred from Late Jurassic through Early Cretaceous. In both the Hartford Basin and rocks from crystalline terranes east of the basin, AFT ages show a regional trend of increasing age to the east, suggesting a downtotheeast rotation of 10 in each area. The ZFT ages from the Hartford Basin arkoses (167238 Ma) and northern Bronson Hill (147196 Ma) rocks support this gradient of eastward increase in AFT age. A southtonorth gradient of decreasing AFT age (139107 Ma) for the sedimentary rocks in the Hartford and Deerfield Basins of Connecticut and Massachusetts suggests a 1hinged uplift to the north that postdates the youngest AFT age of 100 Ma. Final juxtaposition of AFT ages across the eastern Border fault between the Hartford Basin and Bronson Hill terrane in Massachusetts and Connecticut indicates displacement younger than the youngest AFT ages of 100 Ma (Late Cretaceous). Thus, the age of the graben structure of the Hartford Basin is Cretaceous, and this structure cannot be cited as evidence that these basins are Early Mesozoic rift basins.
30068680|Under steady state flow in glaciers, a banding will form and tend towards parallelism with the flow lines in basal regions of high shear. A simple mathematical model shows that departures from the steady state cause a reorientation of the flow lines such that they depart from parallelism with the banding. If a suitable bedrock ridge is present, the banding will subsequently become deformed into subsimilar folds, whose axial surfaces are very nearly parallel to the direction of maximum extension of the associated strain. The cleavage pattern, geometry, and orientation of many folds in rocks suggest a similar origin during gravitationally-induced flow away from an orogenic welt. In some cases buckling may be a secondary response, resulting in non-similar folds.
30060664|The microstructures of the Baraboo quartzite of Columbia and Sauk counties, Wisconsin, have been studied from oriented hand specimens, polished sections, and thin sections. Fabric axes, determined from the pole patterns of the deformation lamellae, vary consistently over the region and are not related to the bedding or the macrofoliation. Because of this variation, the deformation lamellae have been assigned to a deformation later than the major folding of the region. In addition, the character of the deformation lamellae themselves and the type of pole pattern have been used as a qualitative index of the intensity of the deformation. Microfractures are common features of the quartzite; they exhibit a strong preferred orientation and are geometrically related to the deformation lamellae. Quartz deformation bands are described, named, and correlated with bedding-plane shear. Quartz optic-axes fabrics are weak and difficult to interpret.
30065037|The Fayum Depression of northern Egypt contains the richest collection of fossil vertebrates known from the Afro-Arabian Paleogene. This fauna has been collected for over a century, and yet the sediments containing the fossil localities have remained undated. Paleomagnetic sampling was carried out through the fossil-bearing Jebel Qatrani Formation and the underlying Dir Abu Lifa Member of the Qasr el Sagha Foundation to determine a correlation between the paleomagnetic reversal stratigraphy and the Geomagnetic Reversal Time Scale (GRTS). A new date of
30078340|Study of field relations and mesostructures of a heterogeneous intrusive body of ankeritic ferrocarbonatite and mafic silicate rocks (damtjernite) and their hydrothermally altered equivalent (rberg, i.e., hematite - calcite - dolomite carbonatite) in the Fen complex, SE Norway, reveals crosscutting contacts with wallrock gneiss, which demonstrates the intrusive nature of the ferrocarbonatite. Gradual transitions between the two units demonstrate their simultaneous emplacement. The ferrocarbonatite contains frequent xenoliths of country rock gneisses and intrusive rocks in a fragmental matric. Minor, late intrusive bodies also contain fragments of rdberg. Some of the matrix carbonate fragments show signs of accretionary growth with development of subparallel laminations of alternating carbonate and chlorite rich material. Ferrocarbonatite and damtjernite were emplaced as several pulses of fluidized material; and fluidization took place at a shallow level in the crust. The intrusion mechanism was pyroclastic, in principle analogous to that of kimberlite diatremes.
30056156|Two pronounced upland erosion surfaces are present in eastern and southern Ohio. Below these surfaces strath valleys and strath terraces are found.2 In identifying and correlating these surfaces with other well-known surfaces, the strath stage has been neglected by previous workers. A correlation is proposed which accounts for all the erosion surfaces in this area and correlates them with other well-known Appalachian surfaces.
30067397|Modern marine carbonate sediments accumulate where carbonateproducing organisms are abundant and siliciclastic input is low. Such accumulations occur today in two main environments and may be characterized as warm, lownutrient (WLN; also known as tropical or chlorozoan) carbonates or cool, highnutrient (CHN; also known as coolwater, temperate, nontropical, foramol, or heterozoan) carbonates. Few carbonates form today in warm, highnutrient (WHN) conditions because such environments are very rare. Modern WLN environments occur mainly in low latitudes, where nutrients from upwelling or terrestrial runoff are low. Modern CHN environments occur mainly in middle to high latitudes, where nutrients, mostly from upwelling, are abundant. However, WHN depositional environments may have been widespread during the Cretaceous and Paleogene. During these times, upwelled nutrientrich waters would, in general, have been warmer than they are today. Nutrients in these waters supported diverse carbonateproducing biotas that are not equivalent to either modern chlorozoan or heterozoan biotas. These conclusions derive from analysis of a growing data set of more than 40 turritelline gastropoddominated fossil assemblages (TDAs), a term herein redefined, ranging in age from Lower Cretaceous to Pleistocene. Today TDAs occur mainly in CHN conditions. They were widespread in both carbonate and siliciclastic facies in the Cretaceous and Paleogene but (with only a single known exception in the Pliocene of Chile) occur in the Neogene only in siliciclastic sediments. This change in environmental distribution can be explained by positing changes in (1) modal environmental preferences of turritellines, from WHN to CHN, and (2) carbonate depositional environments, from
30061025|A river valley, now submerged from 150 to 300 feet, once drained Lake Michigan basin to Lake Huron when the water levels were lower than now. Originally cut during or before the Pleistocene, the valley was last used after drainage, following the ice recession, had finally lowered glacial Lake Algonquin.
30081037|The conglomerate of the Pass Peak Formation, a coarse Eocene basin-edge deposit in western Wyoming, is crushed though not by tectonic forces. Each cobble is in point to point contact with up to 10 other cobbles within a poorly consolidated micaceous sand matrix. Crushing appears to be due to stress concentration at contact points. Three degrees of deformation have been defined: (1) faint contact marks on the cobble surfaces where the surface polish has been destroyed and a rim of better lithified matrix formed; randomly oriented and distributed fractures cutting a few grains within the cobble; (2) throughgoing fractures, often parallel to one another with intervening complex networks of minor fractures, not necessarily starting or ending at a contact mark; (3) reduction of grain size by crushing up to 60% around contact marks; contact marks are enlarged and bundles of fractures form a complex network connecting these contact marks. Simple calculations show that the 700 m of overburden over the outcrops studied were sufficient to cause failure. A probable scenario is initial contact at minute contact marks which subsequently crush and enlarge as the overburden increases; the contact marks enlarge until the load is supported. No pressure solution was observed in these rocks. However, the crushing process within the Pass Peak may be a common precursor to deformation at higher temperature and pressure. This crushing has the effect of increasing the permeability and decreasing the grain size, especially in the vicinity of contact marks which may aid less brittle processes.
30059086|Within each of the major valleys east of the Continental Divide in Rocky Mountain National Park, Colorado, similar associations of glacial land forms are repeated. The character and pattern of distribution of moraines, terrace remnants of valley trains, and ice-eroded upper-valley forms are presented as evidence that glaciers occupied these valleys during at least three stages. All observed glacial land forms lie within well-developed valleys, and no evidence was found that glaciers had extended as far east as Estes Park. Nor was any evidence found of a very early and extensive glaciation corresponding to the Prairie Divide and Tungsten Mountain (pre-Wisconsin) tills recognized on the high in-tervalley divides just north and south of Rocky Mountain National Park.
30056679|The 272 geologists starred in the first seven editions of American Men of Science are listed, with date of birth and death (if dead); the place of their collegiate and doctoral training is given, arranged by institutions; trends in education and in institutional productivity are briefly discussed; and data on the age at starring are given.
30055716|Fissures which developed near Whitebird, Idaho, in November, 1927, were under observation until November, 1928. There are two larger displacements which are essentially parallel, and several smaller ones, all of which occur in a gently sloping ter-rane made up of lava flows and interbedded sediments. One of these faults has a known length of 8,200 feet, and an inferred length of 13,600 feet. Displacement was measured from time to time by means of a series of stakes set on each side of the fissures. A horizontal movement of 7.35 feet and a vertical movement of 3.5 feet represent the amounts of displacement in a year's time. The fissures may border gigantic landslides, or may be gravity faults, but a study of the evidence points to the latter.
30057146|A thin bed of unconsolidated dolomite occurs about a foot below the surface of the Great Salt Lake Desert west of Knolls, Utah. A
30056653|A study of the accuracy of determining the composition of plagioclase feldspars by means of the available curves of indices of refraction demonstrates that consistent results are impossible. Two outstanding causes of this unfortunate situation seem to be: (I) inaccuracy of the old chemical analyses used as basis for the composition, and (2) the persistent assumption that the plagioclase feldspars consist of two and only two end members or minals. Accurate data are needed before satisfactory curves can be drawn. The curves should be without excessive undulatory deviation from smooth ones, very close to straight lines. The composition should be in weight percentage.
30060193|Glaciation and large-scale coal deposition cannot take place without an adequate water supply. If the supercontinents of Gondwanaland and Laurasia ever existed, Proterozoic and Paleozoic glaciations would not have been possible deep in the supercontinents' interiors, nor could the major Carboniferous, Permian, and younger coal fields of eastern North and South America, and of eastern Africa and India have formed. The presence of major late Paleozoic ice centers in Western Australia, central India and northern West Pakistan, Africa, Brazil, and the Atlantic-Indian Ocean margins of Antarctica, and of large Paleozoic coal fields in eastern Africa, eastern India, Brazil, and eastern North America indicates that large water supplies actually were present close to the places where the glaciations took place, and where the coal fields formed. This in turn suggests that currently popular reconstructions of Gondwanaland and Laurasia are wrong. Coal accumulations took place in areas where plant decay was slight, average annual temperature ranged from cool to warm, and annual rainfall exceeded 1,500-2,000 mm. The great amount of rain required could not have been precipitated unless late Paleozoic Atlantic and Indian Oceans had existed. The possibility that these late Paleozoic oceans were inland seas is eliminated by the circulation requirements of these oceans. For example, the surface waters of the North Atlantic and Arctic Oceans are derived ultimately from the Southern Ocean. This surface water is returned to the Southern Ocean by intermediate-to abyssal-depth currents. This mechanism for returning water to the Southern Ocean appears to eliminate any possibility that the late Paleozoic inland seas were epeirogenic water bodies. Therefore, until advocates of the new global tectonics find an alternate explanation for tillite and coal distribution, the spreading sea-floor, mobile-plate, and polar-wandering hypotheses will have to be regarded as interesting speculations which are supported by only a fraction of the known geological, paleontological, and paleoclimatological data.
30066152|Isotopic age determinations (U-Th-Pb) on zircons from pegmatite and granophyre dikes in the western San Gabriel Mountains have yielded concordant ages of about 1,200 million years. From structural and petrological relations, this is both a minimum and a probable age for the San Gabriel Mountains anorthosite complex. It is also a minimum age for the Mendenhall gneiss, a retrograded "charnockitic" granulite which has been intruded by the anorthosite complex. Several zircon fractions from the gneiss yield consistent but moderately discordant apparent ages as follows:
30064711|Sandstones of the Paleozoic turbidite sequences of eastern Australia show a large variation in their major element geochemistry, reflecting the distinct sedimentary provenance and tectonic setting of each suite. On the basis of bulk composition, five suites are discriminated: Tamworth, Hill End, Hodgkinson, Bendigo, and Cookman. A close correlation exists between the geochemical composition of sandstones and tectonic settings of sedimentary basins. The nature of the continental margin and oceanic basins can be deciphered on the basis of the major element composition of sandstones. The most discriminating parameters are
30068747|The Lemont drift was recognized early as a distinctive glacigenic unit in northeastern Illinois. Leached, clay-enriched zones in the upper part and below the calcareous Wadsworth Till are not remnants of a paleosol; they result from modern weathering processes extending into the subsurface below the solum of the modern soil. The Lemont is late Wisconsinan (Woodfordian), not Illinoian or early Wisconsinan (Altonian) as had been suggested. It correlates in part with the Haeger Till Member in Illinois and other units in Wisconsin and Michigan and is the result of a significant fluctuation of the Lake Michigan Lobe ice margin during Woodfordian deglaciation. Diamicton in the lower part of the unit is the result of earlier (pre-Haeger) glacial sedimentation; lacustrine sediment between tills within the Lemont drift records the first phase of ancestral Lake Michigan during Woodfordian deglaciation. The latter event occurred during ice margin retreat following deposition of Yorkville Till, and the interval is named the Worth phase on the basis of lacustrine deposits at Worth.
30075153|Some turbidites have sole markings that indicate more than one current direction for the same bed. These are interpreted as having been formed by the scouring action of turbidity currents from different source areas passing over the same point in rapid succession.
30078351|Melting temperatures of biotite-quartz and biotite-quartz-feldspar assemblages in the system
30079653|The various processes that affect hillslopes in the Sonoran Desert of southern Arizona vary considerably in relative importance, depending upon elevation (and hence climate), angle of slope, and the nature and weathering properties of the bedrock. Hillslopes on volcanic bedrock generally have fixed surfaces, whereas hillslopes on granitic bedrock have mobile surfaces. The difference is related to the method and rapidity of production of boulders from the bedrock mass. Large boulders on hillslopes below about a 2,000-foot elevation show evidence of past episodes of case-hardening and deposition of desert varnish, whereas the fragments on slopes above about a 3,000-foot elevation have undergone more rapid or more prolonged mechanical weathering, probably by frost action and chemical weathering, that has destroyed most of the case-hardening and desert varnish. Hillslopes of less than 28.5 on both granite and volcanic rocks are highly sTable, whereas those between 28.5 and up to 36.0 are increasingly unsTable, and the upper limit of debris-covered hillslopes is approximately the angle of repose of the debris. Debris-covered hillslopes steeper than about 36 are rare and require some additional agency, seldom present under desert conditions, to maintain the surface cover. Steeper, bare-rock slopes are common, however. The two stability limits, 28.5 and approximately 36.0, are related to the frictional properties of the rock itself. An effort to find a statistical correlation between slope angle and fragment size was largely unsuccessful, and it is suggested that the concepts of the boulder-controlled slope and the repose slope be abandoned.
30068798|Exposures of Proterozoic crust in Alaska are rare; however, isotopic data from younger rocks derived from unexposed basement suggest that Proterozoic (or older) crust may underlie large areas of northern Alaska. Late Proterozoic orthogneisses, Late Proterozoic to Cambrian metasedimentary rocks, and Devonian granitic orthogneisses in the western Brooks Range have Nd-and Sr-isotope compositions consistent with derivation, at least in part, from Middle to Early Proterozoic crust. Proterozoic metasedimentary rocks have calculated Nd crustal residence ages of 2.0 Ga and are intruded by Late Proterozoic metagranites with somewhat more radiogenic initial isotopic compositions than the metasedimentary rocks at the time of intrusion. Initial isotopic compositions of Devonian metagranitic rocks range from
30060411|Imbricated arrangement of pebbles in several bands of a pre-Cambrian conglomerate, called the Abram conglomerate, near Sioux Lookout, in western Ontario, is described. The consistency in orientation of the imbricated pebbles in each case proves that each band is structurally a unit and that the conglomerate was fluviatile in origin. The methods of use and the limitations of the imbricate arrangement in structural mapping are discussed.
30079983|The St. Marys Basin, along the southern flank of the composite Late Paleozoic Magdalen Basin in the Canadian Appalachians and along the AvalonMeguma terrane boundary, contains Late DevonianEarly Carboniferous continental clastic rocks of the Horton Group that were deposited in fluvial and lacustrine environments after the peak of the Acadian orogeny. SHRIMP II (Geological Survey of Canada) data on approximately 100 detrital zircons from three samples of Horton Group rocks from the St. Marys Basin show that most of the zircons have been involved in a multistage history, recycled from clastic rocks in the adjacent Meguma and Avalonian terranes. Although there is a minor contribution from Early Silurian (411 Ma) and Late Devonian suites (ca. 380370 Ma), Neoproterozoic (ca. 700550 Ma) and Paleoproterozoic (ca. 2.02.2 Ga) zircon populations predominate, with a minor contribution from ca. 1.0, 1.2, and 1.8Ga zircons. Published UPb singlezircon analyses on clastic sedimentary rocks indicate that the Meguma and Avalon terranes have different populations of detrital zircons, sourced from discrete portions (Amazonian and West African cratons) of the ancient Gondwanan margin. Both terranes contain Neoproterozoic and Late Archean populations. The SHRIMP data, in conjunction with published sedimentological and geochemical data, indicate that the Horton Group basinfill sediments are largely the result of rapid uplift and erosion of Meguma terrane metasedimentary and granitoid rocks immediately to the south of the St. Marys Basin during the waning stages of the Acadian orogeny. Regional syntheses indicate that this uplift occurred before and during deposition and was a consequence of dextral ramping of the Meguma terrane over the Avalon terrane along the southern flank of the Magdalen Basin.
30059072|Currents generated in the lakes near Point Barrow, Alaska, by prevailing winds are described for two different situations: that where there is an ice cake present, and that of open lakes. A hypothetical analysis is given for currents associated with ice cakes and a somewhat longer discussion, including a review of a previous hypothesis, follows the description of currents in open lakes. There is a brief account of basin features related to water motion and a description of differences in water temperature around the ice cakes.
30059950|Most of the Javanese volcanoes have produced pyroxene andesites and basalts only. In the Volcano Merapi, which is a typical representative of this kind, trachyte, phonolite, and phanerites with preponderant leucite have been produced in association with a large xenolith of metamorphosed limestone. Similar reactions on a larger scale may have contributed to the production of the alkaline rocks of the East Indian Archipelago.
30061951|The commonly accepted correlation of the Stones River group of central Tennessee with the Chazy of New York and with beds immediately succeeding the Beekmantown or Knox dolomite in the Appalachian region is no longer tenable. Ulrich's recognition of two Chazyan groups in the Appalachian Valley-the Stones River and overlying Blount-was based upon mistaken identification of formations. In southwestern Virginia the fauna of the Murfreesboro limestone (basal Stones River) occurs in the Peery limestone about 475 feet above the Beekmantown. The Peery is directly overlain by the Benbolt limestone, which correlates faunally with the Pierce and Ridley formations of the Central Basin of Tennessee. In Bland County, Virginia, Murfreesboro-Ridley equivalents overlie the Athens formation of Ulrich's Blount group. The Lebanon of central Tennessee is linked faunally with the Witten limestone, which corresponds to the beds identified by Butts as Lowville in the Clinch Mountain belt of the Middle Crdo-vician in Virginia and Tennessee. Both the stratigraphic position of Stones River equivalents in the Appalachian region and the character of Stones River faunas indicate strongly that the entire Stones River group is post-Chazyan.
30062382|Most drainage networks are right- or left-handed to some extent, but extreme or widespread asymmetry may indicate systematic distortion of local or regional drainage patterns by geologic or geomorphic complications. The maximum excess of interior over exterior links as a network is scanned in clockwise maze order provides a simple topologie index of asymmetry, low for right-handed and high for left-handed networks. Its sampling distribution under Shreve's random-topology model is known, allowing assessment of the unusu-alness of individual asymmetric networks or the significance of regional departures from randomness. Scottish examples of both types of application are given. Glaciation can lead to significant asymmetry.
30079657|Wind fetch and land slope are the two oceanographic factors most easily determined for ancient shores, and these factors can account for many of the variations in terrace form at different levels in one area and in different areas at the same level. On a vertical cliff face no erosion terrace is initiated, but on soluble rocks a sharp solution notch leaves a clear record of the sea level. Assuming maximum depth of erosion of rock by waves to be 30 ft., the geometry of terrace erosion is outlined, and the limiting states under conditions of varying land slope and subaerial weathering. Maximum terrace width is commonly about 3,000 ft. with a slope of about 1/100 since accumulation of a sand beach protects the cliff at this gradient. Small eustatic oscillations can cut two solution notches, two small terraces, one terrace, or one terrace and a notch, depending on the land slope and the amplitude and duration of the oscillation. Large eustatic changes tend to eliminate traces of small oscillations and to modify, but not necessarily eliminate, the terraces caused by long Stillstands. Thus terraces may survive with younger terraces both above and below, and altitude is not simply correlated with chronology. Earth movements during formation of a sequence of terraces cause predicTable alterations of spacing, and it is possible to analyze superimposed sequences of different ages on continuously tilting land.
30075201|A 2800-m section of Siwalik strata containing the stratotypes for both the Chinji and Nagri formations has been dated by magnetic polarity stratigraphy, and the observed polarity zonation has securely been correlated with the Chron 17-7 segment of the time scale. The base of the section is the base of the Kamlial formation, which occurs near the top of Chron 17 (18.3 m.y.). The Kamlial-Chinji formation boundary occurs in the middle of Chron 15 (14.3 m.y.), the Chinji-Nagri boundary near the bottom of Chron 10 (10.8 m.y.), and the Nagri-Dhok Pathan boundary at the Chron 8-9 boundary (8.5 m.y.). The Siwalik deposits near Chinji Village consist of four distinct classes of fluvial cycles, each with a characteristic periodicity: a first order of
30060939|Temporal patterns of origination and extinction are essential components of many paleontological studies, but it has been difficult to obtain accurate rate estimates because the observed record of first and last appearances is distorted by the incompleteness of the fossil record. Here I analyze observed first and last appearances of marine animal and microfossil genera in a way that explicitly takes incompleteness and its variation into consideration. This approach allows estimates of true rates of origination and extinction throughout the Phanerozoic. Substantial support is provided for the proposition that most rate peaks in the raw data are real in the sense that they do not arise as a consequence of temporal variability in the overall quality of the fossil record. Even though the existence of rate anomalies is supported, their timing is nevertheless open to question in many cases. If one assumes that rates of origination and extinction are constant through a given stratigraphic interval, then peaks in revised origination rates tend to be displaced backward and extinction peaks forward relative to the peaks in the raw data. If, however, one assumes a model of pulsed turnover, with true originations concentrated at lower interval boundaries and true extinctions concentrated at upper interval boundaries, the apparent timing of extinction peaks is largely reliable at face value. Thus, whereas rate anomalies may well be real, precisely when they occurred is a question that cannot be answered definitively without independent support for a model of smooth versus pulsed rate variation. The pattern of extinction, particularly the major events, is more faithfully represented in the fossil record than that of origination. There is a tendency for the major extinction events to occur during stages in which the quality of the record is relatively high and for recoveries from extinctions to occur when the record is less complete. These results imply that interpretations of origination and extinction history that depend only on the existence of rate anomalies are fairly robust, whereas interpretations of the timing of events and the temporal covariation between origination and extinction may require substantial revision.
30063937|Lava flows southwest of Glenwood Springs, Colorado, have been broken by numerous faults with a few tens to several hundreds of feet of perpendicular separation. Flexural slip in steeply upturned Upper Cretaceous and Tertiary strata beneath the lava flows is believed to be responsible for this faulting. Tilting of the basalt and adjoining basalt gravel surfaces, as well as simple flexural-slip model experiments, seems to indicate that faulting was the result of a partial unfolding of previously folded strata. Subsidence of the uplift between Glenwood Springs and Carbondale or rise of the basin in the vicinity of the faulted lava by a few thousand feet since the basalt was formed is offered as an explanation.
30059275|In contrast to classic concepts of the relationship of sea-level change to shore erosion, Per Bruun has proposed a new theory giving dimensional relationships to the process. To make a preliminary test of the validity of the theory, a small-scale model study was conducted, using constant beach and wave characteristics under variable conditions of water-level rise. Equilibrium was rapidly established with erosion and deposition taking place as predicted by Bruun.
30060904|A model has been constructed to predict the horizontal distance of shoreline recession that occurs when a beach and nearshore zone in dynamic equilibrium is subjected to a rise in water level. The horizontal distance of shoreline recession (X) is inversely proportioned to the angle of the nearshore slope seaward from breaking waves (
30085009|The criticism developed by Donn and Shaw (1967) is answered point by point. All their allegations, except a minor one which is based on a single misprint, are rejected. The paper under discussion retains its full validity.
30079927|New UPb zircon ages and SmNd and RbSr isotopic data are presented for orthogneisses from northcentral Madagascar, including le Sainte Marie, AlaotraBeforona, Maevatanana, and AmbatolampyAmbatomarina. A migmatite tonalite gneiss from le Sainte Marie is dated precisely at
30067026|The western Tianshan highpressure/lowtemperature orogenic belt in NW China contains eclogitefacies metavolcanic rocks and omphacitebearing blueschists. Previous SmNd (omphacite, garnet, glaucophane, whole rock) and
30079429|Windetched rocks (ventifacts) at Gweebarra Bay, County Donegal, northwestern Ireland, are located <+2 m above mean highwater springs (MHWS) on a glacially eroded bedrock shore platform (<10 m wide, 200 m long at MHWS). Prevailing southwesterly winds transport sand across the platform from the adjacent beach. Ventifacts, found on the windwardmost 20 m of the platform, decrease in frequency and degree of wind alteration with distance. Near the beach, ventifacts have two to three windetched faces (facets), both linear and serrated keels, and are pitted, grooved, and polished. Farther from the beach, ventifacts are less frequent; have fewer facets, pits, and grooves; and show curved keels. Facets nearest the beach lie perpendicular to prevailing winds but are wind parallel farther away. This reflects structural control on the shape and orientation of bedrock blocks protruding into the wind stream. Nine possible ventifact morphologies are identified on the basis of windapproach angle and dip angle of the windward face. Three morphological types dominate at Cashelgolan (moderately inclined, perpendicular facets; moderately inclined, oblique facets; steep, oblique facets). Calculated sand transport is likely only for limited (25%28%) periods of time under the contemporary wind regime. This suggests ventifacts are not developing actively at this time but may reflect longterm (more than hundreds of years) wind activity and/or stronger winds. Historical evidence for highmagnitude winds and storms suggests ventifacts formed within the last 2000 yr, possibly during the Little Ice Age (LIA). Regional evidence also shows that coastal regimes intensified during the LIA, with increased onshore winds, waves, sediment fluxes, and periods of sand dune building.
30059326|Pillow lava is a common feature of volcanic stratigraphy throughout geologic time. A comparison is made between the morphology of oceanic pillows from the FAMOUS area of the Mid-Atlantic Ridge, recent pillows from Iceland, and Archean pillows from the Rouyn-Noranda area of northwestern Quebec. In two dimensions the shapes and sizes of pillows from the three areas are similar but not identical. Abyssal and subglacial lava flows, when viewed in three dimensions, appear to be tubular lava forms similar to subaerial pahoehoe flows. Archean pillows also appear to be interconnected. Evidence of this includes broken selvages, lenticular quartz-filled cavities representing fossil lava levels, and the "pinch and swell" nature of elongate pillows. The stratigraphy of Archean volcanics and modern-day oceanic crust as seen in DSDP holes is similar. Both consist of interlayered massive, pillowed, and breccia units in an apparent random order. However, there appears to be a preponderance of pillowed flows in the modern volcanics compared to the ancient examples. Archean flows appear to be longer and, possibly, thicker than those at present-day ocean ridges and individual Archean pillows are in some places flattened and welded. These observations suggest that the rate of eruption in the Archean may have been greater than in known areas of the Mid-Atlantic Ridge. Pillow morphology and vesicle size and distribution in the Archean examples are consistent with a relatively shallow depth of eruption for the Archean sequences. Overall, the styles of eruption of both the Archean and modern pillow sequences appear to have been similar.
30068195|Nine distinct potassic intermediate igneous bodies have been identified during detailed surface and underground mapping of
30068176|A thermal source is indicated for the energy of earth distortion and deformation of the outer lithosphere. Heat is available and effective for these purposes in direct proportion to the unevenness of its distribution. Radioactive elements, which are considered to be the most important source of heat in outer shells, migrate extensively in geologic time through erosion and movements of magma. An investigation of the interplay in time of the factors of thermal conductivity and vertical and horizontal distributions of radioactive elements seems to show that small fractional differences in each of these factors may decree important differences in geothermal history. Predictable effects of diversity of geothermal conditions, such as thermal distortion, magma generation, magma migration, and forceful intrusion followed by deformation, are indicated. In addition some conclusions are drawn concerning the origin of batholiths and of certain types of extrusives.
30068044|The Setogawa subduction complex represents the subduction of an active mid-ocean ridge (the Kula-Pacific Ridge) under the Japan Arc about 20 m.y. ago in the early Miocene. The basalt is youngest in subzone B3 of the Setogawa Belt and becomes older in both landward and oceanward subzones. Accumulation time for pelagic sediments overlying the basalt lengthens in the same two directions. The basalt of subzones B2 and B3 is directly overlain by or contemporaneous with the hemipelagic sediments. In subzone B3, the Setogawa dismembered ophiolite, including basalt, ultramafic rocks, gabbro, tonalite, and trondh-jemite was emplaced from the mid-ocean ridge near the subduction zone.
30057400|A number of oriented sedimentary structures from graywacke sequences in North Lancashire and Devonshire, England, are described and their origin discussed. It is concluded that they originated by horizontal flow of sediment, induced either by the drag of the depositing current or by sliding down a slope. In the Lancashire examples these "flow casts" indicate a direction of movement corresponding to that shown by the associated flute casts and groove casts. In the Devonshire examples these directions do not coincide, and it is suggested that this may be due to the eroding current flowing transversely across a sea-bed slope, which subsequently controls the direction of the depositing flow.
30061252|A detailed study by the method of quenching of ten closely spaced compositions in a small portion of the ternary system
30081174|In the southcentral Brooks Range, Alaska, amphibolitefacies metamorphic rocks of the Arrigetch and Igikpak orthogneisses crop out between the upper greenschistfacies schist belt and more northern foldandthrust belt. The timing and mechanisms by which these amphibolitefacies rocks were emplaced to the north of the lowergrade schist belt rocks are poorly understood. We have obtained seven zircon and 24 apatite fissiontrack analyses from samples collected in the Igikpak and Arrigetch orthogneisses and schist belt in the Walker Lake region. Zircon and apatite fissiontrack analyses from the schist belt samples are consistent with cooling (and exhumation of the rocks to within a few kilometers of the surface) between 80 and 70 Ma. The data from the Arrigetch and Igikpak orthogneisses to the north, however, indicate that they were at much deeper crustal levels during this time period. Zircon and apatite fissiontrack analyses are consistent with significant cooling in the Arrigetch and IgIkpak orthogneisses between 42 and 21 Ma. The deformational event responsible for this cooling is unclear, although the presence of a downtothenorth normal fault (the Takahula fault) on the northeastern side of the plutons suggests that exhumation on the footwall of a normal fault is a possibility. The data also document significant downtothewest offset from 42 to 20 Ma along a NNWtrending vertical fault bisecting the Arrigetch and Igikpak orthogneisses. Based on the fissiontrack analyses from this study, we suggest that the southern Brooks Range has undergone episodic cooling (and deformation) during Cretaceous and Tertiary time.
30060095|Equilibrium models in population biology have demonstrated that accurate predictions of species diversity can be made without reference to particular taxa. We have extended the use of equilibrium models to examine patterns of phyletic diversification in the fossil record. We assume that (1) regions become saturated with respect to the number of taxa that can coexist; and (2) after that limit is reached, rates of speciation and extinction are very similar. Using these minimal constraints, and the standard precepts of evolutionary taxonomy (monophyly), we have generated evolutionary trees by stochastic simulation and classified their lineages into clades. Random processes with minimal constraints yield phyletic trees similar to those based upon the fossil record. Of particular interest are the patterns of clade origination and extinction and of intraclade diversity. For comparison with computer simulations, we present actual clades for the Reptilia. The similarities are striking, but some patterns of the fossil record are not simulated by random processes. For example, the late Cretaceous extinction may represent a fundamentally different type of evolutionary event. The simulation program and its comparison with the real world permits a clearer separation of stochastic and deterministic elements in the evolutionary record.
30066178|Size and time are functionally related to scale of shore erosion by
10.1086/666743|The late Paleocene to early Eocene was marked by major changes in Earth surface temperature and carbon cycling. This included at least two, and probably more, geologically brief (<200-k.yr.) intervals of extreme warming, the Paleocene-Eocene thermal maximum (PETM) and the Eocene thermal maximum-2 (ETM-2). The long-term rise in warmth and short-term hyperthermal events have been linked to massive injections of
30063433|The states of virgin stress at depths of 1,320 m and 2,320 m below surface were determined using a stress-relief technique. Doorstopper cells were used to take a large number of strain-relief measurements in at least three boreholes at each site, and these measurements were then related to the state of stress acting in the rocks. The magnitudes and orientations of the principal strain reliefs tended to become constant away from the mine excavation, but there were often abrupt changes in strain relief near shear zones. The magnitudes of the vertical stresses were in good agreement with the theoretical overburden stresses, and at both sites the ratio of horizontal to vertical stresses was approximately equal to 0.5; that is, the state of stress deviated markedly from a lithostatic state. Moreover, there were significant angular differences between the orientations of the principal stresses at each site. These different orientations are discussed in terms of the superposition of several stress systems, namely, gravitational stresses due to the existing overburden and stresses due to residual strains induced by early gravitational and tectonic forces. A comparison of these different stress systems is carried out by plotting the principal stress directions on a stereographic net. The maximum, intermediate, and minimum stresses all plot in well-defined areas of the net, and the measured virgin principal stresses also fall within these areas.
30079815|Cretaceous basaltic pyroclastic strata have been discovered in a fault block on the southern edge of the Rosillos Mountains laccolith in the Big Bend area of TransPecos Texas. The sequence comprises basesurge and pyroclasticfall deposits inferred to have accumulated on the flanks of a small phreatomagmatic volcano. A diverse assemblage of freshwater turtles (including
30059076|The upper Triassic Lockatong formation consists principally of hard massive gray to reddish-brown argillite and black shale and platy thin-bedded mudstone. The predominant minerals in the massive argillite which contains as much as 7 per cent soda and as little as 47 per cent silica, are analcime, dolomite, feldspar, and a 10  micaceous clay mineral. Quartz is very rare or absent. In the platy and shaly beds analcime is rare; dolomite, micaceous clay minerals, and feldspar are abundant; and scattered pyrite is common. Metamorphic effects of a diabase sill were restricted largely to converting poorly crystalline micaceous clay to well-crystallized biotite, analcime to albite, dolomite to calcite, and pyrite to pyrrhotite.
30062089|The time of emplacement of three masses of alkali granite and associated syenites, intruded into the outward-overturned collar of sedimentary rocks is crucial to choosing between a meteorite-impact or terrestrial origin for the Vredefort structure. These intrusives contain pseudotachylite, shatter cones, and microscopic evidence of shock deformation, and their solidification must be preimpact if the structure is an astro-bleme. However their field relationships are considered to indicate that they were emplaced after the overturning, and hence that their shock features are unrelated to the mechanism of overturning. Radiometric age measurements have shown that the alkali granites are at most 70 m.y. older than the basic granophyre (1,970 m.y.) of a poststructure ring-dike complex. Relatively little polar wander might be expected in such a short interval. The paleomagnetism of this granophyre, the alkali granites, and other relevant intrusive bodies has been investigated to determine whether the paleomagnetic vector in the alkali granite is similar to, or is overturned with respect to, that in the basic granophyre. Widely scattered results, possibly due to the shock deformation, were obtained from the two innermost alkali-granite plutons. Good data, however, were obtained from the third, outer alkali-granite mass, and from olivine gabbro of the Rietfontein Complex, with which it is closely associated. The magnetic vectors from these two rock masses are about 54 degrees apart, suggesting differential structural rotation. When compared with the vector of the poststructure basic granophyre, however, they are both displaced more than 90 degrees before, and less than 30 degrees after, correction for overturning. It is therefore concluded that the basic igneous complex and the outer alkali granite on the farm Rietfontein, and presumably the other two alkali-granite plutons as well, were intruded prior to the development of the Vredefort Ring structure. The ring must have formed in the 70 m.y. or less between the times of emplacement of the granites and the basic granophyre, and could have been produced by impact.
30059233|Examples of natural folds are examined to see how closely they resemble ideal parallel and similar fold models. Many natural flexural folds appear to have been modified by flattening, and a method is described whereby quantitative determinations of this flattening may be made. Folds having a perfect similar shape are uncommon. Folds of general similar type appear to be developed by a mechanism of differential flattening. The two- and three-dimensional geometrical aspects of these structures are examined, and the relations of the growth of porphyroblastic minerals to the deforming processes of flattening are described.
30067914|Many closely spaced kimberlite diatremes are characterized by major differences in mineral composition of their assemblages (both kimberlite and inclusions). Although some of this variation clearly is a function of local differences of host rock through which the upward moving magma passed during emplacement of the respective pipes, variations in type and intensity of alteration are probably more significant to an understanding of emplacement history. The Sloan 1 and 2 pipes in the northern Colorado-southern Wyoming kimberlitic diatreme field are approximately 150 m apart and contain substantially different assemblages especially of nodular material. These pipes are evaluated in terms of emplacement related alteration processes. Intensity and type of secondary reaction may be a function of time, magnitude, and/or level of intrusive activity. Pipes that fail to penetrate uppermost crustal levels would approximate "roofed" dikes of similar composition in which fresh upper mantle and lower crustal materials are preserved, although carbonated and fenitized nodules may be present. Diatremes that break through to the surface are characterized by variably altered constituents (serpentinized, fenitized and carbonated), the intensity of alteration increasing with magnitude and duration of intrusion. If magma intrudes upward along essentially parallel, closely spaced paths, penetration generally will be more effective along conduits of maximum volume or minimum host rock resistance (e.g., intersecting faults). Pressure reduction accompanying breakthrough of a primary conduit will essentially terminate or cut off further upward migration or intrusive activity in subsidiary conduits. Applicability of the "cut off" mechanism of pipe emplacement for explaining major differences in style of intrusive activity is evaluated by comparison with an experimental laboratory model.
30081209|The Llano Orogenic Belt along the present southern margin of Laurentia, regarded as continuation of the Grenvillian Orogen along the eastern Laurentian margin and exposed in basement uplifts in central and western Texas, records an 300m.yr. history of orogenesis culminating in arccontinent and continentcontinent collision between 1150 and 1120 Ma and continuing until 980 Ma. The shape of the orogen and kinematics of the contractional deformation along the belt, together with the highP metamorphic conditions attained, indicate that a previously unidentified craton served as an indentor. It is paleomagnetically acceptable for the Kalahari Craton of southern Africa to have been opposed to this margin and within 1500 km of presentday central Texas at 1100 Ma. Moreover, the Kalahari Craton is the correct size, and the structural and metamorphic evolution of the 1200950 Ma NamaquaNatal Orogenic Belt that wraps around its present southern margin is compatible with that craton having been the indentor. The ocean basin that closed between the Laurentia and Kalahari Cratons would have been comparable to the present Pacific, with island arc/terrane accretion occurring during the Mesoproterozoic along opposing active convergent margins. The coeval 1.1 Ga Keeweenawan and Umkondo magmatic provinces of Laurentia and Kalahari, respectively, are associated with rifts at a high angle to the Llano and Namaqua Orogens. The rifts are interpreted as the result of collisiongenerated extensional stresses within the two cratons. The voluminous mafic igneous rocks in both provinces, however, may reflect contemporaneous plume activity. Our reconstruction for 1.1 Ga provides a testable model for the Llano Orogenic Belt of Texas and the Namaqua Orogenic Belt of southwestern Africa as opposite sides of a Himalayantype collisional orogen, with the Natal Belt of southeastern Africa and the originally continuous Maudheim Belt of East Antarctica as a related Indonesiantype oceancontinent convergence zone. This reconstruction leads to a refinement of the paleogeography of Rodinia, with the Kalahari Craton in a position isolated from both the East Antarctic and Rio de la Plata Cratons by oceanic lithosphere. It also provides the first model for the assembly of that hypothetical early Neoproterozoic supercontinent. At least four separate cratonic entities appear to have collided along three discrete segments of the apparently anastomosing global network of Grenvillian orogens: the typeGrenville Belt of eastern North America and counterparts in South America, the LlanoNamaqua Belt, and the Eastern GhatsAlbany/Fraser Belt of IndiaEast Antarctica and Australia. Over the remarkably short interval of 200 m.yr., this firstorder composite collisional event resulted in the amalgamation of most of Earths continental lithosphere and defined the close of the Mesoproterozoic Era.
30056620|The surficial material throughout one-third of Kansas is the Peoria silt (loess) member of the Pleistocene Sanborn formation. Samples of this loess from an area 400 miles east-west by more than 200 miles north-south, which have been analyzed for particle size, chemical composition, and mineral constituents, show that major constituents of the silt-size fraction are quartz, feldspars, volcanic-ash shards, carbonates, and micas; quartz constitutes more than half the volume. A large suite of secondary minerals is present. The clay fraction consists of montmorillonite, illite, calcite, quartz, and feldspar, with a trace of a kaolinite mineral. Evidence used to determine source areas includes (1) progressive linear change in texture; (2) geographic variations in thickness; and (3) minor geographic differences in composition. The Platte River Valley is identified as the primary source for the Kansas region, and the Arikaree, Arkansas, and Republican valleys as important supplementary sources. The Missouri is the predominant source in the northeastern corner of Kansas. Other principal valleys, which lacked glacial outwash, were not source areas of Peoria loess in Kansas.
30060084|Field measurements of redox potential (Eh) and pH have been made on iron-rich (up to 35 p.p.m.) ground water of southern Maryland, and iron concentrations have been determined by laboratory analysis. The data obtained can be interpreted in terms of equilibrium being obtained between the ground waters and ferric minerals intermediate in properties between freshly precipitated ferric hydroxide and hematite. Apparently significant measurements of Eh and pH can be made, and thus two quasi-independent controls on iron concentrations and well-casing corrosion can be separated.
30056515|Cambro-Ordovician limestones and Ordovician shales largely underlie the Great Appalachian Valley between Virginia and Pennsylvania. By differential erosion the limestone areas have been lowered considerably below the level of the shales; but, in spite of this obvious weakness of the limestones, Conococheague Creek and other streams show remarkable adjustment to shale belts. These courses are interpreted as subsequent and as due to the greater weakness of the shales toward concentrated stream erosion, whereas the limestones have been dissolved by unconcentrated rainwash. No change in climate seems necessary to explain this stream selectivity.
30059064|New mapping, structural analysis, and
30066373|The coefficient of sorting in sedimentary petrography is commonly considered to be the statistical measure
30061146|The join Ne-Ak-Lc within the system, diopside (Di)- nepheline (Ne)- akermanite (Ak)- leucite (Lc), has been studied at 1 atm. The results show that it is pseudoternary with a four-phase point at
30081131|A wide range of geophysical and geochemical observations pertaining to convection in the earth's mantle and the dynamics of the tectonic plates is discussed. It is inferred that the dominant mode of mantle convection is a plate-scale flow and that the plates are an integral part of this flow. Upwelling buoyant plumes, that cause volcanic hotspots, are inferred to comprise a secondary model of convection arising from a relatively weak thermal boundary layer at the base of the mantle. The balance of a large range of evidence weighs against the transition zone being a barrier to flow, the strongest evidence coming from seafloor topography and the gravity field. We infer a significant viscosity increase, by perhaps two to three orders of magnitude, through the depth of the mantle, with a large part of this increase occurring through the transition zone. This viscosity increase can account for the low velocities of hotspots relative to plates and the apparent lag between surface plate configuration and deep mantle structure, as probed by seismology and the gravity field. The viscosity increase also enhances the survival of chemical heterogeneities in the mantle and produces an increase in heterogeneity and mean residence time with depth. There may also be inefficient gravitational settling of old subducted oceanic crust near the bottom of the mantle, which might account for seismological complications in the D" layer at the bottom of the mantle and for trace elements exceeding bulk-earth concentrations in hotspot sources. With ridges sampling the top of the mantle and plumes sampling the bottom, these features offer explanations for the main geochemical characteristics of, and differences between, mid-ocean ridge basalts and oceanic island (hotspot) basalts.
30063938|Geometrical properties of certain rock fabrics may be investigated using various hypothetical aggregates of regular ellipsoidal grains as models. Such an approach throws new light on observed anisotropy of apparent grain-shape orientation as observed in thin section or polished sections of sandstones and some tectonites.
30064985|The Cordilleria microcontinent theory for the tectonics of British Columbia in the Cretaceous and Early Tertiary and for the origin of the Canadian Rocky Mountains and related features is reviewed. New isotopic, geological, and paleomagnetic data support the hypothesis that the amalgamated superterranes of British Columbia and Alaska were not attached to the mainland of North America in the early Cretaceous and were probably well south of their present relative position. Consideration of that evidence, together with sedimentological evidence from the Albian, leads to a slightly earlier best estimate (115 Ma) for the time of initial collision in the Yukon. New geophysical data for southeastern British Columbia and Idaho lead to a comparison with the Iapetus Suture in northern England: it is suggested that the Cordilleria Suture dips west from the present Purcell Thrust and related structures and should cut the Moho. A new model for regional deformation in SE British Columbia is proposed, involving a flake structure based on regional thrusts, which originally dipped northwest. These were contemporaneous with the first phases of thrusting to the east in the cover above the A-type subduction zone of the Rockies, from which they were separated by a major zone of weakness at the surface of the subduction zone.
30068480|Since 1974 the Grand Junction, Colorado, Office, U.S. Department of Energy, through its National Uranium Resource Evaluation (NURE) program, has been conducting aerial surveys over various portions of the United States. The multivariate structure of the data suggests that statistical techniques of multivariate analysis are appropriate. Principal components analysis provides immediate insight into the structure of multivariate data and was applied to aerial data collected in the Lubbock and Plainview NTMS quadrangles. The components appear to lend themselves to an interpretation which sheds light on the geological history of the study area and aid in the identification of areas favorable to uranium deposition. The use of this technique may result in different conclusions in various geologic environments; however, it will always allow insight into the structure of the aerial radiometric data.
30068866|Structural and thermochronologic studies in the Sierra Madre, southern Wyoming, indicate that parts of the 1.781.75Ga Cheyenne belt, an ArcheanProterozoic suture, were reactivated at ca. 1.6 Ga. New shear zones, notably the brittle Battle Lake thrusttear fault zone, also formed at this time. The Battle Lake fault zone (BLFZ), which displaced parts of the Cheyenne belt at least 30 km to the north, corresponds to the surface expression of a southdipping reflector imaged by regional seismic studies (Continental Dynamics of the Rocky Mountains experiment).
30059992|A field and laboratory search for shock-metamorphic features associated with the Bushveld Igneous Complex, South Africa, was made to test the hypothesis that the structure formed by meteorite impact. Samples collected from inliers of basement rock within the complex (the Assen and Marble Hall fragments) and from the Rooiberg series exhibit no megascopic or microscopic shock effects. In particular, shatter cones, Sudbury-type breccias ( = Vredefort pseudotachylite), and planar shock lamellae in quartz are absent. Any shock-metamorphic features originally present have probably been obscured by the emplacement of the widespread Bushveld igneous rocks and by the resulting extensive thermal metamorphism of both the basement rocks and the Rooiberg series. More extensive sampling is needed to test the impact hypothesis adequately.
30075203|Tonalite exhibiting cavernous weathering at Catavina, Baja California, was investigated to determine the factors which contribute to differential hardness within the rock. Soft cores have a high degree of chemical weathering as indicated by kaolinite content. Hematite formed from the leaching of biotite occurs in coatings on rock surfaces, but the hardening effect of the coating is insignificant compared to the core-softening of the interior. The hardness, measured by an abrasion resistance hardness tester, is inversely correlated with kaolinite content in the tonalite. A one-dimensional water flow model was developed for core-softened, cavernously weathered boulders. It indicates that during infiltration and dessication the moisture flux is greatest through the cavern interior wall because of changes in the hydraulic conductivities induced by core softening. Therefore, the cavern interior wall should have the greatest weathering rate in the boulder.
30061140|Multiple deformation in gneisses and schists of the Chandra Valley, Himachal Pradesh, can be divided into three phases of folding. The earliest recognizable deformation, D, is characterized by isoclinal folds, F, with a strong axial-surface foliation, S, containing a mineral lineation, L, which may lie in the kinematic a direction. The F folds deform S and L, and vary from open to very tight structures with rounded hinges, crenulation lineations, and a weak axial-surface crenulation cleavage. The consistent sense of asymmetry of F folds southwest of the central crystalline axis indicates strong overthrusting from northeast. The third phase of deformation, D, produced the regional broad antiforms and synforms which plunge 5 NW. Calc-schistsnear Tandi contain marine fossils of Jurassic age. These calc-schists are deformed by the three deformations recognized in the gneisses, and are thus part of the central crystalline zone. The fossiliferous Spiti section is a para-autochthon tectonically overlying the central gneiss. Field relations suggest that the metamorphites formed during the Tertiary, and that the central gneiss occupies the root zone of the extensive crystalline thrusts and nappes of the Lesser Himalaya.
30080220|Chronology of early metamorphic events preserved as relics in the Late NeoproterozoicCambrian Orogen in Dronning Maud Land, East Antarctica, are important to refine models that aim to reconstruct Gondwana and constrain earlier Mesoproterozoic continental configurations. In the nunatak Veteheia, south of the Schirmacher Oasis, nearanhydrous metamorphosed noritic boudins within metapelitic granulite preserve an early mediumpressure (8 kbar, 800C) granulite facies assemblage. The retrograde
30056640|A mechanism for recrystallization and differentiation due to shearing and pressure is proposed. The stratiform ultrabasic rocks have been chosen as a specific example, since they commonly lie in the zone of high pressure and strong shearing stress along the flanks of folds. The associated serpentine commonly occupies the low-pressure area along the crest of the fold. Under this hypothesis, such stratiform ultrabasic rock masses are interpreted as being a residual accumulation forming a dense Fe- and Mg-rich rock in a region undergoing a volume decrease because of the depletion of the initial
30064649|Studies of the chemical and mineralogical properties of pelitic country rocks of South Kyushu into which the sumi, Shibisan, and Takakumayama granitic intrusives were emplaced during the Miocene suggest that exchange of chemical components between the granitic systems and country rocks accompanied the metamorphic and intrusive processes. Pelitic rocks of unusually uniform initial compositions, collected from the same stratigraphic horizons at localities adjacent to and distant from the granitic intrusives, are distinctly different in chemical composition. Some elements, notably Na and K, are distributed in a different manner within the several aureoles; the differences in Na-K distributions appear to reflect different petrochemical properties of the intrusives. Country rocks of granitic intrusives of similar petrochemical properties show similar distributions of elements. Therefore, the processes responsible for the distribution of elements in the country rocks are related to the plutonic processes that caused the entry of the granitic intrusives.
30058949|The mutual relations, shape, and origin of the Adirondack intrusives are discussed. Gabbro, anorthosite, and syenite series are considered closely related consanguineous members of a common parent magma. Frictional forces seem to have played a dominant role in the differentiation of the parent magma. Many of Bowen's views are confirmed by the field work, others have to be modified to meet the facts. The magma is believed to have risen from the southern edge of the Canadian Shield obliquely to the south.
30057070|Several types of markings are described and illustrated which occur on the lower surface of graded gray-wackes in beds alternating with shales and occurring in thick "resedimented" sequences (Flysch, Kulm, Macigno, and similar coarse, deep-water, marine basin fillings). An attempt is made to explain their origin in deep water and to classify them accordingly as (1) precurrent markings, (A) tracks, (B) burrows, (C) excrements, (D) current ripple mark; (2) current markings, (A) flute casts (= flow marks), (B) gouge channels, (C) drag marks; (3) depositional markings, (A) slide marks (together with the drag marks they form the groove casts), (B) load casts and load-casted earlier markings; (4) postdepositional markings, (A) entrapment burrows, (B) turbidite burrows; (5) miscellaneous markings of unknown origin. Most of these markings have been reported from other environments also, but their combination in great profusion is claimed to be unique for resedimented rock series.
30063044|There has been considerable speculation regarding the age of the granitic rocks which outcrop over a large part of Idaho. In the present paper pertinent data in published papers and the results of recent investigations by the writer are summarized. These show that most of the granitic rock belongs to a single mass known as the Idaho batholith and to outliers of it, but that there are also much younger granitic masses in the state. The Idaho batholith is shown to be post-Triassic and pre-Tertiary and probably to have been intruded near the end of the Jurassic. A mass of granite exposed over more than 200 square miles is shown to intrude the Idaho batholith and to be of Miocene or possibly Pliocene age.
30062028|Mafic enclaves from three plutons in the Chilliwack batholith have been compared with contemporaneous mafic stocks in order to determine (1) the processes by which mafic and felsic magmas hybridize in the plutonic environment and (2) whether analysis of earlyformed enclave minerals, particularly apatite, can provide a means of seeing through hybridization effects and deciphering the original trace element characteristics of enclave magmas. Whole rock and mineral chemistry data reveal a twostage history of enclave hybridization. Stage 1, a diffusive exchange of trace elements between coexisting liquids, produced enclaves with distinctive concaveupward rare earth element patterns that parallel those of the host granitoids but had minimal impact on the major elements, whose transfer is rate limited by the slow diffusion of Si. This stage probably occurred at a maficfelsic interface in a stratified magmatic system. Stage 2, a partial reequilibration of enclave minerals with a differentiated and hybridized interstitial melt, occurred after the enclaves were entrained in the host and partially crystallized. This process caused enclave and host minerals (amphibole, biotite, apatite) from each pluton to have similar major oxide chemistries but did not reequilibrate the trace elements. As a result of these hybridization processes, even earlyformed apatite crystals do not preserve information about the original trace element characteristics of enclave magmas in this case. However, the results of this study illustrate the potential of using enclave chemistry to constrain the nature and timing of mafic magma inputs into felsic magma bodies.
30058045|Two little-known explosion craters on the west side of Death Valley, California, are described. A peculiar type of pebble, originally water-rounded, then concentrically spalled, is explained as the product of a superexfoliation process induced by volcanic heat.
30063413|Elongate thaw-lake basins forming in the frozen ground of the Alaskan Arctic Coastal Plain are aligned 10-15 west of true north. Several previous workers have maintained that prevailing winds elongated these basins by generating currents or wave attack in the north and south ends. To test this hypothesis, detailed maps and velocity determinations of wind-controlled current systems were made with sodium fluorescein dye and aluminum floats. In addition, the effect of wave action was studied in basins of all sizes; morphology and sediment distribution were mapped in both drained and water-filled basins; and water temperatures were recorded with thermographs. Supporting investigations were made of moisture content and fluctuation of the active layer in the frozen ground. It was discovered that a combination of processes tends to produce a uniformly oriented basin morphology consisting of sublittoral shelves on the east and west sides of the lakes and a deeper central basin that extends to the north and south ends. This morphology persists throughout all phases of basin development. Easterly and westerly winds prevailing nearly normal to the axis of orientation drive wave action which forms sublittoral shelves and bars that eventually come to protect the east and west sides from thaw and erosion. This comes about through insulation of the permafrost and damping of incoming waves. Development of the sublittoral profiles soon comes to equilibrium for a given basin depth since depth, in shallow water, closely controls wave velocity. At equilibrium, or maximum development of sublittoral shelves, east-west expansion is minimal, but north-south expansion is uninhibited by the presence of shelves and bars. It is, rather, increased by wind-driven currents, wave attack, and warmer water temperatures in the ends. Acceleration of these latter processes with increasing size causes orientation to become more pronounced in larger basins.
30056779|Multiple glaciation is evident in the north-central part of Yellowstone National Park; probably the youngest Pleistocene is Wisconsin in age. The valley formerly occupied by Lava Creek is pre-Wisconsin in age, and it has undergone little modification since that time. The valley contains old, deeply weathered granitic glacial boulders overlain by patches of fresh drift. During early Pleistocene time, Lava Creek occupied the valley between the Gardiner River and Blacktail Deer Creek and drained northward into the Yellowstone River. It has abandoned the pre-Wisconsin channel and drains into the Gardiner River at the west end of the old valley. This change was brought about by an ice lobe from the Lamar River region, probably in late Pleistocene time.
30065540|Small (<150 m high) volcanic cones and larger oceanic central volcanoes (seamounts) up to 600 m high are abundant near the Mid-Atlantic Ridge ~26S. They are present along the axis, within the rift valley floor, and also on the ridge flanks. Seabeam mapping of
30062115|An earlier theory proposed that the Dead Sea Rift started as a shear transform between the Arabian and African plates as a result of continental collision. Newer geological evidence implies a different mechanism for rift initiation. Mechanical theories and experimental results suggest that fracture initiation, propagation, and bifurcation along the Rift cannot be explained by shear. These features can best be explained and simulated by extensile processes. Recent discoveries of transitional properties of the crust/mantle boundary along the Rift, and considerable thinning of the crust between the Dead Sea and the Sea of Galilee on the west side of the Rift, are interpreted as indications of an active mantle diapir that initiated fracture in this area. By propagating (horizontally) bilaterally towards north and south this fracture reached conditions of bifurcation in several locations along the Rift. Areas of major bifurcation also show characteristic local uplifts and local small grabens oblique to the Rift axis. Thus, the evolution of the Dead Sea Rift is comprised of an early stage of fracture initiation by extension, with a later development into a major left-lateral strike-slip fault.
30063980|The binary join
30079954|Disruption of the original crustal architecture as a result of tectonic events often complicates studies of the crustal evolution of Precambrian cratons. Ionprobe UPb dating of detrital zircons is one way to circumvent this problem. It yields a fingerprint of the source of the metasedimentary host that can be used to tie the host to a counterpart elsewhere. In this study, ionprobe UPb dating of detrital zircons from segments of the late Mesoproterozoic Southwest Scandinavian Domain (SSD) of the Baltic Shield provides new evidence for an old model of crustal evolution and tectonic development. Zircon ages for both the pebble and matrix fraction of the Seljord conglomerate, Telemark sector, Norway, show a 1.91.7Ga frequency maximum, as was previously recognized for metasediments from the adjacent Bamble sector. However, the Telemark metasediments lack evidence for significant input of 1.41.6Gaold crustal material, characteristic of some of the Bamble metasediments. A maximum depositional age of ca. 1450 Ma is inferred for the Seljord conglomerate and a quartzite from the Bamble sector. Definite evidence for significant amounts of pre1.6Ga crust in the SSD is absent. Instead, provenance from the early Mesoproterozoic Svecofennian Domain for the 1.91.7Ga crust is proposed, supported by the omnipresence of small amounts of Archean zircons and the distribution of Nd model ages of these and other SSD metasediments. It is proposed that the SSD originally formed a single, continuous belt, fringing the Baltic Shield, with the northernmost segments transported to their current position west of the Oslo rift along northsouthtrending shear zones, i.e., at odds with the commonly held view of progressive westward growth of the Baltic Shield. The detrital zircon ages from the Faurefjell quartzite, RogalandVest Agder sector, cluster around 1.65 Ga and reveal a maximum depositional age of
30057927|This article describes a very pronounced type of asymmetrical topography occurring in south-central Alaska. It is a result of differential glacial erosion due to unequal insolation on north-facing and south-facing slopes.
30062111|Gases occluded in fracture zones of active faults are characterized by a high concentration of
JG80158|The Cretaceous Blue Mountain Inlier of eastern Jamaica contains the Bellevue lavas, which represent a Mid- to Late Campanian back-arc basin succession of tholeiitic volcanic rocks. The lavas are composed of basic/intermediate and intermediate/acidic subgroups that can be related by intraformation fractional crystallization. Trace element and Hf radiogenic isotope data reveal that the mantle component of the Bellevue magmas is consistent with derivation from a mantle plume (oceanic plateau) source region. Modeling indicates that the magmas formed by 10%20% partial melting of an oceanic plateau mantle source comprising spinel peridotite that had previously undergone approximately 5%7.5% prior melt extraction in the garnet stability field. Trace element and radiogenic isotope systematics suggest that the Bellevue mantle source region was contaminated with a slab-derived component from both the altered basaltic slab and its pelagic sedimentary veneer. The data from the Bellevue lavas support the plateau reversal model of Caribbean tectonic evolution, whereby subduction on the Great Arc of the Caribbean was to the northeast until the Caribbean oceanic plateau collided with the southern portion of the Great Arc in the Santonian (85.883.5 Ma), resulting in subduction polarity reversal and thus southwest-dipping subduction. This polarity reversal allowed oceanic plateau source regions to be melted beneath a new back-arc basin to the southwest of the Great Arc.
JG80111|The concept of effective discharge,
30078518|We report here the occurrence of rare zirconiumbearing minerals, zirconolite (CaZrTi
30068827|New paleomagnetic data from southern Mexico provide a magnetostratigraphic framework to correlate mammalbearing continental sections of the Suchilquitongo Formation to the Early Miocene part of the geomagnetic polarity time scale. A total of 127 paleomagnetic samples were collected from 40 horizons belonging to two sections. The sequence is characterized by a succession of cream to light pink to gray, thin to mediumbedded tuffaceous sandstones and siltstones, partly silicified limestones, and a dominantly light green ignimbrite deposited in a fluviolacustrine environment. Remanent magnetization generally has been characterized by two components, a presentday field component with lowunblocking temperatures up to 350C and a characteristic component with unblocking temperatures up to 580610C. The characteristic component is interpreted as primarily based on antipodal populations of remanence data. Six sites at the top of the section (
10.1086/665799|The formation and evolution of the basement rocks in the Tibetan Plateau remain poorly constrained. Here we report petrology, geochemistry, and zircon U-Pb geochronology of orthogneisses, metamafic intrusions, and metasedimentary rocks from the Amdo basement in central Tibet. The oldest Neoproterozoic (820 Ma) orthogneisses show chemical affinity to a volcanic arc setting. These rocks, together with the coeval arc-magmatic rocks, belong to an Andean-type setting traced from the Seychelles, Madagascar, western India, Lhasa, and South China blocks, following the Rodinia supercontinent assembly. The later early Paleozoic (500 Ma) bimodal intrusions in Amdo also show an affinity to arc-related igneous rocks and probably formed in an active continental margin associated with the subduction of the Proto-Tethys Ocean beneath the Gondwana supercontinent. In contrast to the adjacent Lhasa and Qiangtang terranes, the Amdo block experienced complex Neoproterozoic and early Paleozoic tectono-thermal events and coherent Jurassic (190 Ma) high-pressure granulite-facies metamorphism and associated magmatism, suggesting that the Amdo block was an isolated microcontinent in the Tethyan Ocean and underwent deep subduction before its collision with the Qiangtang or Lhasa terrane.
30059299|Many continental margins are capped by wedge-shaped prisms of Cretaceous to Recent shallow-water marine strata. These were deposited on downflexing continental margins, presumably subsiding because of regional isostatic compensation caused by the growth of adjacent continental-rise prisms. We equate these continental terrace wedges with miogeosynclines of the past, which are wedge-shaped as now preserved but which probably never were synclinal in form; hence the shortened term "miogeocline." Modern miogeoclines thicken toward the ocean and terminate by "thickening out" against water at the continental slope; we presume that ancient ones did also. Ancient miogeoclines thicken toward, and abut, a deformed eugeosynclinal lithofacies. These we interpret to be collapsed continental rises, deposited synchronously with their adjacent miogeocline and later accreted to the continent. Miogeoclines probably have been formed by marginal sedimentation throughout geologic history, their outer limits marking former continental boundaries before the accretion of new fold belts. The Appalachian miogeocline may be one Paleozoic example, and the Millard miogeocline of the western United States may be another. More speculatively, Precambrian examples of miogeoclines may be provided by the Belt Series of Montana, the Huronian metasedimentary sequence abutting the Grenville fold belt in Canada, and the Witwatersrand Series in South Africa. A model for continental accretion results with the positions of earlier continental margins delineated by the thickened-out edges of ancient miogeoclines.
30060513|Key Idea: Following the spirit of P. D. Krynine, the sands of the world's largest tropical river system are studied to reveal much about the general origin of sand and sandstone. Thin section and chemical study of 95 sand samples from the Amazon River system in Brazil, Peru, Ecuador, and Colombia, a river system with great contrasts in climate and rock types, reveals that sands derived from the Andes are lithic arenites whereas sands derived from Precambrian terrains are much richer in quartz, as are sands in rivers draining Tertiary molasse. Sand becomes more mature downstream along the main stem of the Amazon-Solimes-Maraon so that a sample analyzed at the mouth does not accurately reflect headwater composition. Dilution by quartz-rich tributaries and quartz-rich Tertiary outcrops, possible differential elimination of rock fragments, and even possible weathering on the modern flood plain of the Amazon contribute to enhanced maturity downstream. We speculate that, although data on modern, large subartic and temperate rivers are scant, unlike large tropical rivers, they do not, as a rule, have a marked downstream increase in mineralogic maturity. River sands of Precambrian watersheds are coarser than those derived directly from either the Andes or from those derived from Tertiary molasse for two probable reasons: Precambrian granites have coarser quartz than the reworked quartz of a major geosyncline and, secondly, tropical weathering eliminates quartzo-feldspathic rock fragments much more rapidly than quartz.
10.1086/598949|We report SHRIMP UPb, rare earth element, Hf isotope, and laser Raman spectroscopic data on zircons from ultrahightemperature (UHT) granulites from the Jining Complex of the Khondalite Belt in the Western Block of the North China Craton (NCC). These UHT rocks form part of an ultrahot orogen that formed along the collisional margin of the NCC associated with the tectonics of assembly of the Paleoproterozoic supercontinent Columbia. Despite the corerim textures displayed by some of the UHT zircons, their age values sharply converge within error, yielding weighted mean
30068875|On January 30, 1607, a massive wave from the ocean surged up Bristol Channel in the United Kingdom, flooding more than 500 km
30061054|Comparison of grain-size modes as seen in size-frequency curves for tonalite source and derived sediment shows that grain-size characteristics of this particular sediment are not inherited from its source. Size-frequency distributions from thin section measurements of 470 tonalite grains show a primary grain-size mode at 0.72 mm, with secondary modes at 1.35, 0.34, and 0.20 mm. Silicate sediments formed by fragmentation of the tonalite have grain-size modes, as determined by sieving, that do not match grain-size modes of in situ tonalite. Nontransported weathered tonalite (6 samples) has a dominant grain-size mode at 1.7 mm; beach sediment (15 samples) has modes at about 4.0 and 0.23 mm; and submarine fragmented tonalite sediment (17 samples) has a major grain-size mode at 0.16 mm. Corresponding grain-size modes at about 0.2 mm for fragmented tonalite and biogenic carbonates, and differences in mineralogy of the 0.2 mm mode between in situ tonalite and derivatives suggest the 0.2 mm mode in sediment is the result of selective size-sorting.
30069384|La dfinition d'interglaciaire est "un pisode chaud entre deux glaciations pendant lesquelles la temprature monta jusqu'  celle de nos jours." Ni la dure ni l'humidit ne sont employes dans la dfinition. Un interglaciaire est un pisode climatique; il n'est pas une unit stratigraphique. La subdivision chrono-stratigraphique la plus satisfaisante du Quaternaire se sert des changements du climat. En particulier les commencements des tages sont le mieux dtermins par les commencements des changements rapides de temprature qui aboutirent aux glaciations ou aux interglaciaires. /// The definition of an interglacial is "a warm period between two glaciations during which the temperature rose to that of the present day." Neither "duration" nor "wetness" is used in this definition. An interglacial is a climatic episode; it is not a stratigraphic unit. The most satisfactory time-stratigraphic subdivision of the Quaternary uses climatic changes. In particular, the beginnings of stages are best determined by the beginnings of the rapid changes of temperature that led to glacials or interglacials.
30056715|Southwestern Ste Genevieve County, previously known as an area of igneous activity on a small scale, has been restudied. The known number of igneous occurrences has been increased from five to seventy-one, making the district comparable to those of similar type in Swabia and Scotland and unique in this country. Rock outcrops formerly described as sedimentary conglomerates have been recognized as debris-choked explosion tubes (diatremes). The location of the volcanic area with respect to the broad regional Ozark dome and the more local Farmington anticline suggests a possible genetic relationship between these three geologic features. A physiographic high, coinciding in position with the volcanic district, demands attention and further study. The igneous exposures, scattered over an area of about 75 square miles, are described as small bore-holes formed by gaseous explosions above a postulated magma chamber of laccolithic type. Mechanism of formation of the vents is discussed in considerable detail, as is a unique type of "autoclastic explosion breccia" found associated with individual pipes. Hydrothermal alteration, regional metamorphism, and mineralization receive only brief mention, detailed studies not being completed. The question of the age of the volcanism is given some consideration.
30080823|The known igneous history of southwestern Idaho began with the deposition of a great thickness of Permian andesites and rhyolite. Following this in Jurassic (?) time occurred the intrusion of the Idaho batholith. After an extensive erosion interval followed the extrusion of the lower series of Columbia River basalt. During a period of quiescence the Payette formation was deposited. This was followed by the extrusion of the upper series of the Columbia River basalt upon which was developed a peneplain-like erosion surface. Before the deposition of the Idaho formation the Owyhee rhyolite was extruded, which is part of a widespread sheet of acidic lavas which extends over southern Idaho and parts of adjacent states. Probably contemporaneous with these acid flows occurred the intrusion of one or more small batholiths into the Payette formation and Columbia River basalt. Down-warping was initiated, and upon the upper series of the Columbia River basalt and the Owyhee rhyolite was deposited the Idaho formation in Pliocene time. The Snake River basalt was extruded into the downwarp to the east in Pliocene and chiefly Pleistocene time, and it encroached on the Idaho formation in southwestern Idaho in the Pleistocene.
30061244|A succession of packets (multiple layers) characterized in terms of a two-packet Markov-2 model can be redefined in terms of a four-packet Markov-1 model by specifying the relative abundance of the two kinds of packets together with the transition probabilities
30081104|Interpretation of existing geothermometry data combined with new vitrinite reflectance data, within the framework of a detailed composite tectonic setting, elucidates the evolution of structural sequencing of thrust sheets during the Alleghanian event in the Valley and Ridge Province in Virginia. That the Pulaski thrust sheet preceded the Saltville thrust sheet in the emplacement sequence, and that both reached thermal maxima prior to, or during, respective emplacement may be inferred from vitrinite and other geothermometry data. In contrast, the Narrows and St. Clair thrust sheets probably each attained their thermal maximum after emplacement. New vitrinite reflectance data are consistent with CAI and other temperature-sensitive information heretofore ascertained in the Valley and Ridge Province and support previously established maximum temperatures of ca. 200C for strata of the Saltville thrust sheet as young as Mississippian.
30059062|We compile a 3.7b.yr.long time series of ultramafic and mafic rocks including extrusives and shallow intrusives (dikes and sills). We infer that peaks in the time series represent mantle plume events. Rocks erupted from plumes are becoming more Ti rich through time, and several rock types having >18 wt % MgO are Phanerozoic analogs for komatiites. These include meimechites, ankaramites, and rocks previously called picrites. Spectral analysis reveals the time series is driven by periods of 800 and 273 m.yr. Two 256m.yr.long data subsets, one sampling the Archean and one sampling the Phanerozoic, are driven by periods of
30080142|New measurements of compressional- and shear-wave velocities in serpentinites from the Mid-Atlantic Ridge at 43 N, 1 N, and 4 S are reported at pressures to 10 kbar. At oceanic crustal pressures, compressional-wave velocities (
30081312|To reveal chemical fractionation during porcellanitization, we have examined chemical compositions of porcellanite clasts and their host sediments from DSDP sites 164 and 166. Porcellanite is an intermediate product during chert formation. Distinctly higher Si/Ti ratios are observed in porcellanite relative to the host sediment, indicating Si transfer from the host sediment. However, Tinormalized values of Al, Fe, Mn, Ca, Na, K, P, rare earth elements, Sc, Rb, Y, Cs, Pb, Th, and Cr in porcellanite are similar to those of the host sediment, showing that these elements are affected by only very limited fractionation during porcellanitization and retain information about the sedimentary environment. The Si/Ti, P/Ti, and Al/Ti ratios in DSDP clayey samples fluctuate synchronously with their sedimentation ages. Because the Si/Ti and P/Ti ratios in clayey sediment reflect the contribution of biogenic siliceous and phosphatic debris, respectively, their high values in Cenozoic clayey sediments indicate vigorous biogenic productivity. Moreover, the observed similarity in age profiles of the Al/Ti ratio with the Si/Ti ratio and P/Ti ratio in clayey samples suggests that the Al/Ti ratio is affected by the supply of biogenic debris. The high Al/Ti ratios found in the Cenozoic samples can be ascribed to the contribution of adsorbed Al onto sinking biogenic debris. The small difference between the Al/Ti ratio of the Cenozoic porcellanite and the host sediment indicates that the adsorbed Al is also retained in porcellanite during Si enrichment. Therefore, the Al/Ti ratio in bedded cherts may be a potential indicator of ancient biogenic activity.
30058618|In the area drained by the Upper Rio Puerco and its tributaries, erosion has been marked by the development of a series of successively lowered, stabilized, local base-levels whose existence is recorded by multiple pediments and terraces. The early geo-morphologic history is obscure. Some indications of a hypothetical early and widespread erosion surface exist. There are more definite traces of a later high-level surface of coalescing pediments. The detailed history began in the Pleistocene with the dissection of this second surface and involved formation of the Upper Rio Puerco by adjustment to structure with accompanying piracy. Thereafter, the La Jara pediment was formed to a stabilized grade 180-200 feet above that of the present stream. Renewed incision and adjustment to structure occurred and the Rito Leche pediment was formed to a stabilized grade 75-85 feet above the present stream. Two minor cycles produced terraces about 30 and 10 feet high, respectively, but on rock. Finally, the inner valley of the river was cut and alternately filled and eroded in the minor epicycles characteristic of the region.
30071521|Removal of strata dip-and-strike effects at each collecting station by rotation in three-dimensions increases resolution of data concerning the orientation of joint surfaces in sedimentary rocks. Contoured equal-area diagrams of unrotated and rotated joints illustrate the changes in joint plane pole maxima. Jointing in sedimentary rocks upturned along two trends of the Grand Hogback Monocline, Colorado, is inferred as being related to vertical uplift rather than to horizontal compression or superposition of a regional joint system. The joints may have been caused by tensional stresses developed within the strata by the inherent slowness of rocks to relax from a prestressed condition created by deep burial.
30067320|The discussion is confined to the lowest (Somerville) peneplain of eastern Pennsylvania. The usually accepted origin by stream erosion is questioned by citing six opposing lines of evidence. Solution as a dominant process is considered to meet the facts best.
30071587|A revision of previous models of Proterozoic crustal accretion in the southwestern U.S. is presented, based on the more extensive data now available. Five Early Proterozoic predominantly volcanic supracrustal terranes are recognized, with ages of 1760-1800 Ma, 1730-1740 Ma, 1720 Ma, 1680-1700 Ma, and 1650 Ma. In some areas they are overlain by a sixth, comprised chiefly of quartzite-pelite. In the oldest three terranes mafic volcanic rocks of largely submarine origin are more abundant than felsic. In the 1680-1700 Ma and 1650 Ma terranes felsic rocks exceed mafics, volcanics are mixed submarine and subaerial, and non-volcanogenic sediments are important. Least mobile incompatible element distributions in basalts from the 1760-1800 Ma and 1720 Ma terranes are similar to those in basalts from evolved oceanic arcs and associated back-arc basins. Basalts from the other terranes resemble those from continental-margin arcs and associated back-arc basins at early stages of opening. Incompatible element ratios in the most primitive basalts suggest the existence of at least three mantle sources. Andesites, which are important at only two localities, have geochemical characteristics of either evolved oceanic arcs (Yavapai Supergroup) or continental-margin arcs (Pedernal Hills). Felsic volcanics from the 1760-1800 Ma and 1720 Ma terranes have low HFS and heavy REE contents and are compositionally similar to those from modern arc systems and were probably produced by fractionation from associated basalts. Felsic units from the other volcanic terranes have relatively high HFS and heavy REE contents and resemble volcanics from continental rifts or back-arc basins in or near continental crust. Clastic sediments from the 1680-1700 Ma and 1650 Ma terranes are compositionally similar to sediments from continental rifts or near-continent back-arc basins. The 1760-1800 Ma terrane appears to reflect a succession of oceanic arcs rapidly accreted to the Archean Wyoming province from the southeast, while the 1730-1740 Ma terrane is a back-arc basin formed within the 1760-1800 Ma terrane. The 1720 Ma terrane is interpreted as an evolved back-arc basin in which depleted mantle is tapped. The 1680-1700 Ma and 1650 Ma terranes are remnants of an extensive continental-margin arc system and associated back-arc basins. Bimodal volcanism, characteristic of most of the Early Proterozoic terranes, may reflect differences in preservation of arc and back-arc successions.
30078506|Riverborne quartz carries a cosmogenic nuclide memory that is a function of the catchmentwide erosion rate. This record may be preserved in fluvial deposits such as river terraces. If the age of a terrace is independently known and transport time in the river system is relatively short, then the upstream erosion rate at the time of terrace deposition can be determined. We have used cosmogenic nuclides to date river terraces in the lower Meuse catchment, the Netherlands, and to obtain a 1.3 Ma record of paleoerosion rates in a 10
30079798|The Hebridean shield, the northwest foreland of the Caledonian Orogen of Scotland, is a small fragment of Laurentia detached during the Cenozoic opening of the North Atlantic Ocean and is now part of Europe. The shield was at the tip of a major promontory of the ancestral core of North America, between the Newfoundland (Appalachian) and Greenland (Caledonian) margins. Its history is important to understanding late Precambrian and early Paleozoic global paleogeography and tectonics. Isotopic ages and structural complexities in the Moine and Dalradian Supergroups of the Caledonian Orogen have been interpreted as reflecting Neoproterozoic orogenic episodes overprinted by early Paleozoic deformation and metamorphism. A critical body of rock in the Scottish Highlands, the West Highland Granite Gneiss, has been viewed as a synorogenic intrusion into Moine metasedimentary rocks, and its 870Ma UPb zircon age as dating a Riphean Knoydartian orogeny. However, field evidence shows that the granitic protolith of the gneiss was emplaced before a regional suite of tholeiitic dikes was intruded into brittle fractures. The dikes carry all the ductile regional deformation. The zircon age thus reflects the crystallization of an anatectic melt, not its subsequent gneissification. Melting is thought to have resulted from advection of heat by emplacement of basaltic magma deep within the Moine sedimentary pile. In this new scenario, deformation and gneissification took place during the early (Grampian/Taconic) phase of the Caledonian Orogeny, not during the Neoproterozoic. Our interpretation is that all the Knoydartian events were extensional. This leads to a substantial simplification of the preCaledonian history of the Scottish Promontory of Laurentia. Protracted rifting in the Neoproterozoic was concentrated in two phases, with episodes of major extension and bimodal magmatism in the Riphean (900750 Ma) and Vendian (600 Ma). These episodes coincide with the twostage breakout of Laurentia as a discrete continent during the Neoproterozoic, hypothetically from the Rodinian and Pannotian supercontinents, respectively.
30058233|Detailed directions for carrying out a comparison of characters of fossils by a sequential analysis are given. The method is adapted to comparison at a single growth stage and to the comparison of growth series. The method has the advantage of, in general, requiring fewer specimens than the classical methods of comparison.
30060838|Block samples were collected in an east-west profile across the 1,655 m.y.-old Johnny Lyon granodiorite, Cochise County, Arizona. Progressive alternating field demagnetization shows that the NRM directions are stable to 175 Oe, and remain tightly grouped. Beyond this field the angular changes are large and irregular. The mean directions initially and after 175 Oe are remote from either the axial or the inclined present fields. The corresponding paleomagnetic pole after 175 Oe shows good agreement with poles from Cretaceous rocks from North America. This independent evidence supports the conclusion from isotopic studies (Silver and Deutsch 1963) that the granodiorite was profoundly affected by Cretaceous alteration processes.
30080197|Sculpted bedforms developed in rock channels must be considered within the context of temporally and spatially persistent flow dynamics. A shallow meandering channel (14 m long, 3050 cm wide, 34 cm deep) with raised margins has been eroded into resistant Irondequoit Limestone, forming the streambed of Fifteen Mile Creek; Ontario. Potholes (<18 cm deep, <25 cm wide, <35 cm long) within the channel increase in size downstream. Subaerial solution of the limestone and fracture patterns within the Irondequoit Limestone are not responsible for this. Large dolostone blocks within the channel stabilize patterns of vorticity that form in the lee of the blocks during highflows when flow is about 1.3 m deep. Vortices migrating downstream along a major flow junction have eroded the distinctive channel. Small irregularities in the bed may enlarge to potholes by attracting vortices and undergoing erosional wear as they pass. The feature may have developed within several hundred to several thousand years, but likely developed in relation to flows with magnitudes approaching the Mean Annual Flood, or larger. No other examples are known in Fifteen Mile Creek, or adjacent systems, and it is likely that the large block in the center channel dropped from an overhang and has not subsequently moved.
30056864|An attempt was made to define the stability limits and conditions of formation of the Al-Fe members of the epidote group. The various types of occurrences are discussed. Decomposition of zoisite was achieved at 475 C. in a hydrous environment in the presence of excess alumina and silica. Zoisite synthesis was not accomplished. It was found that above about 400 C. in a hydrous environment anorthite and hydro-grossularite were formed from a starting material of zoisite composition, whereas in the approximate range of 400-200 C. a hexagonal modification of
30063058|A beach-profile transition model is derived from analysis of 291 semidiurnal beach profiles measured on the Outer Banks, North Carolina, which allows prediction of successive beach profiles in terms of beach width, sediment storage, and surface configuration. The prediction requires knowledge of the initial profile and the stage in the development of a wave field. The model explains beach cycles which are purely associated with wave activity.
30062175|Dry, hydrous, and
30075108|Glauconite was first named in 1828, but in spite of repeated studies and numerous analyses its exact manner of formation and composition have remained in doubt. Chemical analyses obtained from magnetically and microscopically purified samples, from widely separated localities, show that the composition of glauconite can be expressed by a definite formula which in its simplest form may be written as follows:
30078315|Coral reef terraces on the Torres Islands have recorded the Quaternary uplift of part of the northern New Hebrides frontal arc. These isles lie about midway between the volcanic chain and trench axis, where the Indian plate underthrusts the arc from the west.
30068039|Three numerical experiments have been performed, modeling response of a greatly simplified stream system to initiation of crustal tilting and domal uplift. Model results show signs of nonlinear behavior in varying degrees. These signs include river profile adjustments that have forms quite different from the geometries of crustal movements, cases of channel erosion following deposition at the same location, and spatial transition points between opposing adjustments (i.e., erosion and deposition) that fail to coincide with boundaries or axes of crustal movement. Particular nonlinear effects wax or wane as the system adjusts to a new, dynamic equilibrium with the continuing crustal movement. The modeled features of stream adjustment are not in so extreme a class as the commonly discussed complex response of fluvial systems, but they do serve to suggest some caution in studies that employ stream profile information as an indicator of crustal movement.
30080903|The relations of Yellowstone Tertiary volcanics to Tertiary faults in the Teton Range indicate that major movements probably occurred in early Pliocene time, following deposition of Miocene basic volcanics and associated sediments and prior to outpourings of plateau rhyolite, and that minor movements continued into Recent time. Erosion surfaces representing the late-mature stage Black Rock cycle are covered by the rhyolite. This relationship and the youthful geomorphic aspect of the rhyolite plateau indicate that the rhyolite and younger valley basalt are probably of early, or early middle, Pleistocene age. More precise dating of the rhyolite depends upon the age assigned to the Buffalo drift, which rests on these volcanics.
30063973|Attainment of equilibrium in plagioclase feldspars is severely hampered by the charge linkage between Ca and Al on the one hand and Na and Si on the other hand (Goldsmith): exsolution is governed therefore by the activation energy for migration of tetrahedrally bonded atoms. Fine-scale intergrowths with structural continuity of the aluminosilicate framework are the initial products of exsolution rather than separate phases. Plagioclase with type e diffractions (denoted e-plagioclase) is interpreted as an intergrowth on a unit-cell scale of domains approaching pure albite and anorthite in composition, separated by disordered boundaries (Smith and Ribbe). It represents an attempt to achieve a mechanical mixture of low albite and P-anorthite, believed to be the stable feldspar assemblage at low temperature. Three types of intergrowths develop on a micrometer scale: peristerite (
30068540|Archean greenstone belts with a preponderance of mafic volcanic rocks, often preserved in tectonically complex sequences, are obvious candidates in the search for remnants of Archean ocean crust. We review the tectonic setting and stratigraphy of a number of greenstone sequences previously interpreted as Archean ophiolites and conclude, on the basis of basal unconformities, presence of xenocryst zircons, geochemical and isotopic evidence for crustal contamination, intrusive relationships with older basement and their internal stratigraphy, that none of these examples is derived from Archean oceanic crust. Thermal, tectonic, and isostatic constraints imply that Archean oceanic basins did exist and were covered with several kilometers of water. We consider it possible, indeed probable, that relict Archean oceanic crust is preserved in granite-greenstone terrains or other Archean tectonic settings but that an unequivocal Archean ophiolite has not yet been recognized.
30067328|Coy Glen, one of the many gorges of the Finger Lakes region of Central New York, presents in its lower course a remarkable development of incised meanders. On first inspection, this meandering appears to be perfect evidence in support of the theory that such phenomena are a direct inheritance of a meandering course previous to rejuvenation. Further, it would seem that the initiating conditions are here fully preserved. On detailed examination, however, it is found that the Coy Glen meandering is of the ingrown type, with secondary swings controlled almost entirely by the joint structure of the bed rock. This article accordingly is intended to suggest that caution is necessary when interpreting the physiographic history of a region on the basis of incised meandering streams.
30067252|The underlying theory pertaining to the shape of the earth is briefly reviewed. The operations and results that have led to the theory of isostasy are given. Hopfner's recent inquiry into the problem is cited in which he has shown that by means of strict potential theory isostatic reductions are highly questionable, and, furthermore, that there is no need to postulate an isostatic state in order to account for gravity data. High points of geologic and seismologic data are also cited. The conclusion is that the theory of isostasy. rests upon a much more insecure foundation than has heretofore been supposed.
30066168|Significant geologic data are generally those in which a statistically unexpected relationship is established. An unexpectedly high correlation coefficient, for example, requires an explanation in terms of the environment or mode of formation of the material being studied. Expected, seemingly random, relationships may, however, be significant in connection with qualitative or other subjective evidence. Data pertaining to the mode of formation of a rock or other feature must be obtained by studying properties that were out of equilibrium with the final environment of formation, whereas the environment is indicated by equilibrium features.
30081161|The Arisaig Group is a Silurian succession of predominantly shallow marine clastic sediments overlying volcanics, exposed in northern mainland Nova Scotia. Sediment accumulation provides a record of the subsidence of western Avalonia during the interval when terranes were being accreted within the Canadian Appalachians. To calculate the amount of subsidence, one must correct the measured thicknesses for the effects of tectonic strain. Deformed fossils on bedding surfaces indicate strain ratios mainly between 1.2 and 1.6. An empirical porosity-depth relationship is used to correct for compaction. The subsidence curves are then adjusted to allow for variations in water depth and eustatic sea level. The resulting curves show significant variations in subsidence rate regardless of which version of the Silurian time-scale is used. An initial episode of rapid subsidence followed eruption of Llandoverian volcanics. Slower subsidence took place in Wenlockian and Ludlovian time, with deeper-water sedimentation during an early Ludlovian eustatic high. This part of the history is consistent with thermal subsidence following an initial extensional event. A rapid increase in subsidence rate occurred during deposition of the Pridolian Stonehouse Formation. This episode was accompanied by a rapid increase in sediment supply, and a change in paleocurrent flow from southwest to northwest. The rapid Pridolian subsidence probably resulted from oblique collision between Avalonia and the Meguma Terrane to the south.
30080003|The crustalscale Kyonggi shear zone of central Korea has been identified as a major boundary between the Precambrian Kyonggi massif in the south and the Imjingang belt in the north. The latter is an eastward extension of the QinlingDabieSulu collisional belt of China. Field observations and microstructural analysis indicate that the extensional shear zone evolved from a deep crustal ductile regime to a shallow crustal brittle regime, associated with a rapid uplift of the Kyonggi massif following the Late PermianEarly Triassic collision between the SinoKorean and Yangtze cratons. A RbSr muscovite age (
30063702|The constituents of crushed rocks are etched with hydrofluoric acid and are then stained. By their different appearances after this treatment the minerals may be recognized and the composition of the rock may be determined by grain counts. The ferromagnesian minerals are recognized by their color and other optical properties, the plagioclases show an opaque stained mantle, the potash feldspar is corroded but transparent, and the quartz is unaffected. If the grains are immersed in an oil having a refractive index near that of Canada balsam, a further aid in the separation is obtained.
30057085|The hitherto unrecognized features of Leverett's ridged drift of the Kaskaskia Basin throughout its course from the Shelbyville moraine in south central Illinois nearly to Belleville in southwestern Illinois; its genetic crevasse ridges, subcrevasse channels on the land surface, and moulin kames; together with sparse but wide distribution of similar features over the greater part of the Illinoian drift area east of Illinois and Mississippi rivers attest to the stagnant condition of the Illinoian glacial lobe for this region after it had reached its terminus and made its marginal deposits.
30062595|Ground tilt has been measured daily for twenty-seven years at the Hawaiian Volcano Observatory, Hawaii National Park. A brief discussion of instrumental measurement of tilt is given. Resultant tilt has been computed for the entire record and is shown as a general chart. Resultant tilt for individual years with volcanic outbreaks is shown. Tilt represents deep-seated pressure changes and is correlated with volcanic activity and with ground-level changes. Local loading affects tilt but slightly.
30080999|The earth has been cooling since Archean time. The higher temperatures beneath Archean ridges resulted in more partial melting which extended down to greater depths than at present. The Archean oceanic crust was much thicker (>20 km) than modern crust (~5 km). This inference is compatible with previous ideas of suspected oceanic crust. The thicker oceanic crust in the Archean tended to resist subduction similar to modern aseismic ridges, but could not prevent it. Short-lived episodes of intra-arc spreading followed by Cordilleran-type compression may have produced Archean greenstone belts. Archean meta-tonalites represent a significant part of the continental crust and were probably produced by melting of the subducted slab which was favored by the higher mantle temperatures.
JG80241|In the Death Valley and Mojave Desert regions of southeastern California, the contact separating the lower and middle members of the Wood Canyon Formation (WCF) is currently interpreted as a regional-scale unconformity coincident with the base of the Sauk sequence. Regional mapping of this surface, however, reveals a nonconformable contact with underlying crystalline basement in cratonic settings and a relatively conformable contact atop a northwest-thickening wedge of off-craton strata that is capped by the lower member of the WCF. Consistent with an unconformity, the progressive loss of three carbonate units within the lower member of the WCF has been attributed to incision by the base of the middle-member WCF. However, fossil evidence and correlation based on carbon isotope compositions of each lower-member WCF dolostone unit reject top-down erosion to describe their loss and overall cratonward thinning. Results from multiple, detailed, measured stratigraphic sections of a conglomerate at the base of or low in the middle-member WCF also do not support a top-down erosion model because the conglomerate has variable stratigraphic position and is absent in some locations. Middle-member WCF conglomerate clasts also reveal variation in composition and grain size across the regions. Sequence-stratigraphic architecture indicates that filling of available accommodation space via a short-period normal regression coupled with high-order sea level fall generated the basal middle-member WCF unconformity. Consequently, the base of the Sauk sequence occurs lower in the stratigraphic section, most likely at the base of the underlying Stirling quartzite.
30060236|Microscopic strain analysis involving the measurement of components of strain due to different mechanisms is applied to the Weverton formation in the South Mountain Anticline. The normal limb of the anticline at Catoctin Mountain consists of open low amplitude folds with long normal limbs and short overturned limbs with the concentration of strain around the hinges of the folds. The overturned limb at Harpers Ferry and South Mountain consists of tight overturned folds with undeformed normal limbs and strongly sheared overturned limbs, suggesting that the folding is associated with the development of ductile deformation zones on the overturned limbs. The strain ellipsoid is usually oblate, with a consistent deviation from a plane strain situation. The important deformation mechanisms are dislocation creep involving intracrystalline slip and pressure solution involving grain boundary diffusion. The dislocation creep strain (
30060420|It is observed that there are abandoned waterfalls and other evidence of the former presence of a stream in the now dry, eastern end of Kicking Horse Pass. These conditions are attributed to a westward tilting or elevation of the region to the east in response to the removal of the ice load after the close of the Pleistocene glaciation or to tectonic uplift of recent date in the eastern Rocky Mountains of Canada.
30066418|The distribution of gaps within taxon range zones has been suggested to fit Poisson as well as exponential distributions. If the distribution of fossil occurrence horizons is controlled by a Poisson random variable, the distribution of gap length frequencies will be exponential. An exponential model of gap length frequencies allows us to place confidence intervals on the expected extent of taxon range zones and on the observed order of any two biostratigraphic events. By examining all pairs of biostratigraphic events, it becomes possible to estimate the corresponding sequence of biologic events. Sequences of biologic events determined in this fashion may be compared with the results of other quantitative biostratigraphic techniques. The utility of an exponential model assumes that (1) the distribution of fossil occurrence horizons in taxon range zones is random, and (2) sampling is random. If these assumptions are violated, an exponential model of gap length frequencies should not be used to place confidence intervals on the expected endpoints of taxon range zones. However, the problem of nonrandom sampling may be alleviated through additional collecting.
30059986|The Catoctin Formation of Precambrian age is composed predominantly of sodium-rich greenstone derived from metamorphism of basalt. Intimately associated with the spilitic greenstone are irregular masses of quartz-epidote rock (epidosite), estimated to make up about one-third of the total volume of the meta-volcanic rocks. The calculated composition of the greenstone-epidosite complex is almost identical with that of dikes in the underlying basement rocks that are believed to be feeders from which the Catoctin lavas were erupted. Evidently the spilitic greenstone and epidosite are the products of chemical alteration of basalt flows with compositions like those of the feeder dikes. The principal changes involved are enrichment of the greenstone (and depletion of epidosite) in sodium, magnesium, and hydrogen, and enrichment of epidosite (and depletion of greenstone) in oxygen and calcium. Chemical alteration apparently resulted from circulation of fluids with high oxidation potential through a fissure system within the flows either shortly after eruption or during Paleozoic regional metamorphism.
30071226|Scanned-cathodoluminescence (CL) imaging of the quartz-rich, porous Etjo Sandstone from northern Namibia shows that brittle deformation has played a major role in developing arcuate and interpenetrated grain contacts. Such contacts, previously interpreted to result from pressure solution, are seen in scanned-CL images to arise primarily from rearrangement of fragments formed by brittle deformation. Brittle deformation dominates compaction and produces extensive microfractures that heal with authigenic quartz cement. The volume of intragranular authigenic cement is significant and represents a previously unrecognized sink for silica in sandstones. True pressure solution is minor in the Etjo and is generally limited to contacts between brecciated fragments and unfractured, detrital grains. In addition to this pressure solution, silica may also be mobilized from the dissolution of comminuted fragments near grain contacts. However, the amount of silica imported into grains is substantially larger than that which appears to come from dissolution sites. Grain overlap can no longer be considered to arise from simple pressure solution, and the volume of authigenic quartz measured in sandstones must include intragranular fracture-filling cement as well as overgrowths and pore-filling cement.
30065664|We report the first successful dating by the SHRIMP U-Pb method of a tiny, single zircon inclusion in a natural diamond from a kimberlite at Mbuji Mayi, Zaire. The Mbuji Mayi diamonds are a composite suite of contrasting composition, probable age, and origins, which includes diamonds of the typical ultramafic and eclogitic parageneses, as well as many diamonds featuring a fibrous coating that formed in equilibrium with a volatile-rich fluid phase. The zircon-diamond pair is believed to be cogenetic, and the
30068673|The double maximum pattern of optic axes is found in quartzite mylonites that have undergone extensive plastic deformation and partial recrystallization as shown by highly elongate grains with small strain free grains along the grain boundaries. The optic axis pattern is characterized by two maxima of [0001] at 45 to the foliation and perpendicular to the lineation. The pattern has orthorhombic symmetry. However, X-ray analysis of a specimen from the Moine thrust zone in N.W. Scotland has revealed that the actual symmetry of the specimen is monoclinic and that {1011} is parallel to foliation and poles to {4041} are parallel to the direction of maximum elongation (= lineation). As both the texture and preferred orientation correspond to those observed by Tullis et al. (1973) in experimentally produced mylonites (although the symmetries are different), it is concluded that basal slip, prismatic slip, Dauphin twinning, subsidiary syntectonic recrystallization and loss of strength due to water weakening observed in the laboratory also occurred in this naturally deformed mylonite. The orientation distribution function (ODF), used to specify the complete orientation of the grains, contains rods of high density corresponding to families of grain orientations. These rods are analogous to the high density rods found in the ODF's for cold rolled sheets of steel or copper. Monoclinic symmetry and 10:1:0.1 grain shapes are consistent with large heterogeneous simple shear as the mode of deformation, and the deduced displacement direction is consistent with underthrusting of the foreland to the ESE under the Moine nappe.
30082300|Attention is called to the controversy of some years ago over the origin of the "Devil's Corkscrews." The problem may have appeared unimportant then, but now a correct understanding of the paleoecology of Harrison time may hinge on the explanation of these strange "fossils." The characteristics of Daemonelix are briefly reviewed, they are compared to the lianas of the modern tropical jungle, and the postulated conditions of Harrison sedimentation are believed to supply an adequate explanation for the presence of fossil rodent remains in the Daemonelices. The possibility of a vegetal origin of these fossils is believed to be demonstrated.
30081153|A negative correlation between sediment yield and weathering history, as measured by the chemical alteration (CIA) of the suspended sediment, is observed for many of the world's major rivers and other regions of denudation. The weathering history is a first-order control on the sediment yield of such areas, termed equilibrium denudation regions. For other areas, data scatter with either apparent increases or decreases of sediment yield for given CIA values. These areas are termed nonequilibrium denudation regions. Low sediment yields can be attributed to moderated erosion (either natural or human induced) and/or the incorporation of unweathered glacial debris. Accelerated erosion, resulting in high sediment yield, is primarily human-induced and results from cultivation and other land use. Each of these effects has a profound influence on global sediment discharge from the continents. Pre-human suspended sediment discharge from the continents is estimated to be
30062377|Until recently, contributions towards the understanding of glacial marine sedimentation have been limited. Sedimentologie studies of continental shelf deposits recently cored in the Weddell Sea, Ross Sea, and the George V region of Antarctica have enabled the distinction of three types of sediment. Type 1 sediments are massive, poorly sorted, and texturally and mineralogically homogeneous downcore; they are unfossiliferous or contain reworked fossils, lack a preferred pebble orientation, and are overcompacted. They are interpreted as being basal tills. Type 2 sediments are crudely stratified, contain a sorted mud fraction, are texturally and mineralogically heterogeneous downcore, contain distinctive microfossil assemblages, are typically normally compacted, and have a horizontal pebble fabric. Type 3 sediments are similar to Type 2 sediments except that they are depleted in silt and clay and contain a moderately sorted sand fraction. Both Type 2 and Type 3 sediments are deposited from floating ice and reflect the action of marine currents. Type 2 sediments contain a current derived fine mode, whereas Type 3 sediments have been winnowed by currents. These sediments are termed "compound" and "residual" glacial marine sediments respectively. Distributions of these deposits on the Antarctic continental shelf can be related to former glaciologie and marine conditions.
30063940|Many shallow marine sedimentary rocks were deposited, at least partly, under the influence of tidal currents. Vertical changes in grain size and sedimentary structure within such rocks ought not to be attributed solely to changes in depth of water or proximity to the shore. The strength of the tidal current at any given point in a sea is dependent upon the tidal regime in that sea as a whole, and this in turn depends upon a variety of factors, such as the size and shape of the basin and the degree of floor roughness. These, to a greater or lesser degree, are ever changing, so that the maximum strength of the tidal current at any given point also changes. The resultant deposits, if preserved in the geologic column, will show either gradational or sharp changes in character in response to gradual or marked changes in tidal regime. If the depth of water changes, there will also be a change of some sort in the tidal regime which will modify the straight effect of change in water depth.
30059415|Two fossil grizzly bears, here described from the Pleistocene of Oklahoma, are the only fossil grizzlies that have been reported from the Great Plains region. A brief survey of the literature is given, and the inadequacy of Merriam's classification is pointed out.
30080886|The pre-Cambrian rocks of the northern Bighorn Mountains comprise two series: an older one of variable gneisses, amphibolites, and schists, and a younger group of granitic rocks. The granitic rocks predominate at the north and south ends of the area. The granites are extremely variable in composition and range from gneissic to massive types which are thoroughly intermixed. Well-foliated rocks predominate near the margins of the range. Inclusions of biotite-rich rocks are common in a narrow zone along the margins of a large synclinal structure. The microscopic criteria for age sequence and mode of emplacement of minerals in sulfide ore bodies have been applied to the constituent minerals of the granites. Particular attention is given to the age relations of plagioclase, potash feldspar, muscovite, and quartz. The criteria suggest that potash feldspar replaced plagioclase and muscovite, and that quartz is later than these three minerals. Muscovite and epidote formed from plagioclase. Myrmekitic intergrowths, vein, string, and patch perthites, and inverse zoning of plagioclase suggest replacement of plagioclase by potash feldspar. Granites are cut by aplites, pegmatites, and diabase dikes of pre-Cambrian age. Diabase dikes have been subjected to palingenesis, indicating that the area underwent two stages of pre-Cambrian deformation. The granitic rocks contain a mineral assemblage critical of PT conditions between the amphibolite and epidote-amphibolite facies. Chemical analyses of rocks from the gneissic and the granitic series, when plotted in a A'CFK' tetrahedron, show that the formation of Bighorn granites involved a simple addition of
30068190|Spatially averaged erosion rates of small catchments can be accurately inferred from the concentrations of cosmogenic nuclides in stream sediment. Here we test this technique at two catchments by comparing erosion rates inferred from cosmogenic nuclides with rates of alluvial fan deposition over the past 16,000 years. These two independent estimates agree within one standard error, demonstrating that cosmogenic nuclide signatures of stream sediment can be used to measure spatially averaged long-term erosion rates. Using this technique, we show that long-term erosion rates are an exponential function of average hillslope gradient at these sites.
30056725|The upper Salmon River, many of its tributaries, and other streams draining the northern Rocky Mountains of east-central Idaho flow for many miles in a northeasterly direction and then abruptly change their courses. The Salmon River makes an elbow turn and virtually reverses its direction of flow to the west side of the state, joined below by important barbed tributaries and above by consequent streams which occupy northwestward-trending structural basins. Other northeast-flowing streams enter structural basins and are directed southeast to the Snake River Plain. Headwater trends and aligned wind gaps across block mountains are indicative of an early drainage system that extended far to the northeast, probably to the Missouri River. That piracy and large-scale faulting have had an important role in disrupting this early drainage is indicated by barbed tributaries, elbows of capture, wind gaps on tilted block mountains, and the presence of consequent streams in fault-made valleys. Diversion of Salmon River to the west side of the state apparently resulted from capture by headward erosion of a vigorous stream from the west as a consequence of crustal disturbances during late Tertiary and early Quaternary time. Diversion of other streams into northwest-southeast structural basins between block-faulted mountains probably took place at about the same time. By reason of these diversions the Continental Divide has been shifted about 100 miles east of its location in late Tertiary time.
30058633|Although there is abundant evidence in the Sierra Nevada that part of the magma of the pluton was guided by the northwest direction of cleavage and folding, it is thought that the primary controls were oriented nearly north-south. They guided the volcanic eruptions of Tertiary and Quaternary time as well as the intrusions of the more remote past. From this it is inferred that the north-south directions are zones of tension; they occur en echelon, and in barbed relation to the regional northwest trend. They may owe their origin to horizontal drift, in which the Sierra block has shifted northward in relation to the eastern blocks. A survey of the information concerning crustal motion in surrounding regions seems to demonstrate the existence of such drift. It is suggested that the growth of the pluton was directly related to crustal motion, which generated the magma and controlled its emplacement. The geologically young uplifts and volcanism may indicate the emplacement at depth of another pluton.
30058649|A theoretical and experimental study of the rate of adjustment of calcium bicarbonate solutions indicates that evaporation is not an important rate-determining factor in the process. The observed catalytic effect of calcite is quite general for any added surface.
30062236|Recrystallization of a mineralogically heterogeneous rock under non-hydrostatic stress conditions should result in a preferred mineral distribution as well as preferred mineral orientations that are related to the stress direction. A stress-strain model is developed wherein calculations show that different mineral distributions provide different strain energies per unit stress for the rock. The maximum strain energy per unit stress is achieved if the minerals are arranged to give the modal composition of the rock in the direction parallel to the maximum compressive stress direction and monomineralic layers parallel to the direction of applied shear stress. These mineral distributions or arrays provide the maximum work per unit stress and the maximum decrease in the mechanical potential energy for the system and are regarded as the equilibrium arrays. However, these arrays do not necessarily provide the minimum chemical potentials of the constituents of the strained minerals. It is concluded that the equilibrium form for the system is the mechanical equilibrium mineral array, and the results of strain are described by Kamb's (1959, 1961) treatment of chemical potentials of strained systems.
30068276|The paper discusses the field relations, petrography, and chemical compositions of a group of igneous rocks characteristic of geosynclinal belts: namely, greenstone, ultramafics, and gabbro, which occurs in the northeastern extremity of the Appalachians in the vicinity of Baie Verte, Newfoundland. The prevalent mineral assemblages of the greenstone are: 1. Actinolite-(chlorite)-albite-epidote-quartz 2. Chlorite-(actinolite)-albite-epidote-quartz 3. Chlorite-calcite-albite-epidote-quartz Adjacent to a large quartz-diorite intrusive, the greenstone has been metamorphosed to the amphibolite facies characterized by hornblende, oligoclase, and biotite. Concentric structures in chert lenses associated with the greenstone suggest colloidal origin. The molecular ratio of Mg /Fe of the serpentinized harzburgite is within the range typical of the primary ultramafic magma series of Hess. The alterations and problems of correlation of the ultramafics are briefly considered. Discussion of pseudostratified metagabbro, its pegmatite facies, and alterations to zoisite-quartz and zoisite-prehnite assemblages, etc., is included. Small sills and dikes of mafic gabbro, diorite, porphyrite, and kersantite are described.
30057892|The experiments described in this paper were made to obtain more definite data on the relative rates of mechanical wear, on sand grains, by wind and water under constant conditions. The results show, contrary to the general belief, that sand submerged in water wears down more rapidly than dry sand transported over the same distance. From the experiments, the ratio of the rate of wear of water-transported to wind-transported sand ranges from 1.7:1 to 4.6:1. Also, the rate of wear by both wind and water, in a well-sized sand such as a dune or beach sand, is found to be very slow. Rounded or spheroidal sand grains are believed to have a longer history of rounding than could be produced in a single cycle of erosion, transportation, and deposition and probably are, even geologically, very old.
30081004|We suggest that the volcanic lids or carapaces (lava and sheeted dikes) overlying mid-oceanic magma chambers float on underlying magma. Estimated porosites of MOR volcanics and dikes are large enough to reduce the overall density of the lid to values less than the density of underlying magma. Floating these lids eliminates the difficulty of mechanically maintaining relatively thin, brittle lids over large magma chambers at mid-oceanic spreading centers.
30056827|A detailed account is given of the occurrence and the mineral and chemical composition of the granodiorites found in the Pend Oreille district, Bonner county, Idaho. The study of the minerals of which these rocks are composed brought out some facts of general application. The biotite and the chlorite have higher indices of refraction than are generally credited to these minerals in common igneous rocks. Comparison with the indices of refraction of the biotite and chlorite of many well-known igneous rocks showed, however, that the biotite and chlorite of these granodiorites are not unusual. The rocks show pronounced effects of hydrothermal and some effects of pneu-matolytic alteration. These processes are discussed in some detail, since it is thought that they have acted on many other granitic rocks.
30059271|The number of dune trends found in the large pluvial lake basins of the Southern High Plains differs with age. The older the basin, the greater the number of trends. The outer or older dunes, produced by prevailing northwesterlies, are of pre-Wisconsin age. The inner-dune trends fringing present playas show evidence of a new paleowind direction across the Southern High Plains, because they were produced by post-Wisconsin winds blowing southeast to east, contrary to Melton's (1940) evidence from New Mexico. Small dune trends in the northern ends and along the eastern sides of present playas were formed during the last 5,000 years by strong southerly to south-southwesterly winds.
30081198|Plate motion models based on hotspot tracks in the Atlantic and Indian Oceans predict minimal movement (less than a few millimeters per year) between these hotspots and their counterparts in the Pacific Ocean for the past 100 m.yr., whereas plate circuit exercises indicate relative motions of 20 mm/yr. Hotspotbased models also suggest that the Rajmahal Traps, India, were located 1000 km away from the Kerguelen hotspot at 115 Ma, and the Deccan Traps, India, were located a similar distance from the Reunion hotspot at 65 Ma; this is at odds with conclusions derived from paleomagnetism, plate circuits, and geochemical parameters that suggest a genetic link between flood basalt provinces in India and hotspots in the Indian Ocean. These divergent views may be explained by plume action 1000 km from its center or errors in the hotspot motion models. The latter hypothesis is scrutinized in this article by examination of the radiometric ages for hotspot tracks in the Atlantic and Indian Oceans. The
30080242|Three widespread and abundant types of ore deposits, epithermal silvergold (AgAu), porphyry copper (Cu), and orogenic gold (Au), form by hydrothermal activity during tectonic convergence along continental margins, and their preservation provides new insights into rates of those processes that form and destroy ore deposits as well as overlying rock. Ages for each of the three deposit types define lognormal agefrequency distributions that are nearly identical in form but differ in their modal ages. Epithermal AgAu, porphyry Cu, and orogenic Au deposits exhibit age modes at 3, 11, and 199 Ma, respectively. These ore types form at depths of 0.5, 1.9, and 10 km, respectively, such that modal age increases with depth of ore emplacement. Qualitatively, the dearth of deposits younger than their modal age reflects the fact that ore deposits form at depth within the crust, and time is required for exhumation to expose them. Continued erosion serves to destroy ore bodies, giving rise to fewer deposits with increasing time beyond modal ages. These relations suggest that ore deposit age frequencies should serve as monitors of rates of tectonism and exhumation along convergent continental margins. Quantitatively, the lognormal aspect of age frequencies is closely approximated by a steady state model of ore formation and crustal deformation. The model presumes that the population of exposed deposits of each type results from ore emplacement at a constant rate and depth and that, after emplacement, these deposits are dispersed vertically (upward or downward) by tectonic uplift and/or subsidence. The aggregate paths of all deposits of some particular type behave as a twodimensional random walk in vertical (depth) and lateral (time) space. Moreover, the lognormal nature of ore deposit agefrequency distributions requires that amounts of uplift and subsidence are generally subequal (there is no bias to the random walk) and necessitates that tectonic steps taken during this random walk are on the order of a few hundreds of meters per million years. Modal rate of ore deposit exhumation (emplacement depth/modal age) decreases as a power function with increasing modal age (exhumation distance
30071236|It is suggested that melt within partially molten mantle plumes initially accumulates in layers, due to compaction, so that the plumes become stratified with alternating layers of melt and residuum. Shear flow within plumes tilts the layers and melt flows toward a central source region, where the pressure of the melt becomes greater than lithostatic pressure and causes the formation of a feeder dike that extracts it from the source region. The tilt can explain the central focusing of melt beneath the abyssal ridges. Episodic intrusion of melt into abyssal magma chambers relates to the slow deformation rate of the residuum that encloses the layers of melt. When melt leaves a source region it takes some time before the residuum again exerts a lithostatic pressure on the melt layers. The slow deformation is caused by the high viscosity of partially molten lherzolite.
30068220|A model for steady-state eolian saltation is presented in which computation of sand grain trajectories in the wind and of the wind velocity profile modified by saltating grain drag forces is combined with experimental data on grain-bed collisions in an iterative simulation scheme which resembles the time-development of natural saltation. Qualitative features of eolian saltation are reproduced in the simulations, including a height in the saltating layer at which the wind velocity remains roughly constant with changing free-stream friction velocity and an approximate separation of the saltating population into successively hopping grains and reptating or creeping grains. The numerical solutions give rise to more general arguments in support of the conclusions that fluid entrainment of grains is unimportant in steady-state saltation, that the mass flux profile obeys roughly an inverse power law dependence on height, and that the vertically integrated mass flux dependence on the free-stream friction velocity need not have a simple form.
30065609|Fine-scaled stratigraphic data are combined with chronologic information provided by paleomagnetic stratigraphy to document and analyze chronostratigraphic variability of the Salla Beds, a sequence of distal floodplain and lacustrine intermontane basin sediments within the eastern Andean cordillera of Bolivia. Unsteadiness in sediment accumulation is identified using a conceptual model of episodic accumulation in which simulated accumulation histories are constructed using estimated rates for various fluvial facies and taking into account gaps in deposition and possible effects of erosion. Variability in the Salla Beds is compared to that in sequence of Miocene fluvial sediments in northern Pakistan to evaluate controls on spatial and temporal stratigraphic variability. Sedimentation in the Salla sequence was generally steady over short time scales, but over longer intervals infrequent carbonates, associated with unusually long hiatuses, served to reduce the net sediment accumulation rate. In the Chinji sequence of Pakistan, unsteady accumulation evolved into a pattern of steadier sediment accumulation as recurring cycles of unsteadiness were superimposed on the overall sequence. The controls on sediment accumulation over time in these two sequences may be similarly related to the presence and extent of atypical and infrequent events of deposition, non-deposition, or erosion that exert a significant effect on net sediment accumulation. The discrepancy of short-term episodic and long-term net stratigraphic accumulation rates in both these sequences suggests that the decrease in net sediment accumulation rate with increasing time reflects the superimposed effects of different levels of local geomorphic and extrabasinal controls.
30068541|Nd-isotope analyses from a range of lithologies, including charnockites, metasediments, and granitoids that comprise the high-grade terrain of South India define contrasting age provinces. North of the Palghat-Cauvery shear zone, the Karnataka Craton and the granulite blocks of Nilgiri and Madras are characterized by model Nd ages from 3.4 to 2.4 Ga with significant crustal growth during the Late Archean. South of the Palghat-Cauvery shear zone a Pan-African granulite-facies event resulted in Sm/Nd fractionation, as observed in several incipient charnockite localities. Model Nd age calculations that allow for Sm/Nd fractionation at 550 Ma yield ages in the range of 2.9 to 1.3 Ga. This range compares closely with published model Nd ages from the high-grade terrain of Sri Lanka. Mid-Proterozoic crustal growth (~1.1 Ga) observed in the Vijayan Complex of Sri Lanka may have provided source material for metasediments characterized by young model Nd ages in southern Peninsular India. The Palghat-Cauvery shear zone therefore represents a boundary between southern terranes that are characterized by crustal reworking and high-grade metamorphism during the Pan-African tectonothermal event and an Archean craton to the north where no Pan-African overprint has been detected. Charnockite formation is identified both with the period of Late Archean crustal growth and with the period of Pan-African metamorphism, as can be observed not only in southern India, but also in the proximal Gondwanan fragments of East Antarctica and Madagascar.
30057346|A theoretical model is presented for the expected patterns of sediment size and sorting in the region of shoaling wave, breaker, and beach foreshore. This model is based on theoretical considerations and published experimental results and is intended to hold for the above-mentioned dynamic zones in a state of equilibrium. Comparison with detailed observations in three natural situations and with published sediment size and sorting patterns appears to give good agreement with the model. The implication is that such generalized patterns may serve in the recognition of departures from equilibrium and change in general environment in the study of contemporary sediments and possibly in the recognition of dynamic environments in ancient rocks.
30059304|The purpose of this note is to describe a newly discovered Middle Pennsylvanian fauna from the Francis Creek shale of the Mazon Creek area, Illinois. For convenience, the well-known terrestrial fauna is designated the Braidwood concretion fauna and the marine fauna will be referred to as the Essex concretion fauna. Most of the Essex fossils are impressions of soft-bodied forms. The fauna includes such unusual fossils as polychaete worms, jellyfish, nudibranchs, holothurians, and chitons. One abundant element is a unique wormlike fossil resembling modern bathypelagic nemerteans in general body form. The assemblage of ecologic types represented in the Essex fauna and its stratigraphic occurrence suggest a near-shore environment of deposition.
30059427|Attention is drawn to the relation between steeply dipping lavas and the topography of the surface on which the lavas flowed, also to the relation between topography, drainage lines, and fractures. Much of the banding and lamination of the lavas is considered not as a result of spreading of a non-homogeneous magma but as a result of crystallization along planes developed by movements after the flow structure was completed. Compared with a glacier, the structure of the rhyolite is molded in a less regular way to the form of the surface on which it rests. The observations are insufficient for a satisfactory discussion of the mode of extrusion of the rhyolites. More information about their structure and its relation to the pre-rhyolite topography may-if anywhere-be obtained from a detailed study of the walls of the deep canyons.
30065000|We present U-Pb zircon isotopic data from locally restricted prograde (arrested in situ charnockitization) and retrograde metamorphic transition zones, which are well exposed in Proterozoic orthogneisses tectonically interbanded with granulite facies supracrustal rocks of the Highland Group in Sri Lanka. These granitoid rocks yield apparent ages of
30058758|The same ratio correlation may be generated by many different combinations of relationships between absolute measures, but a single set of absolute-measure statistics leads to one, and only one, correlation between any particular set of ratios formed from these absolute measures. The passage from ratio correlation to inference about relations between absolute measures is ambiguous at best and often misleading. Algebraic statements exhibiting ratio correlation as a function of absolute-measure statistics are offered for types of ratios commonly used in petrography. These statements are all derived from Pearson's general formula for index correlation. They yield good approximations only if the fraction s/x for each absolute measure is suitably small. Several practical examples drawn from petrographic literature are described. In most of these cases the ratios seem to have been used either to order the data or in the hope that they would throw some light on relationships between absolute measures. The results are shown to be on the whole indecisive and ambiguous and in a few cases decidedly misleading. The formation of ratios should be confined to those problems in which hypotheses being tested deal with ratios. Absolute measures are always preferable when large numbers of observations must be recorded without benefit of satisfactory hypothesis. Ratios can always be drawn from tables of absolute measures; frequently, absolute measures cannot be reclaimed from tables of ratios.
30078532|Sculpted forms play important roles in channel erosion, but the controls on their growth or appearance are uncertain. Empirical evidence from sculpted forms eroded into limestones within Buckeye Creek Cave, West Virginia, shows that types of sculpture morphology are determined by the types of flow or vortex structures present within sculptures during floods. Small hemispherical sculptures maintain constant form as they enlarge and occupy fixed locations on channel walls because of their association with joints, styolites, and bedding planes. Taking advantage of the systematic growth and stability of the sculptures, a geometrical model of sculpture growth is presented that relates the effects of sculpture size, form, and wall retreat to the relative erosion efficiencies and excesses required for sculpture growth. Numerical results obtained from the theoretical model reveal that small sculptures must erode more efficiently than large sculptures or they will be removed by wall retreat and that erosion rates must increase exponentially with increasing concavity. Relative to channel erosion, small sculptures must possess very high interior erosion rates where nearby surfaces are rapidly eroding. Therefore, small sculptures are unlikely to form or persist on rapidly eroding surfaces, and the rate of incision is an important control on the evolution of sculpted forms.
30060381|The Monroe division of rocks around the west end of Lake Erie has long been considered of Silurian age and was especially so interpreted by Grabau (Michigan, 1910). Later Stauffer (1916) and Williams (Ontario, 1919) assigned the Upper Monroe to the Devonian. The present paper, based upon a study of the Monroe of Ohio, presents the several lines of evidence bearing on the age of the Monroe and concludes that, on the bases of geographical distribution of the members, stratigraphical relations, and faunas, the Upper and Middle Monroe are of Devonian age, the systemic contact in Ohio being at the base of the Sylvania (Middle Monroe) sandstone.
10.1086/677263|Much debate surrounds the temporal-thermal-structural evolution of the >1000-km NW-SE-trending Ailao ShanRed River (ASRR) shear zone. This mainly reflects the contradictory interpretations of the timing and
30081115|A new model based on the effective hydrothermal "pump" was invoked for the middle and lower Upper Devonian dolomites from the Holy Cross Mountains (witokrzyskie Mts), mid-southern Poland. The hybridized seawater was recycled periodically through the deep-seated (quasi-rifted) fault system up to the floor of the basin during the Eifelian through lower Frasnian time, bringing about the massive dolomitization of carbonate sediments. Apart from the dolomites, stratified and irregular concentrations of clay minerals, iron, and manganese oxides and hydroxides with admixtures of pyrite and occasionally barite formed during that time. Numerous dolomite structural forms connected with various hydrothermal pulses were recorded. The
30055664|In the folding and faulting of mountain ranges by straight compression (non-rotational stress) the direction of easiest yielding, and hence the longest axis of the applied strain ellipsoid, is upward. The intermediate axis of the ellipsoid of strain is parallel to the trend of the range. The strike of whatever thrust faults develop should be in line with the intermediate axis and they should dip at approximately 45 in either direction. If produced by forces acting as a couple in horizontal plan (rotational stress), the direction of elongation (longest axis of the ellipsoid) should be horizontal and resulting shearing fractures should be vertical planes cutting across the trends of the folds at approximately 45. The Appalachian thrust faults strike with the trend of the folds, thus agreeing with the first case and indicating that the immediate strain was dominantly non-rotational in horizontal plan.
10.1086/662716|The Songpan-Ganzi Complex (SGC) in central China is one of the largest turbidite basins on Earth, but the origin of slates and sandstones is still open to debate. Petrographic, geochemical, and Nd isotope data for representative turbidites were collected, and the SGC was thus divided up into four main zones. The western and middle zones are characterized by easterly paleocurrents, abundant high-pressure (HP)-related dense minerals, and low chemical index of alteration (CIA) and Th/U values. The samples from the western zone have strongly negative 
30065154|Piccaninny Creek in northwestern Australia drains approximately
10.1086/597364|In the Betic Cordillera, the preAlpine deformation in the Paleozoic basements is rather poorly known. At Ardales, several classic sections of the Malaguide Complex belong to two distinct, superposed Alpine tectonic units including both Paleozoic basement and MesozoicTertiary cover rocks. Within the Alpine footwall unit, new stratigraphic studies allow the documentation of Upper Ordovician, Silurian, and Lower and Middle Devonian conodont associations. In particular, SilurianLower Devonian limestones rest on a DevonianLower Carboniferous succession by means of a tectonic contact, the latter sealed by unconformable Triassic redbeds. Consequently, the tectonic superposition of the studied Paleozoic successions is interpreted as the result of a Variscan thrust. The conodont color alteration index shows average values around 55.5, independent of the conodont association and age and the tectonic position of the studied samples. This indicates that the Malaguide Paleozoic successions were affected by a lowtemperature and lowpressure Variscan metamorphism. This study provides the first solid stratigraphic evidence that documents thrust tectonics related to preAlpine orogeny in the Betic Cordillera. The Paleozoic stratigraphy and tectonic evolution of the Malaguide Complex are quite different from those of other Variscan regions of southern Spain and confirm its paleogeographic provenance from Paleotethyan domains located far to the east and close to the Alps, whereas most Spanish Variscan regions were connected to the Rheic Ocean, which opened to the west of Iberia and closed earlier than the Paleotethys.
30064697|Anthophyllite as mass-fiber asbestos forms a number of lenticular bodies near Kamiah, Idaho, where it occurs as a replacement of ultra-basic intrusives, particularly dunite. In these bodies the anthophyllite assumes its own characteristic crystal form in replacing the olivine, and occurs as fibers or bundles of fibers arranged in radial groups which on cross-fracture yield rosettes. Associated with the anthophyllite is a minor amount of antigorite, talc, carbonate, and pyrite, typical of mineral assemblages that have been formed by hydrothermal processes. It is believed that the anthophyllite and its associated minerals are the products of hydrothermal metamorphism related to igneous emanations from the Idaho batholith that underlies the deposits at slight depth.
30059947|Deep Spring Valley is one of the most remarkable desert basins in California. Several thousand feet of pre-Cambrian strata and 10,000 feet of Lower Cambrian strata are wonderfully exposed around portions of the valley. A granite-monzonite series, probably of late Jurassic age, intrudes the strata on a large scale. Various conflicting ideas have been expressed in regard to the origin of the valleys of the Basin Range province. Deep Spring Valley very clearly owes its origin to faulting, the whole region being in fact a mosaic of normal fault blocks. Great fault facets are remarkably exhibited. The recency of the dislocation along the main fault is proved by many miles of sharply faulted alluvial cones; the occurrence of river beds on the top of a great fault block; and a field of very fresh lava which has been dislocated 1,500 feet, vertically. In relatively late Quaternary time a deep fresh-water lake occupied the valley.
30068746|Topological studies of river systems have inspired the application of network analysis to dendritic branching patterns in biology, resulting in new methods for studying the growth patterns of tree-like topologies. The topology of a binary branching pattern can be regarded as a set of partitions of magnitudes at junctions. Two ambilateral growth models are proposed to explain these partition sets. The one-parameter Q model depends on the distinction between the branching probabilities of interior and exterior inks. The two-parameter QS model allows for the geometric increase (or decrease) of these probabilities depending on the number of generations,
30056089|Field data from a deformed clastic sedimentary series in northwestern Ontario disclose two directions of elongation-one indicated by the folding; the second, by the parallelism of linear elements, such as conglomerate boulders and individual mineral grains, to the fold axes. These two directions of elongation are normal to each other and are unequally developed, the major one being parallel to the linear elements and to the axial lines of the folds. A hypothesis recently outlined by Sander best explains this dual elongation. It postulates a shear couple essentially normal to the axial lines of the folds, combined with intergranular rotational movements. The intermediate axis of strain (B) is parallel to the fold axes and to the linear elements and is unique in that it is a minor axis of elongation (for triaxial deformation) and also an axis of rotation. This results in the effective elongation of the structure being parallel to B, while elongation parallel to A (the long axis of strain) is retarded in its action.
30081244|The building blocks that control ignimbrite physical characteristics are here defined as mechanical (flow units and flow packages) and thermal (cooling units). Ignimbrite construction from these mechanical and thermal building blocks is illustrated by a longitudinal profile of the Bishop Tuff in the Owens River Gorge, California. In the Bishop ignimbrite, flow unit boundaries can be defined only locally, but known or inferred multiple flow units combine to form eruptive packages showing imbricate, offlapping relationships such that each package is thickest successively farther from the source. In these packages, the presence or absence of flow unit boundaries does not necessarily reflect directly the presence or absence, respectively, of time breaks; thus massive ignimbrite need not be the product of continuous accumulation (progressive aggradation). The intrinsic thermal properties of each package (or parts thereof) have combined with local thicknesses of accumulated material to control the welding state, measured here by bulk densities. Four zones of maximum density/welding occur, three of which display imbricate, offlapping relationships away from the source, in concert with changes in package thicknesses. The ignimbrite is thus a single compound cooling unit in existing terminology, but minima in the density/welding profiles are not at chronostratigraphically significant horizons. Thus thermal descriptors, such as simple and compound cooling units, may not have timestratigraphic significance, and use of ignimbrite density/welding profiles to infer emplacement temperatures and timings is problematic. Development of the Bishop welding zones is, however, explicable by the thicknesses, emplacement temperatures, and imbricate distribution of the different ignimbrite packages.
30085055|U-Pb isotopic studies of zircons, many containing xenocrystic cores with euhedral overgrowths, and monazite from igneous rocks and metasedimentary inclusions of the northeastern Idaho batholith yield linear arrays on concordia diagrams. We interpret these as mixing lines between an old component (cores) and a young component (overgrowths and zircons without cores). The lower intercept of such arrays with concordia may yield the minimum age of the rocks if the overgrowths and zircons without cores are discordant, or the crystallization age if they are concordant. Monazites yield apparently concordant ages either equal or less than the lower intercept zircon ages. The samples studied yield lower intercept ages ranging from
30078500|McBirney and Hunter's conclusion that the cumulate paradigm or theory is an impediment to progress is unjustified because they did not demonstrate that the original cumulate terminology cannot be adapted; neither did they question the fundamental cumulate assumption of bottom upward solidification for many large mafic intrusions. Because the decoupling of mineral, modal and whole rock chemical compositions may reflect either the failure of cumulate theory or may be an artifact of sampling of large mafic intrusions on scales smaller than the scale of the heterogeneities produced by the irregular distribution and migration of intercumulus liquids, we conclude that a compelling case to abandon cumulate theory has not been made. We suggest that the determination of whether cumulus and intercumulus phases were in equilibrium with each other, and whether disequilibrium textures might yield a complete record of the crystallization history of the cumulus plagioclase, are likely to be among the approaches that will influence the future development of cumulate theory.
30063788|Complete chemical analyses of eleven samples representing three caliche profiles from the High Plains, New Mexico, are presented. Mobilities of the different elements are considered according to Barth's method (1948), as modified by Keller (1957). With aluminum assumed to be constant, the following generalizations result: (1) calcium, carbon, oxygen, and hydrogen were added in relative abundance to the upper parts of the caliche profile, their abundance decreasing downward; (2) magnesium, sulfur, and ferric iron were also added in decreasing amounts from top to bottom; (3) silicon and titanium increase slightly in the upper part of the profile but considerably in the intermediate zone; (4) potassium and phosphorus remained constant throughout the profile; and (5) sodium and ferrous iron do not show a clear trend in their variations. The distribution of the elements and the structures suggest that they were transported by water and added to the unconsolidated sediments. The general characteristics of the deposits indicate that the movement of the water was from top to bottom under a climate deficient in moisture. All this evidence suggests that the caliche deposits were formed by soil processes.
30065682|Different techniques for preparing organic carbonates for mass spectrometric analysis may give slightly different results depending upon the material used and the grain size to which it is reduced. Two deep-sea cores from the central Caribbean have been analyzed. The samples from one core have been treated with vacuum roasting, and the samples from the other core have not been roasted. The two sets of results are similar and differ 0.5 from samples that have been ground to powder and roasted in a stream of helium. When using pelagic Foraminifera, no roasting and vacuum roasting appear to yield isotopic results slightly closer to the true temperature than the results obtained with helium roasting. The two cores analyzed and others previously described are correlated by means of several different criteria. This correlation yields a generalized temperature curve which extends from the present to 425,000 years ago. The high (.997), direct correlation observed between the stratigraphic positions of the isotopic temperature minima in deep-sea cores and the ages of the Milankovitch insolation minima at 65 N. provides strong support for theories of glaciation based on the "Milankovitch mechanism" and indicates that the over-all oceanic rate of sedimentation, if averaged across one or more temperature stages, remained essentially constant during the past several hundred thousand years.
10.1086/682951|We conducted biotite
30060217|Patterns of origination within taxa, and patterns of dominance diversity among taxa are examined to distinguish nonrandom from random components. Numbers of first appearances per stage are sporadic and tend to be distributed nonrandomly through time. However, many taxa show a randomly distributed order of stages containing first appearances. A stochastic model of origination only partially reflects the patterns seen in the fossil record. Levels of dominance diversity among many taxa vary synchronously and at the same rates. The Phanerozoic is characterized by a succession of groups of taxa. Such associations are not predicted by a random model of diversity change. The fossil record is examined for evidence of an evolutionary equilibrium with constant taxonomic turnover. Fossil extinction and origination rates do not support the assumption of a static evolutionary equilibrium. Taxonomic and morphological evidence is consistent with a model of progressive specialization through the Phanerozoic.
30068042|Dolomitization of calcite at 218C in hydrothermal bombs resulted in a series of unstable precursors to the final product, stoichiometric, ordered dolomite. The first phase formed was high-Mg calcite with approximately
30056887|A discussion of the relationships between chemical reaction and chemisorption as pertaining to silicate minerals is presented. Hydration of polymerized silicate surfaces leads to a decrease in the degree of polymerization on the surface regions of the mineral. A different degree of hydration produces a different surface chemistry on the mineral. Correlations are made between the degree of polymerization interruption and the chemistry of the coexisting minerals. The mineral associations of quartz with feldspar, quartz with mus-covite, feldspar with biotite, plagioclase with hornblende, and plagioclase with pyroxene are correlated with the similarities between the surface chemistry of the two minerals. Interface energy of the mineral contacts is interpreted as a controlling factor on the mineralogical composition of a rock and on the mineral distribution in the rock. It is concluded that the mineral assemblage can represent a condition of thermodynamic equilibrium which may be as important as the usual thermodynamic equilibrium for the individual mineral species. K and Na feldspars are theoretically ordered with respect to the Si and Al positions.
30080963|Spectacular arcuate and vertical, curviplanar joints, spaced from 0.5 to several centimeters apart and radiating from foci 5-25 feet apart, extend through a 75-foot high outcrop of tholeiite. Regional and micro-metric evidence and determinations of specific gravity show that the outcrop is part of a transgressive sill, that it lies 350 feet above the base of the sill, and that the original thickness of the sill-as indicated by the percentage of orthopyroxene (bronzite)-was more than 2,000 feet. The joints, in thin section, transect all mineral components and were formed after solidification of the dolerite. They appear to be unrelated to any devitrification of the mesostasis and are believed to have extended vertically for more than 1,200 feet and to have formed in the center of the sill by the slow accumulation of stress and its subsequent sudden explosive release. They thus correspond to the curvicolumnar joints found in the centers of many columnarly jointed effusives. In places they are transected by circular joints, in other places by polygonal joints, with the formation of both rounded and angular columns. The direction of propagation of the curviplanar joints may be obtained by noting (1) closeness of jointing, (2) direction of forking or bifurcation, (3) changes in curvature of arc, (4) roughness of the joint surfaces, and (5) feather marks on the joint surfaces. The feathers, contrary to convention, vee away from the direction of origin and have been formed by fractures traveling vertically between pre-existing vertical joints which may have been master columnar joints originating in the colonnade below. Such joints cannot usually be distinguished from tectonic joints. Curviplanar joints are found at more than one locality. Although undescribed, they appear to be relatively common.
30064018|The fossiliferous Black Peaks Formation consists of fluviatile mudstones, silts, and sands. The faunal succession of this deposit indicates an age ranging from middle Paleocene (Torrejonian) to early Eocene (Clarkforkian). A minimum of three separately oriented paleomagnetic samples were collected from each of 53 sites in the type and one reference section. Depending upon pilot studies and lithology, in the laboratory the paleomagnetic specimens were treated with either AF or thermal demagnetization (at, respectively, a minimum regime of 25 mT or 200 and 400C), which appeared to isolate the characteristic component of magnetization. The magnetic polarity zonation is predominantly reversed punctuated by several normal intervals. Based on the faunal constraints and magnetostratigraphic pattern, the Black Peaks is correlated to the reversed zone below chron 26, to the base of chron 24, or an absolute interval of time ranging from about 62 to 53 Ma. Previous hypotheses that the Javelina-Black Peaks and Black Peaks-Hannold Hill lithological boundaries approximate, respectively, the Cretaceous-Paleocene and Paleocene-Eocene boundaries, need to be revised in light of the present study. Rates of sediment accumulation represented in the Black Peaks Formation appear to have been relatively constant with a mean value of about 1.8 cm/1000 yrs. The transitions between Torrejonian-Tiffanian and Tiffanian-Clarkforkian faunas occurs in respectively, the reversed zones below chron 26 and chron 24, consistent with the situation in the Clark's Fork Basin of Wyoming.
30065530|Tamanrasset (Central Hoggar, Algeria) is part of the 2000 Ma Eburnean terrane in which spectacular examples of granulitegrade metapelites and metabasites occur. Reactional textures in metabasites, supplemented by geothermobarometry, fluid inclusions, and mineral equilibria indicate a complex metamorphic history, characterized by a strong decompression during postpeak uplift. Peak metamorphic pressuretemperature (
30059118|The Dinaride ultramafics occur as large and comparatively thin plates capping the associated Jurassic sediments with included diabase and spilite. Foliation within the massifs is mostly discordant to the structures in the neighboring sediments, and the tectonic contacts between them are common. Ultramafics are mostly "gneissoid" lherzolite containing olivine, enstatite and diallage of very uniform composition. The problem of modal and chemical composition of the Dinaride ultramafics is discussed in detail. Mineral assemblage of the Dinaride ultramafics when compared with data of experimental petrology is stable under upper mantle conditions. The Dinaride lherzolite represents typical tectonites and they were intruded as solid and hot blocks  crystal mush. After breaking off from the upper mantle they were joined with eclogite-amphibolites and together equilibrated under PT conditions of eclogite-amphibolite facies. The lherzolite diapirs represented at higher levels a locus for gabbro intrusions. The Jurassic graywackes and shales, together with spilite and diabase, provided a locus for the final emplacement of the Dinaride lherzolite during a phase of subduction.
30079727|Pseudotachylite, a very fine grained glasslike rock, forms veins and the matrix of breccias in the core and overturned collar rocks of the Vredefort ring. The cataclastic character of coarse breccias, of which pseudotachylite forms the matrix, persists to microscopic sizes where individual mineral grains are seen to be laced by thin veins composed of crushed mineral debris. Only locally, and only in granitic rocks, is there evidence suggestive of fusion. Mixing of crushed mineral debris during injection or spallation into fractures formed the common type of pseudotachylite. Well-developed basal deformation lamellae in quartz of rock fragments in pseudotachylite and in the wall rock indicate high strain rates and transient pressures above 35 kb, and possibly above 100 kb, before or during pseudotachylite formation. Deformation of other minerals includes formation of multiple sets of planar structures in feldspars and mica, and a single set of planar structures parallel to {101 }? in amphibole. Micas and amphiboles underwent further breakdown to mattes of unoriented minute grains before incorporation in pseudotachylite. The mode of occurrence of pseudotachylite and association with shock deformation features are shared by microbreccias in carbonate rocks of cryptoexplosion structures elsewhere that are not related to magmatic activity. This supports the belief that such breccias, including Vredefort pseudotachylite, are the products of shock deformation, probably related to impact events.
30079569|Recent observations have shown that stylolites or stylolitic structures are common in some siliceous rocks (Pottsville). In the present examples differential solution alone can account for their origin.
30071135|The reaction path that dolomite follows in its formation, approach to stoichiometry, and approach to order differs in the presence or absence of iron. Dolomite was synthesized in hydrothermal bombs using eight starter combinations heated at 192C for eight time periods. When iron was present dolomite became the dominant mineral within two days, whereas it took five days to produce similar amounts of dolomite without iron. Near-stoichiometric composition (51%-52% Ca) was reached in three days when iron was present, versus six days in iron-free experiments. Further, a better cation-ordered dolomite formed earlier in iron-containing experiments. The absence of a significant difference in the results of experiments using
30078507|The Alps are perhaps the best studied thrust belt formed during continentcontinent convergence (collision orogen). Shallow, intermediate, and deep structural levels can be distinguished within the Alpine thrust stack, each shedding sediments with distinct petrographic and mineralogical signatures. In modern firstcycle sands carried by Alpine rivers, bulk composition, rank of metamorphic lithic grains (metamorphic index [MI]), and dense mineral assemblages all faithfully mirror the tectonometamorphic history of exposed basement and cover units. The shallow structural level, widely preserved in the Ligurian Alps, consists of remnant ocean turbidites, shedding sedimentary to very low rank metasedimentary detritus (
30056196|The definition of a rock as an aggregate of minerals is equivalent to defining a population as an assemblage of elements. In order to achieve a unique definition of a population, whether the population is a small rock sample or the entire universe, a single crystal or an atom, it is necessary to specify five fundamental properties, namely, the kinds and proportions of elements composing the population (m), their sizes (s), their shapes (sh), and their arrangement or their orientation (o), and packing (p). This may be symbolically expressed as P = (m, s, sh, o, p) When attempts are made to devise measurement procedures aimed at operationally specifying these properties, the nature of the interrelationships among the properties becomes important. In cases where the properties are dependent or independent, many measurement procedures suffice to achieve the objective. When the properties are interdependent, it becomes necessary to isolate them either by physically reducing the objects measured to a single kind and performing direct measurement upon them or by making a set of simultaneous measurements of different properties upon the set of objects, and, using suitable experimental designs, the effects of the various properties may be isolated mathematically from the interfering interactions among them. As an example the implications of grain-size measurement performed by different procedures may be elucidated by manipulating the defining equation. It is deduced that, if the objective is to interpret the geological history of the rock from its variations in grain size, then direct measurement upon grains of a single kind is required. Discrepancies between different size measures obtained from different techniques applied to the same rock specimens are shown to depend upon the confounding effects of interactions. Ultimately, it seems evident that, since most geological populations possess interdependent interacting properties, the solutions to problems of geological interest will require multivariate statistical analysis.
30075173|Thirty-six olivines have been analyzed by X-ray emission techniques for Mg, Al, Si, Ca, Ti, V, Cr, Mn, Fe, Ni, Cu, and Zn to extend and improve previous analyses of the same samples by Smith and Stenstrom (1965). There is excellent agreement with bulk chemical analyses for certain suites of samples but poor agreement for other samples. At least some of the poor agreement is caused by impurities. Thirty-two out of thirty-six microprobe analyses yield oxide totals between 99 and 101 per cent, and twenty-nine out of thirty-six give sums of formula units, calculated from the octahedral cations, within 99 and 101 per cent. Atomic proportions in tetrahedral and octahedral sites differ by not more than 3 per cent from stoichiometry. Titanium, Mn, and Zn are higher in Fe-rich samples, Cr and Ni in Mg-rich samples, though environmental factors also are important. Calcium increases markedly with presumed temperature of crystallization and is negatively correlated with Mg.
30062183|Psammitic, pelitic, and mafic schists in a basement horst in the NW Van Horn Mountains of west Texas preserve evidence of a multiphase, synmetamorphic, Grenville-age ductile deformation. Three phases of progressive isoclinal folding followed by two later, less intense, nearly coaxial folding phases have been identified. The second phase of deformation produced the dominant foliation and foliatipn-intersection lineation observed throughout the area. This deformation is inferred to have resulted from a regional-scale folding, possibly associated with nappe formation, at or near peak metamorphic conditions. Mineral assemblages indicate amphibolite facies, and Fe-Mg exchange thermometry provide maximum temperatures of
30059195|Sounding of a submarine basin slope near San Pedro, California, shows it to be steep (9-18) from the shelf break at 170 feet to a depth of between 1,400 and 1,800 feet. Many small gullies extend down this slope. The lower slope, to depths between 2,300 and 2,600 feet, is less steep, is not crossed by the gullies, and is believed to be an apron of landslide debris contributed from the upper slopes through the gullies. Mud on the slopes is thicker than 10-18 feet in spite of the steepness. It is suggested that the mud accumulates on the slope, and some of it periodically slides away, part being deposited at the base of the slope, and part forming turbidity currents that deposit gravels and clean sands on the floor of the adjoining basin to depths as great as 3,000 feet.
30059308|Algal stromatolites (oncolites) occur on the insular shelves of the Canary Islands in the eastern Atlantic. Specimens from an unnamed bank in these islands are made up predominantly of the encrusting nullipore, Goniolithon accretum; vary in size between 0.5 and 10.0 cm.; are composed of calcite in association with magnesium and appreciable aragonite; and show distinct physicochemical and biogenic corrosion. An age of the interior of one oncolite was estimated by
30079939|Combined field, seismic, xenolith, and heat flow data from the Four Corners region of the Colorado Plateau permit construction of a fourlayer crustal model in which a thin sediment layer is underlain sequentially by Early Proterozoic supracrustal rocks and granitoids, intermediate plutonic rocks, and finally by mafic granulites and amphibolites. Both upper and lower crust show NbTa depletion, Pb enrichment, and negative Eu anomalies, suggesting an arc origin in which plagioclase was an important fractionating phase throughout the crust. The relative abundance of felsic rocks in the section suggests that the arc formed on continental lithosphere. The bulk crust has approximately andesitic composition, and mass balance calculations indicate that significant volumes of mafic cumulate and/or restite must have been recycled into the mantle during crustal formation in the Proterozoic. Neither the xenolith nor the seismic data support mafic underplating of the Colorado Plateau crust since Proterozoic crustal assembly.
30056716|Attention is called to a growing tendency to overlook the hypothesis of glacial excavation as the primary cause of the Great Lakes. Alternate hypotheses, particularly diastrophism, are compared with the glacial hypothesis, and it is concluded that the evidence is much more favorable to glaciation. Points favoring glacial erosion include; the great depth of the basins; the finding of similar basins widespread over other glaciated areas; the absence of any evidence of recent diastrophism in the vicinity except that owing to isostatic recoil following deglaciation; the similarity of the basins to other features which are clearly the result of glaciation; and the thickness of the drift to the south of the Great Lakes.
30060956|The crystallization of some hydrous magmas can be modeled, in part, via the reaction between hydrous melt and anhydrous minerals to yield hydrous minerals. The reactions (herein termed hydration crystallization) are equilibrium, incongruent, vaporabsent crystallization reactions, the reverse of dehydrationmelting reactions. The principal petrographic evidence for hydration crystallization is partially reacted and resorbed pyroxene and oxide minerals mantled by amphibole and biotite. Hydration crystallization can buffer the water content of mildly hydrous (up to 2 wt% H
30061006|This paper describes the San Andreas Rift or strike-slip shear of California. After a statement of the general relations of the rift, four sections are distinguished and one of them, the stretch of the rift in central California, is discussed in some detail with reference to (1) the fault type; (2) the stress problem; (3) the associated minor structures, such as thrusts and folds; (4) the antiquity of the rift; (5) deductions from schlieren and jointing in granites; and (6) the direction of the orogenic pressure to which the assemblage of structures may be attributed. The facts throughout are analyzed according to the principles governing mechanical rock deformation.
30078362|Low-pressure charnockites, their tonalitic precursors, and syn-metamorphic granites in the granulite facies transition zone south of Krishnagiri, Tamil Nadu, India, define single Rb-Sr and Sm-Nd isochrons at, respectively,
30056470|Sunlight Creek flows northeastward into Clarks Fork River in the northern Absaroka Mountains of northwest Wyoming. Two periods of glaciation are here recognized from the degree of erosion of the moraines. An early ice sheet from the Beartooth Plateau to the north invaded Clarks Fork Valley; but, being unable to move eastward through the Clarks Fork Canyon to the plains as rapidly as ice filled the valley, it moved south against the Absaroka Range, filling the lower ends of valleys in that range and even overflowing the lower passes in the Clarks Fork-Sunlight divide. This ice and its moraine dammed the Sunlight Valley and formed a lake, the aggradation of which has floored the Sunlight basin. The later glaciation was of the normal valley type with a glacier extending part way down Sunlight Creek Valley. A few small glaciers still exist today.
30070563|The Sunlight area is located in the northern Absaroka Mountains of northwestern Wyoming. The rocks are dominantly Tertiary pyroclastics and basalt flows which rest on flat-lying Paleozoic limestones. The pyroclastics were thrown out from a large number of vents in explosive eruptions and were later modified by mud flows. Two major volcanic centers and one small explosive vent have been found in the Sunlight area. Intrusions of stocks, laccoliths, plugs, cone sheets, and radial dike systems are closely related to the volcanic centers. The radial dikes were formed by magma moving horizontally outward from the intrusive centers in vertical cracks. The Sunlight centers are similar in many respects to the Scottish Tertiary volcanoes. The rock types in general show a normal differentiation series from olivine gabbro and basalt through diorite and andesite to sodic syenite and trachyte. Several unusual orthoclase-bearing basalts, known as the absarokite series, are also present.
30078233|In the absence of free-energy data, the heats of formation of crystalline compounds and the heats of reaction among such solids are valuable indicators of the relative stabilities of crystalline compounds such as minerals. With that in mind, the writer has discussed several general rules which relate heats of reaction to various fundamental properties of ions and atoms, such as the ionic radius, number of charges on the ion, ionization potential, and polarizability. Some of these rules are well known among physical chemists, others are less known, and few of them have been discussed and employed in geochemical literature. The recent compilations of thermochemical data have also made it possible to check the validity of the rules and to explore some details not studied previously. The general stability rules discussed in the first sections of the paper are utilized in a discussion of the oxyphile-sulfophile or lithophile-chalcophile grouping of elements in geochemistry, to which the second half of the paper is devoted. It is shown that the oxyphile character of elements often is very different from their lithophile character. In other words an element's affinity for oxygen in oxides is often very different from its affinity for silicate anions or other oxysalt anions. Elements of geochemical significance are arranged in an oxy-sulfo potential sequence and in a silicate-sulfo potential sequence based upon thermochemical data. The silicate-sulfo potentials of the elements are in excellent agreement with their natural geochemical distribution.
30078368|This paper presents results from a fossil site at Batesford, Victoria, on which several dating techniques have been used to obtain a well-constrained late Pliocene age. The site contains the Dog Rocks Local Fauna, a relatively diverse vertebrate assemblage (29 taxa) of late Pliocene age, consisting mostly of marsupials and eutherian mammals. Upper and lower limits for the age of the fauna are constrained, respectively, by an overlying basalt with an interpolated age of
30068693|Depositional processes and their sediment source determine the orientation of pebbles in the deposits of the Matanuska Glacier and the relationship of this orientation to the direction of ice flow. Pebble fabrics in ice-derived deposits differ from those in resedimented deposits. The plunge direction of the long axes of prolate-shaped pebbles and the ab-plane dip of blade- and plate-shaped pebbles parallel the local ice flow direction in basal zone ice and in melt-out till derived from that ice. The pebble fabric in deposits from sediment flow, ablation of exposed basal zone ice, and the slumping and spalling of ice-cored slopes does not correspond to the ice flow direction, but is developed by these depositional processes. Pebbles in basal ice and melt-out till show a unimodal distribution of orientations with individual observations only slightly dispersed about the mean axis. Pebble fabrics in other deposits are polymodal with a significantly larger amount of dispersion about the mean axis. The regional pattern of mean axes of basal zone ice and melt-out till pebble fabrics approximates the local and regional trends of ice flow, but pebble imbrication in ice and sediment does not necessarily indicate the direction from which the glacier flowed. A small number of measurements of pebble orientations at many sites and the analysis of these data by the eigenvalue method appear to be suitable techniques for examining the pebble fabric of glacial deposits, but additional sedimentological data are needed to define the origins of these deposits.
30061077|The variation with strain of the misorientation between adjacent subgrains has been investigated in the olivine crystals of mantle peridotites naturally deformed at high temperatures. It is found that the misorientation of subgrains increases with strain up to about 15, when the subgrains can be considered as independent grains. Evidence of this recrystallization "in situ," which does not involve grain-boundary migration, has been found in equigranular recrystallized peridotites: it is possible to find local domains where the grains have orientations traceable to subgrains of former deformed grains.
30060071|Oxygen-isotope analyses of ice and firn from the Saskatchewan Glacier, Canada, and the Malaspina Glacier, Alaska, show that variations in
30068778|W. W. Rubey proposed a concept of stream channel development with channel gradient and channel form as dependent variables that mutually adjust to conditions of sediment load, sediment size, and water discharge. A similar channel development model is formulated using multiple equations and tested against a data set for 252 stream sites in the Missouri River Basin, USA. The results strongly support mutual adjustment among the gradient, form, width, and depth aspects of the stream channel system. The relation between channel form and grain size in the bed is shown to have opposite signs in the structural and reduced forms of the model. This provides the basis for an explanation of a puzzling aspect of Rubey's conception of the adjustment process. The results suggest that channel form is more dependent on the process of mutual adjustment of morphologic elements than is channel gradient.
30080981|Field study was made of the fracture patterns in 40 igneous and metamorphic clasts enclosed in a well-indurated, but relatively ductile, mudstone. The clasts lie across faults in the matrix, and their fractures reflect the matrix faults. Varying geometric patterns of fractures and degrees of offset along them are developed in the clasts. Many of the examples show refraction of the matrix fault as it passes through the clast. Pronounced refraction-especially where accompanying offset of clast fragments-is interpreted to be the result of post-fracture rotation of the clast fragments as shear continued in the surrounding mudstone.
30062402|Observations on mountains composed chiefly of shale and capped with Tuscarora Sandstone in the Valley and Ridge province of southwest Virginia suggest that slopes retreat by a process similar to but different from Bryan's (1940) "gully gravure." The process appears to operate as follows: Bouldery alluvium protects the floors of hollows on the mountain flanks. In each hollow, the junction between the boulder-armored floor and the base of the unprotected shale side slope is the locus of greatest erosion. Runoff from rainstorms that have recurrence intervals of the order of 10 to 10 years incises gullies along the margins of the bouldery deposits, but lacks the competence to disturb the deposits. Periodically, however, runoff from catastrophic rainstorms that have recurrence intervals of the order of perhaps 10 years mobilizes the bouldery alluvium and deposits it in the gullies. The armored floor thus shifts laterally. Subsequently, new gullies are incised adjacent to the old ones. The result is the lateral migration of one or both walls of the hollow. Eventually, ridges between hollows are destroyed, and valley floors covered with bouldery alluvium become new interfluves in an unending process that lowers mountain flanks. Evidence of this process includes the distribution of surficial deposits that show past topographic inversion of hollows and noses, correlation of surficial clast size with cross-slope variations in topography, and topographic comparisons between mountain flanks mantled and unmantled by Tuscarora boulders. This process probably is common wherever large resistant clasts are transported downslope over less resistant bedrock. Lateral migration of stream valleys has been shown to take place on mountain piedmonts under similar circumstances, but this study suggests that such migration may also take place on the upper slopes of mountains in hollows where water flow may be significant only a few times per century.
30057040|The heats of formation from the oxides for tremolite
30055903|The modified and unmodified drift deposits of central Massachusetts furnish evidence which seems to indicate that after the ice cover had vanished from the higher lands, long, narrow tongues of ice, many miles in length, still occupied the deeper valleys, and that the last stagnant remnants of these ice masses did not disappear from the valleys until after deposition of modified drift had ceased. The esker ridges, kames, kame terraces, and sand plains were deposited, either against the margin of these masses of ice or in crevasses which dissected them. Limited movements of the ice tongues occurred after some of the terraces and associated structures were formed.
30081242|One of the major unresolved issues of the Late Pleistocene catastrophicflood events in the northwestern United States (e.g., from glacial Lake Missoula) has been what happened when the flood discharge reached the ocean. This study compiles available 3.5kHz highresolution and airgun seismic reflection data, longrange sidescan sonar images, and sediment core data to define the distribution of flood sediment in deepwater areas of the Pacific Ocean. Upon reaching the ocean at the mouth of the Columbia River near the presentday upper continental slope, sediment from the catastrophic floods continued flowing downslope as hyperpycnally generated turbidity currents. The turbidity currents resulting from the Lake Missoula and other latest Pleistocene floods followed the Cascadia Channel into and through the Blanco Fracture Zone and then flowed west to the Tufts Abyssal Plain. A small part of the flood sediment, which was stripped off the main flow at a bend in the Cascadia Channel at its exit point from the Blanco Fracture Zone, continued flowing more than 400 km to the south and reached the Escanaba Trough, a rift valley of the southern Gorda Ridge. Understanding the development of the pathway for the Late Pleistocene flood sediment reaching Escanaba Trough provides insight for understanding the extent of catastrophic flood deposits on the Pacific plate.
30071567|The orientation of a strained cross-bed plane relative to regional bedding is a function of its initial orientation, the orientation of regional bedding, and the cumulative strain. If the maximum original dihedral angle between cross-bedding and bedding is known (in our studies it ranged from 25-40) and is approximately constant regardless of orientation, the homogeneous deformation of cross-bed populations can be modelled. The model uses this dihedral angle (
30058746|In connection with the study of thermal phenomena of Yellowstone Park carried out by the Geophysical Laboratory for several years, two bore holes were drilled in geyser basins. During the progress of this work, temperatures and pressures were measured and observations were made on underground structures shown by the cores. Subsequently the cores were studied in the laboratory by chemical and petrologic methods to ascertain the mineral transformations effected by hydrothermal circulation, and their significance. Structural features, such as porosity and fractures, together with thermal conditions found, help to explain the underground circulation. The data enable us to picture the manner in which meteoric waters, falling upon adjacent plateau areas, penetrate to deep levels, are met by magmatic exhalations at high temperature, are diverted upward, and appear at the surface as hot springs and geysers. Light is thrown upon the mechanism of geyser action itself, which is found to be a rather more complicated process than has been supposed. Metasomatic alteration of the rocks has been important. A considerable variety of new minerals has been formed, and the composition has been much changed. The most notable effect found in the cores has been the addition of silica and the molar replacement of soda and lime of the feldspars by potash. The results of this study supplement and confirm those obtained by E. T. Allen in his study of the composition of the thermal springs, carried out as part of the same project. From this assembly of concordant data we are enabled to trace out with considerable confidence a series of reactions that apply not only to the rocks rendered accessible by the drill holes but to those at greater depth, and to deduce the manner in which the original magmatic emanations, dissolved in meteoric waters, have modified the composition of the rocks through which they have passed, and in turn have been modified.
30069354|On the higher parts of the volcano Mauna Kea no permanent streams exist and water supply is very limited, owing to the great porosity of the volcanic terrane and the small total annual precipitation. But a well-distributed though limited supply of water comes from small ground-water bodies perched on or contained in sheets and lenses of glacial drift. These drift bodies, of four ages, are much less pervious than the enclosing lava flows and tuffs and lead to the emergence of small springs and seepage along canyon walls and the faces of dry waterfalls, where the contact between drift beds and overlying lavas is exposed.
30055956|The igneous petrology of an area near the Long Lake gold mine, Sudbury district. Ontario, is described. The area lies at the contact of a region of folded sediments and one of granite-gneiss. Two rock types, Keweenawan diabase and Long Lake diorite, resulted from the injection of basic magma into the sediments. Later a large granitic batholith invaded the region. Reaction between the magma and the quartz-rich sediments is postulated to account for a border phase of very quartz-rich tonalite. The Long Lake diorite grades into a more acidic phase and this phase is explained as due to emanations from the batholith affecting the diorite and adding silica and soda.
30085015|By means of melting and recrystallization (tourmaline seeded) experiments, phase relations of two natural tourmaline-bearing (Fe-rich members of the schorl-dravite series) leucogranites have been determined between 1 and 3 kbar, under
30070689|The Cloverly conglomerate is described and correlated with the following formations: the Blairmore conglomerate, the massive Kootenai sandstone of central Montana, the Lakota sandstone, the Beckwith conglomerate, the Ephraim conglomerate, the lower sandstone of the Dakota group of northern Colorado, the Lytle sandstone, the Purgatoire sandstone, and the "post-McElmo" conglomerate. Evidence is offered to show that the Cloverly conglomerate and its correlatives are the oldest Lower Cretaceous formations in the western interior and that they were derived from a mountainous area to the west, which was uplifted during the Sierra Nevada disturbance. Further evidence is given to show that the Kootenai coal measures of southern Alberta and central Montana are of Upper Jurassic age and are closely related to the Morrison formation.
10.1086/674331|Terrestrial mafic and ultramafic bodies form in various tectonic settings and from a wide variety of magma types. Clarifying the origin of such rocks in orogenic belts such as the southern Appalachians is important to understanding the formation of mountain belts and associated mafic and ultramafic rocks. A petrographic and geochemical study was conducted on the Gladesville, Hillsboro, Juliette, Holly Grove, and Berry Creek bodies in the Carolina superterrane of the southern Appalachians in central Georgia to place some constrains on the origin and tectonic setting of these mafic and ultramafic rocks. Results from this study show that the rock types investigated in the Gladesville and associated bodies are mostly metabasalts and olivine metagabbronorites. The mineralogies of these bodies are plagioclase, hornblende, clinopyroxene, and opaques. MgO contents range from 3.5 to 7.5 wt% MgO for the Gladesville, Hillsboro, and Berry Creek bodies, with the Juliette and Holly Grove bodies having slightly higher MgO concentrations, ranging from 11.8 to 12.4 wt%. CaO contents of samples from all the bodies range from 6.9 to 18.1 wt%. Concentrations of trace elements, including Ni and Cr, in all the bodies range from 6 to 224 ppm and from 17 to 1932 ppm, respectively, generally akin to those of tholeiitic basalts. Plagioclase mineral compositions vary widely: the Gladesville body is characterized by plagioclase with An
30068528|We present the first comprehensive geochemical data (major elements and 31 trace elements by XRF and INAA) for the metamorphic cordierite-orthoamphibole (anthophyllite-gedrite) rocks (COR) that occur in the Early Proterozoic (~1.85 Ga) Svecofennian supracrustal rocks at Orijrvi, Finland, (eight samples) and associated cummingtonite-biotite-plagioclase gneisses five samples). COR (57.3-76.9 wt % SiO) are distinguished from (50.4-61.7 wt % SiO) by lower Sc, Cr, and Co, and by higher Zr, Hf, Nb, TTh, and U. COR have enriched and fractionated LREE (45-105X chondrites), flat HREE (10-21X), and prominent negative Eu-anomalies. display highly variable LREE (~10-90X chondrites), flat HREE (~4-20X), and mostly positive Eu-anomalies (four of five samples). For all samples, concentrations of Sr (18-304 ppm) correlate strongly with CaO (0.1-9.4 wt %). COR and have low concentrations of Cu (<10-90 ppm) and moderate concentrations of Zn (50-400 ppm). Several elemental parameters (La-Th-Sc and Th-Hf-Co proportions, Zr/TiO and Nb/Y ratios, REE pattern shapes) indicate that COR were derived from felsic igneous sources (dacitic to rhyolitic) and from mafic/intermediate sources (basaltic to andesitic). We propose that the protoliths for COR and were chlorite-quartz-sericite schists produced from basaltic to rhyolitic precursors by interaction with heated seawater prior to metamorphism. This resulted in a gain of Mg, and a loss of Ca and Sr (by plagioclase dissolution); variations in Eu abundance, which could be enhanced by alteration, more likely record feldspar fractionation in the igneous environment. Subsequent regional metamorphism of these altered materials produced the observed mineral assemblages.
30068816|This study evaluates a recently proposed model that links glacioeustasy and orbitally forced climate change to explain cyclothemic facies successions of Late Mississippian age in the central Appalachian foreland basin. Specifically, we test the hypothesis that lowstand periods were marked by climate excursions from prevailing semiarid and seasonally wet conditions to transient humid conditions. Field characteristics of five different lowstand paleosols in West Virginia and Virginia show that they are either inconsistent or equivocal with respect to this globalscale climate model. We conclude that the proposed model is critically flawed and needs to be substantially revised, if not completely rejected.
30081120|The Japan Sea Earthquake of May 26, 1983 triggered a large-scale tsunami that surged over the coast of NE Japan and caused considerable damage. The tsunami resulted in peculiar sedimentary processes on the coast. Depending on the hydraulic scale of the tsunami, three kinds of sedimentary processes were recognized, each of which left unique deposits. Such deposits are expected to remain in sedimentary sequences, preserving remarkable sedimentary facies. Borehole samples drilled at different localities in coastal regions have been examined to detect traces of ancient tsunamis. Sedimentological and geochemical studies of the samples reveal that layered deposits, similar to those developed by the Tsunami of the Japan Sea Earthquake, are common in the drilled cores. Estimated ages of these deposits are exactly equivalent to the dates of ancient tsunamis documented in historical records. These results show that the invasion of tsunamis is recorded in coastal depositional sequences. From analyses of long borehole cores we conclude that large-scale tsunamis produced by submarine earthquakes have invaded the coastal regions of the Tsugaru and Sendai Plains at intervals of 250 to 400 yr and about 800 yr, respectively.
30067424|The article describes the Trent formation of North Carolina, heretofore considered to be Eocene in age, and shows, from a consideration of its contained fauna, that it is lower Miocene and about the same age as the silex bed of the Tampa formation of Florida, thus marking the northernmost limit on the Atlantic Coast of known Lower Miocene sediments.
30075235|Several outliers of the Paleoproterozoic Huronian Supergroup are preserved in a 20 km wide arcuate belt northwest of the Sudbury Igneous Complex. Forty years ago it was suggested that these outliers represented the remnants of a discontinuous rim syncline developed around a domal structure. Thirteen years later it was proposed that they were preserved in grabens formed as a result of collapse of the central uplift of a multiring impact crater and the simultaneous emplacement of the Sudbury Igneous Complex. This interpretation has been accepted by most investigators without question, to the extent that the position of the outliers has been used to estimate the size of the supposed crater. Our observations indicate that Huronian strata in the outliers were deposited in a series of paleovalleys on a terrane with considerable topographic relief. The asymmetric nature of the fill in some of the outliers suggests deposition may have taken place in halfgrabens. The outliers are preserved in synclines developed by orogenic activity prior to the 1850 Ma impact event. They are cut by later transverse and longitudinal faults. The geometry of the outliers, combined with the character and directional attributes of the sedimentary fill, indicates that the outliers are not related to the Sudbury Event.
30058430|Original letters written by Sir Charles Lyell to the Rev. Charles Kingsley and the Rev. John Pye Smith and also a letter from Charles Darwin to James Croll on alternate glaciation of northern and southern hemispheres were found recently between the pages of the first edition (Vol. Ill) of LyelPs Principles of Geology. The Lyell letters do not appear in previously published biographical material on Lyell. In his letter to Kingsley, Lyell expresses his interest in the exploration of the Green and Colorado rivers by John Wesley Powell. To Dr. Smith he reveals his belief that the waves of immigration of Europeans into the United States in the 1840's, "like the irruptions of the Goths & Vandals, are doing their utmost to overwhelm the indigenous civilization, but against which a noble stand is making."
30079888|Laurel Hill, an almost completely exposed early Jurassic volcanic neck, consisting of three concentric zones whose diverse chemical composition overlaps each of the major eastern North American (ENA) Jurassic diabase types. Zone 1 is an irregular, heterogeneous, border-zone whose chemistry resembles the low-Ti-quartz-normative type (LTQ) ENA diabase but is interpreted as an alteration product of high-Ti-quartz-normative type (HTQ) diabase. Dilution of HTQ magma with hydrothermal sericite, and with plagioclase and pyroxene that accumulated during fractionation, has reduced the
30058232|Statisticians have made available a number of experimental designs based on analysis of variance techniques, some of which are particularly adaptable to geological problems in sedimentation, petrology, paleontology, and other fields. In analysis of variance, experiments are so designed, or observations are so collected, that the data permit separation of the total variability into its parts. By comparing the separate variances, it is possible to test the statistical significance of the experimental or observational data. Among the large number of analyses of variance models available, several basic forms have immediate application to a variety of geological problems. These models are described, and a geological example is shown for each. In a later section of the paper some of the assumptions underlying the method are pointed out, and a summary table lists some of the kinds of problems which may be studied with each of the models. By a slight extension of the method, analysis of variance data permit estimation of variance components, which can be used to make unbiased estimates of various geological populations. This aspect of the subject is touched upon to indicate the wide field of inquiry made available by experimental design.
30081178|Metamorphic and protolith ages of five rock types (mafic granulite, orthopyroxene granulite, leptynite, sillimanite granite, and metapelite) from Rayagada, in the northcentral part of the Eastern Ghats Granulite Belt (EGGB), India, were determined from RbSr and SmNd whole rock and mineral isochrons in combination with SHRIMP UPb zircon data. Most of the whole rock isochron ages in both SmNd and RbSr systems point to either 1450 or 1000, Ma, and the mineral isochron ages are 1000, 800, and 550 Ma. SHRIMP UPb zircon ages of 940 Ma were obtained from metapelite, which are in close agreement with the SmNd and RbSr isochron ages. From all these data, four age clusters (1450, 1000, 800, and 550 Ma) have been noted. The 1450 Ma ages are interpreted to represent igneous protolith formation of mafic granulite and leptynite. The 1000 Ma age cluster is regarded as the intrusion ages of sillimanite granite, and charnockite, and associated granulite facies metamorphism. Two other age clusters (800 and 550 Ma) are regarded as metamorphic heating events. Earlier reports from the EGGB show two major agegroupings, one around 1450 Ma, characterized by alkaline magmatism and anorthositic intrusions, and the other at 1000 Ma, considered to be the major metamorphic and tectonothermal event. The present data are broadly similar with those reported from parts of East Antarctica with respect to the 1000 Ma and 550 Ma events and reconfirm that EGGB has been an integral part of eastern Gondwana.
30059411|Alternating layers of lava and glacial material in the rim surrounding Crater Lake record the history of an intermittently active volcano on the slopes of which glaciers formed during periods of dormancy, to be destroyed when igneous activity resumed. The position of buried moraines and the pumice character of material mantling the glacial topography indicate that Mount Mazama disappeared as the result of collapse. The glacio-volcanic sequence discovered at Crater Lake is particularly significant in that it throws light upon the history of the volcanoes of the Northwest which may be similar to that of Mount Mazama before its destruction.
30078303|Most plate tectonic developmental models for the Western or French-Italian Alps show that the "western" or "French" continental margin of the Tethyan (locally Piedmont) Ocean exhibited several contrasting types of structural behavior from Late Paleozoic through Tertiary time. Initially this margin acted as a rifted, passive, progressively subsiding Atlantic-type margin from Late Paleozoic through Jurassic time. During the Cretaceous and Tertiary, active volcanism, blueschist metamorphism, and indications of rapid uplift and erosion suggest that active subduction of the Piedmont (and Valais?) Ocean basin(s) occurred producing a Himalayan-like sutured orogenic highland, local island arc-trench-inland sea systems, and possibly even transform faults, all characteristics of orogenically active continental margins like those of the modern Mediterranean and around the perimeter of the present-day Pacific Ocean. Compiled analyses of modern sands from present-day ocean basins and continental margins have been used to suggest that overall framework mineralogy of ancient sandstones can be used to identify the plate tectonic setting of pre-existing continental margins and ocean basins through time and in space. Detailed petrographic studies of ancient sandstones sampled across the Western Alps from Valence, France to Turin, Italy generally support this contention, but underscore the necessity for defining the relationship between sandstone mineralogy and plate tectonic setting more specifically.
30062379|Composite dikes of Mount Desert Island are composed of pillow-like masses of basalt surrounded by granite and represent coexisting acidic and basic liquids. The contacts between basalt and granite ate sharp on both a megascopic and microscopic scale. Grain-size reduction at basalt pillow margins is generally present and is due to chilling. Evidence of commingling consists of quartz and microcline xenocrysts in the basalt as well as hybrid rocks formed by incomplete mixing of basalt and granite. Rare earth elements in experimental immiscible systems have been shown to be highly partitioned towards the basic liquid (
10.1086/669975|The Dexing porphyry Cu deposit is the largest Cu deposit in eastern China, with total reserves of 8.4 Mt Cu. The Dexing porphyries have geochemical characteristics typical of adakites: they are similar to examples in the Circum-Pacific Belt and in the Lower Yangtze River Belt but different from adakites from the Dabie Mountains and the Tibetan Plateau. Ce
30063047|Oaxaca lies at the southern end of North America proper. The surface rocks are very largely schists and granodiorite, together with some limestone. The schists and granodiorite have been reported to be pre-Cambrian. The schists are now believed to be Cenomanian, the limestone Turonian, and the granodiorite post-Turonian. There are but few extrusives. Petroleum and gas seeps occur in the general vicinity of Puerto Angel. The major structures lie in an east-west direction.
30078412|Intense, warm rains falling on a heavy snowpack in the Sierra Nevada at the end of December 1996 produced some of the largest floods on record in westcentral Nevada. Within the Carson River basin, a peak discharge of 632 cm was recorded at the Fort Churchill gaging station on January 3, 1997, a flow exceeding the 100yr event. Geomorphic impacts of the event, and the redistribution of mercury (Hg) released to the Carson River valley by Comstock mining operations during the mid to late1800s, were assessed by combining field data with the interpretation of aerial photographs. Geomorphic impacts included significant increases in channel width, measuring up to 280% of preflood conditions, and largescale shifts in channel position, ranging from <10 to 110 m. Both changes in channel width and position vary as a function of valley morphometry (width and slope) and differ from the longterm trends measured from 1965 to 1991. The 1997 flood also produced widespread overbank deposits that vary morphologically and sedimentologically according to distance from the channel and the nature of the vegetation on the valley floor. Within the overbank deposits, Hg is primarily associated with the finegrained (<63 m) sediment fraction, which makes up a larger percentage of the deposits immediately adjacent to the channel and at the extremities of overbank deposition. Mass balance calculations demonstrate that, along reaches with narrow valleys (<450 m), approximately 10%65% of the sediment eroded from the channel banks was stored in overbank deposits, whereas more than 90% of the sediment eroded along reaches with wider valleys was stored on the valley floor. Locally, however, storage exceeded 650% where meander cutoff was extensive. The above data indicate that the erosion, redeposition, and storage of sediment and sedimentbound Hg were greater along reaches characterized by low gradients and wide valley floors. Downstream trends in Hg concentration within the channel bed did not change following the 1997 flood and are presumably controlled by the overall structure of the system, including valley morphometry, the location of tributaries that deliver clean sediment to the channel, and the distribution of Hg within the valley fill.
30063789|Systematic lateral and vertical trends are detectable in proportions of montmorillonite, illite, and chlorite occurring in the lutites of late Pleistocene and Holocene sediments from southern Cascadia Basin and Blanco Fracture Zone. In the Holocene sediments, a lateral pattern radiates outward from the mouth of the Columbia River into the marine environment; the percentage of chlorite and, to a lesser extent, illite, increases with distance from the source. The percentage of montmorillonite presently introduced by the Columbia River to the Pacific Ocean is apparently higher than that of adjacent continental sources. In the late Pleistocene marine sediments, proportionally more illite is present than in the overlying Holocene sediments. Because the change in clay mineral composition is abrupt, and associated with the Pleistocene-Holocene faunal boundary, it is not believed to be the result of gradual marine diagenetic processes. Instead, it probably results from a glacially controlled change in the rate at which clays of varying composition are contributed by the different subbasins of the Columbia River to southern Cascadia Basin.
30059119|The fundamental mathematical properties of the configuration of the univariant curves and their metastable extensions around an invariant point on a P-T diagram are studied by using an arrow-wheel model. On the basis of the model, the geometrical properties of the configurations and numbers of the unique configurations can be obtained. It is also shown that in constructing the configuration, the model supersedes the pencil theorem. The equation of the divariant phase assemblages induced by a univariant chemical reaction is derived. The equation contains terms similar in form to that of the univariant chemical reaction expressed as a stoichiometric equation. However, each stoichio-metric coefficient of the reaction is reduced to 1 in the equation of the divariant phase assemblages. The signs of the coefficients are preserved or consistently reversed. The divariant region theorem by Schreinemakers is, thus, presented in a concrete manner. The n + 2 equations of the divarianc phase assemblages derived from the n + 2 univariant chemical reactions are expressed in a matrix form. The n + 2 by n + 2 matrix obtained is skew symmetric and represents the cyclic order relation, clockwise or counterclockwise, of the univariant curves around an invariant point. By introducing the necessary metastable extension(s) into the skew symmetric matrix, we obtain the cyclic order relation along a half circle around an invariant point. The half circle is defined by a univariant curve representing the first row of the matrix, and its metastable extension. The method can be easily extended for degenerate systems.
30058338|There has been recent favorable consideration of the idea that the Mima mounds were made by gophers. The writer believes the evidence indicates that gophers function only in the reworking of the mound material, not in the primary construction. The plausibility of the earlier glacial or periglacial theory has been increased by recent knowledge of permafrost and of the deposits made by combined water and ice in cold climates. The gopher theory, as it has been applied to the Mima mounds, contains internal disharmonies and ignores significant field evidence supporting the earlier idea.
30085020|The Marshall Paraconformity is a regional mid-Oligocene unconformity that occurs widely in shelf sequences from the eastern New Zealand passive continental margin. The paraconformity represents a break in sedimentation of at least 3 m.y. and coincided with a regional sea-level highstand, in contrast to the prediction of global lowstand at 29 m.y.b.p. Similar paraconformities are widespread on other southern continents. Deep-sea hiatuses of similar age occurred in the adjacent southwest Pacific ocean basins; they may or may not have a common origin with the hiatus associated with the Marshall Paraconformity. Possible causes for the paraconformity and its associated glauconitic and bioclastic sediments are sea-level fluctuations, including those related to local geoidal effects, or erosive bottom waters stemming from the development of Antarctic glaciation or from splitting of the southern continents.
30070476|The Greenstone flow, a thick, basaltic flow of the Keweenawan series of Michigan, offers a unique opportunity for the study of differentiation in basaltic magma. Differentiation trends in the magma of the Greenstone flow during crystallization have been computed according to two hypotheses as to the manner in which the flow solidified. It was found that the ratio of iron oxides to magnesia increased in the magma during crystallization and that there was a slight to moderate absolute enrichment of the magma in Fe, Ti, Mn, Cu, P, Si, Na, and K until the flow was nearly solid. A residual magma was produced that was rich in silica and alkalies and deficient in the remaining constituents. Magma trends in the lavas of the Keweenawan series and in genetically related intrusives have also been studied and compared with those found in the Greenstone flow.
30080874|Cross-bedding in the pre-Cambrian Baraboo quartzite of Wisconsin indicates that the average direction of sediment transport was S. 17 E. for the 4,000-5,000 feet of strata. This is roughly corroborated by ripplemark measurements. Changes of direction of transport in time are only suggestive, because of the difficulty in dividing the strata at a common horizon; however, some fluctuation is shown, although currents were still in a southerly direction.
30056950|The remarkably symmetrical conic surfaces of various parts of Hawaii, now somewhat carved by marine and fluvial agencies, are made the basis of estimates of marine and fluvial erosion. A rate relationship between the two is deduced. Rates of cliff recession appear to be of similar magnitude to those found on the Acadian Coast. Mean depths of fluvial removal range from about 10 feet for the island of Hawaii to about 400 feet for Kauai, the mean for the group being about 100 feet. Total marine erosion for the group is about one-seventh of the fluvial total. It is concluded that under conditions similar to those of Hawaii marine erosion can approach fluvial erosion in amount only in very early stages of erosion or on islands less than about 10 miles in diameter. Competence of marine erosion to bring about the planation of broad land masses is questioned. Physical evidence indicates a date no earlier than late Tertiary for the first emergence of the Hawaiian volcanic cones as islands in the Pacific Ocean.
30081262|The marine 
30062385|Limestones of Oligocene age obtained from a submersible at two sites about 3,000 m deep on the Oriente Slope and from two shallow drill holes on nearby Grand Cayman Island were deposited in shallow marine waters. All samples contain calcareous algae and shallow-water foraminifera, but no deep-water remains were found. The limestone on the slope was lithified in fresh water, according to its petrography and stable isotopes. A third dive encountered massive beds presumed to be outcrops of limestone that dip southward down the slope. We conclude that the region began to subside along a hinge line parallel to the Oriente Slope during Oligocene time and soon became too deep to generate a shallow-water carbonate deposit. This subsidence was associated with plate movements along the Cayman Trough.
30060089|Absolute ages of detrital parts of Cretaceous sands are systematically distributed in Near Caspian region. This shows a possibility to use absolute age determinations of detrital part of terrigenous deposits for reconstruction directions of transport of sediments from dispersal centers.
30059171|The Big Snowy Mountains, Montana, contain canyons which are cirque-like but not of glacial origin. These "pseudo-cirques" are believed to result from landslide sapping that follows erosion of shale overlain by thick limestone. These canyons develop in flat-topped anticlines with steeply dipping limbs.
30059253|The classification of the Wisconsinan Stage by Frye and Willman combines into Woodfordian time the intervals Tazewell, Cary, and Port Huron of the Lake Michigan lobe because these three intervals, unlike the Twocreekan that follows, cannot be defined or traced satisfactorily on a stratigraphic basis. Despite this difficulty, these intervals, which are here termed simply phases, serve" as convenient carbon-dated subdivisions of a 9,000-year fluctuating retreat of a central ice lobe in the Great Lakes region to which the glacial fluctuations in Minnesota and elsewhere can be compared. The classification relates the end of the Valderan Substage to the supposed end of rise of sea level 5,000 years ago, an event that cannot be defined stratigraphi-cally. A better termination would be the change from spruce to pine or hardwoods in the pollen sequence, which can be related closely to the withdrawal of the ice from the Great Lakes region, can be identified strati-graphically over a wide area, can be carbon-dated as nearly synchronous, and can be referred to a relatively abrupt climatic change.
30056302|The "Niagaran" dolomite in the vicinity of Chicago is characterized by several kinds of nodules, one type consisting of an intimate mixture of silicified fossils in a matrix of calcium carbonate. The mode of origin of these nodules is compared with that of modern usea balls" and "lake balls," which are produced by wave action in shallow waters. The apparently dwarfed fauna of the Silurian sea balls comprises most of the common Paleozoic classes of invertebrates, with bryozoans, brachiopods, corals, and echinoderms most abundant. An extended storm period has been posulated to account both for the dwarfing of the fauna and for the genesis of the nodules.
30062457|Biotite-induced disintegration of granite fragments in the soils of plant communities on the slopes of Panola Mountain proceeds rapidly during the early stages of plant succession. Complete disintegration of some fragments may take over 670 years. The grain size of the minerals in the plant community soils is strongly influenced by the size distributions of the minerals in the parent rock, taking into account fracturing of polycrystalline quartz into monocrystalline grains. The grain size distribution of these monocrystalline quartz grains is bimodal in the Panola granite and in the plant community soils during the later stages of plant succession.
30063060|Electron-microprobe analyses of coexisting magnetite and ilmenite phenocrysts from four compositionally zoned ash-flow sheets of the Paintbrush and Timber Mountain Tuffs, southern Nevada, show systematic variations in Fe-Ti oxide composition that correlate closely with bulk-rock composition and with the inferred position in the source magma chambers. Comparison with experimental data of Buddington and Lindsley (1964) indicates that the Fe-Ti oxides of rhyolitic upper parts of the differentiated magma chamber crystallized at 700  50 C, whereas oxides of quartz latitic lower parts of the magma column crystallized at temperatures as high as 900 C. The trend of temperature and oxygen fugacity is parallel and intermediate to trends for Ni-NiO and
30062160|Granites and charaockites with similar bulk compositions are exposed in a series of roadcuts along Rt. 8-3 east of the central Adirondack town of Speculator. The mineralogy of these rocks is correlated with their associated rock types, with the orthopyroxene-bearing varieties occurring in the marble-rich portion of the sequence. Mineral assemblages in a charnockite boudin enclosed in marble appear to be consistent with equilibration with a
30056622|A wealth of evidence demonstrates the Pleistocene age of the four depositional terraces which border the lower Mississippi alluvial valley and form the broad coastwise plains of Louisiana and Mississippi. This evidence also conclusively proves that the Mississippi Valley alluvium is of Recent age and fills a deeply entrenched valley system eroded during the late Wisconsin glacial stage. Both the Recent age and the mineralogy of the alluvium make it an impossible source for the several loess "formations" as described in the region by M. M. Leighton and H. B. Willman. Furthermore, the age of their loess "formations" does not conform with the age of the Pleistocene terrace deposits which the loess mantles. The distribution of lower-valley loess, its topographic expression, the absence of associated sand dunes and fossil trees, and the presence of colluvial features make it difficult to accept the hypothesis of eolian origin for loess in this region. The loessification theory held by R. J. Russell is the only hypothesis yet proposed that is in accord with known facts.
30080146|A diagram showing relief and stream-frequency values for land systems of the Luapula and Northern (excluding the Luangwa Valley) Provinces of Zambia is presented and analyzed. It is suggested that such a diagram might be used in other areas.
30056854|An empirical correlation between mean water temperature and test weight in shallow-wrater forms of the living echinoid Dendraster excentricus (Eschscholtz) shows that sand dollars of a given size are heavier in cold water than in warm water. The correlation is interpreted as the result of phenotypic (non-heritable) adaptation to water temperature. Changes in test weight are accompanied by changes in several morphological characters that have been used to classify members of the genus Dendraster into species and subspecies. Investigation of the value of these characters as indicators of paleotemperatures in the fossil record of Dendraster indicates that the characters have evolved over time, thus eliminating their use as indicators of absolute temperatures. Furthermore, genetic or evolutionary differences in the same characters are recognized between certain geographically separated contemporaneous populations in the Pliocene. Thus only within a small geographic area and within a short range of time can morphology be used to deduce relative differences in temperature.
30085007|Indurated Globigerina-rich sediments have been recorded from more than thirty localities on sea floors around the world, between depths of 200 and 3,500 m. Many are stained by iron and manganese minerals or are associated with manganese nodules or crusts, suggesting that such lithification occurs along profiles of sedimentational equilibrium. Samples from the eastern Mediterranean and from off Barbados, here described and illustrated with photomicrographs and electron micrographs, contain high-magnesian calcite and dolomite, and show recrystallization of the micritic matrix, as well as calcitic cavity fillings. We conclude, contrary to widespread opinion, that calcite can be precipitated chemically in seawater, and that carbonate sediments can become lithified on the sea floor.
30070755|A model for predicting the rate of short-term bluff recession, originally derived from wave-tank experiments, is tested under field conditions. The fundamental equation is dX/dt = k[C + In (
30070530|Previous publications combining the properties of multiple soil orders show that depth to carbonate (DTC) increases systematically between 350 and 1000 mm of mean annual precipitation (MAP). We hypothesize that carbonate in Vertisols (clayrich, shrinkswell soils) respond differently to water flux than other soil orders because of lower permeability. To test this hypothesis, we compiled soil description and characterization data from multiple published sources across a late Pleistocene climosequence of the coast prairie of Texas to assess the relationship between MAP (7001400 mm) and DTC. The DTC of carbonate nodules represents an index of accumulation and the DTC of calcium carbonate equivalent (total carbonate <2.0 mm diam.) an index of leaching. The DTC for 1%, 2%, and 5% abundances were assessed using regression analysis. The
30079990|Escanaba Trough is the southernmost segment of the Gorda Ridge and is filled by sandy turbidites locally exceeding 500 m in thickness. New results from Ocean Drilling Program (ODP) Sites 1037 and 1038 that include accelerator mass spectrometry (AMS)
30061185|Late Wisconsin till in the midwestern U.S.A. contains feldspar concentrated in the sand-size fractions (
30068440|New data on rainfall intensity in the United States reveal notable regional contrasts in the amounts of rain received in short periods and in the frequency of large falls in short periods. In the eastern half of the United States there is a general southward increase in the amounts of rain received in short periods. The South receives about 50 per cent more water than the North in brief rains, but, in hard rains which last 8-24 hours, the Gulf coastal region receives more than twice as much rain as the northern part of the North. In the frequency of hard rains, the regional contrast is much greater, the deep South receiving large totals from ten to more than one hundred times as often as the North. Extensive comparable data on the extent of soil erosion have resulted from the Soil Conservation Service surveys of the eastern half of the United States. Despite many local variations in the extent of erosion, correlated with soil, slope, and land use, these data reveal a general southward increase in erosion upon comparable areas. A detailed analysis of the regional erosional contrasts in Indiana here summarized is followed by a more general summary for the rest of eastern United States. It is concluded that part of the regional contrasts in erosion can be correlated with the frequency and intensity of hard torrential rains.
30063671|Recently discovered evidence that several glaciers once existed within thirty miles of the site of the business center of Los Angeles is set forth in this paper. The size of the glaciers, the moraines, the amount of ice erosion, a glacial lake-basin, the age of the glaciation, and the factors favorable to the glaciation are all discussed.
30068812|We have developed a method for determining paleoelevations of highland areas on the basis of the vesicularity of lava flows. Vesicular lavas preserve a record of paleopressure at the time and place of emplacement because the difference in internal pressure in bubbles at the base and top of a lava flow depends on atmospheric pressure and lava flow thickness. At the top of the flow, the pressure is simply atmospheric pressure, while at the base, there is an additional contribution of hydrostatic lava overburden. Thus the modal size of the vesicle (bubble) population is larger at the top than at the bottom. This leads directly to paleoatmospheric pressure because the thickness of the flow can easily be measured in the field, and the vesicle sizes can now be accurately measured in the lab. Because our recently developed technique measures paleoatmospheric pressure, it is not subject to uncertainties stemming from the use of climatesensitive proxies, although like all measurements, it has its own sources of potential error. Because measurement of flow thickness presupposes no inflation or deflation of the flow after the size distribution at the top and bottom is frozen in, it is essential to identify preserved flows in the field that show clear signs of simple emplacement and solidification. This can be determined by the bulk vesicularity and size distribution as a function of stratigraphic position within the flow. By examining the stratigraphic variability of vesicularity, we can thus reconstruct emplacement processes. It is critical to be able to accurately measure the size distribution in collected samples from the tops and bottoms of flows because our method is based on the modal size of the vesicle population. Previous studies have used laborious and inefficient methods that did not allow for practical analysis of a large number of samples. Our recently developed analytical techniques involving highresolution xray computed tomography (HRXCT) allow us to analyze the large number of samples required for reliable interpretations. Based on our ability to measure vesicle size to within 1.7% (by volume), a factor analysis of the sensitivity of the technique to atmospheric pressure provides an elevation to within about 400 m. If we assume sea level pressure and lapse rate have not changed significantly in Cenozoic time, then the difference between the paleoelevation preserved in the lavas and their present elevation reflects the amount of uplift or subsidence. Lava can be well dated, and therefore a suite of samples of various ages will constrain the timing of epeirogenic activity independent of climate, erosion rates, or any other environmental factors. We have tested our technique on basalts emplaced at known elevations at the base, flanks, and summit of Mauna Loa. The results of the analysis accurately reconstruct actual elevations, demonstrating the applicability of the technique. The tool we have developed can subsequently be applied to problematic areas such as the Colorado and Tibetan Plateaus to determine the history of uplift.
30056035|Much confusion of nomenclature exists concerning the proper name to be applied to the stratigraphic unit under consideration, since at least eight different names have been used by various authors. An attempt is here made to co-ordinate these different terms and to establish a name which will be in accord with modern usage and will eliminate those terms which are inappropriate. A complete list of the known fossils of this formation is compiled, and the bearing of these forms on the age of the unit is discussed.
30055803|This paper discusses the relations between the pre-Cambrian schists (sedimentary) and the granites and pegmatites with the accessory dike rocks exposed along the eastern flank of the Front Range in the Big Thompson River valley. The Longs Peak granite makes up great stocks and bathyliths intruded into the upwarped and dislocated beds of the Big Thompson schist. The Mpunt Olympus granite intruded the Big Thompson schists and the Longs Peak granite in similar stocks and bathyliths. A wealth of pegmatite dikes transect all of the series. Faults are rare, although of several types. Near the foothills the faults are related to the en chelon folding of the foothill sediments. In the granites they are mostly normal from tension. Around Longs Peak they appear to be low angle overthrusts.
30079916|We present the results of an experimental study of alluvial fan sedimentation under conditions of constant inflow water discharge
30080232|New field, structural, petrologic, and age data show that tectonic styles and metamorphic histories in the West Alldays area of the Central Zone of the Limpopo Complex, southern Africa, can be linked to neoArchean and Paleoproterozoic highgrade (granulite facies) tectonometamorphic events. The styles comprise (1) a regionally developed highgrade (S
30058702|The stratigraphic succession of part of the Archean volcanic and sedimentary assemblage in the Birch-Slate Lakes district does not conform to the simple Keewatin-Timiskaming concept of an earlier dominant volcanic period followed by a period of sedimentation. Sedimentary formations of the Slate Lake series, formerly considered of Timiskaming age, occur with structural unconformity stratigraphically beneath the so-called Keewatin volcanics which are, in turn, overlain by younger infolded sediments. A knowledge of the stratigraphic succession of the rock units in this district permits correlations of the different series with those in adjoining areas.
30061124|Sand shape fabrics and directional variations in permeability and in imbibition rates were studied in late Mississippian and Pennsylvanian sandstones of the Illinois Basin. Experiments on filter paper provided a basis for interpreting the imbibition patterns. These experiments showed that imbibition patterns are elliptical in homogeneous media with an anisotropic fabric, and that the direction of the maximum imbibition rate parallels both the direction of maximum permeability and the mean fabric direction. Imbibition and polar permeability plots are nearly isotropic parallel to bedding in sandstones, and sand fabrics are anisotropic but not markedly so. Anisotropic sand fabrics and elliptical imbibition patterns are much better defined in vertical sections. In these sections a very good correlation exists between the direction of maximum imbibition rate and fabric. As laminations and bedding exert a strong influence on fluid flow, recognition of bedding is essential when directional properties are related to fluid flow in sandstones. A working hypothesis concerning the relations between elongate sand bodies and internal directional properties is presented. We believe that most elongate sand bodies have a dominant direction of accumulation, and that primary directional sedimentary structures offer the most promise for predicting that direction.
30065642|We compared measured and estimated sediment budgets in heavily glaciated fjords in East Greenland. Mass balance calculations and regional glacio-climatic conditions suggest that the sediment flux to the seafloor in Kangerdlugssuaq and Nansen fjords should be dominated by iceberg rafting and not by the rain-out of suspended particulates in meltwater, as the glacier calving flux is estimated at 15 and
30080864|The presence of operator variation is shown to be a common feature of all experimental procedures. This variation arises from two important factors, the one due to differences arising from a constant bias characteristic of each operator and the other due to inconsistent differences within one operator and among a group of operators. The first factor can be resolved by means of suitable experimental design and analysis of variance. The second determines the level of sensitivity of the experiment. These two factors associated with operator variation are shown to increase as the experimental procedure changes from simple measurements through objective to subjective assessment. The effects of these two kinds of operator variation are illustrated from experiments in the analysis of sedimentary rocks, field mapping, and various other aspects of scientific investigation.
30081085|Certain textures in two-feldspar calc-alkaline granitic gneisses have been identified as indicators of the presence of intercrystalline melt during deformation of crystal-melt mushes. Fluid relocation or "fracting" is to be expected in an incompletely crystallized magmatic system as deviatoric stresses are applied to it. Relocation of late-stage fluids capable of crystallizing K-feldspar, quartz, microaplite, and myrmekite to low-pressure zones such as the pressure shadow region around earlier crystals occurs within some developing mylonitic gneiss fabrics and results in a distinctive assemblage of textures. Strain in these rocks is expressed by various brittle and ductile features, and by fluid relocation textures. The petrogenesis of these particular gneisses is therefore both magmatic and metamorphic, contrasting with gneiss-forming processes that had no participating magmatic component. Migmatitic complexes evolving by partial anatexis of non-magmatic rocks in a tectonically active environment are not expected to contain relict early magmatic textures, contrasting with most of the gneisses described in this report that have formed from what was initially a completely melted system. Identification of fluid relocation textures in granitic gneisses is proposed here as a step in resolving the question of timing of magmatism and metamorphism in continental crystalline complexes.
30063411|The oldest deposits exposed on the Nigerian continental shelf are beach sands formed during the Holocene marine transgression into the hinterland. Three groups of narrow linear coral thickets lie on the top surface of these sands. Two groups extend with only one major break for 300 miles along the shelf. Near Lagos the banks occur at depths of approximately 26, 42, and 48 fathoms but gradually deepen by about 6 fathoms to the east. The corals are non-reef forms and are dead. They include species of Madracis and Den rophyllia, these being predominant, as well as Cladocora, Cyathoceras, Paracyathus, and Desmophyllum. Living faunas indicate growth temperatures colder than 20 C. and probably nearer 15 C. or 16 C. The thickets are reminiscent of deep-water coral banks off Morocco; a chart is included to show the distribution of comparable coral structures in the eastern Atlantic. The present thermal structure of the Nigerian seas suggests that growth of the thickets was localized by a horizontal thermocline layer, and that each group of banks represents brief stillstand of sea level during progressive relative deepening. Radiocarbon dates point to stillstands in this area terminating about 3,900 years B.P. and 2,900 years B.P. The present variation in depth of the coral banks suggests that differential subsidence of the continental margin accompanied the relative deepening, itself largely the result of down-warping. The thickets are shallowest just east of Lagos, and an axis of relative stability is inferred to cross the shelf in this area. Deposits of the Niger Delta are largely concentrated in a downwarped region bounded on the west and north by this axis; on the east by the physiographic-structural barrier of the Cameroon Mountains, Fernando Po, and So Tom.
30081301|Not only is there no direct evidence of a Late Glacial age of the "Minnesota Girl" but drowning in a glacial lake is a far less reasonable assumption than a postglacial or modern burial in a gully.
30055646|The observations which follow deal chiefly with the secondary structures in the slates of Northampton County, Pennsylvania, a portion of the Appalachian Valley. The rocks of the region include limestones of Cambrian and Ordovician age, the Ordo-vician Martinsburg slate, and the Silurian (?) Medina conglomerate. The general structure is a northward-dipping monocline, intensely folded and showing some faulting. Studied in detail this structure yields observations and conclusions of two types: (i) those that have a regional bearing upon Appalachian geology, and (2) those of more general interest to geologists engaged in structural work, not necessarily in the area discussed. To the former type belong the general northward recumbent attitude of the minor folds, the very common parallelism between bedding and cleavage strikes, and the evidences for an important diastrophic epoch between Martinsburg and Medina sedimentation. Of more general interest are studies relating to the effect of pitch of folds upon dip and strike; description of the appearance of recumbent folds in horizontal and vertical sections; an exposition of a method for restoring structure at depth when bedding and cleavage are seen at the surface; and descriptions and explanations of false cleavage and grain in slate.
30068499|The concentrations of
30068115|The Tertiary limestones in the coastal plain of northern Puerto Rico are characteristically eroded into rugged conical hills, which usually possess a distinctively asymmetric cross section. The asymmetry is systematically oriented with respect to the trade winds, and its origin appears to be due in large part to differential solution promoted by wind-borne rains.
30060274|Accretionary lapilli have been recognized at sixteen localities in California, Oregon, Nevada, Washington, Arizona, New Mexico, and Idaho. Although such lapilli from this area have heretofore been only briefly described, they are probably rather common among the silicic air-fall tuffaceous rocks of the western United States. The accretionary lapilli are pea-size structures composed entirely of clastic volcanic material, primarily glass or its alteration products. The lapilli exhibit a distinct decrease in grain size from core to rim. All the accretionary lapilli studied apparently formed in the air during volcanic eruptions. They probably developed in an ash-charged volcanic cloud by accretion of ash around a core due to the condensation of moisture on the core, and fell to the ground like hailstones. Accretionary lapilli provide information for stratigraphic studies, on the nature of the volcanism that produced them, and on post-depositional changes that have affected the rock which contains them.
30079449|The thermal-equilibrium relationships in the system
30080964|The puzzle of tectonic sliding is illustrated by means of the Roberts Mountains overthrust in north-central Nevada. A model of the thrust, consisting of a wedge-shaped sheet gliding into a subsiding and migrating basin of deposition, is described, and calculations are made for the requisite coefficient of sliding friction assuming only normal pore-water pressure (answer,
30057929|The velocities of translation of nues ardentes are not high enough to account for the destruction noted. The evolution of gas from hot ejected material producing a vortex-like circulation is offered as an explanation of the known high velocities.
30065017|Three factors are believed to be of greatest genetic importance in the classification of sandstones. These are the provenance factor, the maturity factor, and the fluidity (density and viscosity) factor. Observable properties believed to be indexes of these three factors, respectively, are the feldspar/rock particle ratio, the quartz plus chert/feldspar plus rock fragment ratio, and the grain/matrix ratio. On the basis of these indexes, sandstones, excluding tuffs and calcarenites, are grouped into four families, namely, graywackes, lithic sandstone, arkosic sandstones, and orthoquartzites. Each family is divided into two subfamilies.
30080808|The same rudistid-bearing Cretaceous limestone of Northern Guatemala extends into British Honduras south of the Cockscomb Mountains. The limestone is well displayed several kilometers northwest of the small hato of Agua Caliente in British Honduras, on the trail between Punta Gorda (Honduras) and San Luis (Guatemala).
30060074|In Lester King's recent provocative discussion of hillslope genesis it is contended that basic physical controls on landscape remain the same in all climatic environments short of the frigid or extremely arid. Examples from three regions of sharply contrasting climate in the United States suggest that climatic factors play a significant role in determining the relation of the slope elements to one another and to the rate of development during the progress of the erosion cycle.
30058823|The results of a lithogenetic study of the Upper Huronian metasedimentary and metavolcanic rocks in a portion of the Marquette trough indicate that these rocks are of the geosynclinal type and that sedimentary facis are developed within the trough. The lithologies represented include conglomerates, quartzites, gray-wackes, slates, schists, coarse pyroclastics, tuffs, flows, and iron formations. Banded iron formation was deposited during periods of relative quiescence in the geosynclinal stage, which suggests that long periods of stable conditions of the crust are not a primary requisite for its deposition. Abundant graphitic material contained in the rocks immediately underlying and overlying an iron-bearing member as well as minor amounts of graphitic material within the member itself may be due to the presence of abundant life at the time of deposition. The methods of investigation include a study of the field relationships of the rocks and a laboratory study of their characteristics. Heavy-mineral assemblages are of little value in correlation but do provide some information on the probable source areas and parent rocks of the sediments. The presence of abnormally high percentages of titanium dioxide in the metasedimentary rocks appears to correlate with periods of volcanic activity.
30079808|The Vila de Cruces ophiolite is one of the ophiolitic units involved in the Variscan suture of the northwest Iberian Massif. This ophiolite consists of a tectonically repeated succession of greenschist facies volcanic rocks, common alternations of metasediments of pelitic or siliceous character, and scarce orthogneisses, metagabbros, and serpentinites. The protolith age of a granitic orthogneiss that intruded the mafic rocks is dated at
30059722|New dynamical measurements of the velocity of shear waves and of the rigidity at high pressures are presented for a few igneous rocks, and for a group of sedimentary and metamorphic rocks from the Boston area. The results include the changes of velocity on heating to 150 C, at
30079506|Some groovings or flutings are described that occur widely distributed in the granite area in the western end of the Wichita Mountains. Various possible ways in which the grooves might have been formed are discussed, and the conclusion is reached that they were probably formed at the edge of a salt lake or arm of the sea by the combined action of the water and climate.
30062130|A conjugate set of regional-scale wrench faults, produced by collision of converging plate boundaries about 500-700 m.y. ago, extended across the Arabian Shield. Five major wrench fault zones distributed across the Precambrian continent were subjected to finite strain analysis. All were found to have undergone ductile strains in addition to brittle fault displacements. Four of the zones together enabled a composite strain profile to be constructed east-west across the exposed Precambrian continental crust that yielded an estimate of a total sinistral displacement of 280  120 km across the Najd fault system. The strain fields of all the zones deviated from simple shear strain with systematic heterogeneous variations in extensional strain across the zones. Finite shortening strains increased in intensity eastwards across the continent and were accompanied by a change in deformation mechanism which indicated that the zones in the east formed at higher crustal levels than the zones in the west. The conjugate wrench fault pattern, together with the increase in finite shortening strains across the wrench fault zones in the east of the Arabian Shield are predictable in terms of the indentation from the east of a rigid-plastic Arabian-Nubian plate by a rigid Asian continental block.
30058621|The cascading, travertine-depositing part of Wilson Falls Creek is supersaturated with respect to
30056942|A late Pleistocene mastodon, Mammut americanum (Kerr) from the vicinity of Michigan City, Indiana, is reported, and it is concluded that the remains were deposited no more than 11,000-13,500 years ago. This maximum date is based upon an interpretation of C-14 dated geologic features and not upon an independent C-14 dating.
30065004|Geologic controls on knickpoint development and the mechanics of channel-bed degradation were eluci-dated by comparison of downcutting streams in south-central Indiana developed in lithologically "homoge-neous" carbonate units and layered siliciclastic strata. Knickpoints formed in a single lithologic unit are stepped; each step consists of a knickpoint face and tread. The height of each step is equal to and controlled by bed thickness. Spatially, knickpoints in "homogeneous" terrain are limited to jointed strata that dip: (1) upstream, or (2) downstream at angles less than the channel gradient. Knickpoints observed in lithologically layered strata are characterized by a single step in which resistant jointed rocks overlie and protect weaker units. Total knickpoint relief is influenced by thickness of the weaker strata. Knickpoints in layered siliciclastic strata are spatially limited to bedrock reaches produced by differential rates of channel incision. Knickpoint distribution is also influenced by joint frequency, lithologic layering, and the relations between strata dip and stream flow direction. Channel incision occurs by the erosion of bedrock strata along bedding plane discontinuities and typically proceeds in the direction of dip. Geologic controls imposed on degradation lead to distinctive types of channel bed morphology. It is generally agreed that downcutting streams are disequilibrium systems that exhibit rapidly evolving landforms. However, the downcutting channels appear to develop an equilibrium form (determined by bedrock geology) maintained until longer-term (hundreds of years) profile adjustments to base level lowering can occur.
30060798|The pre-Cenozoic stratigraphic and tectonic history of the northeastern USSR can be explained in plate tectonic terms by the collision of the Siberia and North America plates with a Kolyma plate, now represented by the Kolyma and Omolon massifs, and with several other microplates. The margins of the plates were sites of continental accretion and ocean-floor subduction through the Paleozoic and Mesozoic culminating in collisions in the Late Cretaceous. The Novosibirsk plate, the area now occupied by the East Siberian Sea, may have collided with the Canadian Arctic margin of North America in the mid-Paleozoic and then rifted away, eventually colliding with Kolyma and Siberia.
30056043|The investigation is concerned with the spectrographic identification of those elements occurring in igneous rocks in quantities of less than 1 per cent. Identification has been facilitated by the preparation of standard powders containing certain elements in known amounts ranging from 1 per cent to 0.0001 per cent included in a base of typical granite. By comparison, these standards afford a means of making a rough estimate of the amount of a minor constituent giving lines in a spectrogram. As a basis for the comparison of a number of igneous rocks, a granite from eastern Ontario was studied in detail. Then the minor constituents were determined in fourteen granites from widely separated localities ranging in age from Algoman to Devonian.
30080873|Field and laboratory studies of large triangular projections in the lagoons of St. Lawrence Island in the Bering Sea indicate that these deposits were built by longshore drift of beach sand and were modified by currents in the lagoons. The term "cuspate spit" is suggested to designate such features. Possible origins include (1) deposition by opposing eddy currents, (2) deposition within wave shadows, (3) longshore drift, building a series of recurved points on a spit with later modification by waves, (4) repeated breaching of the lagoon barrier beach, with deposition of sediment washed through the opening, and (5) development by currents deflected or modified by sediment masses washed over the barrier beach during storms. Lagoon constrictions may be important in localizing the formation of these deposits.
30070802|A simple field and laboratory classification of sedimentary rocks is proposed. It is based fundamentally on composition and texture, with the primary divisions determined by the mode of origin of the constituents. Tt is tripartite in nature, consisting of (1) a dominantly fragmental division, including conglomerates, sandstones, and shales; (2) a division represented by rocks which are partly fragmental and partly precipitated, including ironstones, silicastones, coal, limestones, and dolostones; and (3) a division of salinastones, which are dominantly precipitated but may possibly be fragmental. The several new terms in the classification were first proposed in a paper read before the Chicago meeting of the Geological Society of America in December, 1946 (Shrock, p. 1231).
30082320|The Precambrian to early Paleozoic orogenic history of the central Transantarctic Mountains is obscured by uncertainties in. the regional extent, relative intensities, and tectonic significance of three or more events: the Nimrod, Beardmore, and Ross orogenies. Significant problems exist in correlation of structural styles, structural geometry, and lithotectonic units across major tectonic boundaries, as well as in conflicting geochronological results. In an effort to resolve these disparities,
30080970|The dissociation pressure of the solid phase
30065698|The pressure-temperature conditions of formation of jadeite-bearing pyroxenes can be calculated from data on the reactions:
30062264|Forty Rb-Sr isotopic measurements on minerals and whole rock samples from 11 anorogenic complexes in northern Nigeria complement the evidence for systematic age variations along a series of en-echelon ENE-WSW and N-S lineaments following two major fracture directions of extensional deformation in the Precambrian basement. The new ages presented in this paper confirm our earlier discoveries of a general southerly age trend but substantiate for the first time that major local migrations of magmatic activity were concentrated along at least two ENE-WSW zones. From the overlap in analytical error, the age patterns also suggest that contemporaneous anorogenic magmatism may have been locally derived from several simultaneous high-level magma chambers connected to a common deeper source. Different models that have been proposed for the origin of linear mid-plate magmatic activity are critically reviewed. In our opinion magma generation was most likely initiated in the asthenosphere-lithosphere decoupling zone or below. The thermal anomaly was either an episodic, partly mobile asthenospheric plume or successive diapiric intrusion of periodite along propagating fractures in the lithosphere and produced magma source compositions whose disposition was controlled by pre-existing fractures and/or lineaments in the Precambrian continental crust.
30064983|The Morkheia Monzonite Suite (MMS) is part of a layered alkaline complex of anorogenic affinity which intruded discordantly into high-grade gneisses of the Telemark Sector. In the MMS, one complete outcrop and low Rb/Sr samples from other outcrops preserve a Rb-Sr whole-rock date of ca. 1250 Ma, interpreted as approximating an intrusive age. The MMS is thus contemporaneous with similar alkaline complexes of early to mid Gardar age in southern Greenland and Labrador. During this period felsic alkaline magmatism was apparently a widespread expression of the anorogenic-tensional regime that obtained in the North Atlantic provinces. MMS whole-rock samples from three outcrops fall below the ca. 1250 Ma primary isochron and define secondary ages of ca. 1060 Ma. At this time these outcrop-scale Rb-Sr systems approached Sr-isotope equilibration, and Rb/Sr ratios were augmented, mainly by Rb-addition. These isotopic effects relate to minor, low-grade hydrous alteration of the primary minerals. This low-grade (greenschist facies) event at ca. 1060 Ma has affected isotopic systems throughout SW Scandinavia and reflects the passage of large volumes of hydrous fluids through the crust, possibly denoting the transition from anorogenic tectonics to renewed subduction beneath the Baltic Shield.
30061388|The Gowlaun Member comprises mudstones with two lenses, several kilometers wide, of coarse sandstones and conglomerates. Stratigraphic evidence shows the member was deposited at depths of more than 100 m below sea level, and it is interpreted as the deposits of a slope area and submarine fans between a shallow continental shelf and deeper basins accumulating turbidites. The coarser lithologies are often channel filling, and show close resemblances to the deposits of modern deep-sea fan valleys. Many of the conglomerates are of cobble grade, are well packed and sorted, and have a preferred orientation of pebbles within bedding planes. Some are imbricated, indicating paleocurrents to the south. The sorting, imbrication, channeling, and thinness of individual beds suggest that they were deposited from traction bed load of powerful currents, which in a deep-sea environment were presumably turbidity currents. The coarse sandstones and fine conglomerates of the Gowlaun Member show features suggestive of deposition by a grain flow-mechanism.
30056888|As a result of the intensive study of the sediments in the bays, on the barrier islands, and on the continental shelf in an area along the central Texas coast, diagnostic characteristics of the various environments have been sufficiently determined to allow interpretations of the buried sediments of the area. The samples from a total of 27 borings extending to depths of from 15 to 85 feet have been analyzed and compared with the recent sediments. This work provides a basis for interpreting the history of the coastal area which, according to carbon 14 determinations, extends back almost 10,000 years. About 9,500 years ago the sea invaded some of the valleys cut during the lowered Pleistocene sea-levels, and sheltered bay deposits now found about 85 feet below sea-level were deposited. Barrier islands or sandy shoals grew up along the coast, keeping pace with the slow rise of sea-level, so that bays with brackish water were maintained in most of the area during the long period which followed. Evidence was found of minor shifts, only, in the position of the present barrier islands, although other post-Pleistocene barrier islands are now submerged under the inner continental shelf deposits. The sequence of formations stands in opposition to the hypothesis of a positive sea-level stand during the postglacial climatic optimum.
30075121|Petrified wood composed essentially of iron oxide occurs in the Wilcox Eocene sand at Shreveport, Louisiana.
30062608|All oil pools on the Kern River salient, which produce from Temblor (Miocene) formations, are fault trapped. These "trap" faults are normal, with the downthrow side to the east, and are found opposite prominent fault scarps in the Sierra Nevada massif. The faults of the massif are also normal, of considerably larger displacement than the trap faults, and dip westward so that a graben-like structure is formed. Because the extrapolated fault planes are found to intersect downward at a depth of about 3 miles and because the trap faults and those of the massif die out similarly along the strike, it is suggested that the trap faults are dependent upon the latter for their development. It is further suggested that such subordinate conjugate faults form by movement along sets of shears resulting from a rotational force couple.
30061184|Sedimentological, micropaleontological and seismic-profiling data elucidate the history of Tertiary sea-level movements around southern Africa. These new data show that landward movement of the sea began in early Paleocene time and continued into the early Eocene. The sea probably reached its maximum Paleocene height during the early Eocene, and is today represented by outcrops up to at least 204 m, and probably as high as 360 m, above modern sea level. A brief regressive pulse occurred during the middle Eocene, with renewed transgression in the late Eocene. A major regression followed, probably spanning all of Oligocene and early Miocene times. This regression exposed much of the continental shelf and is clearly represented on seismic-reflection profiles by a widespread unconformity. The major Neogene transgression began in the middle Miocene and probably reached its greatest extent in the late Miocene or early Pliocene. The overall middle Miocene to early Pliocene transgression was interrupted by a brief regressive pulse near the Miocene-Pliocene boundary. Seas withdrew again in the late Pliocene. Rocks deposited during the Miocene-Pliocene transgression are today found up to 330 m above sea level. This scheme should be viewed as showing only the gross movements of the seas around southern Africa during the Tertiary. Nevertheless, the timing of these southern African transgressions/regressions is closely parallel to the timing recently established for sea-level movements in other parts of the world.
30056467|Pebbles from glacial till, from an outwash terrace, and from a beach show characteristic preferred orientations. Methods used in collecting and measuring the pebbles are described, and the importance of two distinct concepts in orientation analysis is stressed: (1) the dip direction and dip of the longest axis and (2) the orientation of the maximum projection plane of the pebble. Methods of plotting the data are discussed, including conventional petrofabric diagrams, polar co-ordinate charts, and histograms based on azimuthal and dip frequencies. The principles of statistical analysis of the data by radius-vector summation and by conventional moment analysis are developed. The latter affords numerical data suitable for comparative studies of size, shape, and other attributes with preferred orientation, and permits the development of isopleth maps showing areal variations of preferred orientation.
30062255|Oxygen isotope analyses were obtained for five magnetites (
30065685|Oxygen-isotope fractionation was determined in the laboratory at various temperatures in the range 200-800 C. in the following systems: dolomite-water, dolomite-calcite, dolomite-carbon dioxide, and calcite-carbon dioxide. Over the range 300-510 C. the dolomite-water equilibrium fractionation can be represented by the empirical equation 1000 in
30080971|The solubility of calcite was studied in the two-phase region calcite + aqueous solution between 200 and 600 C. up to 1,400 bars and to a maximum of 10 weight per cent of
30075136|Numerous parallel, generally sharply crested ridges constitute a distinctive element of several portions of the Missouri Coteau, which is a prominent upland in Saskatchewan and Alberta, western Canada. The map pattern of the ridges, which in places are over 200 feet high, is linear or curvilinear with the concave side to the east, northeast, or north. Exposures reveal that the ridges are composed mainly of complexly folded and faulted unconsolidated sediments of Cretaceous age. The deformations resulted from ice push by the Wisconsinan glacier where it moved upslope against the Missouri Coteau, especially where it entered preglacial valleys and pressed against the sides of these pre-existing, transverse sags of the upland. The ridges are thus regarded as Stauchmornen or ice-thrust ridges, which represent slices of frozen ground deformed and dislocated by the glacier but left more or less intact during the final melting of glacier and ground ice. The ice-thrust ridges, which trend parallel to the glacier front, formed in the zone of glacier thrusting by compressive flow near the terminus under a light static pressure exerted by a rather thin mass of ice. Exposures reveal that the ridges are composed mainly of complexly folded and faulted unconsolidated sediments of Cretaceous age. The deformations resulted from ice push by the Wisconsinan glacier where it moved upslope against the Missouri Coteau, especially where it entered preglacial valleys and pressed against the sides of these pre-existing, transverse sags of the upland. The ridges are thus regarded as Stauchmornen or ice-thrust ridges, which represent slices of frozen ground deformed and dislocated by the glacier but left more or less intact during the final melting of glacier and ground ice. The ice-thrust ridges, which trend parallel to the glacier front, formed in the zone of glacier thrusting by compressive flow near the terminus under a light static pressure exerted by a rather thin mass of ice.
30068711|Within the Sybella Granite west of Mount Isa in northern Australia, differential response of U-Pb and Rb-Sr isotopic systems to deformation/metamorphism enables ages of emplacement and three discrete deformation/metamorphic events to be determined. Based on zircon U-Pb systems, two of the plutons were emplaced at
30059355|A theoretical discussion shows that it is possible for the wind to move rocks over a wet playa surface provided a sufficiently high pore pressure exists beneath the rocks. Measurements were carried out to determine the pore pressure which could exist under a rock on a muddy surface. The ratio of pore pressure to total rock pressure gave a range of 0.34 to 0.64, which would correspond to wind velocities of 45 m/sec (100 mph), to 33 m/sec (75 mph) for rocks having a large frontal area to mass ratio of
30058986|A graphical construction is described for determining the attitude of stratification planes that make a measurable trace on two non-parallel and, in general, non-vertical faces.
30058272|In this paper the scientific character of geology is discussed by analyzing the very nature of the interrogation of the earth by the geologist. Geology differs from physics, chemistry, and biology in that the possibilities for experiment are limited. As geology is essentially a historical science, the working method of the geologist resembles that of the historian. This makes the personality of the geologist of essential importance in the way he analyzes the past. This subjective element in geologic studies accounts for two characteristic types that can be distinguished among geologists: one considering geology as a creative art, the other regarding geology as an exact science. Next, the nature of the earth, object of geological studies, is considered. The increasing number of factors playing a role in the various complexes of natural phenomena are the origin of new, so-called emergent, laws and characteristics. Based on this principle of emergence, a hierarchy of sciences can be distinguished: physics: chemistry: geology: biology: psychology. The geologist applies a certain number of general views and concepts which are the rules for his scientific practice. Such premises, however, are less fixed than the natural laws postulated by the basic sciences of physics and chemistry. The geologist is therefore forced to test the validity of the greatest possible number of presuppositions (method of multiple working hypotheses). The principle of "uniformitarianism" and the method of "comparative ontology" are examples of geologic rules. The relations between geology and its sister sciences are shown in figure 2. Finally, the tremendous possibilities of future expansion of geology are indicated.
30070512|The Carboniferous-Permian (Alleghanian) orogeny in the southern Appalachians produced a distinctive 45 m.y.-long intrusive event that formed a NE-trending band of dispersed, composite plutons covering
30063063|Basic and neutral amino acids accelerated the recrystallization of aragonite to calcite, whereas acidic amino acids inhibited the reaction. Acceleration of the reaction is ascribed to a general catalytic effect, but the inhibition can best be explained by a specific epitaxial effect in which aspartic or glutamic acid forms a protective overgrowth on the carbonate surfaces. These findings may have a bearing on the diagenesis of carbonates.
30056250|The article deals with methods of measuring the volume, shape, and roundness of sedimentary quartz particles.
30081291|Attention is drawn to a thick series of altered sediments which occur conformably within the Keewatin volcanics in northern Quebec. The conformable relation of the sedimentary series to the volcanics is one of its chief points of interest. The rather exceptional lithological nature of the sediments is described, and the probable conditions of deposition discussed. Correlation with other occurrences of early pre-Cambrian sediments in northern Quebec is attempted. Other sedimentary series, thought to be of Keewatin age, in Ontario and Quebec are briefly considered.
30065139|The characteristics of 279 rivers that discharge into the world oceans are analyzed in terms of their basin hydrology (river discharge), morphometry (basin slope and area, river length, extension of the continental shelf seaward of the river mouth), and climate (precipitation). Statistically reliable relationships are found between discharge and basin area, and between sediment load and a combined function of basin area and slope. These functions are used to demonstrate how river hydrologic features would be strongly influenced by sea-level fluctuations, particularly under the influence of continental shelf emergence. A fall in sea level toward a glacioeustatic lowstand would induce the merging of rivers on the subaerial continental shelf, thereby allowing giant rivers to form. For example, rivers of western Europe would reorganize themselves into two or three very large rivers. Sediment concentration carried by these mega-rivers would decrease, and thus the number of hyperpycnal plumes generated at river mouths would be reduced. There would, however, be a strong increase in global sediment delivery and thus in the frequency of undrained delta-front failures because of both the progressive concentration of depocenters at the mouths of giant rivers and delta migration toward the shelf breaks. The global increase of sedimentation rate should then be empha-sized at giant river mouths. Associated with a global increase of hypsometry would be a significant increase in the frequency and volume of turbidity currents, since high slopes facilitate flow acceleration and slope erosion.
30067242|A brief study of the joints in part of central and southeastern Oklahoma leads to several interesting conclusions, chief of which are the following: (1) The Ouachita Mountains, as manifested at the present surface, were probably formed after middle (Oklahoma) Permian time. This increases their well-known resemblance to the Appalachian Mountains. (2) A prominent joint-system in the Central Plains of Oklahoma radiates fanlike from the Ouachita Mountain arc. Its origin was doubtless due to the mountain orogeny. (3) The individual, short faults of the so-called "en chelon fault belts" of the Central Plains correlate very closely in strike with the outstanding joint-system. This seems to tie the genesis of these faults to the Ouachita Mountain diastro-phism more closely than hitherto recognized. (4) A tentative general conclusion is stated as to the probable sequence of jointing and folding where the sedimentary beds have been mildly folded.
30079536|The presence of erratics in coal has been known for several years, but to the writer's knowledge the present discovery in the Sewell coal of West Virginia (Greenbrier County) represents the largest, as well as the greatest number and variety yet reported. The present paper gives references to previous discoveries, as well as an account of the size, shape, and position in the coal seam, character of boulders, their probable source, and possible agents of transportation of the boulders at this locality.
10.1086/648532|Smallvolume Late Cretaceous monogenetic alkaline volcanism along the southern margin of North America resulted in a broad igneous belt more than 1200 km long from the Trans Pecos region of west Texas to central Mississippi, collectively forming a northern Gulf of Mexico magmatic zone (NGMMZ). The locus of igneous activity is associated with the discontinuity separating Mesoproterozoic cratonic lithosphere and Jurassic transitional lithosphere, a zone approximating the southern margin of Laurentia, the subsurface trend of the Pennsylvanian Ouachita orogenic belt, and the trace of the Miocene Balcones fault zone in Texas. Although previous studies have attempted to determine the ages of igneous activity in the region, few wellconstrained geochronologic data using modern highresolution techniques are available. We determined the age of eruption for the Balcones igneous province (BIP), a 400kmlong subsegment of the NGMMZ, using modern
30056049|The Gardiner thrust fault has been mapped in detail from the west side of Cinnabar Mountain, Montana, where it appears from under a cover of Tertiary volcanics, southeastward to a point 3 miles east of Mount Everts, Yellowstone National Park, where it passes under the volcanics. The fault plane dips to the northeast at approximately 350, and is characterized by numerous subsidiary "slicings," also dipping to the northeast, beneath the major thrust plane. This high-angle, northeastward-dipping thrust forms the southwestern margin of the Beartooth Mountain uplift of which the low-angle, southwestward-dipping Beartooth thrust forms the northeastern margin. A genetic relationship is thought to exist between the thrusting and the intrusion of the dacite and andesite porphyries found within a close proximity of the fault plane. At some time following the development of the present topography basaltic extrusions came up along the fault plane. At a still later date hot springs issued from the fault plane, resulting in the deposits of travertine near Gardiner.
30078234|Significant late Tertiary and Pleistocene drainage changes are indicated in the Hudson and Maynard quadrangles in east-central Massachusetts. After Cretaceous beveling, the minor streams of the area became adjusted to the structure of the underlying bedrock and established a trellis drainage pattern, now largely obscured by the effects of Pleistocene glaciation. The major streams persisted in consequent courses until Pleistocene time. After the area was deglaciated, most of the streams were partly displaced from their preglacial courses. Displacement was caused largely by the obstruction of stream-course segments with masses of glacial debris, chiefly stratified drift. The greater part of the present course of the Assabet River through the area is regarded as postglacial; the Assabet is believed formerly to have joined the Sudbury River in Wayland near the southeast corner of the Maynard Quadrangle. Drainage adjustments are indicated in the courses of Danforth Brook, Great Brook, Assabet Brook, and Fort Pond Brook. Several buried valleys cross the area, including a possible preglacial course of a segment of the Sudbury River.
30078334|Twenty-five tide-gauge records non-uniformly distributed along the coast of Australia were used to evaluate the stability of Australia as a platform from which to measure changes in sea levels. The spatial and temporal variabilities of relative sea levels were defined using a multivariate analytical tool (eigenanalysis) on 13 of these stations. Low-frequency (period 20 years and greater) relative sea levels are believed to reflect the combined effects of subsistence due to sediment and water loading, subsidence due to thermal cooling of oceanic crust, and emergence along a convergent plate boundary. Global eustatic sea-level rise cannot be identified unambiguously from these data, but clearly it is not responsible for the observed patterns of relative sea level. The straight average rate-of-rise of relative sea level around Australia is 1.3 mm/yr. (submergence), with general submergence in the south (at an average rate of 1.8 mm/yr.) and emergence in the north (0.5 mm/yr., the latter an average of two stations). Australian tide-gauge data cannot define unambiguously past eustatic sea-level history because of this considerable spatial non-homogeneity in relative sea-level rise, but they may be useful for monitoring possible future increases in rate of global sea-level rise. Higher-frequency fluctuations in relative sea levels show relative peaks at 20, 12, and 6 years, with significant energy at higher frequencies as well. Higher frequency fluctuations correlate with patterns of El Nio/Southern Oscillation. During El Nio events, yearly-averaged sea levels of Australia fall, although not all local minima in relative sea levels correspond with El Nios. The resultant drop in relative sea levels represents a balance between lower sea levels due to raised atmospheric pressure with coincident lowered water temperatures, and higher steric sea levels due to increased precipitation and runoff (for those stations located in estuaries).
30061400|Differing concepts of the perspective of geologic time and of the time requirements of geomorphic processes are seen as a major cause of misunderstandings between geologists on the one hand and geographers, biologists, anthropologists, and engineers on the other. Geomorphologists have their own problems in attempting to apply the results of short-term studies of current change to the long-term history of landscape evolution. The crux of the problem is our inadequate knowledge of the time patterns of the cumulative minor changes which, in accordance with uniformitarian doctrines, are judged more significant in the long run than are isolated or episodic events of great magnitude. Examples of fast- and slow-tempo landscape change are considered.
30066049|Miocene shore-line deposits of the Sirte basin of Libya show a very complex pattern of facies. Limestones, possibly deposited as offshore bars, are replaced southward by shales of lagoonal and/or intertidal origin, which in turn pass into fluviatile sands. At two points, shoestring channel complexes of calcareous sandstone indicate the sites of two river estuaries. A regional study of cross-stratification has greatly clarified this facies pattern. The marine limestones, estuarine calcareous sandstones, and fluviatile sands each show a different azimuthal pattern of cross-bedding dip directions. It is shown that marine-derived carbonate was transported landward, while land-derived quartz sand was carried seaward. Mixing of these two sediment types was caused by alternating currents in the estuaries. The possible causes of these currents is discussed here.
30063673|This paper describes an unusual variation in the Devonian starfish Devonaster eucharis (Hall).
30055621|The paper describes the occurrence of concretions of lime and sand which were found inclosing living roots. The suggestion is made that the presence of certain bacteria, or of fungi, on the living roots may constitute the initial factor in the development of root concretions.
30056951|In the semi-arid, forested mountains of western United States, fire seems to rank first in causing the disruption of bowlders and rock outcrops. This paper contains the result of experiments on the sudden heating of rocks, and considers the field evidence regarding this and related aspects of weathering.
JG116603|Postcollisional extrusion and tectonic evolution in the eastern Tianshan orogenic belt (ETOB) remains poorly known, especially the mechanism of dextral strike-slip motion and associated tectonic exhumation. To better constrain this development, a structural and
30058252|The frequency distribution of concentrations of chemical elements has been investigated. Modern statistical methods for the analysis of large and small samples have been used. As a result of the work, the formulation of the fundamental law of the geochemical processes is proposed. This law can be applied in many cases to the investigation of deposits. The author points out the difference between "the distribution of the concentrations" in V. M. Goldschmidt's sense and "the probability distribution of the concentrations" of the present paper.
30071219|We present a new calibration point for the latest Cretaceous time scale, an interval that at present contains no well-dated polarity reversals. The magnetostratigraphy of Campanian-aged sediments in the northern Bighorn basin of Wyoming documents a geomagnetic reversal in the upper part of the Judith River Formation that occurs in direct association with ash fall layers dated by the
30058177|Liquidus data are reported for a series of forty-two ternary feldspar compositions, including compositions at each 10 per cent interval by weight of soda, potash, and lime feldspars. Only two fields, those of feldspar and leucite, appear on the liquidus surface. In addition to the liquidus data, the temperature of appearance of a second solid phase was determined for some of the compositions. Measurements of the index of refraction of the feldspar glasses are recorded. These data are principally of value as a starting point for studies of these same compositions with water as an additional component.
30060477|A small quantity of natural glass from Macedon, Victoria, is shown to be like Darwin glass from Tasmania. The glasses from both localities are compared and contrasted with natural glass from other parts of the world. The results of secondary fusion of rocks under special circumstances during the fierce burning of tree trunks at two localities in Victoria suggest that these glasses may have developed during forest fires. This casts further doubt on the belief that Darwin glass is of tektitic (extraterrestrial) origin.
30062077|New magnetostratigraphic studies have been conducted on Early Oligocene sections at Flagstaff Rim and Ledge Creek, Natrona County, Wyoming and the Dilts Ranch, Converse County, Wyoming. Thermal demagnetization has considerably improved the polarity interpretation of Flagstaff Rim, since AF demagnetization had failed to remove a diagenetic normal overprint. The polarity pattern in these sections appears to span the interval from Chron C10r to Chron C15 of the magnetic polarity timescale (31 to 37.5 m.y. based on K-Ar dates from Flagstaff Rim). This additional, more complete magnetostratigraphic evidence shows clearly that the Eocene-Oligocene boundary must lie between 36 and 37 m.y. in age.
30059125|Plagioclase in quartzofeldspathic schists from New Zealand has a preferred orientation as follows: optic direction Y (approximately [001]), a maximum parallel to the lineation and grain elongation and/ or a girdle parallel to the schistosity; Z (approximately [010]), an ac girdle; X (approximately [100]), little or no preferred orientation. Elongate albite with a prominent dimensional preferred orientation has a range of length/width ratios that does not vary with crystallographic orientation indicating that neither crystallographic nor dimensional preferred orientation result from plastic deformation. Grain size data are compatible with a rate of crystallization model as deduced for other metamorphic minerals by Kretz. It is argued that the crystallographic preferred orientation results from preferred nucleation during crystallization in a stress field, and that the grain elongation results from solution transfer and anisotropic growth in that stress field. Comments are made on the significance of this work for understanding quartz fabrics, and the development of schistosity and lineation.
10.1086/674802|The 1000 Ma felsic tuffs that occur near the top of both the Chhattisgarh and Indravati Basins in peninsular India have been attributed to a rhyolite flare-up occasioned by the collision of parts of East Antarctica with India, in what is now the Eastern Ghats Mobile Belt, and the suturing of the North and South Indian cratonic blocks along the Central Indian Tectonic Zone, all during the assembly of Rodinia. In this study we present (1) new U-Pb SHRIMP ages of zircons from the granitic basement; (2) Hf isotopic compositions (laser ablation multicollector ICP-MS) from previously dated zircons from a number of tuff samples and a sample of the Archean basement (Bastar craton); and (3) major, minor, trace, and rare earth element compositions of these and a randomly collected additional set of samples from the Bastar craton basement. We have used these data to infer the petrogenesis of the tuffs. The Hf isotopic data preclude derivation of the parent magmas of the tuffs from simple melting of the basement rocks; geochemical data constrain the source to include garnet, a titanium mineral, and in some cases plagioclase. It is likely that the source was a mafic granulite, possibly in the lower crust, and that the triggering mechanism was far-field stress release during collisional orogenies to the southeast and to the north.
30060465|The Permian redbeds of north-central Texas have long been recognized as the sediments of a shoreline of aggradation, but little progress has thus far been made in explaining the specific circumstances of origin of distinctive individual deposits. The study which follows is an attempt to achieve this aim in the case of a single small deposit which represents a type of special interest to the paleontologist, since it contains a diversified assemblage of mixed terrestrial and marine fossils. This deposit is interpreted as a partly re-worked channel-fill laid down by a temporary fluviatile distributary discharging across extended tidal flats into a shallow coastal lagoon.
10.1086/605778|Tectonothermal studies of Precambrian terranes using detrital zircons have been the domain of UPb dating techniques. Advancements in technology have made it possible to study the lowtemperature evolution of these terranes with the fissiontrack (FT) dating method, and combining these two techniques provides a unique look at the thermal evolution of Precambrian terranes. Detrital zircon grains from the upper middle Cambrian to lower middle Cambrian Potsdam and Galway formations in New York State, which uncomformably overlie the Precambrian Grenville terrane, were analyzed by UPb and FT dating. Approximately 90% of the UPb ages fall between 950 and 1200 Ma, fully consistent with the idea that these zircons are derived almost entirely from Grenvilleage rock. Zircon FT (ZFT) ages from the same suite of samples have component populations of 540, 780, and 1200 Ma, with singlegrain ages as old as 2.1 Ga. The most important observations from the FT data are that there is no widespread resetting on either side of the Adirondacks, that the component populations are older than the age of deposition, and therefore that the principle population likely reflects the cooling ages of what was almost exclusively Grenville source rock. The ZFT component populations older than Grenville tectonic events (FT age > 1.6 Ga) suggest that these old grains and the zircon with old UPb ages were transported from other nearby Precambrian terranes, such as the Superior and the YavapaiMazatzal. These FT data show that the Potsdam and Galway formations have not undergone heating significant enough to reset fission tracks in zircon since deposition and that the heating in the source rocks at 540 Ma corresponds to cooling after the breakup of Rodinia and the rifting of the Iapetus Ocean.
30071573|Alluvial fans located downstream from Pleistocene glacial margins in the Nenana Valley of Alaska began to form immediately after outwash deposition ended. Each fan constructed by a major tributary stream rests conformably on the outwash surface of the preceding glacial episode. Outwash is unweathered where it is covered by thick fan alluvium, indicating that no significant time break separated deposition of the two material types. Except for a thin upper zone, development of each fan was completed before trunk-river entrenchment occurred prior to the subsequent glacial event. It is possible that fans were constructed in a relatively short "paraglacial" interval when the effects of a nearby glacier were still being felt in the tributary basins. A complete fan sequence in any tributary valley near but beyond the downvalley limits of glaciation mirrors the mountain glacial sequence and can be used as a first approximation of the number of glacial episodes.
30058034|The Entiat Mountains, a spur of the Cascade Range in central Washington, are composed dominantly of a metamorphic complex of pre-Ordovician age. Although originally made up of a diversified series of rocks partly of sedimentary and partly of igneous origin, metamorphism has been so complete that the original heterogeneity of the group, save that inherent in the chemical composition, has been almost completely obliterated, and the entire metamorphic mass now participates in a common foliation and forms a single definite structural unit. Subsequent to the development of the foliation, mechanical movements superimposed cataclastic structures upon the metamorphic rocks and locally developed flat thrusts of some magnitude within them. Along the thrust surfaces mylonites are developed. Three distinct periods of batholithic intrusion of pre-Tertiary age are recorded within the area, and these, together with the Miocene batholiths to the west, establish the presence of four periods of plutonic invasion in the Northern Cascades. A striking fact brought out by the study is that the late Tertiary folding which trends northwest-southeast and east-west transverse to the main axis of the Cascade Range was preceded by several episodes of pre-Tertiary deformation that occurred along the same axes.
30067897|Precambrian sillimanite-grade potassic feldspar-bearing cordierite-garnet-biotite gneiss that has been remetamorphosed within homblende-hornfels fades conditions in thermal aureoles of Tertiary stocks in the Front Range, Colorado, is modified in both composition and texture. The major changes are the breakdown of regional almandine garnet to pseudomorphous cordierite and lesser biotite, quartz, and magnetite, the breakdown of biotite, and the transformation of microcline to orthoclase. The breakdown of regional garnet apparently took place in a closed volume of garnet and is isochemical; the proposed reaction is: garnet + regional biotite
30064957|The zone of renewed flow at the base of an ice fall on the Gulkana Glacier, in the eastern Alaska Range, lies below the firn limit, and thus the structures in the perfectly exposed ice can be studied in detail. Mapping of both major and minor structures demonstrates a characteristic style of progressive deformation which leads to an increased understanding of the relationship between flow and structural evolution of the ice, and by analogy, to similar processes in rocks. At the base of the fall, and particularly where the transition between fall and flow is rapid, a series of small cone-shaped topographic surfaces develops. Each is a distinct flow unit, and in each the first and dominant evidence of flow is the formation of penetrative planar structures in the ice. At the ice surface, this foliation forms with an arcuate pattern; in three dimensions, single foliation surfaces approximate inverted cones with steep axes. During continued flow, the initial foliation is rotated, and a new set of arcuate foliation planes develops which cuts the older structures. A number of interesting minor structures are associated with these crosscutting events, two of which are particularly important in working out the mechanism of foliation formation: (1) thin zones of intense shearing parallel to the active foliation, and (2) minor folds, developing in sequence from incipient similar folds to mushroom-shaped folds, always with the active foliation as the axial plane. An interpretation of this progressive fold development leads to the concept of similar folds by single-sense shearing, and the subsequent buckling of these folds by a component of shortening across the axial plane. The dominant role of shear in the formation of these structures demonstrates that foliation in ice is fundamentally a shear phenomenon. The small flow units at the base of the ice fall are, in effect, tributaries to the main ice stream, and as they merge with the larger units, and finally with the main stream, the foliation patterns concomitantly develop larger and larger arcs. Evidently the entire sequence of formation and deformation of the foliation and associated structures, on both small and large scale, is the principal process by which the differential flow of the ice mass is accomplished.
30068545|The Middle Ordovician Shoal Arm Formation in the central volcanic belt of north-central Newfoundland consists of hematitic argillites overlain by grey cherts, then black shales directly underneath a Late Ordovician/Early Silurian flysch sequence. Using principal component analysis, geochemically definable components within related lithologie groups are: (1) biogenic, (2) mixed detrital, (3) hydrothermal, and (4) Mn, Ca-carbonate. Close sampling of the whole 350-m thick sequence provides reconstruction of variations among the sediment components through time. At the base of the hematitic section, a sharp increase in the hydrothermal component (enrichment in Mn, Fe, Ni, Pb, and Zn) decreases stratigraphically upward and disappears in the upper red Shoal Arm Formation. The Mn, Ca-carbonate component also decreases upward but persists into the grey cherts, indicating an additional source of Mn. The clastic component is largely mixed mafic/pelagic clay-like detritus with a strong pulse of Zr-, Nb-, and Y-rich detritus in the top of the hematitic unit. This latter component was derived from lateral equivalents of the alkaline/subalkaline Lawrence Head volcanics. The red hematitic argillites are not overall strongly Fe-enriched but represent the product of oxic bottom conditions under slower sedimentation rates than those of the earlier underlying sediments of the Wild Bight Group island-arc-derived volcaniclastics. The grey cherts mark a transitional stage between the hematitic sediments (oxic) and the black shales (anoxic). The change to increasingly
30068832|Late Paleozoic synorogenic clastic wedges in the Appalachian foreland basin contain erosional detritus from the Alleghanian orogenic belt; however, the relative importance of detrital contributions from the frontal orogen, the orogenic hinterland, and the distal craton has not been resolved. To evaluate these components, we analyzed detrital zircons from two sandstones in the PenningtonLee clastic wedge in eastern Tennessee: the Lower Pennsylvanian Sewanee Conglomerate and the Middle Pennsylvanian Cross Mountain Formation. Ages of detrital zircons are similar in the two sandstones, ranging from 365 to 2860 Ma. The age range spans the Acadian and Taconic orogenies, the Grenville province, and preGrenville rocks (GraniteRhyolite province, midcontinent orogens, and Superior province) of the Laurentian craton. The Acadian, Taconic, and Grenvilleage detrital zircons have sources in Alleghanian frontal crystalline thrust sheets. The preGrenville zircons indicate an original source in the Laurentian craton (Canadian shield), and a longitudinal river system headed in the shield might have supplied detritus directly to the Appalachian foreland basin in Tennessee. Alternatively, all of the Proterozoic and Archean ages of zircons represented in the Sewanee and Cross Mountain sandstones have been identified in the detrital zircon populations of preorogenic Iapetan synrift and passivemargin strata along the eastern Laurentian margin, suggesting a source of recycled zircons from preorogenic rocks exposed in Alleghanian thrust sheets. A lack of detrital zircons contemporaneous with the Alleghanian orogeny shows that Alleghanian igneous rocks had not been integrated into the drainage network and/or had not been exhumed. The age distribution of the detrital zircons suggests deformation and erosion of rocks of the Laurentian margin and emphasizes the importance of preorogenic architecture of the continental margin in the construction and erosion of the orogenic belt.
30060801|Shore platforms incised into Tertiary volcanic rocks on the southeastern coast of the Izu peninsula, facing the Pacific Ocean, show regional differences in their elevation: the platforms on the promontories are higher than those in the coves or the areas behind islands. The level of the former varies from place to place, while that of the latter is approximately constant. Prior to the investigation of the mechanisms forming the platforms, the latest local crustal movement was examined. The study area proved to have been uplifted about 1.5 m due to the earthquake of 1703. The field study suggested that the platforms had already been formed at the time of this tectonic uplift. Therefore, the formative mechanism was explored under the pre-uplift conditions. This exploration was done by focussing on the nearshore wave dynamics. The result showed that the platforms at the headlands were produced by the action of breaking waves occurring in front of the bluff during stormy periods, and their original elevation was determined by the height at which breaking waves operated; while the platforms in the sheltered areas were developed by the interaction of broken waves and rock weathering, and their elevation was controlled by the level of permanent saturation.
30062079|Pebble fabric studies on ice-rafted diamictons have been limited to general observations, with authors noting preferences toward vertical, random, or horizontal orientations. To clarify such observations, pebble fabric data were collected from a fossiliferous diamicton of late Pleistocene age located on Whidbey Island, Washington. The ice-rafted origin of this unit is supported by several independent characteristics including in situ macrofauna and microfauna, conformity with subaqueous lithofacies containing dropstones, lower bulk densities and higher void ratios than associated tills, soft sediment deformation structures suggestive of iceberg dumping, textural gradations, and facies relationships. Analysis using the eigenvalue method indicates that ice-rafted fabrics are nearly random with little consistency of vector orientations between sites and without any relationship to the probable direction of glacial flow. The weak fabric is mainly the product of settling through the water column and impact with, or penetration of, the bed. Samples that possess a weak preferred long axis orientation with a low angle of dip, including those from laminated muds, can best be explained by the intermittent effects of bottom currents, a resistant substrate at the time of deposition and post-depositional flowage. Comparisons of pebble fabrics from basal tills, recent sediment flow deposits, and basal, debris-laden ice of an active glacier demonstrate that the ice-rafted fabrics are distinct from those of basal ice and till but are quite similar to those of sediment flow diamictons. Ice-rafted diamictons appear, however, to contain a greater number of elongate stones with long axis plunge angles exceeding 45 than other glacigenic diamictons.
30062094|The caliche profiles on the southern High Plains, Texas and eastern New Mexico, are of Pliocene, Pleistocene, and Holocene age. The Pliocene caliche is colloquially known as the "caprock." Differences in age, physical factors, and chemistry allow classification of the caliche into young, mature, and old types. Young caliche is incompetent and powdery except when formed as a laminated zone over an underlying plugged profile. Mature caliche is characteristically nodular, grading downward into old caliche which contains diagenetic quartz. Massive caliches form on semiarid, rapidly aggrading, flat surfaces of desert loess (regional eolian sand ergs), on thick calcareous sands providing local climate fluctuates between humid and semiarid, and on near-surface carbonate rocks. The base and sequential development of the caliche, regardless of parent material, are determined by extent and amount of infiltration of water during humid periods following accumulation of calcareous loess, permeability of the parent material, and rapidity of plugging in the caliche profile. Caliche anticlines, or expansion structures, form only in mature caliche or preexisting carbonates due to expansion of the entire zone caused by filling of horizontal and vertical desiccation cracks by vadose silt and calcareous dripstone. The horizontal desiccation cracks are termed "buckle cracks." The most intense expansion structures form on interbedded lacustrine clays and sands; however, isolated structures due to other causes, such as solution and collapse, injection of lacustrine clays, or structures which antedate the caliche, also exist. Induration of the upper part of a thick caliche results mainly from exposure, induration of the lower part of the profile resulting from deposition of diagenetic quartz and carbonate.
30067024|The Cordillera Huayhuash is a northsouthoriented range along the drainage divide of the northern Peruvian Andes. The range has high topography with peaks in excess of 5500 m and the secondhighest peak in Peru, Nevados Yerupaja (6617 m). Bedrock is dominated by folded Mesozoic miogeoclinal rocks unconformably overlain by midTertiary volcanics intruded by Late Tertiary granitic rocks and silicic dikes. Zircon fission track (ZFT) and (UTh)/He (ZHe) dating of zircons along a westeast transect elucidates the thermal evolution of exhumed and uplifted rocks. The stability of fission tracks in zircons is a function of singlegrain radiation damage. In samples with graintograin variability in radiation damage, resetting results in variable resetting and multiple age populations. Low retentive zircons (LRZs), which have a partly disordered crystalline structure, have significant radiation damage and a low temperature of annealing (ca. 180200C). High retentive zircons (HRZs), which are nearly crystalline, fully anneal at temperatures in excess of ca. 280300C. Partly reset samples are those where LRZs are reset and HRZs are not reset, and therefore the cooling age is not concordant, but the young population of grain ages records the youngest thermal event. Full resetting of both LRZs and HRZs results in cooling ages that are concordant or nearly so. Lower Cretaceous quartzites show ZFT ages with a wide range of cooling ages, but most have LRZ reset ages at ca. 27 and 63 Ma. The ZFT ages from three quartzites and two granites from the core of the range yielded a single mean reset age of
30056842|The phenomenon of bubbling sometimes seen at the surface of estuarine and other waters and often ascribed to natural gas is discussed. The large sand waves at the mouth of the Avon River are described. The tidal waves in the Petticodiac River are described in detail. The color of sediments deposited by the tides is discussed, and the results of a bacteriological study of Bay of Fundy muds by Dr. G. B. Reed is given. The conclusion is reached that the black color of certain beds of black mud is the result of chemical changes induced by bacteria.
30068097|In the North China block, the south Liaodong Peninsula massif is an elliptical metamorphic core complex (MCC) with a long axis trending NESW. In crosssection view, it is asymmetric, with a steeply dipping northwestern flank and a gently dipping southeastern flank. It consists of three lithotectonic units: a gneissic migmatite unit, a Paleo to MesoProterozoic micaschistslate unit, and a Neoproterozoic to Mesozoic sedimentary cover. Three deformation events related to extensional tectonics are distinguished in the study area: D
30081105|Ventifaction on the Tolman Ranch Terrace surface in northwest Wyoming is controlled by factors other than intensity and direction of regional winds. Disintegration of granitic boulders in the terrace gravel causes large, fine-grained mafic boulders to be preferentially concentrated on the terrrace tread. These boulders rise above a critical height needed for ventifaction. Quartz-rich sand introduced into the system by weathering is used in the abrasive process while it is simultaneously removed from the system by topographically enhanced winds. Pronounced ventifaction in this area occurs only where granite disintegration and topography are properly combined to maximize abrasive work. Ventifaction in this setting may have been continuous or intermittent since deposition of the gravel; thus, features produced have no paleoclimatic implications.
30078333|Magnetic and pebble-fabric analyses have been made on three subaquatic debris-flow deposits. The first is from the Late Pleistocene glaciogenic deposits exposed in the shore cliffs on the north side of Lake Erie. The second is from the Late Pleistocene Champlain Sea deposits near Ottawa, Canada, and the third is from the Pliocene Pico Formation, California. In pebble-rich debris-flow deposits with a sandy-mud matrix, both the long axes of prolate-shaped pebbles and magnetite particles are aligned parallel to each other and, in four out of five cases, parallel to the dip of the paleoslope. In pebble-poor debris-flow deposits with a mudmatrix, the long axes of prolate-shaped pebbles and magnetite particles may be parallel or normal to each other and parallel, normal, or at some other angle to the dip of the paleoslope. The results suggest that the two most important factors involved in the alignment of elongate particles are collision effects and the position in which a gyrating particle has the lowest angular velocity. Clast collision appears to favor the alignment of elongate particles parallel to the direction of flow, whereas transverse positions are more common where collision effects of particles of roughly equal size are minimal.
30060665|The structures of Archean granite and gneiss and overlying Lower Huronian sedimentary formations in the vicinity of Pine Creek in the northern part of the Menominee iron-bearing district of Michigan are compared in this study. Foliation of the gneiss is distinctly unconformable with bedding of the sediments. Faults, joints, and microstructures are similarly developed in the two rock types. During the Killarney orogeny these Archean and Lower Huronian rocks were upturned into a southwest-facing monocline, pushed back at its ends along northeast-trending tear faults. The petrofabrics of both the granitic and the sedimentary rocks plot into horizontal A-C girdles and are presumably the result of rotation about a vertical axis associated with the faulting.
30080819|The extended development of southeast drainage transverse to the structural belts of the Appalachians is pictured. In explanation of this phenomenon a new theory of Appalachian geomorphic evolution is presented for discussion. According to this theory, a southeast-flowing consequent drainage system was originally superposed on Appalachian structures from an ancient coastal plain cover which extended from 125 to 200 miles northwest of the present inner margin of the Atlantic coastal plain and rested on a peneplane much older than the Schooley or Kittatinny erosion surfaces. A full discussion of the theory, of the considerations which seem to support it, and of the consequences which would follow its acceptance, will be published in book form at an early date.
30068870|The wellknown earthquakeandstormtriggered extremely high physical weathering rate in Taiwan is consistent with present geochemical studies of sediments from different subenvironments (offshore, coastal, river, and lake) and sedimentary rocks of different geological ages, indicating a moderate chemical weathering condition. Major and trace element concentrations normalized to the average upper crust of Yangtze Craton show that the sediments and the average composition of sedimentary rocks of Taiwan are depleted in Ca, Mg, Na, and Sr, enriched in Rb and Zr, and unchanged with respect to K, indicating their moderately altered nature. The mean chemical index of alteration (CIA; 7175) and plagioclase index of alteration (PIA; 8186) values of coastal and offshore sediments reveal the sediments' derivation from sedimentary rocks by moderate silicate chemical weathering processes. The mean CIA value (62) of sedimentary rocks of Taiwan is similar to that for Chinese sediment (61), further confirming the above inference. ACNK, (AK)CN, and ACNKFM plots (
30064035|Wind River Canyon in the Owl Creek Mountains of central Wyoming contains an approximately 1.5 km-long section of isoclinally folded, amphibolite grade, metavolcanic rocks of dominantly basaltic and dacitic composition; few metasedimentary rocks appear to be present. The rocks have experienced three separate deformational events, including isoclinal folding. An amphibolite facies metamorphic event is denoted by garnet-biotite temperatures of approximately 570C. The dominant rock in the section is a hornblende amphibolite. This lithology has two compositional variants, a MORB-like tholeiitic basalt and, interlayered with it, a slightly more
30060119|This paper provides the key references for, and a summary of, statistical methods for describing and analyzing orientation data. Most of the paper is concerned with the author's approximate analysis of variance procedures for unit vectors in two and three dimensions. The procedures are based on probability density proportional to exp ( cos ), where  is an accuracy parameter and  is the angle between the true and the observed directions. A brief account of the theory for exp (
30056269|By analogy with the behavior of crystalline aggregates of the metals, rocks might be expected to fail by fatigue under repeated applications of stress much below the strength as measured in ordinary laboratory tests. To determine whether the temperature stresses set up in a rock by insolation are sufficiently great to cause failure by fatigue, an experiment has been performed in which a coarse-grained granite has been subject to temperature differences of 110 C. for a period corresponding to 244 years of natural insolation. Photomicrographs show no change in the rock.
30071584|When initially deposited, mafic igneous cumulates consist of a solid matrix of mineral phases plus 50-60% interstitial liquid. Due to its greater density the matrix compacts, squeezing the interstitial liquid upward. A numerical fluid mechanical model of this process indicates that if the cumulate deposition rate is constant, compaction occurs in one of two distinct models. For rapid deposition, the system is permeability controlled with compaction occurring only at the base of the cumulate pile. For slowly deposited cumulates an additional compaction zone that is partially viscosity-controlled develops at the top of the pile. If the extent of compaction and thickness of this zone are known for a real system, the model can be used to estimate the permeability and effective viscosity of the compacting cumulates. Such calculations yield a permeability of
30065793|Well-developed granite platforms exist near the summits of four of the highest hills in the Lake Altus area of the western Wichita Mountains in southwest Oklahoma. These features had previously been interpreted as wave-cut benches of Permian age. New evidence indicates that they are Pliocene pediments cut at the level of the Southern High Plains, which originally extended into western Oklahoma. During the late Pliocene and early Pleistocene, this surface retreated 180 km to its present position in the Texas Panhandle.
30058240|Near Hillsboro, New Mexico, a funnel-shaped quartz monzonite porphyry, containing large orthoclase cryptoperthite phenocrysts, intrudes early Tertiary (?) andesitic rocks. X-ray studies and analyses of these feldspars show that the (201) intensity ratios are proportional to the weight-fraction ratios of each phase. Heat treatment, which appears to homogenize the crytoperthites, produces a bulk compositional value, based on the d(201)_of the heated homogeneous-appearing feldspar, which differs considerably from that obtained using the (201) intensity ratios. This difference, expressed as a simple ratio , is believed to be a measure of the degree to which the cryptoperthite has attained the low-temperature ordered state. Variations of  appear to be independent of the feldspar composition and to be related to the sample position in the intrusive regimen. Higher parts of the porphyry, which presumably have cooled more quickly, show larger  values, indicating a smaller difference between the two methods of determining composition than for samples from lower horizons of the intrusion. The limited range of  values in the area showing most leached sulfides strengthens the inferred temperature-dependence of the  values and suggests a new approach to the study of ore deposits in Tertiary porphyries.
30066417|We analyzed the runout potential of debris flows using a simple mathematical model based on the principle of conservation of momentum. This model is unique in that it evaluates the effect of a change in mass of a debris flow over the distance the flow travels. The model is used to examine the influence of viscous resistance alone, the paired influence of a change in mass of the flow with travel and viscous resistance, and finally, the combined effects of mass change, viscosity, friction, and slope angle on the longitudinal velocity distributions and runout distances of debris flows. Evaluations of the model with the combined influences of each of the variables indicate that a gain in mass by the flow with travel will result in longer total runout distances, and that the flow will maintain lower velocities over the distance traveled. A loss of mass with travel will result in shorter total runout distances, and the flow will maintain higher velocities over the distance traveled. Increasing slope angles allow for longer runout distances, but when frictional resistance to flow is greater than the influence of the slope angle, shorter runout distances result. In its present state, the model cannot be calibrated with data from actual debris flows. However, the model does provide a framework for further study.
30059976|The contacts of the Huronian and the granitic masses northeast of the Menominee and north of the Calumet districts, respectively, proved to be unconformities as earlier postulated by W. S. Bayley and his co-workers. Basal conglomerates truncating the foliation of the basement gneiss were found below the Lower Huronian Sturgeon quartzite in five key areas mapped in detail. No intrusive granite was found. In the Fern Creek area (Sec. 34, T. 41 N., R. 29 W.) the basal conglomerate is overlain by an argillite containing numerous ice-rafted granite blocks, which in turn is overlain by a tillite. The tillite, though limited in extent, is unique in the Southern Subprovince.
30055618|The Jordan sandstone is herewith redescribed and defined on the basis of the original description and a study of the type section together with numerous other outcrops in Minnesota and the adjacent states of Iowa and Wisconsin. Some of the important sections in Minnesota are given to show the sequence of beds and the general character of the formation over a wide area. Tentative identifications of part of the fauna are listed, and the conclusion is reached that the Norwalk sandstone belongs within the typical Jordan.
30060418|The bearing of gravity results on general geological problems is made more clear by recognizing the fact that complete local isostasy is impossible, and that such an assumption leads to appreciable errors in gravity anomalies in mountainous regions. The horizontal and vertical distributions of isostatic compensation are interrelated, and should be studied together. The ranges of assumptions as to both are stated, with the probable limits. The truth of regional instead of local isostasy has important bearings on geological deductions, and makes the gravity results more consistent with other geological evidence as to the earth's crust.
30061249|The investigation is divided into two parts: the first is concerned primarily with stability relations among the various crystalline phases of
30065758|In a reconnaissance study of some turbidite sequences, it has been found that the thicknesses of the sandstones are positively correlated with those of the overlying shales but not with the thicknesses of the underlying shales. This is tentatively explained by assuming that at least the major part of a shale was deposited from the same turbidity current which formed the underlying sandstone.
30065038|It is commonly held that laterites and bauxites form under tropical climates. Although some workers have suggested lateritic weathering was not representative of "tropical" climates, the assertion is still almost universally made. Early Tertiary (56-34 Ma) basalts are widespread in the Monaro Region of New South Wales. They overlie and enclose fluvial and lacustrine sediments, hyaloclastites, and tuffs, and the upper parts of many flows are bauxitized. The basalts are up to about 200 m thick and in one section comprise 22 flows, eight tuffs and hyaloclastites, two dolerites, and nine interflow bauxitic profiles. This region in the eastern Australian Highlands was tectonically stable and had probably been at its present elevation for some 50-100 Ma. Immediately before the beginning of volcanism and during the extrusion and bauxitization of the earlier flows, the region was at 57.5S latitude. Climates were wet, cool to cold, and thermally seasonal, and the region was well forested. Paleomagnetic studies show that the flows were weathered for more than 0.5 Ma at a minimum average rate of about
30069364|Coarse channel deposits underlying the bed of the Huron River in the vicinity of Ann Arbor and Ypsi-lanti, Michigan, represent a period of degradation and aggradation which can be dated as postbut pre-Lake Whittlesey and Warren. This period includes the -Port Huron interval, a time of known ice retreat. The river was most probably graded to a low-lake stage in the Erie Basin, Lake Ypsilanti, created by ice retreat from the depressed Niagara Falls area. The exact elevation of the Lake Ypsilanti is not known but was within the limits
30056681|A large buried valley, tributary to the well-known bedrock valley along the Illinois River, has been traced eastward across central Illinois to the Indiana state line, and continuation into Indiana and beyond is indicated by well records and outcrop data. Detailed studies are confined largely to Illinois, and the valley is herein named "Mahomet Valley" after a locality in Champaign County, Illinois. Mahomet Valley is considered preglacial, as Kansan, Aftonian, and possibly Nebraskan deposits occur within the channel. After the advance of the Kansan glacier the valley probably ceased to function as a major drainage line; and by the end of Illinoian time the valley was so completely filled with drift that the Sangamon interglacial plain continued across it without interruption. A new working hypothesis favored by the writer is proposed, namely, that Mahomet Valley represents the lower course of Teays River, a preglacial master-stream which probably had its source near the eastern scarp of the Blue Ridge in North Carolina; flowed westward across Ohio, northern Indiana, and central Illinois; and finally discharged into the Gulf Embayment through bedrock valleys now generally occupied by the present Illinois and Mississippi rivers.
30064946|A number of regional paleocurrent patterns occur repeatedly in time and space. A series of models are proposed in an attempt to clarify these. Each model is defined by three parameters: environment (i.e., depositional process), azimuthal paleocurrent pattern at outcrop (i.e., unimodal, bimodal, or polymodal), and the relationship between paleocurrents and paleoslope. One fanglomerate model is proposed, two fluviatile, one eolian, six shore-line, and two turbidite models. Fanglomerates are characterized by unimodal downslope-directed radiating paleocurrents. Both fluviatile models have unimodal downslope paleocurrents. In one case these are arranged radially, in the second centripetally. Eolian paleocurrents may be unimodal, bimodal, or polymodal, and are unrelated to paleoslope. One eolian model is definable by relating wind direction to high-pressure air cells. Shore lines are characterized by bimodal paleocurrents attributable to tidal currents, though unimodal and polymodal patterns are also known. These are all unrelated to paleoslope. Six shore-line models are proposed based on the presence or absence of fluviatile currents and on whether marine currents are dominantly onshore, offshore, or alongshore. The two turbidite models both have unimodal paleocurrents. These may be arranged in small-scale downslope radiating fans. On a larger scale, lateral and axial infilling is common in many marine troughs, though the role of turbidity currents has been questioned. All the models proposed are illustrated by reference to examples from ancient and recent sediments. The problems of deducing current directions from sedimentary structures are discussed, together with the relationship between paleocurrents and paleoslopes. Exceptions to the general rule that currents flow downslope are prevalent in eolian and shore-line sediments and may also be significant in flysch deposits.
30063031|Fault troughs may be classed as superficial or profound. Superficial fault troughs result from (1) earthquakes, or (2) volcanic activity, or (3) tension. Tensional fault troughs are due to differential uplift, rotational strain, or the tilting of large fault blocks. The differential uplift may be caused by igneous intrusions and by the relative displacement of large rigid fault blocks underlying sedimentary formations. The faults associated with very large fault troughs extend to profound depths and reach the zone of flowage. Evidence bearing on their origin is less conclusive than that for superficial troughs. Several factors have probably entered into their formation, but tension, resulting in normal faulting and an upward tilting of the inclosing masses, is probably most important. Extrusion of lavas and increase in density, due to expulsion of gases and the crystallization of magmas, have played a more or less important part in some instances. Large troughs have probably developed in part along pre-existing faults. Illustrations are given of the different types of fault troughs.
30060888|Some of the principal relations of the fractionation of major elements in magmatic liquids are evaluated using variable distribution coefficients estimated from the experimentally determined phase relations of the albite-anorthite system and the albite-anorthite-diopside system. Textural evidence from the cumulate of layered intrusions shows that the cumulate crystals are surrounded by intercumulus liquid. Liquid as well as crystals is therefore fractionated by the fractional crystallization of magma. Thus fractionation models based on the subtraction of mineral compositions alone may inadequately explain the fractionation trends of magmas. Rayleigh's fractionation equations assume complete separation between the fractionated material and the residual magma, and are unsuitable for calculating these trends. A new differential equation is proposed to predict the compositional variations of major and trace elements in magmas undergoing fractional crystallization. Significant differences exist between the calculated and observed fractionation trends in three layered intrusions using this new equation and are discussed.
30081292|The basalts of Patagonia, as determined from the literature and from the microscopical and chemical study of rocks from three widely separated localities, are found to belong to those slightly undersaturated types which appear to be characteristic of plateau-basalts in the restricted sense of Gregory and Reck. This type contrasts with that of flood-basalts which, in general, are oversaturated with silica.
30079598|The occurrence of two major erosion surfaces in south-central and western New York is substantiated and a correlation with those of western Pennsylvania and eastern Ohio suggested. A younger surface and a strath are found in the northern portion of western and central New York, although they are largely concealed by glacial drift. The effect of structure upon the development and preservation of these surfaces is considered.
30062200|At most localities in southeastern Utah the Wingate Formation is a sandstone that exhibits generally uniform mineralogy and appearance. Along the southwest-dipping flank of the Lisbon Valley Anticline, however, substantial differences occur in the spatial distribution of authigenic kaolinite and hematite that permit differentiation of three outcrop areas. The northern and southern portions of this flank of the anticline are white (bleached). The bulk of the remaining, centrally located, Wingate outcrops are uniformly red (unbleached) because of hematite/clay coatings on constituent grains. Bleached rocks lack these grain coatings. In addition, most of the quartz grains in the bleached rocks have overgrowths. Compared to the other areas, the northern bleached rocks have three to five times more authigenic kaolinite, half the porosity, twice as many altered feldspars, and one-third as much mixed-layer clay. Both northern and southern bleached rocks contain hematite pseudomorphs after pyrite, and the northern rocks also contain hematite after siderite. In terms of clay content, the southern bleached rocks are more similar to unbleached rocks than to northern bleached rocks. Stratigraphy, primary depositional features, and petrography all demonstrate that post-depositional alteration resulted in the observed differences. Bleaching was driven by acidic and reducing fluids that infiltrated the strata, precipitating kaolinite and, locally, pyrite and siderite. An area between the two bleached zones remained unaltered. Fluids either remained in the southern area for a shorter period of time or were less active and voluminous, resulting in less alteration than in the north. Late-stage oxidizing conditions locally converted siderite and pyrite to hematite. A probable source of the acidic/reducing fluids is leakage from the geographically associated sour petroleum reservoir at Lisbon Valley oil field.
30060250|35 km either side of the Pacific-Cocos spreading axis at 846'N, on crust
30070674|The comparative analysis of floral diversity data on Permian rocks from the Paran Basin, Brazil, and nine Australian basins revealed that the South American and the Australian basins bear completely different floraldiversity signatures. The Paran Basin displays a peak in microfloral diversity during deposition of the coalbearing Rio Bonito Formation, followed by a steady decrease during the Middle and Late Permian, whereas diversity in Australia remained high throughout the Permian. These data suggest that, while the flora in the Paran Basin was submitted to more stressful conditions as the continent moved from humid, temperate zones into subtropical, desertic ones, the flora in Australia thrived under persistently humid conditions. Therefore, the increased aridity recorded by the Permian rocks in the Paran Basin is more likely to be due to the northward migration of western Gondwana across climate zones rather than a global trend throughout the Permian.
30060699|Experimental evidence suggests that breaking waves and swash can become structured into salients separated by turbulent zones of retarded flow and may be responsible for the formation of regularly spaced beach cusps. The mechanism involved is initiated by the tendency of the edge of fluids traversing flat surfaces to extend laterally and invaginate at regularly spaced intervals; its operation is compatible with several prior theories and observations of beach cusp formation. The mechanism apparently operates in other geological situations. Longitudinal, evenly spaced strips of sand deposited underwater on the floors of flumes, and on a larger scale on the sea bottom, may also be the result of sheetflood structure developing after a critical water velocity has been reached. The same process acting in the atmosphere may be responsible for the growth of regularly spaced parabolic, longitudinal, and seif dunes and sand strips in desert regions. It is also tentatively suggested that the primary arc systems of the world may owe their general outlines to a tectonically produced sheetflood structuring of the edges of overriding lithospheric plates.
30060375|The observations recorded in this paper consisted chiefly of measurements of the rate of melting and the relationship of pressure to movement of the ice. A definite relationship was established between the rate of melting of the marginal ice cliffs of the Nordenskild Glacier and the air temperature recorded at Bruce City and the Green Harbor Meteorological Station. For each degree Fahrenheit of average maximum monthly air temperature above freezing-point, the amount of retreat of the ice was .5 feet per month, or 5 feet for August, 1921. The rate of movement of the central crevassed area over a period of 26 days was 51.1 feet, or 1.9 feet per day during August, 1921. In addition to this, directed concentrated pressure was found to produce movement in two directions: a) Movement of nv ice in particular in the direction of pressure along thrust planes associated, in the Sven Glacier, with contortion and imbricate structure. b) Irregular movement or "slide" at right angles to the direction of pressure. The surface of the ice in zones of exceptional pressure was marked by isolated mounds of morainic material which were seen to best advantage on the Sven Glacier.
30059024|Tectonic, paleontologic, sedimentologic and ocenographic evidence is marshalled to show that it is not necessary to assume an Upper Miocene deep depression for the formation of Mediterranean evaporites. They formed on the same level as others found on the Afro-Arabian and Eurasian continental plates. A different model is proposed for their origin.
30064944|Two-dimensional trend surface analyses were performed on areally distributed tracer-concentration data for three different fluorescent sand tracers recovered from four depth intervals of the foreshore. The tracers had been affected by the swash, breakers, and longshore currents of one tidal cycle. Analysis of the statistical significance of trend surfaces for each depth interval showed that only the upper 2.5 cm. of the sand column evidenced definite trend components. Differential sorting of tracers of different shapes and mean grain sizes was probably negligible, as deduced from the similarity in direction of orthogonals to the trend surface contours for the various tracer data. The advantage of the trend surface method of describing sand movement patterns on beaches lies in its ability to represent, in an objective manner, the average movement of sand grains by means of a single representative equation. Furthermore, for time scales of the order of minutes to several hours, the motion of sand is seldom parallel to the shore line. Studies attempting to define over-all particle drift at such time scales will be more meaningful where areal concentration data are objectively analyzed, as opposed to the subjective analysis of linear concentration data from samples collected parallel to the shore line.
30085021|In the upper part of the Rimac Valley, central Peru, steeply dipping silicic dikes dated at about 5.8 m.y. trend approximately east-west. The orientation of these vertical dikes indicates that during latest Miocene time the greatest principal stress was oriented about N80E with a horizontal least principal stress orientation. The dikes appear to have been preferentially emplaced along one of a conjugate set of fractures formed earlier when the greatest principal stress was in a NE to ENE direction. The N80E stress orientation during the latest Miocene, very similar to that recognized for coeval Quechua 3 deformation in the Ayacucho basin and elsewhere in central Peru, provides additional support for major late Neogene left-lateral movement parallel to the NW-SE structural grain of this portion of the central Andes. The new radiometric ages also provide further evidence for widespread rhyolitic volcanism during latest Miocene and early Pliocene time.
30062184|Hollows are sites of long-term deposition of colluvium and contain a valuable record of the timing and rates of hillslope erosion. A model is presented that uses measured depositional rates of colluvium in hollows to calculate transport rates of colluvium and bedrock lowering rates on the surrounding slopes. This model has been applied to eight dated colluvial deposits in the Clearwater River basin of western Washington. The calculated average transport rate is about
30079763|Multichannel seismic reflection data gathered by the petroleum industry, offshore of western Newfoundland, constrain the absolute thicknesses of the Middle Ordovician and post-Middle Ordovician portions of the Anticosti foreland basin immediately adjacent to the Appalachian structural front. These seismic lines, which include 1970s-vintage data in the public domain, and recently acquired proprietary data, indicate that the Middle Ordovician ("Taconian") portion of the foreland basin is more than an order of magnitude thinner than the preserved post-Middle Ordovician ("Salinian-Acadian") portion. The mechanical lithospheric coupling of foreland basins and their adjacent overthrust belts is a well-understood phenomenon. A thin Taconian foreland succession and a thick Salinian-Acadian succession imply that the overthrust loads responsible for flexural depression of the Anticosti basin were much more distant and/or much smaller during the Middle Ordovician Taconian orogeny than they are today. We quantify this qualitative conclusion to first-order using a two-dimensional, nonuniform, thin elastic plate formulation to model lithospheric flexure. Our approach constrains ( 1 ) the position of Taconian overthrust loads at the end of the Taconian orogeny, and (2) the palinspastic location of the Cambro-Ordovician passive margin hinge line. Acceptable solutions require development of a significant (~300 m-high) peripheral bulge in early Late Ordovician time and suggest that the toe of the Taconian overthrust wedge was many tens to perhaps 100 km or more from its present position at the end of the Taconian orogeny.
10.1086/649819|Joint UPb and
30065795|The Precambrian age Bundelkhand massif is a composite body comprised mainly of felsic igneous rocks. The geochemistry of granites in the NE part of the massif shows calc-alkaline to alkaline affinity and points to collision-related magmatism; the pattern closely resembles that of continental margin Sierra Nevada-type batholiths and the subduction-related Benghnema batholith. The incompatible trace element spidergram corresponds to the orogenic subduction-related magmas. It is inferred that an Indian plate may have accreted from several micro-plates during Precambrian time, with consequent emplacement of collision-related Bundelkhand granites. The two younger leuco-granites showing alkaline affinity are post-collisional.
30056782|An attempt is made to utilize what has been learned from the behavior of geo-synclines and the manifestations of typical mountain folding with batholithic intrusions, in later geologic times, to better our understanding of the pre-Cambrian history of the Canadian Shield. An attempt is made to locate roughly the sites of the Laurentian, Algoman, and Killarnean foldings and granitic intrusions. Erosion of each of these mountain systems should have supplied sediments in great volume to the neighboring lowland tracts until the highlands themselves eventually were brought low. Where were the lowland tracts receiving abundant sediments from each of these mountain systems? The Laurentian Mountains seem to have comprised a southern system, south of Lake Superior, and apparently also other ranges far north of Lake Superior. Rock material from their denudation was spread upon a broad sinking belt to the north of the southern system and in intermontane belts still farther north, producing the Timis-kaming-Knife Lake sedimentary system. Later the Algoman folded ranges arose where the weak Timiskaming sediments had accumulated in great thickness. From the northerly Algoman Mountains, sediments were carried southward into the Penokean trough, south of present Lake Superior, in a part of the old Laurentian area. Here accumulated the Lower Huronian formations, and later the Middle and Upper Huroni-an systems were spread over somewhat wider areas. Subsequently the Killarney folding and igneous injection occurred in this southern belt of extensive Huronian deposition.
30079599|Since 1914, when Savage named the Waucoma formation of northeastern Iowa and referred it to the Alexandrian series, there has been a question of whether or not there are Lower Silurian strata in Iowa, and if so, what part of that series is represented. As a result of the present investigation it is proved beyond reasonable doubt that Alexandrian beds outcrop in several counties in northeastern Iowa. About 70 feet of beds formerly referred to the lower part of the Hopkinton formation of the Niagaran series are placed in the Alexandrian series. The Illinois formation names, Edgewood and Kankakee, were extended to the Iowa sections and the writer has tried to define them so that they are as nearly as possible the equivalents of those formations in Illinois. Typically, the Edgewood formation consists of about 30 to 40 feet of thin- to medium-bedded dolomite, and the overlying Kankakee formation of about the same thickness of dolomite with numerous bands of chert. The available evidence seems to indicate that these two formations are conformable with each other and that the Kankakee is conformable with the Niagaran series above.
10.1086/597362|Petrographic and stableisotope (
30081122|Many geological observation sets contain discrete-state data, which can be encoded as binary patterns. When there are conditional relationships between the variables, latent class analysis may be applied to subdivide the total sample into latent facies associations, which have local independence in the probability sense. Probabilities of latent facies assignments can be mapped areally as continuous surfaces of implied geological facies. Latent class analysis is rooted in simple probability theory and can be a useful technique in geological applications where observations are descriptive or weakly numerical. The method is illustrated by a latent facies mapping of the Morrison Formation (Upper Jurassic) in the subsurface of west Kansas.
30057013|The investigation of submarine canyons is still in its infancy, and complete reversal of ideas may come from further studies. However, the information which has become available in recent years offers an explanation which seems to eliminate the necessity of calling upon the inadequately supported hypotheses of submarine erosion or huge sea-level changes. The new explanation includes: subaerial excavation of portions of the canyons at various times during the past when the margins were elevated above the ocean level; building of deltas on the outer slopes during this excavation; submergence of the canyons, with some accompanying fill but with preservation of the canyons through slides and turbidity currents acting along the old canyon axes; reshaping of the old deltas, with some enlargement of shallow trenches characteristic of steep delta fronts; marine deposition on the old land surfaces into which the canyons were cut but concurrent maintenance of the canyons by slides, so that the canyon walls grew higher as the submergence continued; and, finally, the reshaping of the canyon heads by the Pleistocene sea-level changes of a few hundred feet. This composite sequence is supported in part by the detailed soundings obtained recently off the San Diego area, where delta-like features have been found out beyond the rock-walled canyons. These supposed deltas are trenched by marginally rirnmed valleys similar to those of the Swiss lakes. The hypothesis is also supported by new evidence showing the adequacy of submarine mass movements in keeping open the canyon heads. Finally, the evidence for large-scale submergence of continental margins and of oceanic islands is becoming continually more complete. On the other hand, the new reasons offered for supporting submarine origin of the canyons are shown to be based on misunderstanding of the character of the canyons. The advocates of submarine erosion continue their failure to observe what is actually taking place on steep aqueous slopes where sediment is available for the erosion they infer.
30066251|The Tehilla complex is a shallow-level, post-tectonic, ring structure of basic and acid intrusions of possible Lower Palaeozoic age. The basic rocks comprise an early phase of troctolites and norites emplaced in the form of a lopolith and sill bodies respectively. The acid rocks (mainly granites) have been emplaced later as high-angle cone-sheets. The complex has a general alkaline character and seems to have evolved during a relatively short time by a process of differentiation, probably from two contrasted magmas.
30075190|A new method of graphical analysis shows that lateral and vertical variations in thickness of sediments in Great Britain diminished from the Lower and Middle to the Upper Jurassic. These variations were related to faulting in the Hercynian Basement. An estimation of the mean stratigraphic thickness per ammonite zone for each stage leads to the inference that widespread deepening of the sea recorded by the change from sandstones and limestones to Kimmeridgian shales was marked by substantial increase in rates of subsidence. Mid-Mesozoic sedimentation can be related to a combination of eustatic rise of sea-level coupled with the elevation and subsequent collapse of rifted domal upwarps. Firstly, in the Lower Jurassic, sands were shed eastwards into southern England and Portugal from a land margining the early Atlantic rift. Subsequently, at the close of the Lower Jurassic and early in the Middle Jurassic widespread regression and volcanism related to the domal upwarp of the Central North Sea. This was followed by widespread collapse leading to the deposition of Late Jurassic marine shales. Finally upwarping to the west of Britain from the latest Jurassic through into the early Cretaceous provided westerly sources for the bulk of contemporary clastics. Rifting in the North Sea was associated with volcanism but failed to provide new oceanic crust whereas that in the west developed into the Rockall Trough and its associated structures.
30080160|The McCloud Limestone, eastern Klamath terrane, California, represents one of several areas of carbonate deposition in an Early Permian island arc west of North America. The McCloud formed isolated platforms about 30 km long. Platform development began on volcanic highs as bank deposits and ramps of mixed volcaniclastic and carbonate sediments. Continued bank growth resulted in slope deposits of argillaceous spiculitic wackestone, limestone conglomerates, and limestone turbidites. Lateral growth of platforms occurred by progradation of slope deposits, and platform top deposits consisted mainly of packstone and wackestone of subtidal origin. Rapid subsidence of platforms resulted in sediment accumulation rates of up to 30 cm/1000 yr. The data presented here help to characterize the tectonosedimentary regimes of island arcs in general.
30080005|A body of komatiitic amphibolite, an enclave within the Archean highgrade orthogneisses in southern India, shows mild chemical weathering under semiarid conditions. Along fractures, chemical weathering has advanced (Chemical Index of Alteration
30058850|The Cordilleran geosyncline in Paleozoic time consisted of two main troughs-a western, the Pacific, and an eastern, the Rocky Mountain. The sediments of the western trough from California to Alaska are characterized by a large amount of volcanic material and graywacke in every system. Phyllites, slates, argil-lites, schists, gneisses, recrystallized chert, marble, metaconglomerate, meta-andesite, and various metamorphosed pyroclastics make up the thick sequences. Great batholiths of Mesozoic age invaded the sediments of the Pacific trough; but in only one place, the Idaho batholith, did they reach the Rocky Mountain trough. Dynamic metamorphism and the great intrusives, together with blanketing Cenozoic deposits, have left the medial area between troughs little known. The Rocky Mountain trough contains mostly marine limestones, shales, and sandstones. Many of the sands are cemented with silica and termed "quartzite," but little metamorphism has occurred, and none has been assigned to Paleozoic orogeny. The volcanic materials are nearly all andesites and came from the west. Since the sites of extensive accumulation of andesitic flows and debris today are in troughs adjacent to island archipelagos, it is suggested that a volcanic archipelago flanked the Pacific trough on the west. The Paleozoic graywackes and conglomerates also came from the west and from Paleozoic rocks already metamorphosed before erosion. Several angular unconformities indicate orogeny in the belt to the west. The island archipelago was therefore a site of continuing orogeny during the Paleozoic. It was very similar to the island arcs of the present Japanese archipelago. Instead of a rigid land of continental proportions, with a shore in western Montana, a volcanic orogenic archipelago is believed to have existed, which for the most part lay west of our modern coast.
30066061|Basanite lava streams which flowed over dry land, a beach, littoral pools, and into a shallow sea produced a complex hyaloclastite/massive basalt passage zone. Small localized breccias-basal breccias-formed when the lava flowed over littoral pools or alternatively was met by surges. Massive lava bodies entirely overlain by hyaloclastite, and with upwards convex, irregularly brecciated top surfaces, resulted when rising tide continuously overstepped lava flows that were advancing in the opposite direction to the incoming tide. In this way hyaloclastite, encrusting massive lava bodies, will continuously build up to the high tide sea level, and then become covered with massive, subaerial lavas. Massive lava units with a downward convex shape, deeply cutting into the hyaloclastites and partly unconsolidated basement rocks, formed at a later stage, but at ebb tide. The shapes and distribution of the latter massive lava bodies are entirely controlled by the morphology of the hyaloclastite that formed during rising tide at an earlier stage. The general applications of tide-formed structures in beach/shallow marine environment are discussed.
30062022|The petrography of sandstones and neodymium (Nd) isotope compositions of mudstones from the central Appalachians indicate changing provenances during the late Neoproterozoic through Pennsylvanian evolution of eastern North America. In contrast, sandstones from all stratigraphic units are dominated by Grenvillian (9501250 Ma) zircons. Neoproterozoic to Cambrian riftrelated sandstones are mostly feldspathic arenites and contain detrital zircons that are exclusively Grenvillian. The associated mudstones have remarkably uniform initial Nd isotope compositions (
30060116|The geological processes leading toward the development of sands can be approximated in a reasonably compact manner. A sand can be represented as a matrix with elements giving percentages of specific size fractions for mineral variations or shape factors. The geological processes can be represented as constant multiplication matrices. This purely theoretical approach can provide useful insights into actual geological processes through simulation studies.
30060178|Core A172-6 taken at a depth of 4,160 meters from the eastern extension of the Beata Ridge by the Lamont Geological Observatory has been spectrochemically analyzed for selected major and minor elements. A detailed point-by-point comparison of the data thus obtained has been undertaken with reference to published paleotemperature data for the same core at correlative interval of 10 cm. spacing throughout a core length of 9.35 meters. Since the carbonate content of an ancient sediment is often cited as a clue to the temperature of the sea water at the time of the sediment's formation, a study of the paleotemperature and carbonate content relationships in this core has been undertaken for the purpose of examining the validity of this concept for a sea which, during the time of most extreme glaciation, exhibited a paleotemperature range analogous to those which exist in modern tropical seas. Data are presented which tend to indicate that no correlation exists between carbonate content and paleotemperature in this core. Spectrochemical analyses have been performed for eleven elements, and these data are presented in tabular form.
30081229|Mountains, ocean currents, forests, and swamps have played an important role in regulating global climate for hundreds of millions of years, but the truly novel event of the Cenozoic was the evolution and expansion of grasslands, with their uniquely coevolved grasses and grazers. Neogene expansion of the climatic and geographic range of grasslands at the expense of woodlands is now revealed by recent studies of paleosols, fossils, and their stable isotopic compositions. Grasslands and their soils can be considered sinks for atmospheric CO
30060177|A number of potash feldspars from metamorphic areas are examined by the X-ray powder method. It is shown that the "orthoclase"  microcline transition takes place very close to the conventional granulite facies-amphibolite facies transition. Evidence is given indicating that both the "monoclinic"  triclinic and the triclinic  "monoclinic" transitions take place in nature.
30079797|The Red SeaGulf of Aden rift system, displaying a complete record of magmatic activity and characterized by arid climate and negligible anthropic modifications, provides an ideal natural laboratory for studies aimed at defining actualistic references for both volcanic and nonvolcanic riftedmargin provenances. Riftedmargin sands are derived in various proportions from volcanic to plutonic rocks emplaced before, during, or after the climax of tectonic extension (volcanic riftedmargin provenance) and from prerift sedimentary successions and underlying crystalline basements progressively unroofed during uplift of rift blocks (riftshoulder provenance). Volcaniclastic riftedmargin sands are feldspatholithic, as are those shed by Pacifictype magmatic arcs, but are characterized by bimodal (basalt/rhyolite) lithics, abundant granophyre grains, and low plagioclase/total feldspar (P/F) ratios due to supply from synrift hypersolvus alkali granites, representing the upper levels of riftgenerated juvenile crust. Augite dominates among dense minerals; detritus from postrift alkalibasalt fields includes olivine and, locally, enstatite and spinel. Sedimentary detritus from undissected rift shoulders consists of recycled quartz and carbonate sedimentary lithics; dense mineral assemblages include largely rounded to subrounded, recycled durable grains, zircon, and rutile being concentrated locally due to their higher density. Arkosic sands from basement rocks exposed on dissected rift shoulders display remarkably consistent compositions, with excess quartz with respect to ideal arkose; hornblenderich assemblages from amphibolitefacies gneiss terranes contrast with epidotedominated assemblages from greenschistfacies arc terranes. Diagnostic signatures and compositional trends recorded by modern Yemen sands may help in interpreting provenance of ancient riftrelated sandstone suites.
30058044|The paper discusses correlation of the highest red beds which have been called Permian in Kansas, Oklahoma, and Texas. Evidence is presented suggesting the Triassic age of these beds, and for them the new formation name "Custer"1 is proposed. Previous literature has been briefly reviewed and annotated, showing the complexity of the problem and difficulty of correlations based upon individual beds. Regional correlations are made with the Black Hills, Wyoming, Colorado, west Texas, and New Mexico. These correlations would have been impossible were it not for samples obtained from deep borings. The petrography, petrology, and paleontology of beds known to be of Triassic age and of the Custer formation are reviewed.
30060518|Inversion of metamorphic zones has been reported from the lower Himalayas by many workers. An example of such an inverted metamorphic zone has been studied in detail around Gangtok. Theoretical analysis of relationship among isograd, isotherm, and isobar leads to the conclusion that inversion of metamorphic zones may be caused under three conditions: (1) the temperature gradient is horizontal, (2) the temperature gradient is upwardly directed, and (3) slope of the isotherm is greater than the slope of the isograd, both being in the same direction. The present example is best explained as the result of an upwardly directed temperature gradient caused by distortion of the isotherms by tectonic deformation.
30066167|The present rate of erosion and solution of a drainage basin in Hawaii is about 1 m. in 7,700 years, or 0.130 mm. a year, based on rates of removal of dissolved weathering products. This rate is in general accord with most other estimates of ages and rates of geologic processes in Hawaii except those derived from recent reports of paleomagnetic data. Solution of silicate rocks is shown to be far more important in warm, humid basaltic terrains than in a large temperate, cooler region of diverse lithology.
30060853|We are delighted that Green and Ringwood are in close agreement with our recently published experimental results on the details of the transition of gabbro to garnet granulite to eclogite. Our apparent disagreement is in the extrapolation of the data and interpretation of the results. In our view, the seismic discontinuity in the mantle between
30071098|The factors of climate and geography which produce salinity gradients and affect the molluscan fauna distribution in Florida Bay also cause variations in the
30079564|Habana is located on the western end of an anticlinorium that extends from Habana to Matanzas, a distance of approximately 100 kilometers. The structure is complicated by minor folds and east of Habana Bay by intrusions. The column consists of Upper Cretaceous, Eocene, Oligocene with two members, undifferentiated Upper Tertiary, and Pleistocene or Recent. The Cretaceous is exposed in a belt 10 kilometers wide along the axis of the anticlinorium, and is flanked by the Tertiary on the north, west, and south sides. The low-dipping Tertiary lying unconformably on the steeply dipping Cretaceous evidences extensive post-Cretaceous-pre-Upper Eocene folding and erosion. Since Eocene time the principal events have been elevations and submergences with one minor period of folding. Habana Bay is a drowned valley in the Cretaceous connected with the ocean by a channel through faulted Tertiary limestone.
30064945|Near Currant, Nevada, the 10,000-foot thick Mio-Pliocene Horse Camp Formation (new name) disconformably overlies Oligo-Miocene volcanic rocks. It contains gravity-slide masses up to 1.5 miles long of Paleozoic sedimentary and Tertiary volcanic rocks. These masses interfinger with and grade into monolithic breccia and muddy boulder breccia. These tectonic deposits are added to a more normal Mio-Pliocene basin setting of lacustrine sediments, vitric ash, and volcanic-rich detrital deposits. Vitric ash deposits are partly altered to analcime and K-feldspar. The Horse Camp Formation contains four members, from bottom to top: Member 1 (2,000 feet thick) was deposited from the west; Member 2 (6,000 feet thick) from the north and south; and Members 3 and 4 (2,000 feet thick) from the east. This entire sedimentary complex records the development of local basin-range topography during Mio-Pliocene time and implies the contemporaneous existence of pronounced local relief and movement on low-angle faults in the source area.
30060851|Some sea-floor spreading interpretations may be influenced by the ruling theory, and contrary evidence may be neglected. In the hope of promoting skeptical reexamination by specialists, I propose an alternative hypothesis, ocean-floor convergence, essentially the reverse of sea-floor spreading. Recent JOIDES data on increase of maximum sediment age with distance from the ridge seem to favor the spreading hypothesis, but many of the underlying basalts are sills and the picture may change with deeper drilling; how many additional layers of sediment lie beneath the uppermost basalt? Relatively high uranium, thorium, and potassium content of continental rocks favors the hypothesis of mantle upwelling beneath continents and of divergent flow away from continental margins and deep basins. The general heat-flow dilemma, approximate equality of continental and oceanic averages, can be explained by convective heat transfer from subcontinent to oceanic crust. Subcrustal creep in a direction away from continents is also consistent with the scattered segments of continental shelf which are being found in the deep sea. Magnetic anomaly correlations with the magnetic reversal scale seem questionable, particularly in the critical central section, and vulcanism near the ridge axis (Iceland, e.g.) apparently is destroying, not creating, the regular pattern of magnetic bands. The "convergence" hypothesis offers an explanation of some of the puzzles. It is too early to adopt a single preferred theory.
30069400|To investigate the sedimentologic effects of changing rheology and boundary conditions on lithospheri cflexure due to thrust loading, the following simple linear models for flexure have been examined: the infinite elastic plate to represent thrusting on the craton, the semi-infinite plate to represent thrusting near a plate boundary, and the infinite viscoelastic plate to consider simple time-dependent effects. These models make the following sedimentological predictions: (1) periodic thrust motion on the infinite and semi-infinite elastic plates produces periodic regressions and transgressions on the orogenward and cratonward side of the basin, respectively; (2) periodic thrust motion on a viscoelastic plate with a small relaxation constant produces out of phrase transgressions and regressions on both sides of the basin; and (3) for a given set of flexural parameters the flexure size for these models, in order of decreasing amplitude, are the semi-infinite elastic plate, the infinite viscoelastic plate, and the infinite elastic plate. With cratonward movement of the thrust terrain the deflection of the semi-infinite plate becomes indistinguishable from the infinite plate. In the Western Overthrust belt of Idaho and Wyoming, some sedimentologic indicators are consistent with an infinite viscoelastic plate with a small relaxation time. The sedimentation history in the "Sevier Shale" basin of Tennessee suggests that lithospheric boundary conditions in thrust belts may change with time.
30065744|Distinct pulses of quartz-bearing, alkaline plutonism and volcanism are known to have occurred in the Avalon zone of southeastern New England during the Late Ordovician, Early Silurian, Devonian, and Carboniferous. Zircon separates from the Franklin and Dartmouth plutons demonstrate that two additional, previously unrecognized periods of alkaline magmatism occurred. The Franklin pluton yields an age of
30063809|The Peninsular Gneiss surrounding the N-S trending Kolar Schist Belt in the Dharwar Craton includes several components of granitic rocks that range in composition from tonalite to granite. On the west, the different phases are referred to as the Dod, the Dosa, and the Banded Gneiss and the Patna Granite. The gneisses on the east are dominantly of one type and are referred to as the Kambha Gneiss. The Champion Gneiss occurring within the eastern part of the belt is compositionally similar to the plutonic Dod Gneiss and probably represents a near surface intrusion. Late aplites are present on both sides of the belt. The Banded Gneiss was formed by partial melting of tonalitic rocks, and the aplites were formed by the action of aqueous fluids during amphibolite-grade metamorphism. Excepting these two rocks, all other granitoids seem to have been formed from silica oversaturated parent magmas derived from LILE enriched mantle sources by fractionation processes including liquid immiscibility and fractional crystallization. In the Kolar area, therefore (1) the granitoids are not genetically related to the amphibolites of the belt, which require depleted mantle sources and (2) rocks derived from different mantle sources and probably at different times could have been subsequently brought together by tectonic processes.
30062133|Petrographic and chemical study of a well-exposed section through the northern Idaho batholith documents a high degree of mineralogical and chemical homogeneity and suggests that all of the rocks belong to a single comagmatic series or superunit. Felsic biotite granodiorite to granite with minor muscovite forms a main-phase unit 37 km across, flanked on the southwest by 10 km of near-vertical sheets of granodiorite with intervening high-grade country rocks. Widespread metasedimentary schlieren appear to be "restite" left by voluminous partial melting, the magma not rising far above its level of generation. The lack of mineralogical and chemical variation across the batholith suggests little differentiation, except for separation of late, volatile-rich fluids to form widespread pegmatites. Abundant mafic dikes emplaced into fractures in the granitic rocks just before crystallization of the last pegmatitic fluids may represent the later stages of rising basalts which aided the initial crustal melting to form the batholith. Metamorphism of these dikes probably reflects post-crystallization changes induced by the still hot granite which must have cooled slowly because of its emplacement at a depth of 16 or 17 km. The northern Idaho batholith shows contradictory characteristics for I- and S-type granites.
30055640|In this paper the article by Mr. G. W. Bain on the "Amount of Assimilation by the Sudbury Norite Sheet" is criticized and certain fallacies in the argument are pointed out. A comparison is made with the Arnage norite of Aberdeenshire, which provides an undoubted case of assimilation by a gabbroic rock.
30069098|Analysis of Pleistocene changes of sea level requires study of those levels at present submerged, but the sediments associated with these levels have been disturbed frequently by subsequent marine transgressions and regressions. It is proposed that terraces can be placed in chronological order by considering the morphometry of the erosion profile alone, provided that the rock is such as to maintain an adequate record of shore-line erosion, such as limestone. Methods are outlined for calculating final profiles from initial profile plus sea level-time curves, but the calculation of such a curve from a final profile is shown to be ambiguous. This ambiguity is partially resolved by the use of three criteria which enable pairs of features to be placed in chronological order. Field examples from the western Mediterranean are studied by the methods proposed.
30061977|Some techniques in the study of the structural organization of glacial tills are described. The first of these employs a modified version of Harrison's method of studying mesofabrics (clasts 64-2 mm). A lightweight goniometer, suitable for expedition work, is described and some field results presented from a subglacial environment. A dry-brushing technique designed to accelerate fabric analysis and render it less selective is also described. Results of examinations of three-dimensional microfabrics of the same tills using the scanning electron microscope are also presented. The methods, used in combination, increase the diagnostic and analytical potential of till fabric analysis.
30056778|Exfoliated rock masses have been observed in mine workings below the zone in which atmospheric agencies and insolation operated. Exfoliation is found in rock masses, of radii ranging from one-quarter inch to thousands of feet, under diverse geologic environments. Only one agency appears to have been operative in all cases of exfoliation-dilation following the unloading of earth pressure. In special cases of rock exfoliation surficial agencies may have been auxiliary causes, enhancing the dilation.
30068100|We report an interesting occurrence of a limestone xenolith in the Siddanpalli kimberlite that intrudes the Gadwal granitegreenstone terrain, Eastern Dharwar craton, southern India. The xenolith is unmetamorphosed, is extremely fine grained (micritic), and displays laminations characteristic of sedimentary carbonate rocks. Its mineralogy, major and traceelement (including rare earth element) geochemistry, and stable isotopes (C and O) are also consistent with a sedimentary origin. However, no sedimentary rocks have ever been found in the immediate vicinity of the Siddanpalli kimberlite field. The Bhima and Kurnool basins that are widely considered to be homotaxial, having a terminal Neoproterozoic age, based on fossil evidences and lithostratigraphic correlation, are the closest (50 km) known sedimentary rocks containing similar carbonate lithounits. Therefore, the Siddanpalli carbonate xenolith is inferred to be their preserved remnant. This implies that (i) the platformal sediments of the Bhima/Kurnool basins extended at least up to the Siddanpalli kimberlite cluster; (ii) these two basins were possibly interconnected at the time of kimberlite eruption; and (iii) in contrast to present consensus favoring a terminal Neoproterozoic age for the two basins, the carbonate xenolith and its source unit is of at least late Mesoproterozoic age because the kimberlite emplacement was at 1090 Ma. A recent proposal for an adjustment of 500 Ma in the age of the Neoproterozoic Chattisgarh basin, elsewhere in central India, which was also long considered to be homotaxial with Kurnool/Bhima basins, finds support from our study in that many of the Proterozoic (Purana) sedimentary basins of peninsular India could be, in fact, not younger than the Mesoproterozoic.
30078496|The Paleozoic Trinity terrane is a massif of ultramafic rock and mafic intrusive complexes that forms the basement of eugeoclinal rocks in the eastern Klamath Mountains. The origin of the Trinity terrane has been particularly enigmatic and several mutually exclusive origin models have been proposed: (1) mantle diapir; (2) slice of obducted monogenetic oceanic lithosphere; (3) monogenetic backarcbasin lithosphere; (4) forearc lithosphere; and (5) volcanic arc basement. We have compiled new and existing field, petrographic, geochronologic, isotopic, and wholerock chemical data for the Trinity terrane to evaluate these models and conclude that the Trinity terrane is an suprasubduction zone ophiolite whose mafic intrusive complexes record subductionrelated magmatism and forearc extension that occurred during the inception of intraoceanic subduction. According to this extensional forearc model, all four terranes in the eastern Klamath Mountains evolved principally during the inception and evolution of a single, Edipping, midPaleozoic convergent margin analogous to the Eocene IzuBoninMarianas arc system. Conventional wisdom has been that the Devonian volcanic succession in the Eastern Klamath terrane records the inception of Paleozoic subductionrelated magmatism in California. New UPb zircon age data for gabbros in mafic intrusive complexes of the Trinity terrane range from Early Silurian to Early Devonian (431 to 404 Ma), indicating that subductionrelated magmatism began earlier than previously believed. Silurian and Devonian igneous rocks of the Trinity and Eastern Klamath terranes are coeval, broadly cogenetic, and represent different levels of exposure of the same ophiolite. This interpretation provides the first integrated explanation of the origin of seemingly disparate Paleozoic lithotectonic elements in the eastern Klamath Mountains.
30061239|Distinctive facies of dark-gray lutite with interbedded cementstone (calcilutite) layers are associated with laterally and vertically interfingering fluvial facies in Carboniferous fault-block troughs (rift valleys) on both sides of the Atlantic. The repetition of internally laminated cementstone with gray lutite suggests salinity changes in portions of the depositional basin. Laminated cementstone beds of dolomite with sun cracks were probably deposited as carbonate (calcite?) mud that may have subsequently been altered to dolomite during a desiccation stage. Laminated cementstone beds of calcite may have been deposited and buried subaqueously. Nodular cementstones seem to be of secondary origin. These facies were deposited in a marginal marine to restricted marine environment in the British Isles, but are non-marine in eastern Canada.
30068046|The Petrified Forest Member of the Triassic Chinle Formation in Petrified Forest National Park, Arizona may be divided into a lower and upper unit by means of the Sonsela Sandstone Bed. Analysis of fossil vertebrates indicates that the Sonsela Sandstone Bed and upper Petrified Forest Member are characterized by a fauna distinct from that within the lower portion of the Petrified Forest Member. These faunas are believed to be of Norian and Carnian age respectively. Utilizing fossil vertebrates and certain lithostratigraphic units, especially the Sonsela Sandstone Bed and black forest tuff, exposures may be correlated within and between the Rainbow Forest, Blue Mesa, and Painted Desert areas of Petrified Forest National Park.
30081233|The Adirondack Mountains expose two distinct tectonic elements of the Proterozoic Grenville Province of northeastern North America: the Adirondack Lowlands and Highlands. The Lowlands are located along the eastern edge of the Metasedimentary Belt, and the Highlands form the western portion of the Granulite Terrane. The two are separated by the CarthageColton Shear Zone (CCSZ). U/Pb titanite and
30058712|The base of the Brookville coal (or the top of the underlying Homewood sandstone) has long been the accepted Pittsburgh-Pottsville (Upper-Lower Pennsylvanian) boundary in the Appalachian bituminous coal fields. But increasingly for the last forty-five years, detailed studies have shown that the boundary has been drawn at many horizons, some over 500 feet apart in the same section, owing to differing correlations. The reasons for these diverse correlations are given; and as the simplest solution of the problem, it is proposed to shift the boundary to the base of the Lower Kittanning-No. 5 Block coal, believed to correlate with the Buck Mountain bed, whose base forms the boundary at the type Pottsville locality at Pottsville, Pennsylvania.
30068544|The Axhandle basin in central Utah is a piggyback basin that formed above the Gunnison thrust system. The basin contains ~1 km of upper Cretaceous-to-Eocene strata of the North Horn and lower Flagstaff Limestone formations. A significantly more exact chronology, based on magnetic polarity stratigraphy, has been developed for the basin-filling strata. The new data provide a detailed temporal framework for the interpretation of the depositional and tectonic evolution of the basin during chrons 33-21 (~75-49 Ma). Tectonic subsidence curves and stratigraphie relations along the eastern basin margin define two episodes of motion on the Gunnison thrust system. The majority of tectonic shortening on the system occurred between 83-75 Ma and caused widespread non-deposition within the Axhandle basin. A second episode of motion, in detail comprising of four separate periods of backthrusting, occurred between 70-60 Ma. The Canyon Range, Pavant, and Nebo thrust sheets were emplaced 30-50 km to the west of the Axhandle basin between 97 and 74 Ma. The initial episode of motion on the Gunnison thrust system was thus partly coeval with the emplacement of these thrust sheets. Uplift and erosion above the San Rafael Swell, a basement flexure located ~100 km east of the Axhandle basin, occurred at the same time-between 70 and ~60 Ma-as the second episode of motion on the Gunnison thrust system. These age constraints clearly demonstrate coeval motion on multiple contractional structures. Episodes of thrust wedge reorganization with durations of 5-10 m.y. appear to be separated by quiescent periods of up to 5 m.y. Evolution of the thrust belt in NE Utah and Wyoming was remarkably similar to that in central Utah 300 km to their south. This similarity suggests that the tectonic stresses driving the thrust wedge were relatively uniform along strike.
30066181|The phase relationships of four analyzed granites, granodiorites, and tonalites from the Central Sierra Nevada Batholith, California, have been determined in the presence of 15 wt. per cent water at pressures to 3 kb. Pressure-temperature curves were located for the solidus, the disappearance of K-feldspar, quartz, biotite, plagioclase, and hornblende. Compositions and structural states of feldspars in equilibrium with granitic melts at successive temperatures throughout the melting interval at 2 kb. pressure were determined for the three Sierran rock types. Various equilibrium tests made on the Sierran granite and grano-diorite indicate that runs of 4-6 months in duration are necessary to approach a sTable equilibrium condition at temperatures of 725 C, or lower in "granitic" charges oversaturated with water. Reversals which produce the same assemblage of minerals as normal runs on these rock types do not prove that equilibrium was established. The experimental conditions prohibit direct comparison with the natural occurrences, but the persistence of calcic plagioclase, hornblende, and magnetite in the Sierran granodiorites and tonalites at 900 C. and 2 kb. pressure does indicate that if these rocks were formed by anatexis, then either high temperatures are required at the base of the crust or the magmas consisted of a eutectic-like granite liquid with suspended crystals.
10.1086/598946|Foreland basins are comprehensive stratigraphic archives, from which many details of the tectonic history of associated orogens can potentially be retrieved by quantitative provenance analysis of sedimentary sequences. Because of complex basinfill architecture, however, provenance diagnoses often remain ambiguous. Trends in sediment composition cannot be safely interpreted as documenting paleotectonic or paleoclimatic changes whenever paleodrainage shifts represent an equally reasonable alternative. Understanding drainage patterns is thus a fundamental step in correctly unraveling tectonic and climatic events that punctuate the erosional evolution of mountain belts. In this study, we focus on wellstudied Quaternary subsurface successions of the Po Plain to illustrate a quantitative method of paleodrainage analysis. This method, based on highresolution petrographic and heavymineral data from modern and Pleistocene sands, allowed us to objectively reconstruct the drainage changes of Po River tributaries triggered by major Alpine glaciations in the past million years.
30063808|Extensive karst in quartzose rocks has been reported from several tropical cratons but has been overlooked in widely accepted models of tropical landscape evolution. The siliceous sedimentary rocks in the East Kimberley region of northwestern Australia display many large-scale karst features like those found in limestones. The sandstone terrain of the East Kimberleys has been eroded under a tropical savanna climate from highly quartzose sediments which suffered intense antecedent leaching of silica. The leaching can be attributed to long-lasting tropical climates acting on a highly stable cratonic surface. Diverse topography on the sandstones reflects marked contrasts in mass strength and modes of failure that were determined primarily by porosities at the onset of weathering in the Late Mesozoic or Early Tertiary.
30063064|A graphical method is suggested in order to calculate the vector mean azimuth and vector magnitude for paleocurrent analysis.
10.1086/668557|Earth surface systems (ESS) are characterized by various degrees of historical contingency, which complicates efforts to relate observed features and phenomena to environmental controls. This article provides a conceptual framework for understanding and assessing historical contingency in ESS that is based on algebraic graph theory. ESS are conceptualized as consisting of
30064201|Layers and lenses of stones are common in the soils of the southeastern states. These accumulations were formerly termed stone-lines and assigned a subsurface origin. This paper renames the features carpedoliths and describes and classifies them on the basis of cross-sectional profiles into two categories: (1) linear and (2) lenticular. Possible modes of origin of carpedoliths are reviewed, and it is concluded that they are former surface aggregations covered by sheet wash and colluvial deposits. Such an origin implies a sequence of events during the late Cenozoic in which the climate had changed from one favorable to aggravated erosion to one conducive to deposition. It is suggested that man through cultivation has duplicated the erosional phase, and it is further proposed that, because of the widespread extent of carpedoliths, a high percentage of Piedmont soils is, in actuality, colluvial rather than residual.
30064713|The Agathla Peak and The Thumb minettes from the Navajo province, southwestern USA, are characterized by macrocrysts of phlogopite and diopside plus rare olivine (
30057028|Studies of drift thickness and character currently in progress in Indiana indicate changes in drainage that have occurred in Indiana and some adjoining states since the beginning of the Pleistocene epoch. After late Tertiary (Lexington) peneplanation the master-drainage line, the Mahomet-Teays Valley system, became entrenched about 200 feet below its former level before it was ponded by Nebraskan ice and diverted into a new course. During the Parker cycle, which was interrupted by glaciation, the present physiographic features of southern Indiana and their now buried extensions to the north became recognizable. Static rejuvenation then was a major factor in erosion of the "Deep stage" of the Ohio Valley. Reversal of the pre-Illinoian Miami Valley probably resulted from this glaciation also. Further ponding of the Mahomet by Kansan ice and diversion of its drainage down the Wabash Valley is suggested as the origin of the "Deep stage" along that stream. Present drainage in central Indiana is a result of modifications produced by Tazewell and Cary glaciers.
30079693|A vertebrate fauna has been obtained from the San Angelo formation, Permian, of Hardeman and Foard counties, Texas. This formation, which is composed of sandstones, red shales, and conglomerates, is considered to be of earliest middle Permian age. It appears to have been deposited by a series of major streams with three different source areas. The environment of deposition was deltaic, and beds seem to have been laid down under alternating wet and dry conditions. Eight genera of vertebrates, a xenacanth shark, a captorhinomorph reptile, and six synapsid reptiles have been determined. Six of the genera and seven species are new. The vertebrate fauna occurs in large part in floodplain deposits of the delta. It is believed to have been derived from an upland chronofauna that developed concurrently with the deltaic chronofauna of the Wichita and Clear Fork rather than from this deltaic assemblage. In evolutionary position the San Angelo fauna is notably advanced over that known from the Clear Fork. It includes adaptive equivalents of various middle Permian vertebrates of Russia and South Africa, but none of the San Angelo forms is ancestral to any of the Old World types. There is no indication that there were any connections between the Old and New World faunas at this time.
30060393|1. A nearly complete postcranial skeleton of the Permo-Carboniferous reptile Dimetrodon is described and figured. The structure and possible function of the spines are discussed, and a mechanical explanation for their origin is suggested. The specimen shows Dimetrodon to have been a long-tailed form. The skeleton is restored and a life-restoration given. 2. Models of the probable musculature of the limbs of Dimetrodon are presented.
30058567|Upended shale fragments as herein described form a pattern resembling the stone polygons of arctic and alpine regions. Unlike most northern occurrences, these fragments lie on bedrock, and clay is practically absent.
30063388|The primordial isotopic composition of terrestrial carbon is discussed with reference to astrophysical and geological evidence on the possibilities of fractionation of isotopes. It is suggested that the original isotopic composition of terrestrial carbon corresponds to that found in meteorites, where the
30064032|The relative stabilities of orthorhombic zoisite,
30062119|The Menderes Massif represents the western part of the metamorphic axis of the Alpide orogen of Anatolia (Asia Minor). A restricted area in its poorly known northern part, around the village of Derbent, was studied to shed some light on its geological evolution and to compare it with that of the southern part of the Massif. In the Derbent area three lithologic groups are recognized on the basis of their lithology and structural position, namely the gneiss and the schist complexes and the marbles. Petrographic, mineralogic, and structural data indicate that the schist complex and the overlying marbles have undergone at least three phases of deformation and metamorphism. The first phase probably reflects the closure of the Karakaya marginal basin, located to the north of the present Menderes Massif, during the late Triassic. The traces of the first phase have been largely obliterated by the second phase, which led to amphibolite facies metamorphism. A pronounced, flat-lying foliation and a NNE-SSW trending mineral lineation was produced during this second phase which were the result of horizontal simple shear. During the second phase of regional metamorphism, temperatures reached 600-660C and the pressure 5-6 kb, indicating a burial depth of 15 km. This phase is believed to have been the result of the collision between the Anatolide/Tauride Platform and the Pontides, which led to the internal imbrication of the former. A last retrograde metamorphism was the manifestation of the uplift, unroofing, and consequent cooling of the metamorphic complex, which created the present morphological "massif." During the Tortonian (late Miocene) to the present interval, E-W striking normal faulting and graben formation occured.
30060364|A series of observations, both of the field relations and of the microstructure of this nickel ore-body, are recorded. The igneous theory of the origin of the deposits is brought into question and a hydrothermal view of the genesis put forward.
30057056|The streams of the northern Ozark area in central Missouri are well-known examples of intrenchment. The question arose years ago as to whether this intrenchment was due to downward cutting following rejuvenation by uplift or to downward-lateral cutting. Evidence is given to show that the Osage, Gasconade, and Meramec rivers intrenched themselves by downward cutting only as the area over which they were flowing was uplifted, probably in late Tertiary times. Hinkson Creek, a smaller stream, has cut downward and laterally in intrenching itself, being controlled in its downward-lateral cutting by the downward cutting of the Missouri River into which it empties.
30079803|Gravity current experiments, consisting of aqueous glucose flows and turbidity suspensions, were performed to investigate mixing and sedimentation processes, the evolution from highdensity to lowdensity flows, and the effects of variable grain density. The initial solution or suspension was released from a lucite box into a waterfilled flume 5.5 m long. The aqueous glucose solutions had initial densities ranging from 1014 to 1206 kg m
30063827|Three new fission-track (zircon) and four new K-Ar (biotite) dates corroborate a late Oligocene-early Miocene age (22-28 Ma) for the Salla Beds of Bolivia. These ages contrast markedly with the previously accepted age of about 35 Ma for these strata and their contained faunas, and recasts of order and chronology of interchange between New World and Old World mammals.
30056412|Cyonosaurus longiceps gen. et sp. nov., a gorgonopsian from the Cistecephalus zone of the Karroo Series, South Africa, is described and figured. The excellent state of preservation of the skull and lower jaws has revealed many important features of structure heretofore unknown or little understood. In the description particular stress is laid upon the details of the inside of the brain case and the otic region.
30060028|The sands of many of the world's modern big rivers were studied to provide a worldwide baseline of their petrology and chemistry, the ultimate objective being to advance our understanding of the tectonic and climatic significance of ancient sandstones, which extend backward in time almost 3.7 b.y. The sands of 36 rivers, rivers that represent 45% of the earth's land surface draining to the world ocean, are dominantly moderately to well sorted, angular to subangular lithic arenites, notably deficient in clay and silt and have an average feldspar content of 11%, some sands from tropical rivers with low relief watersheds being notable exceptions. Additionally, rivers draining Atlantic or trailing edge continental borders have a composition of
30070734|Present-day classification of coals places a marked boundary between banded and nonbanded varieties. In banded coals the principal physical constituents are visibly distinct. Now banded coals need not be considered a separate group, since cannel is gradational into durain and durain grades into "bone coal." Despite their megascopic appearance as separate entities, the units of banded coals are closely interrelated. Such constituents increase in rank with progressive metamorphism and show a corresponding change in appearance.
30062029|We used the singlecrystal sanidine laser fusion
30066228|To specify and characterize systematic regional variations in inshore bathymetry, the eigenvectors of 504 profiles of the U.S. Atlantic and Gulf coasts were calculated. The first three eigenvectors calculated account for over 97% of the topographic variance. The first eigenvector represents nearly linear departures from the mean; the second and third eigenvectors represent curvilinear bathymetrie variation; i.e., bar/trough morphology. The orthogonality of the linear slope and curvilinear bar/trough forms does not support the concept of a functional relationship between slope and the frequency of bars. In addition no relationship was revealed between inshore bar/trough morphology and offshore slope within nine miles (14 km) of the shoreline.
30059287|Twenty-two chemically analyzed clinopyroxenes near the Di-Hd join (chosen for their low content of intergrown phases) have been analyzed by microprobe X-ray-emission techniques for Na, Mg, Al, Si, K, Ca, Ti, V, Cr, Mn, Fe, and Ni. As far as possible, intergrown phases such as orthopyroxene and ilmenite were avoided, and some systematic bias with respect to the bulk chemical analysis is to be expected, and was indeed found, especially for Ti, Ca, and Mg. The average microprobe estimates for
30060952|Geological and geochemical studies have been conducted on the Arava fault segment, which forms the major branch of the Dead Sea transform between the Dead Sea and the Gulf of Aqaba. Mesoscale to microscale faulting and veining related to this fault are described from limestone sequences of two locations (areas A and B) that represent different depth sections. In area A, pressure ridges expose the exhumed fault. Deformation mechanisms indicate that faulting took place at temperatures between 150C and 300C, which suggests faulting depths between 2 and 5 km with respect to published geothermal gradients. In area B, brittle fault damage forms a zone up to 150 m wide. The fault core is not exposed. Faulting took place at temperatures below 200C (up to a 3km depth). In both areas, we found indications for a strong fault. Our kinematic analysis exhibits that the angle  between 
30079941|In 1851, chemist Robert Bunsen suggested that the mixing of two magmas, one mafic and the other felsic, in various proportions might account for the wide range of chemical compositions of igneous rocks. Based on flaws in several of its secondary provisions, the whole hypothesis was rejected by a succession of influential critics and remained in disrepute for a hundred years. Meanwhile, studies of composite dikes and sills indicated that, indeed, mafic and felsic magmas had coexisted at close quarters and had been emplaced in quick succession. This interpretation was also used by some investigators to explain the intimate association of mafic and felsic rock types in the commonly occurring igneous complexes. Others believed that the mafic components of these complexes were derived from geologically older mafic formations. By the early 1900s it had become apparent that mafic magmas crystallized at higher temperatures than felsic magmas. This knowledge was not immediately applied to the problem of magma mixing, however, due in part to the popularity of the newly validated process of fractional crystallization and to the implication that the diversity of igneous rocks could be accounted for by that process alone. Not until the 1950s was the attention of the geological community drawn to the fact that disparate magmas mix in a special manner: they mingle, the mafic magma being quenched to a fracturable solid upon contact with the cooler felsic magma. This explanation set in motion a series of studies of other igneous complexes, confirming the concept and adding other identifying features of the process.
30062340|Grain-size distributions based on analysis of thin sections are affected by the methods used for (1) selecting grains, (2) assigning linear dimensions to each grain, (3) computing frequencies. Many combinations of methods have been proposed in the past, and they all produce valid size distribution, which may, however, be biased geometrically with respect to the desired distribution. The probabilistic relationship between the size distributions (by number) of spherical and ellipsoidal particles, and the corresponding apparent size distributions seen in thin section is discussed briefly with references to the extensive literature. Solutions to this problem exist for dilute particulate phases distributed in space according to a Poisson process, but for the commonly occurring geological case of densely packed grains in contact, no analytical solution exists. Consequently, only those sampling procedures which are geometrically equivalent to the desired standard distribution should be utilized in geological studies. Equivalent procedures are outlined following Chayes. With equivalent sampling procedures, the basic problem reduces to conversion from apparent size to true size. A numerical method is used to obtain distributions of major (a) and minor (b) axes of ellipses produced by random cuts through ellipsoids of various shapes. The analysis shows that the major axis (a) of the elliptic trace is closely related to the true intermediate axis (B) of the ellipsoid, and the minor axis (b) of the trace is related to the true minor axis (C). The ratio C/B is obtained from the difference between the cumulative distributions of the apparent axes, a and b. The sieve curve can be located between the cumulative distributions of a and b. Many apparent discrepancies in the geological literature are explained. For elliptical particles, the empirical results of Friedman are substantiated theoretically. Grid sampling combined with measurement of the apparent major axis, a, and use of number frequencies is shown to provide an efficient procedure for obtaining approximate sieve curves. Slightly closer correspondence and higher efficiency may be obtained by measurement of maximum chord length in a predetermined direction. The mathematical aspects of converting apparent axes from thin sections to distributions of true axes are outlined in the Appendix.
30064177|Knowledge of past rates of transfer of rockforming materials among the principal geologic reservoirs is central to understanding causes and magnitudes of change in earth surface processes over Phanerozoic time. To determine typical rates of global sediment cycling, we compiled information on area, volume, and lithology of shallowwater sediments by epoch for both terrigenous clastics and marine carbonates. Data on amounts of surviving continental terrigenous rock (as opposed to deep oceanic, and including terrestrial, marginal marine, and marine deposits) exhibit positive age/area trends wherein greatest areas and volumes of conglomerate, sandstone, and shale are represented by younger sequences. Global volumes of terrigenousclastic sediment yield a mean cycling rate of 0.00124/m.yr., similar to that determined for Eurasian (0.00127), North American (0.00058 [A. B. Ronov], 0.00352 [T. D. Cook and A. W. Bally]), African (0.0017), and South American (0.0021) clastic sequences. Surficial erosion results in the mean destruction of 0.124% of terrigenous rock volume per million years of reservoir age. In contrast, surviving epicratonic and shelfmargin carbonate sequences yield negative cycling rates of about 0.164%/m.yr. Surviving areas and volumes increase with sequence age; that is, the amount of limestone and dolostone preserved in shallowwater settings increases back in time to maximal areal extents in the Middle and Upper Cambrian. Mass/age data on terrigenousclastic successions indicate generally constant rates of crustal erosion over Phanerozoic time. Decrease in size of the shallowmarine carbonate reservoir forward in time therefore suggests generally invariant rates of global limestone accumulation and a shift in sites of accumulation from shallowcratonic to deepoceanic settings over much of the past 540 m.yr. Causes of this eonscale depositional translocation of carbonate sediment from shallow to deepmarine settings cannot be satisfactorily linked to either changes in global sea level or the evolution of carbonateproducing plankton because neither exhibits a pattern of unidirectional change in position or abundance since the Early Phanerozoic. However, tabulation of longterm variation in areas of continental shelves from paleogeographic maps reveals a generally uniform decrease in lowlatitude (<30) platform area with decreasing age over most of the Phanerozoic. Moreover, rate of change of lowlatitude shelf area (
30056659|Four classes of rocks are recognized, namely: metamorphic sedimentary rocks, metamorphic silicic igneous rocks, injection gneisses, and metamorphic mafic rocks. The sedimentary rocks are now metaquartzites, quartz schists, arkosites, conglomerate schists, and possibly metamorphosed graywackes. The pebbles in the quartz-chlorite conglomerate schist were definitely derived from a pre-existing siltstone, and the metaquartzites may possibly represent older sediments that have been re-worked. Other rocks such as the arkosites were probably derived directly from some near-by pre-existing igneous rock. After sediments of considerable thickness were deposited they were thoroughly injected by sills and dikes and also intruded by a few small stocks. The igneous material consists of granite, quartz monzonite, and pegmatite. The injection occurred during a prolonged orogeny which resulted in widespread development of foliation and various cataclastic structures. The recrystallization, cataclastic features, and mineral composition of the Farmington Canyon complex, as the ancient crystalline rocks are here designated, indicate that the metamorphism was of the low- to medium-grade dynamic type. This main period of metamorphism occurred in early or Middle pre-Cambrian time and was more intense than any deformation since. Later crustal disturbances affected very little the structures left in the rocks by this early metamorphism, except locally in fault zones.
30056755|Sands collected from the bed of the Mississippi River at intervals between Cairo, Illinois, and the Gulf of Mexico show no evidence of becoming rounded as a result of attrition during transportation. On the contrary, the larger sand grains become slightly more angular downstream. This effect seems to be chiefly due to chipping and fracturing of the grains. Sorting on the basis of shape appears to be a relatively unimportant factor in bed load transportation by the river, at least with respect to the sand sizes.
30080806|Fifteen beach-sand samples were taken from points along the shore of Lake Michigan in Illinois, Indiana, and southwestern Michigan. These are described petrographically, and their variations in textural composition, carbonate content, heavy mineral percentage, and heavy mineral frequencies are described and shown graphically. Two unlike series of beach sands are indicated by these characteristics, each of which shows progressions from one sample to the next. One series characterizes the western beaches, the other the eastern beaches. As the sands shift southward from the till cliffs, their principal source, they undergo regular and consistent changes tending to reduce them to a more stable end-type, the present deposits of the Indiana beaches. The factors controlling these "sedimentation-variations'" are briefly reviewed.
30081245|The NWtrending Agaren Intrusive Suite (AIS) on the east side of the Salt Lake (Tuz Gl), Turkey, is part of a curvilinear volcanoplutonic complex along the western edge of the central Anatolian crystalline complex (CACC). Granitoids constitute the predominant lithological group within the AIS and range in composition from monzonite through granite to alkali feldspar granite. Gabbroic rocks occur as irregular intrusive bodies with sinusoidal, irregular contacts with the granitoid plutons and vary from dioritic compositions at the contacts to cumulate amphibole gabbros in their center. These gabbroid to granitoid rocks are all subalkaline and display tholeiitic to calcalkaline affinities, respectively. Modeling of the major element and trace element chemistry of the granitoids to gabbroids, together with their field relations, suggest that these rocks formed synchronously from a melt source that involved both mantle and crustal components. Mafic magmas were likely derived from a metasomatized upper mantle source above a subduction zone and were injected into crustallevel felsic magma chamber(s) in which incomplete mixing, commingling, and crystal fractionation processes produced the coeval granitoid to gabbroid plutons. New
30065777|Within metamorphosed quartzites of the Witwatersrand Supergroup bulk chemistry is the major control on the distribution of metamorphic mineral phases and on their chemistry. Bulk chemistry is in turn controlled by stratigraphic position. Pyrophyllite distribution varies directly with, whereas feldspar distribution varies inversely with, bulk Al. Chloritoid distribution is more complex and varies with both bulk Al and bulk Fe/Mg. Despite the overprint of low-grade metamorphism and, possibly, of other alteration processes, both detrital and metamorphic phyllosilicates can be recognized and characterized. Al in metamorphic white mica and metamorphic chlorite varies with bulk Al; whereas the composition of detrital white mica is unrelated to bulk chemistry. Similarly, Mg in metamorphic chlorite varies with bulk Mg. Bulk chemical variation, particularly in Al, Mg, and Na, and thus metamorphic mineral chemistry, is controlled by stratigraphic position, both within individual stratigraphie units and in the stratigraphie succession as a whole. K content increases upward and varies more strongly with position in the entire section than with position in individual units. The quartzites display a high degree of chemical maturity, as measured by the Chemical Index of Alteration, which increases upward both within individual stratigraphie units and in the section as a whole. The strong stratigraphie control on bulk chemistry suggests that intense weathering occurred in the source area and that alteration events associated with faults and other structural features play no more than a minor role in controlling variations in bulk chemistry. The observation that these rocks are strongly leached, yet retain detrital pyrite and uraninite, indicates that the source area weathering occurred under reducing conditions.
30061040|Lineations of any kind can have their orientation pattern represented quantitatively on maps by contour-type lines which may be called isogons. The orientation pattern is more accurately and clearly defined by isogonic maps than by any other method, and these maps also lend themselves to trend-surface analysis. Methods are presented for constructing isogonic maps, selecting the most accurate and useful type of angle for representing on the map, and determining the size and position of the statistically significant interval between adjacent isogons. The use of these techniques is illustrated by an example from the Scottish Highlands. Statistical techniques of analyzing two- and three-dimensional distributions of directional minor structures are discussed. It is shown how an arbitrary sense of direction may always be assigned so that the absence of a unique sense of direction as determined by internal features is not such a serious problem as would appear. Rather than the various methods of vector statistics proposed to date, methods involving the Schmidt net are favored because they are non-parametric, more useful in determining geologically representative attitudes, and also highly economical. The reliability of the map depends upon the distribution of the measurements over the area. Careful siting of the control stations is of greater importance than the total density, but the total density of control stations is more important than the number of measurements per station. Varying density of the control stations is favored rather than a regular grid. The subarea method has been widely used in the analysis of directional minor structures. A more precise method of determining the position and size of the subareas using isogonic maps is described.
30068439|In the northern part of the Bannock Range, east of Pocatello, Idaho, pre-Cambrian volcanic rocks and unfossiliferous metamorphosed sedimentary formations outcrop. These include, in order of decreasing age: the Bannock volcanic formation, which is redefined; the Pocatello formation, which is defined for the first time; and the Black-rock limestone. They are overlain unconformably by the Brigham quartzite of Cambrian age. The upper part of the Pocatello formation contains newly discovered tillites and varved slates, which are correlated with similar deposits 100 miles to the south, in the Wasatch region of Utah.
10.1086/674073|Late Neogene upland gravels of the Mississippi River Valley are interpreted to be terrace deposits of the Pliocene Mississippi and Tennessee Rivers. Previous investigators have identified large-wavelength paleo-meanders in these gravels in the state of Mississippi that indicate a paleo-discharge six to eight times greater than that of the modern Mississippi River, suggesting that the drainage basin of the preglacial Mississippi River may have extended into Canada. This study explores the extent of the preglacial Mississippi River by mapping upland gravels from 97 wells in Illinois; 80 gravel locations from geologic quadrangles in Illinois, northeastern Arkansas, and southeastern Missouri; and 557 gravel wells in eastern Arkansas, western Kentucky, and western Tennessee. The distribution of these gravels indicates that during the Pliocene, the Mississippi River flowed near its modern course. A longitudinal profile of a 50-m-thick Pliocene Mississippi River floodplain was constructed from northern Illinois to Memphis, Tennessee. This Pliocene profile was projected north through Grand Rapids, Minnesota, using the Holocene Mississippi River floodplain surface as a proxy for the base and top of the Pliocene floodplain. Projection of this proposed Pliocene Mississippi River floodplain into Canada suggests that the Pliocene Mississippi River may have drained a landscape covered by Paleozoic strata 30 m above the current topography.
30057144|A statistical study of the orientation of current structures in the sediments of the Portage Lake lava series and Copper Harbor conglomerate was made to determine the sources of the Keweenawan conglomerates of northern Michigan. These data clearly indicate that the major paleogeographic features in the Lake Superior region during Keweenawan time were an elongate basin, trending northeast between Isle Royale and the Keweenaw Peninsula, with bordering highlands to the west and southeast. The principal source area for the conglomerates on the Keweenaw Peninsula was probably not more than 10 miles southeast of the present outcrop belt, with the genera] area of the Huron Mountains being an important center of dispersal. The conglomerates on Isle Royale were derived from nearby highlands in Minnesota and Canada.
30060113|In some geologic studies it is desirable to group together similar samples on which many measurements have been made, and to measure the degree of similarity between the groups. Using either the product-moment correlation coefficient, the matching coefficient, cosine , or the distance function, the resulting matrix is usually too large for direct interpretation. Cluster analysis, a technique developed by psychologists, is a method of searching for relationships in a large symmetrical matrix. A logical pair-by-pair comparison of samples results in a two-dimensional hierarchical diagram on which the natural breaks between groups are obvious. The observer can also pick off groups at any desired level of similarity. Non-overlapping clusters are used. A computer program has been written that will handle up to 200 measurements on as many as 1,000 samples. The hierarchical cluster diagram is printed out by an off-line printer. Several highly correlated variables can bias the results, so the variables are clustered first by correlation coefficient. Specified variables or groups of variables can then be used in clustering the samples by distance function. Important variables may be weighted by using them more than once. An alternative procedure is to perform an R-type factor analysis on the variables and cluster the samples by distance function on factor measurements estimated by regression methods. An example problem demonstrates the options and output of the program. The cluster analysis solution of a published twelve-variable, forty-sample problem based on constituent particle composition of Bahamian sediment samples shows clear-cut groups similar to the facies described by Imbrie and Purdy derived from factor analysis. Multivariate facies maps can easily be constructed from the cluster analysis results.
30070661|The North Fork Poudre River in Phantom Canyon has a poolriffle sequence formed in granitic bedrock. We address two questions: What controls downstream pool spacing? Within a pool, what factors control pool dimensions? We hypothesize that both pool spacing and pool geometry could be governed by available flow energy or by substrate characteristics. These hypotheses were addressed using channelbed and watersurface gradients surveyed under moderate flow, Selby rockmass strength at vertical outcrops forming lateral pool constrictions and at other vertical outcrops, and joint density measured from highresolution digital images of the bedrock outcrop along each of 10 pools. The downstream length between pools is quite variable (
30066249|Holocene bulk sediment and component accumulation rates were measured in twenty-eight piston and gravity cores taken from the floor of the western Panama Basin and on the surrounding ridges. Radiocarbon ages and oxygen isotope curves provided Holocene age control in nine cores. Time datums in nineteen other cores were inferred by correlation of calcium carbonate curves to the dated cores. Accumulation rates of textural, mineralogical, and sand fraction components were calculated using compositional analyses of near surface sediment samples and measured or inferred dry bulk densities. A general similarity between the map pattern of surface productivity and the patterns of carbonate and opal accumulation rates suggests a first order control of biogenic sedimentation by productivity of surface waters. Accumulation rates of terrigenous components are highest near the continents; the map and depth patterns suggest dispersal by currents shallower than 2000 m or by winds. It is inferred from textural component accumulation rate patterns that no significant regional redistribution of sediment by winnowing occurred during the Holocene. Deep thermohaline circulation in the gaps between the western and eastern troughs probably increased the accumulation rates of silt, clay, and opaline components in this region. It is unlikely that spillage of dense water across the saddle in the Carnegie Ridge has been effective in the dispersal of sediments during Holocene time.
30068447|Certain beds of glaciofluvial sand, silt, and clay in the upper Illinois Valley are complexly deformed into variously shaped masses of silt and clay intruded into sand. Rounded forms and downward intrusions predominate. Individual structures are termed "involutions," and layers of deformed beds are called "involution layers"-equivalents of the Brodelbden and Brodelzonen of German writers. Deformation has not been observed below a depth of 12 feet and may extend within 3 or 4 feet of the surface. Single involution layers are from a few inches to 6 feet thick. These involutions are attributed to intense differential freezing and thawing and to the development and melting of masses of ground ice. It is postulated that this occurred in a surficial layer above perennially frozen ground in an area peripheral to a glacier where periglacial (arctic) conditions prevailed. The involutions are believed to have been formed when the ice front lay 30-50 miles to the northeast and are dated as late Cary (late Middle Wisconsin).
30060421|A horizontal band of pyramidal joint planes has been found in thick shales. This band underlies a layer of large concretions which were evidently a factor in the formation of the joints. The joints make angles of about 450 with the vertical. These angles appear not to have been modified by friction. This is explained by a lack of pressure normal to the breaking planes. The significance of these joints lies in their bearing on the topic of normal pressures. Normal pressures seem to have been incompletely considered in the geological literature of fracturing, yet they appear to be an important consideration in the formation of joints.
30060667|The average composition, with respect to iron, nickel, and cobalt, of iron meteorites and the metal of stony meteorites has been determined by statistical study of the analyses of 320 meteorites. The average composition of iron meteorites is: Fe, 90.78  0.26 per cent; Ni, 8.59  0.24 per cent; Co, 0.631  0.019 per cent. The average composition of the metal phase of stony meteorites is: Fe, 88.58  0.55 per cent; Ni, 10.69  0.51 per cent; Co, 0.705  0.056 per cent. It is shown that the higher values of nickel and cobalt in the metal phase of stony meteorites result from a relationship whereby the nickel and cobalt concentrations in the metal phase increase as the metal-phase content of the meteorite decreases.
30059288|The upper (Pecatonica) drift of the Pecatonica River basin and adjacent areas of northern Illinois and southern Wisconsin is believed to offer the best record in North America of a late Farmdale substage, Wisconsin stage of glaciation. The thinness of the drift and lack of end moraines, coupled with glacially deformed bedrock, indicate a brief but intensive glaciation by a glacial lobe moving from the North Bay, Ontario, area across Rock River and westward against the drainage of Pecatonica basin. Evidence favoring assignment of the Pecatonica drift to the Farmdale substage include: (1) its areal position beyond the outer margins of the Labradorean Iowan, Tazewell, and Cary drift sheets, (2) its strati-graphic position just above deeply weathered Illinoian drift, (3) a paleoregosol locally preserved in the upper part of the drift where it lies beneath Iowan loess, (4) the fact that the Farmdale loess which is widespread beyond the Pecatonica drift border has not been found either above or below the Pecatonica drift (thus indicating contemporaneous deposition), and (5) radiocarbon age of from 29,000 to about 31,000 B.P.
30063701|A brief survey shows the indirect character of the evidence of life in the Archean. In the same category may be placed the evidence for algal life in the Archean iron-bearing formation of Minnesota, because definite data are lacking and filamentous algal forms are not generally preserved even in algal reefs. Organic-like structures, simulating algae, fungi, and worm-burrows, of inorganic osmotic origin, open up possibilities of misinterpretation of filamentous fossil forms.
30056034|The oldest batholith along the Minnesota-Ontario boundary is that at Saganaga Lake. It is the only one older than the Ogishke sediments and is therefore assigned to the Laurentian. Since a still older granite gneiss has been found farther east, the Saganaga granite arose late in Laurentian time. It is a roughly oval mass about 15 X 25 miles across and has nearly vertical walls. The main rock, 85-90 per cent of the mass, has long been known and is very uniform sodic hornblende granite. The local phases, described in some detail, include syenite, shonkinite, and hornblendite. For such an old formation the rocks are very little altered. Measurements and chemical analyses give data for tables and diagrams of the differentiated series. The ratio of potash to soda increases with increasing silica toward the central part of the mass. This series resembles that in the Giants Range which is of Algomian age; also some others of later eras.
30065157|Paleomagnetic study of subsurface samples of the Upper Ordovician Trenton and Black River Limestones collected from six industrial wells in the southern part of the Michigan Basin yields a well-clustered characteristic direction (mean Dec/Inc of 170.6/ - 10.9,
30057599|Caliches with similar zonal profiles lie on the Pliocene Ogallala formation of the Llano Estacado and on three younger surfaces along the Pecos depression. Physiographic relations, the caliche profile, and other features indicate that the caliches were developed by soil-forming processes from parent-materials consisting largely of limestone gravels. The caliches and associated solution features provide a partial record of climatic changes since middle Pliocene time.
30058427|A detailed stratigraphic study of the Longview member of the Kingsport formation of the Knox dolomite group has been undertaken because of the economic importance of the Knox dolomite to zinc mining in the southeastern United States. An excellent opportunity presented itself to the author to study and correlate detailed sections in underground exposures of zones about which little could be learned from surface exposures because of the scarcity of outcrops, the variation in lithology, and the lack of fossils.
30070475|The ratio
30075147|The submarine geology of the South Atlantic continental shelf and slope of the United States has been described using data from bottom sediment samples collected aboard the Research Vessel T. N. Gill in 1953-54, combined with information from the geologic literature. Patterns of distribution of sediment types and characteristics show several broad trends. Shelf sediments are mixtures of quartz and shell fragments in various proportions with minor amounts of phosphorite (probably collophane) and a local concentration of glauconite. Offshore, the Gulf Stream has produced a pelagic bottom sediment composed of foraminiferal and pteropod tests. Locally coral fragments are common downstream from the Florida Straits and zones of irregular bottom topography in the inner margins of the Blake Plateau indicate probable strong current scour and transport. The contemporary deposition is restricted to the zone of pelagic sediments, a narrow coastal belt bordering the Georgia-South Carolina marsh coast and the nearshore south of Cape Hatteras. Mineralogical studies suggest that two provinces are represented. One of these produces a predominance of epidote in the central shelf; the second is one in which staurolite is characteristic of the southern and northern shelf. Minor element contents of the carbonates reflect the high strontium aragonitic mollusk fragments on the shelf and the low-magnesium, low-strontium contents of the calcitic pelagic foraminifera. Similar sedimentological distributions have been described by Niino and Emery (1961) for the China Sea shelf and slope in the region of the Kuroshio Current.
30056237|The results of two summers' field work in Newfoundland show that most of the island was glaciated in the Pleistocene, only the southern part of the Long Range of mountains having escaped ice action. Glaciation took place at two periods, one in the early part of the Pleistocene (Kansan or Jerseyan), the other in the Wisconsin. The earlier ice covered much more of the region than the later one, but during the long inter-glacial time most of the evidence was removed by weathering, usually only remnants of the bowlders from the till sheet remaining. The geological evidence just referred to is strongly supported by the results of botanical study. Dr. Fernald has found that in parts of Newfoundland which were not covered by the Wisconsin ice there are many endemic species of plants often related to those of the Cordillera; while these are lacking where there is evidence of Wisconsin glaciation. These plant species must have required a long time to develop. The proof of two glaciations in Newfoundland throws much light on Pleistocene conditions in other parts of eastern North America-especially in the highland areas around the Gulf of St. Lawrence, where a similar distribution of endemic plants is found-and brings the eastern glaciation into harmony with the facts already known in the central and western parts of the continent.
30079906|An unusual form of nitermonomineralic potassium nitrate stalactites (up to 90 cm long) and stalagmiteswas discovered in a limestone cave in the Lower Galilee, Israel. Chemical and nitrogen isotope analysis of the deposit and potential source materials, together with hydrologic evidence, suggest the following special circumstances for its formation. Very high precipitation during the winter of 1991/92 resulted in rapid transmission of rain water, with low dissolved ion concentrations, through wide fissures in the limestone; this led to the saturation of excretarich cave floor sediments that are normally dry. Resulting solutions rich in potassium nitrate dripped into an underlying cave close to its large entrance, where the cave humidity is largely influenced by the humidity of the outside air. For most of the time the humidity was sufficiently low to cause evaporative oversaturation and deposition of niter from the dripping solutions. When dripping decreased, however, occasional periods of high humidity subsequently led to the progressive deliquescence and disappearance of the niter. The potential for groundwater pollution is assessed.
30081314|In order better to understand the origin and significance of acrossstrike geochemical variations in the Eocene Absaroka volcanic province (AVP), this article compares compositional data for magmatic rocks from two eruptive centers that define type localities for major stratigraphic subdivisions of the Absaroka Volcanic Supergroup. Geochemical variations for evolved lavas indicate that the calcalkaline differentiation trend at Washburn volcano results from mixing compositionally diverse mafic and silicic magmas, whereas the shoshonitic trend at the more easternly Sunlight volcano reflects assimilationfractional crystallization. The mantle source for both volcanoes is, as shown by incompatible trace element contents and radiogenic isotopic ratios of mafic lavas, largely within ancient depleted lithospheric mantle later enriched by a metasomatic event characterized by low Sm/Nd and Rb/Sr ratios. The approximate timing of the enrichment event, as calculated from Nd isotopic data (2.22.0 Ga), is similar to estimates from other magmatic fields in the Wyoming Province. Large variations in trace element ratios of mafic lavas involving large ion lithophile elements (LILE) and light rare earth element that are not obviously reflected in isotopic ratios also indicate a recent (<100 Ma) metasomatic enrichment event. Superficially, the mantle source for Sunlight volcano appears to contain larger amounts of the young metasomatic component, as measured by high LILE/high field strength element (HFSE) ratios. Parental magmas at both volcanoes have similar HFSE contents and HFSE/heavy rare earth element ratios, however, suggesting comparable degrees of source region melting and metasomatism. Rather than variable degrees of metasomatism and partial melting, the geochemical differences between the mafic rocks are best explained by compositional heterogeneity in metasomatic fluids inherited from breakdown of different phases in hydrous peridotite. A consistent geodynamic model to account for generation of AVP magmas involves metasomatism of asthenosphere and subcontinental mantle lithosphere during shallow subduction of the Farallon plate during the Late Cretaceous through Paleocene, followed in the Eocene by foundering of the slab and primary basalt generation through major heating associated with upwelling and influx of hot asthenosphere.
30079764|Deep crustal rocks generally deform in a ductile manner and have a very low permeability. However, in the Southern Marginal Zone of the Limpopo Belt solutions/fluids have moved through high-grade rocks and reacted with these on a regional scale along a major shear zone. Strike-slip environments there have more widespread alteration than thrust-fault environments. Under high-grade metamorphic conditions, brittle failure and hydraulic fracture processes, in particular, have occurred in these deep crustal rocks. The latter phenomenon provides a mechanism for developing permeability and plumbing systems for the migration of fluids and/or liquids through the deep crust. Modeling of the physical conditions of brittle failure under these unusual conditions would suggest that a "mobile phase" of low viscosity and water activity participated in the fracture process.
30084973|The solubility of
30070631|Continental lithosphere-especially where stationary with respect to mantle plumes-is marked by plume-generated uplifts typically crested by volcanoes that rupture in three rifts at angles of about 120 to each other, perhaps because this configuration requires the least work. It is proposed that since the plate tectonic regime began, about
30078499|A Late Cretaceous flysch comprising the 2600mthick Mexcala Formation records the initial local pulse of the Laramide Orogeny on the southern arm of the Mexican foldthrust belt in northeastern Guerrero State. We identified 15 planktic foraminiferal species from 35 productive shale samples that demonstrate that the Mexcala is assignable to the
10.1086/667812|The Oligocene to the Miocene was a critical period for the growth of the Tibetan Plateau. This growth is commonly considered to have been controlled by deep geodynamic processes. The ultrapotassic and adakite-like igneous rocks that developed during this period offer constraints on these deep-seated processes in southern Tibet. Whole-rock geochemistry, U-Pb zircon geochronology, and in situ zircon Hf isotopes have been determined for the mafic enclaves and host adakite-like granitoids in the Oligocene Chongmuda-Mingze intrusive complex of southern Tibet. The host rocks, including granodiorite and monzogranite, are mainly high-K and calc-alkaline in composition. Their whole-rock geochemistry (low MgO, Ni, and Cr contents; negative 
30062624|The syenitic Murdock Creek intrusion, of late Archean age, lies within one of the major lode gold camps of the world, at Kirkland Lake, Ontario. There is a strong spatial association between syenitic intrusions, gold mineralization, and carbonatization. Hydrothermal fluids that carried the gold had an unusually high oxygen fugacity (
30059303|The effect of
30078527|New UPb ages for detrital and igneous zircons constrain the depositional age and sedimentary provenance of the Beardmore Group, a siliciclastic succession that records transformation of the East Antarctic margin during Rodinia breakup and subsequent Gondwana amalgamation. We divide rocks previously mapped as the Beardmore Group into (1) an inboard late Neoproterozoic assemblage (probably 670 Ma) and (2) a volumetrically dominant, outboard assemblage that is latest Early Cambrian or younger (520 Ma). The inboard assemblage contains mature, multicycle sediment derived from mixed cratonic sources dominated by 2.8 and 1.91.4Ga components. It was deposited in a platformaltoshoreline setting along an existing rifted margin. A new zircon age of
30078530|The Canadian River has carved a deep bedrock canyon into the Great Plains of northeastern New Mexico in response to a complex interaction of postLaramide, epeirogenic rockuplift processes along the Jemez lineament and downstream baselevel fall caused by late Tertiary and Quaternary evaporite dissolution. Broad, slowbulging along the Jemez lineament, a lithosphericscale structure with prolific late Cenozoic volcanism along its trend, helps drive incision in the canyon. Canadian River canyon fluvial terraces, mapped and correlated according to soils, elevation, and rocktype criteria, reveal longitudinal profiles that appear broadly warped across the Jemez lineament and converge to the modern channel profile both upstream and downstream of the canyon. Similarly, the modern channel long profile is distinctly and broadly convex through its Great Plains reach, a unique feature among major rivers draining the eastern flank of the southern Rocky Mountain front. Radiocarbondated charcoal from terrace alluvium and an
30063770|U-Pb ages of zircon fractions of major anorthosite-mangerite-charnockite-granite (AMCG) igneous suites imply that this magmatism inaugurated what is widely regarded as the Grenvillian event between about 1.16 and 1.12 Ga ago over about two-thirds of the Grenville Province east, northeast, and southeast of the Central Metasedimentary Belt. Pre-Grenvillian AMCG suites about 1.36 and 1.64 Ga old have much more restricted distribution. An apparent time lag of about 0.05 to 0.10 Ga is indicated between culmination of AMCG magmatism and the widely recognized Grenvillian metamorphic peak (about 1.10 to 1.03 Ga), perhaps the most distinctive hallmark of the Grenville event. The time lag is consistent with conductive heating of thick subcontinental lithosphere that began with initiation of AMCG magmatism and continued until geotherms rose sufficiently to produce granulites in much of the lower to middle crust. Tectonic crustal thickening did not likely occur until later in the sequence of events, perhaps after some cooling from the metamorphic peak. Compressive forces were externally applied, possibly at a distant plate margin, while the continental lithosphere was still thermally weakened from preceding magmatic-metamorphic culminations.
30065019|Ptygmatic veins are believed to be the result of plastic deformation of a vein having greater competence than the host rock. Greater competence may be due to different chemical or textural relationships. The chemical aspects of this phenomenon are examined. Emphasis is placed on the solid-state processes compatible with the metamorphic environment in which the veins are found. Related geological phenomena and tectonic and structural implications are briefly discussed.
30084933|A body of hornblendite composed of crystals of extraordinary size is described. It is suggested that the giant crystals of hornblende imply a large proportion of volatile or aqueous matter in the hornblendic magma and that the body may be better considered as a hornblendite pegmatite and the product of a pegmatitic magma. As late solutions continued to move through the body they caused additional changes in the hornblendite itself, partly replacing the hornblende by biotite, chlorite, magnetite, and pyrite, changes especially characteristic of hydrothermal alteration of the hypothermal kind. Relation to other rocks in the region is discussed, and the large body of hornblendite is seen to fit well into the setting of prevailingly hornblendic rocks and to represent one of the end-products of differentiation of a quartz dioritic magma.
30070693|Numerous large and well-developed crystals of almandite garnet were found in boulders of a banded diorite at the south end of the San Joaquin Valley, California. The crystals are characterized by numerous inclusions of feldspar, which give them a curiously spotted appearance. Frequently they are separated from the normal diorite by a zone of pure feldspar. They are either phenocrysts or were formed by replacement of the diorite shortly after its intrusion into a series of metamorphosed sediments.
30055960|Little has been written concerning the field technique used in the detailed mapping of Pleistocene deposits and the relative values of the various types of boundaries thus established. In this paper the use of certain criteria in mapping the Wisconsin moraines of northeastern Illinois is described. A study of several types of glacial boundaries and the data on which they are based shows that these boundaries differ greatly in accuracy, depending in part on the inherent characteristics of the boundary and in part on the data available to and gathered by the field worker.
30075204|Inclusions within garnet and diopside megacrysts from kimberlite in eastern Kentucky contain Ti-rich phlogopite, serpentine, and calcite. The garnet inclusions also contain spinel, aluminous clinopyroxene, and chlorite. It is inferred that the inclusions in garnet were once the same as those in diopside, but spinel, aluminous clinopyroxene, and aluminous orthopyroxene (now serpentine + chlorite) formed at the expense of host garnet and included olivine. These polymineralic inclusions may represent included liquids of the same composition as the liquid from which the megacrysts crystallized, which may be a phlogopite-bearing kimberlite, unlike the kimberlite host rocks in Kentucky.
30079452|The Wolf Creek Crater is the second largest crater of meteoritic origin to be discovered on the earth's surface. The crater is circular, 2,800 feet in diameter, has a maximum depth of 170 feet and 90 feet of broken rock forming the elevated rim. Fragments of meteoritic iron were found around the rim. The age of the crater is considered to be Pleistocene or Recent.
30064016|Experiments conducted at 30 kbar, 850-1050C, in piston-cylinder apparatus simulate hybridization between hydrous siliceous magma rising from subducted oceanic crust into overlying peridotite. Gold capsules containing granite and peridotite powders separated by sharp boundaries, and
10.1086/661193|Magmatic zircons from two samples of the Dhamda Tuff in the Tarenga Formation of the Mesoproterozoic Chhattisgarh Supergroup in central India were dated by U-Pb SHRIMP methods, which yielded a concordia upper-intercept age of
30060651|The clay-mineral content of 103 samples of calcareous till was determined by X-ray techniques. The difference in clay-mineral content of horizon V, unoxidized, and horizon IV, oxidized, till of the same age is pointed out, and it is suggested that the clay minerals present in tills of different ages may be used as an aid in correlation.
30056319|The existence of a large landslide that blocked Zion Canyon and created an extensive lake has been demonstrated through mapping of the slide and discovery of the old lake deposits. The slide came from Sentinel Mountain on the west side of the canyon. It was caused by an extensive fracture and joint system, water-saturated shale beds underlying the massive Navajo sandstone, and a regional dip of 1-30 to the northeast. Erosion of the slide debris is still very rapid, as is shown by the major slides of 1923 and 1941 that temporarily dammed the Virgin River.
10.1086/660889|Zircon composition (U, Th, rare earth elements, and Hf) was tested as a tracer of petrogenetic processes in a set of metaigneous rocks from two pre-Ordovician massifs in the Pyrenees, Canig and Albera. Two groups were differentiated after analyzing a number of elements in zircon: (1) Casem gneiss and Marialles amphibolite and (2) subvolcanic metaporphyries and Cad and Sureda orthogneisses. Casem gneiss and Marialles amphibolite from the Canig massif have high Th, Th/U, and Ce/Sm and low Yb/Gd and U/Ce that define linear trends in most of the plots used. The anomalous trend of the data in the Th/U-versus-Hf plot suggests mantle involvement in the origin of these rocks and the participation of fractional crystallization during their evolution. Zircon of the metaporphyries and the Cad and Sureda orthogneisses exhibit similar characteristics despite a difference in age. Zircon has low Th, Th/U, Ce/Sm, and
30079813|Within the Kharta area, east of Mount Qomolangma (Everest), garnet sillimanite gneisses and granites including mafic lenses that form the Greater Himalayan Sequence (GHS) were displaced beneath the North Col Formation by the lower South Tibetan Fault (LSTF) and above the Lesser Himalayan Sequence by the Main Central Thrust (MCT). Zircons from mafic lenses, probably former dikes, were dated by thermal ionization mass spectrometry to yield discordant UPb results. One sample gave a discordia line with an upper intercept age of 971 Ma, suggesting a late Proterozoic age for emplacement of the dike. Zircon SHRIMP analyses show that the garnet sillimanite gneisses and granites were derived mainly from early Paleozoic rocks produced by hightemperature metamorphism and/or partial melting of Neoproterozoic (meta)sedimentary rocks. These crystalline rocks were buried beneath southern Tibet and experienced metamorphic conditions of 750800C and 14 kbar at
10.1086/680207|The Upper Cretaceous to Lower Tertiary sediments in the Indus-Yarlung suture zone provide critical records on the history of accretion along the southern margin of Asia prior to, and during, the India-Asia collision. In this article, we report field and petrographic observations, in situ detrital zircon U-Pb ages, Lu-Hf isotopic analyses, and Cr-spinel electron microprobe data from the Upper Cretaceous to Lower Tertiary sedimentary rocks of the Renbu mlange zone in east Xigaze, southern Tibet. The Renbu mlange zone consists of two serpentinite mlange subzones separated by a mud-matrix mlange. Using similarities found in the compositions of detrital Cr-spinels and detrital zircon U-Pb ages, we propose to correlate the northern Renbu mlange subzone with the upper part of the Xigaze forearc basin. Detrital zircons from sandstones in the southern Renbu mlange subzone indicate an influx of Cretaceousearly Cenozoic zircon grains with juvenile Hf isotopic compositions, suggesting a provenance from the Lhasa terrane, especially the Gangdese arc. Compared to the mlange in the western Xigaze, our new results show that much younger sediments were deposited on the top of the accretionary wedge, with the youngest U-Pb age cluster including six single grains in the range of 6453 Ma and a large peak at 67 Ma. Our results support the idea that the foreland basin developed along the Indus-Yarlung suture during the India-Asia collision.
30071076|The compositional problems, especially the soda content, of the melilite group of minerals are reviewed. The system
30056606|The Yellowstone Valley, between the Gallatin and Beartooth ranges in southern Montana, is the easternmost of the Tertiary basins characteristic of the Northern Rockies. It is a structural basin bordered by a fault along its eastern margin and is partially filled by Upper Miocene-Lower Pliocene beds. Erosion surfaces in adjoining mountains and along the valley are described and correlated. Obscure phases of the Tertiary and early Quaternary history are pointed out. Two substages of the Wisconsin glaciation are considered, and the possibility of pre-Wisconsin glaciation is recognized.
30055676|Fracture cleavage was developed in connection with a fault in massive limestone. The cleavage made nearly the same angle with the vertical that the fault made with the horizontal. Otherwise, the cleavage fractures appeared to have the general character of repeated faults.
30075154|On a flat surface of homogeneous rock, drainage nets would develop at random, with the possibility of stream flow equal in all directions. Actual distribution of direction of streams measured in sample basins of dendritic drainage pattern does show a close approximation to this theoretical random distribution. Deviations from this ideal distribution of stream-flow direction occur in drainage systems where either a steeply sloping ground surface or rock schistosity is present to influence the direction in which streams develop.
JG80134|The Mailaka lava succession (central-western Madagascar) forms part of the Madagascar large igneous province and is characterized by basaltic to picritic basalt lava flows and minor evolved flows. In situ U-Pb dating of zircon in rhyodacites yields concordant ages of
30059425|About 10 per cent of all major earthquakes are now known to originate below the "crust" of the earth at depths ranging up to 700 km. After a brief resume of the evidence for the existence of deep earthquakes, the paper describes the environment in which they occur under the headings of structure and composition, density and pressure, rigidity and bulk modulus, temperature, viscosity, and strength. The characteristics of deep earthquakes are then described under the headings of distribution (geographic and depth), energy released, aftershocks, periodicities, correlations, patterns of initial motion at the surface, and stress and strain near the focal region. Analysis of these data leads first to the conclusion that the type of process involved is probably a normal fracturing response to external stress differences, although other possibilities are considered. The possible known sources of stress appear to be inadequate to function as primary causes of deep earthquakes but may be important as "triggers." The meaning of strength is analyzed, and the conclusion is reached that seismic evidence probably points to an increase in strength from the surface of the earth downward at least to the core. The paper concludes that the concept of a weak substratum, within which flow results from extremely slight stress differences, does not appear to be valid.
30080948|An account is given of the development of the controversy about the origin of regular small-scale alternations of limestone and shale in the Blue Lias of England. The point in dispute has been whether the alternations are original sedimentary features or products of diagenesis. It is here suggested that both processes have played a role, and criteria are suggested for the distinction of primary and secondary rhythms, which may be of general application. The probable conditions controlling the sedimentary variations and diagenetic migrations are briefly examined.
30080792|Because the Harrisburg peneplain has a pronounced slope toward the southeast, it has been believed that widespread warping of that surface took place in the uplifting of the Appalachians. There is reason to doubt this supposed warping, for evidence of it appears to be lacking in eastern Pennsylvania where the surface has its best development.
30059705|The scattered literature relating to this eruptive mass has been brought together and condensed into a connected account. The main part of the mass has the form of a laccolith which appears to rest on a floor of limestone. The silica content of the rocks decreases progressively from the top to the base of the laccolith, and the rocks near the base develop melanite, diopside, and nepheline. The variety known as "borolanite" contains also what appear to be pseudomorphs after leucite. Fundamental problems of petrogenesis are involved in the interpretation of the evidence.
JG116601|The formation and preservation of airfall volcanogenic tephras is the result of various interacting factors. Explanations of the depositional history of individual tephra beds lie along a spectrum between two end-member models of a primary single event and a complex depositional history. Nonrecognition of the history of a tephra bed may lead to errors in geochronology, correlation, and interpretation of the record of explosive volcanism in sedimentary successions. Increased understanding of sequence stratigraphic principles and condensation processes favors the model of tephras with a complex depositional history. This is supported by studies that indicate many tephras in the rock record result from amalgamation and/or reworking in the depositional environment. A prediction of increased tephra bed formation/preservation within transgressive systems tracts due to condensation processes is tested through 11 Lochkovian to Eifelian (Lower to lower Middle Devonian) depositional sequences. The character and distribution of over 80 Devonian K-bentonites and tuffs in the Appalachian Basin (eastern United States) indicates a complex history of tephra deposition and preservation. Of 11 sequences, four have numerous tephra beds, one sequence yields one tephra bed, and six sequences yield no tephra beds. In total, 38 individual beds cumulatively occur within transgressive systems tracts, 39 in early highstand systems tracts, one in late highstand systems tracts, and one in lowstand systems tracts, noting that lowstands are poorly preserved or not recognized along the outcrop belt. This indicates that airfall tephras are concentrated in the transgressive and early highstand systems tracts, not just in condensed intervals of transgressive systems tracts; they do not consistently occur through all sequences. A simple sequence stratigraphic condensation model for the deposition and preservation of volcanic tephras is not applicable.
30085019|This study is concerned with debris slopes free of superincumbent cliffs or basal stream channels and developed on closely jointed and/or mechanically weak rocks in the Mojave Desert. Analyses of the relation between hillslope gradient S and mean particle size
30069383|In der vorliegenden Arbeit wird versucht, das Klima Australiens whrend der letzten Eiszeit anhand von Belegen aus periglazialen Phenomena, aus dem Verlauf der Schneegrenzen in Tasmanien und in den Snowy Mountains in Neu Sd Wales und aus der Evaporation aus dem geschlossenen Becken des Lake George in der Nhe Canberras zu rekonstruieren. Die untere Grenze der periglazialen Solifluktion im Gebiet der Snowy Mountains und Canberras lag zumindest 975 m unter der heutigen, die orographische Schneegrenze war 600-700 m tiefer und der wrmste Monat war mindestens 9 C klter. Entsprechende Werte fr Tasmanien sind 600 m, 600 m, und 5 C. Der Schneefall in den eiszeitlichen Karen und die Nieder-schlge im Lake George Einzugsgebiet mssen Betrchtlich geringer gewesen sein als heutzutage. In beiden Gebieten war das Klima windig. Es wird angenommen, dass die Langsdnen, die grosse Gebiete Australiens bedecken, aus der Eiszeit stammen und in einem kalten, trockenen, windigen Klima entstanden sind. Einige Arbeiten, welche die Auffassung einer kalten, trockenen eiszeitlichen Periode fr die gleichen Breiten Sd-Amerikas, Nord-Afrikas und des Mittleren Osten vertreten, werden kurz besprochen. /// This paper undertakes the reconstruction of Australian climate during the last glacial stage on the basis of (1) periglacial phenomena; (2) changes in the snowline in Tasmania and in the Snowy Mountains in New South Wales; and (3) evaporation from the closed basin of Lake George near Canberra. The lower limit of periglacial solifluction in the area of the Snowy Mountains and Canberra was at least 975 m. below that of today, the orographic snow line was 600-700 m. lower, and the warmest month was at least 9 C., colder. Corresponding values for Tasmania were: 600 m., 600 m., and 5 C. Snowfall in glacial cirques and precipitation in the Lake George drainage area must have been considerably less than it is at present. In both places the climate was windy. It is inferred that the longitudinal dunes which cover a broad belt in Australia are of glacial date and developed in a cold, dry, windy climate. Other studies which present the concept of a cold, dry, glacial climate for comparable latitudes in South America, North Africa, and the Middle East are referred to.
30082340|The episodic variation of the seawater
30059027|The accumulation of rockfall talus slopes has been studied for conditions in which stones are added relatively slowly, so that dynamic interactions between them may be ignored, and stone movements modeled "one-at-a-time." Laboratory scale models (1 m long) are compared with the results of mathematical and computer simulation. Mathematical analysis assumes that stone movement down the talus is equivalent to a "sliding-only" movement, and laboratory results support this assumption. Grain-size grading is explained in terms of the relative roughness of different material sizes to stones moving down the talus. Profile concavity is ascribed to the run-out of some material, corresponding to the tail of the frequency distribution for travel distances. Growth of the talus profile is modeled as a kinematic wave. The lower concavity obtained on both stochastic and scale models relative to deterministic models is thought to result from local accumulations of stones in the upslope parts of the talus which then produce small mass-movements at a constant slope.
10.1086/666745|The Franciscan Complex of California is a type example of an accretionary prism with widespread high-P/T subduction-zone metamorphism. Low-T, fine-grained, lawsonite-bearing mafic blueschists encased in a shale-matrix mlange near San Simeon have been dated for the first time.
30079921|Trees often suffer damage during large earthquakes due to shaking and rupturing of the ground surface from associated faults. The damage may result in temporary asymmetric growth and reduction in the width of annual growth rings. Observation of tree displacement and tree ring analysis of the circle shrub
30060481|Analysis of methods and data utilized by George F. Adams to demonstrate that multiple terraces of marine origin do not exist in southern New England reveals that, despite the inadequacy of Adams* criteria, Barrell's thesis has been supported rather than disproved.
30070617|The standard cell is defined as a rock unit containing 160 oxygens. The sum of the cations (silicon and metals) associated with this unit is very nearly 100 in all ordinary rock types. It is shown that, by using the standard cell as a basis, important petrogenetic relations can be surveyed and quantitatively defined more satisfactorily than by using any other method of petrographic calculation, including the norm method.
30081118|The lower crustal section of the North Arm Mountain Massif of the Bay of Islands Ophiolite is composed of interlayered gabbroic and ultramafic cumulates. Despite pervasive ridge-related deformation, key contact relationships are preserved in low-strain domains or late-kinematic intrusions. Angular and crenulated gabbroic enclaves in ultramafic rocks and ultramafic dikes in gabbroic rocks imply that many of the ultramafic rocks intruded into older gabbroic hosts: olivine gabbro, gabbro, gabbro-norite, norite, and Fe-oxide-amphibole gabbros. The ultramafic intrusions are composed of dunite, wehrlite, harzburgite, lherzolite, and olivine websterite. Clino- to ortho-pyroxenite reaction rims line many peridotitic/gabbroic contacts. The voluminous pyroxenites of the lower crust are petrologically identical to in situ pyroxenite reaction rims and are thought to represent partially digested gabbros. Fine-grained harzburgitic sills crosscut the foliation of wehrlitic host rocks, with orthopyroxenite reaction rims at many of the contacts. Medium- to coarse-grained harzburgitic cumulates are important locally in the lower crust. Where pyroxenite reaction rims are detached or absent, the interaction between the hot, intruding, primitive magma and host gabbroic cumulates led to the formation of hybrid olivine gabbro, troctolite, and feldspathic peridotite. Feldspars in these hybrids occur as embayed grains and clots (anorthositic or gabbroic), commonly with discontinuous aluminous Cr-spinel rims. Aluminous chromitite schlieren are commonly found within hybrid feldspathic peridotite bodies. High-Cr spinel (Cr# = Cr/Cr + Al >0.5) layers are associated with lower crustal and upper mantle orthopyroxenite schlieren. The coronitic textures and spatial associations suggest that chromitites in ophiolites are by-products of the assimilation of gabbro (Cr# <0.5) and pyroxenite (Cr# >0.5) by invading primitive magmas.
30068734|The transport of water in silicate melts is examined from a theoretical point of view, taking into account the presence of both
30063684|The standard Mississippian section is that exhibited in the Mississippi Valley, exposed in Iowa, Illinois, and Missouri. In this section there are recognized a series of more or less distinct faunal zones which have been observed to have considerable geographic distribution. These zones are denned, the leading features of their faunas are mentioned, and their known geographic distribution is shown, with the belief that the facts presented may assist in the wider correlation of the Mississippian formations and faunas.
30080120|The ability of the hydrated oxides of manganese and iron to adsorb ions from solution (scavenging) is considered in relation to some problems in marine geology, chemistry, and biology. In the ferruginous sediments of the Pacific Ocean, iron oxides are accompanied by titanium, cobalt, and zirconium in amounts proportional to the iron content. Similarly, copper and nickel are linearly related to the manganese content. These observations are explained on the basis of scavenging. An electrochemical theory for the formation of manganese nodules is presented. Marine sediments are classified on the basis of the geosphere in which the solid phases originate. The distribution of certain ionic species in sea water between the solid and aqueous phases is considered on the basis of scavenging and co-ordination compound theory. The concentration of minor elements by members of the marine biosphere is explained either by the direct uptake of the element or by the uptake of iron or manganese oxides with the accompanying scavenged element.
30059193|The long distance separating the basal Pennsylvanian sediirents of the Eastern Interior Basin from possible major source areas combines with mineralogic maturity to make solution of the source-area problem difficult. Our approach toward its solution utilizes both regional cross-bedding mapping and petrology. Statistical analysis provided measures of reliability for estimates of regional cross-bedding directions, estimated the variability arising from levels of subsampling, and made possible significant economies in field sampling. Over 1,000 miles of linear basal Pennsylvanian outcrop in the Eastern Interior Basin, northwestern portions of the Appalachian Basin, and Michigan Basin were examined in 41 days. Over 950 measurements of cross-bedding in 340 outcrops were obtained. The parallelism of local and regional cross-bedding directions to orientation of the subaerially formed channels of the Mississippian-Pennsylvanian unconforrr ity, directions of regional stratigraphic overlap, and regional quartz-pebble distribution indicate that, measured over wide areas, cross-bedding direction reflects the regional slope from the source area. Based on this hypothesis, the basal Pennsylvanian sediments of the Eastern Interior Basin had a minor source area to the northwest, in the direction of the Transcontinental Arch, and a major source area to the northeast. Northeasterly source directions are also indicated for the basal Pennsylvanian sediments of the Michigan Basin and adjacent portions of the Appalachian Basin. Hence, excluding the western shelf area of the Eastern Interior Basin, the craton in the north-central states had a regional slope to the south-southwest. This portion of the craton had source areas in the middle and northern Appalachians and the southeastern Canadian Shield.
30070579|Minerals appearing in clays generally have layer lattice structures formed from (1) uncharged layers with hydroxyl ions on both surfaces, (2) hydroxyl ions on one surface and oxygen ions on the other, (3) oxygen ions on both surfaces; (4) charged layers with oxygen ions on both surfaces; or (5) two types of layers, one with hydroxyl ions on both surfaces and the other with oxygen ions on both surfaces. The discussion is limited to (class 2) kaolin minerals, serpentines, and cronstedtite; (class 3) pyrophyllite, and talc; (class 4) hydrous micas (illite, bravaisite, pholidolite, glauconite, celadonite) and the montmorillonite-nontronite group of minerals. Some new information on the montmorillonite-nontronite group, anauxite, and chrysotile is summarized. Factors limiting composition, base exchange, polymorphism, crystal size, and behavior toward water are discussed.
30058954|A summary of the terminology for the major elements of geologic time since the beginning of the Cambrian is given, with the present standing of those terms in modern usage. It is proposed to combine the Mesozoic and Cenozoic into a single era, the Neozoic, and to divide the Paleozoic into two eras, Eo-Paleozoic and Neo-Paleozoic. The name "Metazoic" is also suggested as a collective term for all time since the pre-Cambrian.
30066385|A technique of serial correlation is considered for chemical data on series of adjacent specimens from homogeneous mineral deposits and a critical independent sampling interval (I-interval) is evaluated. Values taken at a sampling interval larger than the I-interval are independent in a probability sense, whereas mutual specimen influence is appreciable for smaller sampling intervals. I-intervals have been calculated for element concentration values from three examples. The I-intervals for weight percentages Zn, Ti, and
30062081|The mafic ultrapotassic lavas of the Virunga igneous province of SW Uganda and adjacent regions are chemically much more similar to the unquestionably oceanic mafic magmas of Tristan da Cunha than has hitherto been recognized, which raises the possibility that both may arise from similar asthenospheric mantle sources.
30066099|Enclaves are a ubiquitous feature of most felsic plutons and are important to understanding pluton genesis. The initial shape of an enclave released in a fracture system is a function of the stress field at the crack tip and not necessarily an indication of post-formation assimilation or erosion in the host magma. If, at the tip of a fracture, the principal stresses are perpendicular to the fracture planes and there is no shearing, then enclaves are angular. If, on the other hand, shear stresses are present at the fracture tip, and the shearing displacement is perpendicular to the propagating crack front, then the crack will propagate in a curved fashion. These enclaves, when released, will have a rounded or ovoid shape.
30056472|A skull of the phytosaur Machaeroprosopus, discovered in the Sloan Canyon formation, confirms the Triassic age of the rocks lying beneath the Exeter (Jurassic) in the valley of the dry Cimarron River of Union County, New Mexico, and Cimarron County, Oklahoma. The underlying red beds, the Sloan Canyon formation, and the Sheep Pen Canyon formation form a continuous and conformable succession of strata in this region, and the conclusion is drawn that these three units should be included in the Dockum group.
30063700|The North Shensi Basin, embracing the southern Ordos, northern Shensi, western Shansi, and eastern Kansu, previously unvisited and unmapped by geologists, was found to contain upward of 20,000 feet of sediments varying from Cambro-Ordovician to Recent in age, including the mantle of 1,500 feet or more of loess. About twenty formations or phases were differentiated, of which three are Cambro-Ordovician, one Carboniferous (Pennsylvanian ?), one Permian, one Permo-Triassic, ten Jurassic, one Cretaceous, one Tertiary, the Tertiary-Pleistocene loess, and miscellaneous Recent deposits. The Carboniferous and older beds are predominantly marine; the younger beds are largely continental. The basin is surrounded by a ring of horsts and grabens involving chiefly Carboniferous and Cambro-Ordovician beds. Dips are toward the center of the basin, except on the west, where the beds probably abut against a great fault.
30056240|A group of Silurian beds lying in southeastern Missouri has been known heretofore as the Bainbridge limestone, and has been considered Niagaran in age. Detailed stratigraphic and paleontologic studies show that these beds are made up of three distinct zones, separated by marked unconformities, and are to be correlated with the Edgewood limestone, the Brassfield limestone, and the Niagaran limestone, respectively. It is proposed to restrict the name Bainbridge to the beds of the Niagaran division, while the names Edgewood and Brassfield are carried over and applied, respectively, to the two lower divisions.
30081231|Water samples from the Colorado River and its tributaries provide a presentday
30061987|Sandstone within the Late Cretaceous forearc basin of northern and central California displays vertical and horizontal compositional variations that facilitate stratigraphic correlation and reveal provenance characteristics. Four Sacramento Valley petrofacies, three San Joaquin petrofacies, and two late Late Cretaceous petrofacies that occur in both parts of the Great Valley are defined using the following six parameters: QFL% quartz, QFL% feldspar, QFL% unstable lithics, framework % phyllosilicates, plagioclase-to-total-feldspar ratio, and volcanic-to-total-unstable-lithics ratio. The scarcity of "significant" correlations between depositional facies and petrologic changes, the general "immature" nature of the sandstone, and the rapid rate of sedimentation suggest that provenance changes controlled sandstone composition and petrofacies sequence. The San Joaquin Valley petrofacies differ from the Sacramento Valley petrofacies by having higher framework phyllosilicate content, lower volcanic-to-total-unstable-lithics ratio, and more felsic volcanics. The intrusion of late Mesozoic plutons in the provenance area into primarily oceanic ("eugeosynclinal") crust to the north and primarily continental ("miogeosynclinal") crust to the south provides an explanation for these compositional differences. Plutonic sources increased at the expense of volcanic and metamorphic sources, and the potassium content of feldspar sources increased during the Late Cretaceous. By the late Late Cretaceous potassium-rich plutonic sources contributed detritus to all parts of the fore-arc basin. The sandstone compositions of these arc-derived sediments are clearly distinguishable from compositions of sediments derived from collision-generated orogenic terranes or from passive continental margins.
30071570|Tholeiitic basaltic rock in three cores from Petrobrs drill site APS-21, 1960-2480 m depths, Amapa basin, offshore Brazil is compositionally similar to rift-related basaltic rock associated with the opening of both the North and South Atlantic Oceans (
30068099|At the Wave, a photogenic landform on the UtahArizona border, modern, southwesterly, sandcarrying winds abrade the Navajo Sandstone. Abundant trains of centimeterscale, transverse, upwindfacing treads and risers cut sedimentary structures at a high angle. Central to the formation of these erosional steps are crusts produced by microbes lying just beneath exposed sandstone surfaces. Treads and risers are present on the walls of smoothly curved troughs at the Wave, on the walls of nearby circular scour pits, and on bedrock domes found at the center of scour pits. Because of their locations and orientations, the largescale troughs and scour pits could not have been formed by flowing water or groundwater sapping; treads and risers indicate sculpting by the wind.
30058623|In a recent summary of ventifact localities in the United States, the omission of certain regions where wind abrasion is widespread and obvious indicates that the criteria of this process are often overlooked. Conspicuous examples of wind carving are to be found in the Dells region of Wisconsin and the upper Arkansas River valley and South Park in the Rocky Mountains of Colorado. Little wind work now occurs in these regions; most of it probably took place under periglacial conditions in the Pleistocene ice age.
30062472|Pennsylvanian age rocks of the eastern Appalachian Plateau Philipsburg quadrangle have undergone up to 10 per cent penetrative shortening in northwest-southeast directions as proven by distortion of the fossil Lingula carbonaria. Fossil distortion is manifested by changed width/length ratios, microjoints, and minute N. 44 E. to N. 58 E. oriented crinkles which do not appear in surrounding clay and silt shales. Shales have apparently adjusted to shortening shown in the fossils by intergranular movements. Fossil distortion and penetrative rock shortening is interpreted as the first episode of lateral tectonism during which rocks underwent lateral compaction before beginning major folding. Associated structures are systematic joints which intersect crinkles at 75-90.
30070723|The slotted templet is a mechanical device to analyze crustal movements in an area of complex compressional structures. It is a network of strips that are slotted in one end and tied together by axles that slip in the slots. The length of the slot in each strip equals the amount of crustal shortening along the line of the strip. The rest of the strip represents the present length of the section. If the amount of shortening can be fairly well estimated, the slotted templet will show the movement of the individual points of the network in relation to one another and what the shape and size of the region was before deformation. By means of the templet it can be shown that the diversely trending Laramide structures of the Wasatch-Great Basin region may all be related to an east-west regional compression, and the amount of shortening caused by the Willard thrusts is approximately determined as 13 miles. The original area included in the net is estimated as 24 per cent larger than the present area.
30079596|A group of open folds in the San Juan Mountains in southwestern Colorado is described. These involve a basement of pre-Cambrian sediments and granite which was probably buried to a depth not greater than 2,000 feet at the time of the folding (late Triassic or early Jurassic). The presence of a system of joints genetically related to the folds is pointed out, and it is suggested that the folding involved vertical displacements distributed among these fractures. It is also suggested that these displacements were absorbed by plastic flow at greater depths, the transition from flow to fracture moving progressively downward as the deformation increased. In conclusion, an attempt is made to relate the configuration of the folds to broader regional structures.
30070526|A paleostress analysis using normal fault slip data and Jurassic dike trends has been conducted in the Quebec and New England Appalachians. Stress tensor analysis of fault slip by a numerical inversion method has distinguished homogeneous and directionally consistent EW and NWSEoriented extensional stress regimes in the Quebec Appalachians and St. Lawrence Lowlands. The directions of extension compare well with the mean direction of extensional stress inferred from the Jurassic dolerite dike trend in New England. Both extensions are interpreted as the result of riftrelated stress associated with the separation of North America and Africa, early in the Late TriassicEarly Jurassic fragmentation of Pangea. The paleostress field configuration is assumed to be related to the direction of divergent plate motion. The NS and NESW Late Proterozoic faults that bordered the Quebec Reentrant and TaconianAcadian structures of the Quebec Appalachians appear to have played a significant role in the distribution of later stress regimes in the upper part of the lithosphere. The NNESSWtrending regional and mesoscopic normal faults in southern Quebec are interpreted as linked to the formation of Mesozoic rift basins in Massachusetts and Connecticut and synchronous with Early and Middle Jurassic dike emplacement in the Quebec and New England Appalachians.
30066232|The system
30079714|Precambrian rhyolite is recorded in numerous localities in northern Wisconsin and has been described as glassy lava flows or as intrusive material. This study concludes that these rocks are ignimbrites resulting from nue ardente-type eruption. The evidence is the positive identification of shards, the lack of scoriaceous upper surfaces, and other flow structures.
30059087|Recent construction activities at Douglas Dam, in East Tennessee, have exposed a thick, local series of unusual volcanic ash beds and lagoon or pond sediments. The volcanics, very fine grained and highly potassic, are partly altered to bentonite. They are overlain by finely laminated shaly dolomites containing lenses of conglomerate with many types of well-rounded pebbles, which in turn are overlain by thin-bedded, slabby, greenish, fine crystalline dolomite beds with a few erratic boulders of dolomite. The deposit is about 120 feet thick, roughly oval in plan, with dimensions about 40 by 90 feet, and is completely surrounded by dolomite beds of the Upper Beekmantown group. The boundary between the deposit and the dolomite has been sheared, and the adjacent dolomite below and to the north is brecciated. The laminated and conglomeratic beds yielded a fauna apparently not previously reported, including many carapaces of small merostomes, three entire specimens of a small phyllopod, fragments of other crustaceans, and undetermined trails. Apparently these deposits accumulated in a deep local depression, possibly a sinkhole similar to the cenotes of northern Yucatn. It is assumed that a volcanic vent not far to the east, now buried beneath younger sediments or the Blue Ridge overthrust mass, produced the ash deposits and that they are not widespread at this horizon because they were preserved only in this basin or in similar undiscovered ones. The age of this deposit cannot be determined conclusively, but it is the writer's opinion that these sediments accumulated during the post-Canadian, pre-Chazyan interval which is represented throughout most of this portion of the Appalachian Valley by a distinct hiatus.
30068616|Field and laboratory observations of rocks along the northern contact of the Cape Neddick Gabbro demonstrate that reaction has taken place between the gabbro and the adjacent Kittery Formation. Hybridization of the gabbro has been caused both by assimilation of Kittery inclusions and by transfer of calcium, titanium, and possibly aluminum into the gabbro and of iron and magnesium out of the gabbro. A zone of sanidinite-facies metamorphism extends outward from the contact for at least 24 feet, and the major metasomatic changes within this zone are best explained by the movement of wall-rock-derived silicon and potassium outward farther into the wall rock. The movement of these elements was probably accompanied by the simultaneous outward migration of the volatiles
30058999|The high-temperature transition in calcite, located by extrapolation near 985 at 1 bar, has been determined to 5 kbar by differential thermal analysis in hydrostatic apparatus. The transition temperature increases with pressure at the rate of 3.0  0.3C/kbar, in contrast to the recent hypotheses which project a decrease.
30085065|Rocks were abraded by a sand-laden air-jet in the laboratory to examine the quantitative relationships between wind abrasion and wind velocity, quantity and grain-size of windblown sand particles, and physical properties of the target rocks. The results of 101 runs are expressed by an experimental equation with dimensionless constant, which indicates that the rate of abrasion is directly related to the kinetic energy of the sand projectiles and inversely proportional to the compressive strength of the target rocks. A tentative extension of the experimental equation to field condition leads to an equation for the wind abrasion in fields. An application of the latter equation to the natural settings is preliminarily examined by comparing it with Sharp's (1964) field experiments, and a plausible result is obtained.
30060859|Most of the raised beaches and dead coral reefs found along the Saurashtra coast are found to date 5,000-35,000 years B.P. These dates, when examined in conjunction with the data from many other regions of the world, suggest that the raised beaches and the inland coral reefs of the Saurashtra coast may be the manifestation of higher sea level during the late Quaternary and not due to uplift of the coast during recent times.
30061952|The forms of the granite domes of the Southeast, which heretofore have been attributed to exfoliation, are regarded as the product of granular disintegration brought about by chemical weathering.
30079748|The Early Proterozoic Animikie Basin is located at a major crustal boundary between Archean crust of the Superior craton and penecontemporaneous Early Proterozoic crust of the Wisconsin magmatic terranes. The provenance of sedimentary rocks within the Animikie Basin constrains the tectonic evolution of the Early Proterozoic margin of the Superior craton. Published geological, petrographic, and Nd-Pb isotopic data indicate that the Pokegama Quartzite (lower passive margin unit of the Animikie Group) has a Late Archean provenance. In contrast, the Virginia Formation (upper deep water turbidite-shale unit of the Animikie Group) was derived from dominantly Early Proterozoic sources, with isotopic compositions similar to igneous rocks of the Wisconsin magmatic terranes. Shales of the Virginia Formation have Nd depleted mantle model ages 2.14 to 2.35 Ga, and
30075137|Intensive transverse fracturing occurs in the sub-Andean fold belt east of the high Cordillera, at about lat. 51 S. Some of this fracturing is contemporaneous with the folding. Wrench faults, some with right-lateral displacement, originated during a later stage of compression. The oldest folding occurred between Maestrichtian and Eocene times. Thus Laramian movements are of principal importance in the evolution of the present-day Cordillera. Of Miocene age is a second, gentle folding which reached farther to the east. Granite intrusions occurred in the early Tertiary or Miocene. During Pliocene to early Pleistocene times the uprising high mountain belt in the west exerted lateral pressure on the adjacent area to the east, which produced a wrench-fault pattern oblique to the previous structures. Westward tilting during post-Pliocene times caused reversal of the drainage system; originally east-flowing rivers were captured and their courses deviated into Pacific waters. The new drainage pattern reflects the intensive transverse fracturing of the area.
30079709|Polished crystals of quartz, deformed at high temperature and confining pressure with high shear stress on the basal plane, develop slip bands on their surfaces parallel to the trace of the basal planes, indicating slip on this plane. The distribution of the slip markings on cylindrical surfaces shows that the a-axes are the slip directions. Thin sections of the polished crystals contain deformation lamellae parallel to the base. The deformation lamellae are therefore parallel to slip zones in these crystals. Optical studies of basal deformation lamellae with phase-contrast illumination indicate that they are sharp boundaries, less than 0.2 micron thick, separating regions with higher and lower refractive indices than the quartz at some distance from the lamellae. Compensator measurements also reveal birefringences higher and lower than normal on opposite sides of these boundaries. Changes of indices and birefringence are consistent with the photoelastic effects which would be expected from an array of basal edge dislocations with Burgers vector parallel to an a-axis. Calculations of the stress field and resultant stress-optical effects due to such an array require a density of dislocations of
30081259|The lateorogenic 27032696 Ma Stormy basin of western Wabigoon Subprovince, 20 m.yr. younger than the surrounding greenstone belt, is a 1.52kmthick volcanosedimentary sequence. The basin, bounded by a major fault to the north and an unconformity to the south, contains an association of subaerial felsic and mafic massive to brecciated flows, shoshonitic dykes, and coarse clastic fluvial deposits. The volcanic basement, represented by the ca. 27322722 Ma Wapageisi Group and Boyer Lake Group, is dominated by tholeiitic mafic flows. In addition, it contains minor intermediate to felsic components that have calcalkaline characteristics. The Wapageisi Group is similar to a backarc sequence, whereas Boyer Lake Group is typical of an oceanic island arc setting. The Stormy basin displays bimodal volcanism with calcalkaline porphyry stocks and felsic flows along the basin margins and tholeiitic mafic rocks in the center. The subaerial mafic flows compositionally resemble riftrelated continental tholeiites. The amphibolephyric shoshonites are similar to modern shoshonites as well as to other Archean shoshonitic rocks. Parental magmas of both the intrabasinal tholeiites and shoshonites were generated at a significantly greater depth (>6080 km) than those of the older volcanic basement. The crustal thickening prior to basin formation reflects the transition from incipient arc formation to mature arc evolution. Although convergentstyle magmatism was dominant at the arc/backarc stage, riftrelated volcanism is characteristic of the arc fragmentation stage. Collectively, the setting and evolution is analogous to evolving modern oceanic island and continental arcs, in which terminal arc stages were affected by rifting.
30062594|Salient compositional, textural, and structural features of the anorthosite and associated rocks about Nain, Labrador, are described. The rocks include an anorthositic gabbrodiorite group, with possibly younger diorite; an adamellite group, with tonalite and monzonite; the dike rocks associated with these major bodies, including pegmatites; older gneisses whose nature is uncertain; other highly metamorphosed gneisses in which the presence of garnet, cordierite, or graphite indicate a sedimentary component; and a less metamorphosed group of sediments. The features of an ultrabasic group occurring in small amounts throughout the region are discussed, with the suggestion that they may be skarn rocks. The age relations of these rocks are considered, with the conclusion that the anorthositic rocks are younger than the possibly Sud-burian sediments. Some of the major structural relations of the region are outlined, with the conclusion that the banding and granulation of the igneous rocks are primary and that the anorthositic mass is, at least in part, floored. Features indicating the proximity of a roof and the existence of roof pendants in other parts of the area are discussed. Evidence for the close relationship between the adamellitic rocks and the anorthositic rocks is given, and a question is raised as to whether large-scale replacement might not help to explain the peculiarities of both these rock groups.
30081197|New highresolution seismic reflection data from northern Lake Baikal and detailed landbased morphological and sedimentological data reveal a variety of coarsegrained deposits in the northern Baikal Rift. Each depositional facies is assigned to a specific structural domain. Alluvial fans (onshore) and small fan deltas (offshore) dominate the western borderfault flank. Glacial deposits (onshore) and large glaciolacustrine fans (offshore) characterize the eastern flexural margin. In the north, the axial rift termination comprises a large fluvial delta. This distinct pattern of depositional environments reflects the pronounced asymmetry of the rift and emphasizes the role of rift structure in controlling drainage and the location and type of riftbasin fill. Climate, however, exerts a profound influence on the generation and availability of coarsegrained material. This is best documented along the eastern rift margin where Pleistocene valley glaciers advanced at >50, 4035, and 2613 ka from the high rift shoulders down to, and beyond, the present shore into the Baikal Basin. During these phases, large volumes of glacial sediment were introduced into the basin, accumulating in extensive glaciolacustrine outwash fans. About onethird of the seismically penetrated rift fill is glacialoutwash material derived from the eastern shoulder. Under presentday nonglacial conditions, however, the fans are inactive because of insufficient sediment supply; this documents the importance of major climatic fluctuations with respect to the magnitude of sediment discharge and accumulation. The sedimentary history also underscores the modifying effects of climatedriven processes on the typical structuredominated aspects of rift sedimentation.
30056197|The peerless Vredefort Ring structure of South Africa defies rational interpretation by tectonic, volcanic, or magmatic forces. Following the heretical opinion of Boon, Albritton, and Daly, it is suggested to be a meteorite impact structure or "astrobleme." Using an impact velocity of 20 km/sec, it was found that an asteroid 2.3 km. in diameter would provide the 6 x 1028 ergs (1.4 million megatons TNT-equivalent) needed to create the original crater 40 km. across and roughly 16 km. deep. An impact event adequately explains: (1) the apparent impulse direction which was radially outward from the center; (2) the shatter cones as shock-induced; (3) the bilateral symmetry as owing to an oblique impact; (4) the upturned and overtilted 16-km. thick collar as the effect of radial forces spreading out from the explosion focus; (5) the pressure and thermal metamorphism of the sedimentary collar as shock wave-induced; (6) the intensive fracturing and microshearing of rock with little relative displacement as shock wave-induced; (7) the pseudotachylite as a "shock impactite" produced by overpressures in excess of 105 bars; and (8) the granophyre dikes as injected crater-lining "impactite." The uplifted granite plug now filling the original crater was caused by a combination of elastic rebound and isostatic forces. It would seem that, at Vredefort, an impact event transpired equivalent to the formation of Copernicus or Tycho on the moon.
30059056|The morphology and microstructure of individual crenulation cleavages are dependent on a complex interplay of the physical conditions, the pre-existing fabric and the operative deformation mechanisms. Controlling factors are neither readily observable nor obtainable from the final cleavage microfabric. However, observable features such as the metamorphic grade, the microfolding, the pre-existing fabric and the cleavage microstructure provide some information on the parameters which affect differentiation in crenulated rocks. The pre-existing fabric is probably the singlemost important factor affecting the morphology and microstructure of crenulation cleavages. This fabric essentially predetermines the geometry of the associated crenulation folds, the mineralogy of the cleavage and the type of fabric modification associated with the development of the cleavage. The metamorphic grade broadly specifies the pressure-temperature boundary conditions (i.e., the field in stress-temperature space) for crenulation deformations. Since crenulation cleavages are most common under greenschist facies conditions or lower, the conditions favoured most for cleavage development are probably temperatures below 450C and pressures ranging from 2 kb to 10 kb (cf. Turner, 1968, p. 366). The microfolding does not determine the type of crenulation cleavage which develops, but it does determine their location in a crenulated fabric and the spacing of the cleavages. The cleavage microstructure indirectly provides information on the strain mechanisms responsible for development of the cleavages as finite structures. Observations indicate that solution processes play an important part in crenulation cleavage development.
30066382|Underwater sand waves growing by interaction between a movable sand bed and a fluid flow were simulated in a laboratory flume. Each sand wave advances in step with a flow system involving boundary-layer separation at the wave crest and an induced countercurrent to the wave lee. Four sediment-structure elements result from this flow system, moving simultaneously downstream in the following order: (1) sand-wave foresets; (2) small-scale asymmetrical ripples formed beneath the countercurrent, pointing toward the sand wave, and overriden by the sand-wave foresets; (3) an erosion hollow where the countercurrent first impinges on the flume bed; and (4) small-scale asymmetrical ripples pointing away from the sand wave and eroded by the downstream advance of the erosion hollow. Foresets, the most important of these four elements, accumulate from a combination of grain deposition from suspension creating lee-face instability and avalanching tending to create a stable face. Avalanching may be intermittent when periods of grain-stacking separate episodes of sliding; or it may be continuous when grains are in sliding motion at all times over all parts of the lee face, depending on the flow speed over the sand wave and the rate of settling on the lee face in relation to the speed of avalanche descent. Each type of avalanching gives the sand wave a distinctive internal sediment structure and vertical grading. This could prove a useful key to regime variability in cross-stratification studies.
30068025|A method of determining the true dip and strike of a bed from observation of its outcrop lines as seen from a distance or in aerial photographs is presented. The angular relations between apparent plunge and trend of outcrop lines and true dip and strike of the bed are determined by the use of the stereographic projection. Three situations which present individual problems are discussed and solutions offered. Determinations of angular relations in aerial photographs are described, and the effect of errors such as introduced by tilt in the aerial photographs are considered.
30067366|The Onondaga formation in Pennsylvania includes all strata between the overlying Marcellus black shale and the underlying Oriskany sandstone. It consists of four members, lithologically distinct, but intergradational with one another and faunally indistinguishable. In the east a cherty limestone member overlies the Esopus shale member; in central Pennsylvania, a non-cherty limestone member succeeds a limy shale member. Local variations in lithology and thickness and minor disconformities are known. The upper contact of the formation, however, is usually transitional; and the lower contact is everywhere a disconformity. Because of its close faunal and strati-graphic affiliation with the overlying beds, the Onondaga formation in Pennsylvania is now assigned to the position of lowest formation of the Hamilton group of the Middle Devonian.
30058659|Studies of the clay minerals contained in the fine fraction of the insoluble residues from thirty-five Illinois limestone and dolomite samples representing the major stratigraphic units of the Illinois geologic column reveal the presence of illite in all samples, kaolinite in twenty samples, and beidellite (?) in three samples. Much of the illite is thought to be authigenic and probably derived from beidellite; the kaolinite is considered to be detrital. Kaolinite characterizes all the Pennsylvanian and Silurian samples studied. Some Mississippian and some Devonian samples contain kaolinite, others do not. The Ordovician samples contained only illite. On the basis of data relating to the climatic conditions under which various day minerals are formed, it is believed that the joint presence of illite and kaolinite in a formation indicates a source area some parts of which had a warm climate and other parts a cool climate. The results of the study suggest that clay-mineral data may be valuable for correlation purposes, and also that they are of considerable potential economic value.
30082304|Four important specimens of Permian tetrapods which have been added to the collections of Walker Museum within the last four years are described and figured. Bayloria morei, genus and species new, is a diminutive pelycosaur from the Arroyo formation of Baylor County, Texas. It is a very primitive member of the order. Ophiacodon major Romer and Price is described on the basis of much more adequate material than has been available heretofore. Two recently mounted skeletons, one of Seymouria baylorensis Broili and one of Trematops milleri, are described.
30081316|Crustal deformation, orocline formation, and growth of the central Andean plateau as well as the mutual relations of these processes with climate are a matter of international debate. Earthquake focal mechanism, fault kinematic, paleomagnetic, and crosssection balancing data are paramount for understanding the morphotectonic evolution of this noncollisional orogen but collectively await an explanation in terms of a comprehensive kinematic model. We offer such a model that approximates simple shear in plan view and that predicts the kinematics of firstorder fault zones in the southern central Andes. The model indicates that segmentation of the upper crust into rhombshaped domains confined by transpressive ranges resulted from the decrease in crustal shortening with distance to the central bend of the Andes. An anastomosing network of kinematically coupled, reactivated orogenparallel and newly formed NEtrending deformation zones encompassing components of sinistral and dextral strikeslip, respectively, defines the domain boundaries. Differential strikeslip on these boundaries accounts for the presence of both NWSE and ENEWSWdirected shortening inferred from kinematic analysis of minor faults as well as Neogene paleomagnetic rotations. Specifically, paleomagnetic rotations are interpreted in terms of both rigid and shearinduced rotations, the latter being defined as the angular departure from originally orthogonal lines. The net rotation of both rotation components predicted by the kinematic model agrees well with observed paleomagnetic rotations. Differential strikeslip is an integral part of deformation east of the magmatic arc that led to curvature and longitudinal stretching of the orogen. Crustal segmentation commenced in Eocene time, generated closed basins, and propagated from the central bend to the southern terminus of the plateau at a rate of ca. 26 km/Ma. Along with high sediment accumulation under arid climatic conditions, crustal segmentation into welldefined domains contributed effectively to the horizontal and vertical growth of the central Andean plateau. This holds important consequences for the structural evolution of the eastern foldandthrust belt of the central Andes and is akin to the mechanism by which large parts of the NW Tibetan plateau experienced surface uplift.
30059191|A deep profile of weathering on pre-Wisconsin (? Kansan) Kennedy drift in Glacier Park, Montana, includes a complex B-horizon 19 feet thick, a leached horizon 57 feet thick, and a CaCO-indurated horizon 93 feet thick. Samples from the weathered zone were studied in the laboratory for variations in mechanical composition and lithology. The combined silt-clay fractions were analyzed spectrographically for major and minor chemical constituents. The variations shown by the laboratory studies are correlated with horizons in the profile. The profile is interpreted in the light of the geomorphic, glacial, and Pleistocene climate history of the region. It is concluded that the profile developed largely during the Yarmouth interglacial stage and that a complex horizon in the upper 10 feet probably developed during the Sangamon interglacial, the Tazewell-Cary interstadial of the Wisconsin, and Recent time.
30066309|Laser ablation and silver phosphate procedures were used to measure the oxygen isotope composition in organophosphatic shells of lingulid brachiopods at a variety of scales: within valves, between valves from the same individual, between individuals collected at the same location at the same time, between localities, and between modern and fossil specimens. Specimens included modern lingulids from several patches in the northern Gulf of California (Mexico) and the Gulf of Nicoya (Costa Rica), and fossil specimens from the lower Triassic Dinwoody Formation. All specimens display a high degree of intrashell variability, frequently exceeding 4. This variability is not symmetrical within the shell, does not appear to reflect growth bands, and is not consistent with a published lingulid phosphateoxygen isotope thermometer. Shells analyzed using silver phosphate preparations have variability similar (>3.5) to that of shells analyzed using the laser ablation technique, ruling out the influence of organic carbon contamination. We interpret this variation as primary, representing a vital effect, possibly the result of enzymatic fractionation near mantle canals and muscle scars or in vivo mineralogical changes in shell composition. In contrast, oxygen isotope analysis of carbonate from these shells is repeatable and appears to represent equilibrium values. Although oxygen isotope analyses from laser ablation and silver phosphate methods indicate that the phosphate in lingulid valves is an unreliable recorder of oxygen isotope ratios in seawater, it may be possible to derive paleoclimate data from the carbonate fraction.
10.1086/648531|Blueschist and eclogitefacies high to ultrahighpressure (HP/UHP) metamorphic rocks occur in the southern Tianshan Belt. Their deformation and metamorphic history is important for understanding the Paleozoic tectonics of the Central Asian Orogenic Belt. Our study focuses on the structural analysis and geochronology of the HP metamorphic rocks and the surrounding rocks in the Kekesu Section in the southern Chinese Tianshan. Geometric and kinematic analyses indicate three ductile deformation events: a toptothenorth thrusting, a toptothesouth shearing, and a dextral wrenching. New
30075119|Chert in the pre-Cambrian Grenville marble was discovered by the senior author in Ontario and in New York. Its occurrence in the pre-Cambrian rocks resembles that in younger rocks so closely that a similar origin is postulated. Evidence is given to support a primary origin, i.e., primary chert in the original Grenville limestone before metamorphism. A thin-section study of the minerals developed at the contact of the chert and the carbonates is included. The paper was begun by the senior author but has been finished posthumously by his wife and the junior author.
30080953|The use of displacive-shearing stresses in the study of phase equilibriums in opposed-anvil high-pressure apparatus has been of value in resolving the relationship of the anomalous polymorphic thorite-huttonite phases of ThSiO and in achieving the first reversibility of the high-low-temperature forms of NbO. Such stresses do not alter noticeably equilibrium, as shown previously by the examples of the calcite-aragonite and quartz-coesite transitions, among others, but do contribute markedly to increasing reaction rates at low temperatures. This is further illustrated in a kinetic study of the PbO-III transition at 40 kb. from 25 to 400 C.
30081067|The P and U contents and the texture of cumulates have been used to document variations in residual porosity in the Jimberlana Intrusion. The results show that rocks with low residual porosity (adcumulate textures) occur where heat loss through the floor of the chamber was low or where the viscosity of the melt from which they crystallized was low. Low residual porosity also correlates with the appearance of plagio-clase as a cumulus phase and with zones of well-developed rhythmic layering. It is suggested that the initial porosity of cumulates is controlled by the balance between nucleation and crystal growth at the crystalliquid interface. Low initial porosity represents attainment of textural equilibrium and forms when adjacent crystals at the top of the cumulate pile continue to grow, expelling the intercumulus magma in the process. High initial porosities develop when new crystals nucleate at the top of the crystal pile before a high proportion of the intercumulus magma is expelled. Low viscosity in the melt, low thermal gradients in the zone of crystallization, and vigorous convection assist the attainment of textural equilibrium and favor the formation of adcumulate textures. Where initial porosities are high they may subsequently be reduced by secondary processes such as annealing or compaction of the crystal pile unless the crystal pile is protected by the early crystallization of intercumulus minerals. The residual porosity of cumulates has an important influence on the efficiency of fractional crystallization. For orthocumulate fractional crystallization, the concentration of an element in melt
30068692|Development of the San Andreas transform by rise-trench encounter in coastal California influenced the structural evolution of a large region within the adjacent continent. Continuation of arc magmatism and tectonism depends upon the presence of a subducted slab of lithosphere at depth beneath an arc-trench system. The lack of subduction at the transform plate boundary along the California continental margin led to the growth of a slab-free region beneath the part of the continental block adjacent to the San Andreas transform. Geometric analysis based on ideal assumptions predicts that generation of a lengthening transform by rise-trench encounter will also generate an expanding triangular hole or window in the slab of lithosphere subducted beneath the continent. One leg of the slab-window is the adjacent transform, but the orientations and lengths of the other two legs depend upon the relative motions of the three plates involved. By inference, arc volcanism and tectonism cannot persist across the no-slab area at the surface above the slab-window. The actual configuration of the slab-free region adjacent to the transform will depart from ideal predictions where adjustments to the conditions of rise-trench encounter involve changes in the motions of surface plates or subterranean ruptures in subducted slabs. The extent of the expanding slab-free region adjacent to the San Andreas transform can be reconstructed through time from detailed knowledge of oceanic plate boundaries and motions offshore. The progressive switchoff of Neogene arc volcanism conformed to expected patterns in time and space when the age of oceanic lithosphere being consumed near the coast is taken into account. The extent of the growing no-slab area at the surface above the widening slab-window at depth has been largely coextensive with the gradually expanding Basin and Range province of extensional tectonism and bimodal volcanism. Diapiric upwelling of asthenosphere through the evolving slab-window in the subducted lithosphere probably influenced magma genesis and geodynamic behavior within the slab-free region. Bulk uplift of the adjacent Sierra Nevada and the nearby Colorado Plateau, as well as opening of the Rio Grande Rift, were possibly related to the same mantle processes.
30060029|A 9 km length of the fast-slipping (152 mm/yr) Quebrada transform fault zone near 4S on the East Pacific Rise was examined with deeply towed sonars and cameras. The fault zone occupies a 7 km-wide transform valley, which is a graben with step-faulted walls thickly mantled by pillow-basalt talus. Left-lateral strike-slip faulting is concentrated in a single narrow (< 200 m-wide) crush belt near the foot of the younger wall. The fault outcrops within a 20-50 m deep furrow that parallels the direction of plate separation and is similar to the topographic "rifts'* along some continental strike-slip faults. The older, deeper, part of the valley floor, south of the active strike-slip fault, has been broken into secondary horsts and grabens by tensional faults that are 45 oblique to the strike-slip trend. The valley floor has experienced differential sediment deposition from an eastward bottom current, and part of the deepest graben has been flooded with young pahoehoe flows. There is increased volcanism in fast-slipping transform fault zones near a rise crest, where the axial ridge characteristic of fast spreading is prolonged into an oblique axis of intrusion and extrusion that partly fills the transform valley and builds a fracture ridge.
10.1086/674801|Detrital zircon U-Pb ages of six sedimentary rocks in the northern Yangtze Block reveal three major age groups of 740890 Ma, 1.92.1 Ga, and 2.42.55 Ga and two minor groups of 2.62.7 and 2.93.1 Ga. Although Lu-Hf isotope analysis suggest both juvenile crustal growth and reworking of old crust for all the age populations, juvenile input occurred mainly in the Archean and Neoproterozoic time, whereas Paleoproterozoic is a period dominated by recycling of preexisting crust. The predominant Neoproterozoic detritus is mainly derived from coeval igneous rocks distributed along the western and northwestern margin of the Yangtze Block. However, most of the pre-Neoproterozoic sediments cannot be matched with exposed basement rocks within the Yangtze Block. The similar age patterns of the sedimentary rocks in this study imply only a slight variation in the source regions from the Neoproterozoic to Silurian.
30068765|Volcanic and sedimentary rocks in the Slave Province, collectively termed the Yellowknife Supergroup, have long been considered to represent laterally continuous and correlative, stratigraphically coherent homoclinal sequences. Correlation based on the lithologic analysis of certain distinctive units has been most intensely applied to the Yellowknife volcanic belt in the southern Slave Province. U-Pb zircon data for seven samples collected from within the belt are reported here. The distinctiveness of the Townsite Formation, a term applied to three lenticles of rhyodacitic to dacitic tuffs, breccias, and pillowed flows, in comparison to the overlying and underlying tholeiitic basalts (Kam Group), has led to its use as a key marker unit for stratigraphic correlations and palinspastic restorations of offsets on Proterozoic faults in the area. A sample from each of the three segments was collected for U-Pb zircon geochronology. In addition, numerous thinner tuffaceous beds from the Kam Group were also dated. Upper intercept ages of
30070754|The watershed of Sawmill Brook is undergoing urbanization that has increased the frequency of bankfull discharge. The increased runoff is causing extensive bank erosion in the main channel that has increased the size of the bed material and the rate of bedload discharge. The increased frequency of moderate floods, the channel widening, and the change in the sediment transport regime is causing a change from a meandering to a braided channel pattern. With continued urbanization of the basin the present disequilibrium of the channel will be enhanced resulting in an unstable channel pattern for Sawmill Brook.
30067243|Three stages of peneplanation, representing the erosional history of north Idaho mountains, are discussed in this article. These mountains belong to the maturely dissected plateau type and compose a maze of ridges attaining accordant summit levels. The oldest erosion surface or peneplain is recorded on the crest of the highest mountain ridges and was formed apparently near the close of Cretaceous time. A second peneplain is represented on the crests of ridges of lower elevation and was probably completed by the end of Eocene time. A third erosion surface on still lower ridge tops records the bottoms of old-age valleys carved in the earlier peneplains, most likely in early Miocene time. The third surface has been maturely dissected by the present streams, but no peneplain of younger age has been developed. This history differs from that recorded in the adjoining mountains of southern and central Idaho where the summit ridges in general represent a peneplain of post-Miocene or Pliocene age.
30065660|Sedimentary sorting produces alternating shales and sandstones with complementary chemistries. The preferential partitioning of quartz and zircon in the coarse-grained fraction of the sediments results in a strong fractionation between
30059358|Differences in concepts of many geomorphic processes are attributed in part to the widespread use of metaphor, which encourages superficial perception and faulty interpretations. Some terms, such as "slope retreat," seem to animate the landscape and to muddle our inferences. By recognizing the expediency of metaphor and its indelible place in our language and by trying to discipline our thoughts, we might escape the illusion that we adequately understand geomorphic processes.
30080907|Simple graphical methods are given for transforming chord measurements into representation of grain-size distributions. These methods may be applied to infinite varieties of grain size and result in volume percentage frequencies.
30080890|A north-south range of limestone hills separates two plains of volcanic mud flows which bury the lower hill slopes. Deep barrancas eroded in the western volcanic plain end in "resumideros" where two large torrential (in the rainy season) rivers disappear into the basal slopes of the limestone hills, only to emerge on the eastern side of the range as equally torrential streams, transporting boulders a meter in diameter through their subterranean courses. Yet the "caves" they use are so small that traverse is possible only during the dry season, and then only with difficulty. In contrast are two capacious dry caves in the same range, possessing no trace of former stream currents. A fifth cave has a captured surface stream using a subterranean gorge to transect a much larger and readily enterable portion that lacks all evidence of stream work and is the connecting link in cave theory for the region. The dry caves are older than the erosional shaping of the limestone range, therefore much older than the emplacement of the volcanic agglomerate. They are entirely of phreatic origin. The subterranean river courses are postvolcanic perforations of the range, largely of vadose development but possessing evidence that prevolcanic phreatic chambers were utilized in developing the underground courses of today. Two phreatic and two vadose episodes for the older caves are read from the topography.
30056415|Snow, sliding in considerable mass down steeply inclined stratification plane surfaces of limestone, has produced, with the aid of rock tools, striations identical with those due to glacial action. The boulders which caused the marks were found in place at the end of the striations.
30085000|Although soil creep is widely thought to be an important agent in hillside development, its rate has rarely been measured. The role of creep therefore has been a subject for speculation, unsupported by evidence. In this paper, a theoretical model of soil creep is proposed, using soil mechanics principles. This model was tested in a laboratory study, which provided moderate support for the theory. Creep was also measured in two ways at each of fifty sites in Kirkcudbrightshire, southwest Scotland, over a period of 2 years. Soil moisture was shown to be significantly related to changes in soil moisture, and was significantly downhill, averaging
30063943|In recent years several investigators have proposed that carbonatites and kimberlites may be genetically related, proposals based on field, petrographic, and phase equilibria studies. Isotopic studies of carbonate minerals associated with kimberlites are rare, however. The calcite associated with kimberlite at Bachelor Lake, Quebec, has been interpreted by Watson (1955, 1967) from geological and textural evidence as primary; and twenty samples have been analyzed with the following results:
30056904|The deposits containing the classic Villafranchian fauna in Italy (Po Valley, upper and lower Arno Valley, and elsewhere in the peninsula), the Sane Valley of eastern France, and the Puy-en-Velay Basin (Haute-Loire) of central France not only consistently overlie sediments laid down during Upper Pliocene times but also are, in turn, immediately overlain by deposits that clearly belong to the first interglacial (Cromer Forest-Bed-Saint Prestian) stage. With the exception of peninsular Italy, where a marine regime still prevailed, the beds in question, of continental facies and belonging to a Villafranchian stage, represent a comparatively sudden break in the long sedimentary cycle that had prevailed in southern and southwestern Europe throughout Middle and Upper Pliocene (Plaisancian-Astian) times. During the Villafranchian stage, a marked lowering of the temperature occurred, supporting the view that the deposits laid down at this time were accumulated under conditions of glaciation in northern Europe, the Alps, and the Pyrenees. Furthermore, immediately prior to this phase of climatic change, a series of orogenic movements, apparently connected with a time of marine regression, profoundly modified the entire Apennine region. On the basis of these facts, the Villafranchian stage should not be retained in the Pliocene but should be considered basal Pleistocene.
30071233|In the past, midcontinent cyclothems have been defined on the basis of cyclic facies patterns, rather than discontinuity surfaces. Sequence stratigraphic concepts, although offering a potential means of recognizing and correlating cycle boundaries, have proven difficult to apply to the lower Permian cyclothems of the midcontinent. The cycles of the lower Permian of Kansas are dominated by very shallow marine and paralic facies with a multitude of subaerial exposure surfaces ranging from desiccation cracks to welldeveloped paleosols. Meterscale shallowingupward cycles (parasequences) are prominent, and most are capped by subaerial exposure surfaces. Furthermore, incised valleys and valley fills are conspicuously absent. Sequence boundaries are usually equated with surfaces recording maximum relative sealevel lowstand. Within a stacked series of paleosols this would presumably coincide with the most mature paleosol profile. However, relative maturity is difficult to assess if the paleosols were developed under differing topographic or climatic conditions and/or truncated by subsequent transgression. Alternatively, cyclothem boundaries could be defined at the prominent marine flooding surfaces that overlie these paleosolbearing intervals. These surfaces are overlain by fossiliferous marine limestones and are typically associated with intraclastic beds. They are equivalent to the transgressive surfaces of sequence terminology and provide more easily recognized and correlated boundaries. The use of transgressive surfaces rather than lowstand unconformities may provide a more practical application of the sequence model to midcontinent Permian cycles.
30084988|Laboratory and field tests have been undertaken in order to test the new theory proposed by Bruun which offers dimensional relationships to the process of sea-level rise as a cause of shore erosion, in contrast to the classic Johnsonian concept. Bruun holds that when an equilibrium profile is developed, (a) there is a shoreward displacement of the beach profile as the upper beach is eroded; (b) the material eroded from the upper beach is equal in volume to the material deposited on the nearshore bottom; (c) the rise of the near-shore bottom as a result of this deposition is equal to the rise in sea level, thus maintaining a constant water depth in that area. In field investigations, the variation between neap and spring low tide was utilized as a short-term model of sea-level rise in obtaining profiles on two dissimilar Cape Cod beaches. Scuba gear and a newly devised profiling technique were employed to obtain precise control in this phase of the study. Laboratory tests were conducted on two small-scale wave basins in coordination with the beach surveys. First-order determinations, based on combined field and laboratory data, affirm the Bruun theory of predic table shore erosion following a rise in sea level.
30058988|The valley of the preglacial Missouri River can be traced from North Dakota into southeastern Saskatchewan. The preglacial Missouri River was joined by the preglacial Yellowstone River at a point about 15 miles north of the international border. Downstream from the junction the preglacial Missouri River flowed north of a highland in the vicinity of Estevan before entering Manitoba, where it joined the Red River to drain into Hudson Bay. Bedrock-surface contours show that the Missouri Coteau and Moose Mountain were uplands separated by a lowland, as at present.
30064962|The term orientometer is used for an apparatus for measuring orientations on specimens of hand-specimen size. Two simple orientometers are described and their usefulness for determining lineations is illustrated by examples in which orientations of elongate fossils and alignment and imbrication of elliptical ooliths are studied.
30058968|The cherts of the upper portion of the Boone formation at Carthage have developed largely, if not wholly, by replacement, with frequent preservation within them of fossils and bedding. Their distribution is controlled largely by bedding and not at all by joints or weathering surfaces. Many of them alternate with stylolites along bedding directions, were developed earlier than these particular stylolites, and have been impressed into the limestone above and below by solution of the latter concomitant with the growth of the associated stylolites. Some cherts of otherwise similar appearance show stylolitic borders and have developed after the stylolites by replacement up to the stylolitic partings. Two episodes of chert development are not inferred, but rather an overlap of chert and stylolite formation. Relations of these cherts to mineralization in near-by mines are briefly discussed.
30067905|A computer program which plots electron microprobe elemental profiles in linear or semilogarithmic modes is described. The program allows plotting of multiple sets of data in a wide variety of modes controlled by options selected by the user.
30061943|The hypothesis that unconsolidated cumulus olivine crystals can be entrained into a venting magma is investigated from a physical standpoint. Entrainment is predicted to occur when the viscous stress acting over the surface of crystals immediately beneath the chamber outlet overcomes their weight. For magma of kinematic viscosity v and density p erupting at a rate g, crystals of radius a and density
30063904|Apatite fissiontrack (AFT) ages of 178 to 70 Ma for 108 samples from the Adirondack Mountains and eastern New York State, Vermont, western Massachusetts and Connecticut, and western New Hampshire indicate that widespread unroofing occurred throughout the region during the Middle Jurassic to Late Cretaceous. Additionally, (UTh)/He ages of 167 to 85 Ma were determined on nine of those samples and support cooling rates of 1.82.2C/m.yr. from 100 to 65C during the Middle Jurassic to Late Cretaceous. Assuming a geothermal gradient of 25C/km, unroofing rates for the region were estimated to be, on average, 0.070.08 km/m.yr. The AFT age discontinuities between the High Peaks region and the fault dissected southeastern Adirondack Mountains and along the Ammonoosuc fault in the Connecticut River valley between Vermont and New Hampshire suggest differential unroofing that may have been accommodated by fault reactivation syn/postLate Cretaceous time after the youngest AFT ages, 82 and 70 Ma, respectively. A preliminary trend of increasing AFT age from west to east across New Hampshire is consistent with previously published AFT age data from the Bronson Hill terrane south of the study area in Massachusetts and Connecticut, and it may indicate a similar downtotheeast rotation in the region. Areas of Early to Late Cretaceous AFT and (UTh)/He ages determined in this study correspond to areas of currently thin lithosphere overlying lowvelocity mantle that may be a remnant of lithospheric heating associated with the Great Meteor hotspot, which was active during that time. The regional unroofing observed during the Early to Late Cretaceous is inferred to have occurred during a time of change in the local stress field from one of extension pre/synhotspot heating to one of horizontal compression as shown by midCretaceous fault activity.
10.1086/665798|The North Coast Schist of Tobago is part of the leading edge of the Caribbean Plate, which has been in oblique collision with northern South America for much of the Cenozoic. The North Coast Schist is dominated by two volcanic formations metamorphosed under greenschist-facies conditions during later deformation. The Parlatuvier Formation mostly consists of mafic to intermediate tuffs and tuff breccias with a U-Pb zircon ID-TIMS age of
30058569|Chink-faceted pebbles were first identified as due to restricted abrasion of smaller pebbles and rock fragments between the larger and more stable boulders of coarse beach deposits. Similar pebbles were later found in stream channels in special situations where restricted mutual rubbing was favored. Further observations show that they occur sparingly in certain places in the steeper parts of many rocky channels in Hawaii. Most interesting and specialized is the occurrence of such pebbles in small groups in potholes and crevices in the faces of waterfalls, where they are continuously agitated by the normal low-water flow that falls close to the rock face. Here they suffer effective restricted abrasion but are protected against being wholly dislodged during floods, since the floodwater is thrown farther out from the rock and passes clear of the crevices in which the pebbles are lodged. Flu via tile chink-faceted pebbles are probably more irregular and less rounded in general shape than are those of marine origin.
30065536|A geochronologic study of blueschists from west-central Baja California has provided constraints on the timing of high-pressure, low-temperature metamorphism and the subsequent uplift of this subduction complex. Mineral separates from coherent blueschists and blueschist blocks enclosed in serpentinite melange were analyzed by
30078338|An originally conformable sequence of argillite-diamictite-hyaloclastite-pillow breccia-pillow basalt exists in a 3 km-long, up to 200 m-thick, fault-bounded slab among Franciscan rocks 6 km south of the Klamath River mouth. Argillite and diamictite grade laterally into one another over short distances. Diamictite contains clasts of chert and graywacke that exhibit detrital rounding. Greenstone clasts are irregularly shaped and compositionally similar to overlying volcanic rocks. Hyaloclastite consists of globules and granules of altered basalt and basaltic glass with plagioclase phenocrysts, and minor plagioclase crystals and altered glass. The hyaloclastite is complexly interstratified with diamictite, and features suggesting soft-sediment deformation exist. Locally, tongues of chloritized basaltic glass have intruded diamictite matrix. Pillow breccia has hyaloclastite matrix; breccia fragments and whole pillows are abundant at the top of the sequence. Trace element geochemical data suggest that the sequence originated by somewhat alkalic within-plate ocean volcanism. Volcanic rocks were mixed with and deposited on seafloor muds that locally were pebbly before the sequence was incorporated into the Franciscan Complex. Blocks containing complexly deformed mixtures of argillite and volcanic rocks, common in Franciscan and other Cordilleran melanges, may have had a similar origin.
30078330|Several previous studies have shown that sandstones from different tectonic settings possess characteristic chemistry, particularly
30081297|Glacial till of early Pleistocene age has been discovered in various sections of the Rocky Mountain region. The distribution and topographic relations of these ancient deposits indicate that the early glaciers existed before the modern valleys and canyons were developed. Ice formed in mountains which have been greatly modified or completely removed during subsequent time. The widely scattered remnants of early drift record the most extensive development of ice in the mountains and mark the opening of the Pleistocene in the Rocky Mountain region.
30065812|The spectral brightness of West Turkmenian arenaceous rocks can be used to correlate petrography and facies. Perhaps spectral brightness could be used as a petrographic parameter in reconstructing the environments of sedimentation.
30059121|The application of automatic control theory to the processes of cliff erosion observed in a wave tank experiment led to the following basic relation:
30070780|Volcanic cycles of doming and eruption of the Miocene Kisingiri volcano produced three sedimentary cycles recorded in the volcaniclastic strata of Rusinga and Mfangano Islands, Lake Victoria, Kenya. Each of the three cycles began with the deposition of cobble and boulder conglomerates shed from the volcanically domed Precambrian basement, followed by deposition of pyroclastic and volcaniclastic strata, representing nephelinite-carbonatite eruption of the Kisingiri volcano. Volcanogenic strata produced by the first two cycles (lower two-thirds of the Rusinga Group) are predominantly fine-grained tuffs and medium-grained volcaniclastic deposits, indicating alluvial deposition from a low-relief volcanic edifice. The third cycle is dominated by boulder debris flows, lava flows, and minor tuffaceous beds (upper part of the Rusinga Group and overlying Kisingiri Group). This last cycle records the formation of the high-relief Kisingiri stratocone, much of which is preserved in the dissected flanks of the volcano. The first two cycles are recorded in distal apron deposits but are not well preserved in the core of the volcano. Second-order sedimentary cycles, consisting of fining-upward sequences (5-10 m thick) of granular tuffaceous sandstones and conglomerates that fine into siltstones, stacked floodplain paleosols, and airfall tuff beds, dominate the strata of the first two cycles. These fining-upward sequences represent alluvial aggradation that accompanied and followed eruptive episodes that were much shorter in duration than the main cycles of doming and eruption.
30062605|Building and lengthening of the superaqueous portion of a spit or bar is caused by the transportation of material from the shore toward the distal end of the structure by the swash and backwash when the waves break obliquely on the shore. If the water surface has a constant elevation, the submerged part of a spit or bar is not brought above the surface by waves moving in a direction perpendicular to its axis. Such wave action results only in widening the submerged ridge. Hooks are caused by the work of refracted waves which cause transportation of material across the end of the spit. A change of wind direction or the presence of tidal or hydraulic currents is not necessary to their building, although if such currents are present they may aid the process. Looped bars are built by refracted waves in the same way as are hooks. However, in the looped bar the process operates more uniformly and continues until the bar rejoins the shore. The windward end of a looped bar originates in shallow water on a gently sloping bottom. The location of the point at which the return to shore begins depends on the depth of water, the amount of sediment being carried by beach drifting, and the energy of the waves. Extensive observations indicate that the lengthening of spits and bars takes place only when the waves move in a direction such that they cause the swash and backwash to move material along the shore toward the end of the spit. Waves from any other direction cause it to be widened and shortened.
30060214|The Greater Antilles Outer Ridge in the southwestern North Atlantic Ocean is a thick, topographically isolated prism of acoustically transparent sediment. Cores from the ridge contain finegrained, homogeneous brownish sediments with cyclic variations in carbonate content (generally 0%-30%). The sediment is enriched in organic carbon (up to 2%) and in the clay minerals, chlorite and illite, suggesting that the sediment was derived from the northeastern continental margin of North America and transported south to the outer ridge by the Western Boundary Undercurrent. Pleistocene and Holocene sediments have accumulated at rates up to 30 cm/1,000 years on the western outer ridge and 6 cm/1,000 years on the eastern sector in areas where the Western Boundary Undercurrent is presently active. Sedimentation rates are much lower in adjacent areas not affected by the abyssal currents. The distribution of suspended sediment in the currents suggests that it is the immediate source for sediment deposited on the outer ridge. Composition of the suspended matter is similar to the bottom sediment and indicates a northern provenance. Average current speeds (< 10 cm/sec) and current patterns presently recorded over the outer ridge are consistent with rapid deposition of the fine-grained suspended sediment from the Western Boundary Undercurrent.
30060898|With respect to the modes of occurrence, petrographical and chemical characteristics, and the responses during tectonic movements, the Southwestern Outer Zone-type Miocene granitic rocks, which are mainly within the Shimanto major belt in the outer zone of Southwest Japan, have characteristics different from either the synkinematic granitic rocks of the Hidaka major belt in northern Japan or the trondhjemitic rocks of the green tuff region in northeastern Japan, though the developmental stages of the Shimanto, Hidaka and Green Tuff orogenies are about contemporaneous with Alpine orogeny in relation to tectonic events on a world-wide basis. The Southwestern Outer Zone-type granitic rocks have not been affected either by significant regional metamorphism or by post-emplacement deformation. The kinds of xenoliths that occur in the granitic rocks, and the contamination-trends of the rocks, considered in the light of experimental studies on rock melting make it likely that the magmas were generated by early partial melting of felsic materials or geo-synclinal sediments plus later assimilation and contamination. The granitic rocks of the Southwestern Outer Zone-type were formed by post-kinematic acid plutonism of the Shimanto orogeny, and represent one of a series of products of the Alpine orogenic movement in the Circum-Pacific regions.
30058438|The mechanical properties of ice, particularly viscosity, depend on Its structure and texture. The study of ice petrofabrics is an essential auxiliary to all experimental work on ice mechanics and is of value in the study of glacier flow. A common interlocking type of glacier ice structure is described in detail. Crystal orientation patterns of dead and living ice are illustrated. There is need for field and laboratory work to correlate stress-strain and crystal-orientation patterns. This paper is mainly a description of ice petrofabric techniques for field and laboratory use.
30056953|Spherical masses of clay, "clay balls," are produced under certain conditions by the action of water, and, as such, have been found fossilized. In some cases, accretion seems to be the chief factor in their formation; in others, a wearing away of the projecting parts. In arroyo development the balls are formed by the latter method.
30060854|Malaya occupies two tectonic contexts. It constitutes part of an orogenic belt extending northward through west Thailand, east Burma, and southwest China and southward into Indonesia. This belt was cratonized by Late Triassic orogeny and plutonism so that, subsequently, Malaya formed part of the stable Sunda Shield. The recorded geological history of Malaya begins with a Cambrian to Silurian orthoquartz-ite-carbonate fades, largely predating geosynclinal conditions which were apparently initiated in the latter half of the Ordovician period. Throughout its existence the geosyncline comprised a eugeosynclinal zone located in the eastern and axial parts of the country and a miogeosynclinal zone situated in western Malaya. The earliest known component of the geosynclinal succession is an Ordovician to Lower Devonian euxinic facies in the miogeosyncline. This facies passes up into flysch of Middle Devonian to Early Carboniferous age. In the eugeosyncline, the oldest dated rocks are Lower Devonian shales, cherts and ophiolites, succeeded by Lower Carboniferous shales and limestones. A Taconic-type orogeny, including granite emplacement, occurred in the Middle to Late Carboniferous, apparently consolidating much of the region so that shelflike conditions obtained in the Permian, when widespread shallow-water limestone was laid down. Geosynclinal conditions were fully restored in the early part of the Trias, this reversion being accompanied by renewed tectonic and plutonic activity. Near the end of the Trias, geosynclinal evolution culminated in a second and more intensive orogenic-plutonic revolution whereby the peninsular tract became finally stabilized. The ensuing generation of postorogenic, molasse-like sedimentary rocks was interrupted by uplift, which may have coincided with the emplacement of late granitic stocks, including those responsible for tin mineralization. Epeirogenic uplift and warping took place near the close of the Mesozoic era. since when Malaya has constituted, in the main, an erosional province, Cainozoic strata here being nonmarine in character and limited in extent.
30068861|A review of past terminology and previous petrological studies suggests that quartzite should be classified descriptively as both a sedimentary and a metamorphic rock. Quartzite is identified in the field as a quartzrich rock (exclusive of chert and vein quartz) that is exceptionally hard and, when broken by a rock hammer, fractures irregularly through both grains and cement (where present) to form an irregular or conchoidal fracture surface. Quartzite is differentiated from quartzose sandstone (arenite), which is softer and fractures around individual grains, and from chert and vein quartz by a bright vitreous luster. Quartzite is classified further on the basis of microscopic features into orthoquartzite and metaquartzite by the presence of clastic and metamorphic microtextures, respectively. Lowgrade, mediumgrade, and highgrade subtypes of metaquartzite are differentiated by mortar, foam, and porphyroblastic microtextures, respectively. Composition is not used as a criterion for classification; hence, quartzite may contain a significant proportion (>10%) of nonquartz minerals. As defined here, quartzite is readily identified by megascopic features in outcrop, and subtypes of quartzite can be distinguished microscopically, even when the geologic context of the sample is unknown.
30079589|Investigation shows that, if all the water vapor in the atmosphere were returned to the sea, sea-level would rise less than 1 foot. The increased salinity of the ocean from pre-Cambrian times to the present has had a negligible effect on the amount of water vapor in the atmosphere.
30081302|A large landslip occurred in prehistoric times in the Saidmarreh district of Luristan (lat. 33 0' N.; long. 47 30' E.). About 5 cubic miles of Lower Miocene limestone and Eocene marly limestone fell off the northern flank of the Kabir Kuh anticline and left a scar about 9 miles long. The sheet of debris, 64 square miles in area, blocks the synclinal valley and has ridden up and over the plunging end of the anticlinal range known as Kuh Dufarash. Three lakes were impounded but have since been drained, either by seepage or as their overflow cut a gorge through the obstruction. The large angular blocks occurring as far as 9 miles from their point of origin, the big area occupied by the landslip material, and the considerable vertical as well as lateral carriage it has experienced make this landslip of more than local interest.
30066065|The Bruun Rule on shore erosion states that for a beach and nearshore profile at equilibrium, as water level rises, sediments are eroded from the beach and deposited in the nearshore zone; in turn, the nearshore bottom is elevated in direct proportion to the rise in water level. The Rule was tested under field conditions. At Terry Andrae State Park, Wisconsin, nearshore profiles in Lake Michigan were surveyed once a week from April through July, 1971 as lake water level seasonally rose. The nearshore zone consists of two longshore bars which parallel the shore. The Bruun Rule is applicable in the zone of the first longshore bar system. As lake water level rose, the bars advanced landward, and from the base of the foreshore to the crest of the first bar, the elevation of the nearshore bottom increased. On the lakeward slope of the first bar crest, no deposition or erosion occurred. The elevation of the second bar crest remained constant as water level rose.
JG80231|The Southern Ocean is considered to be the canary in the coal mine with respect to the first effects of ocean acidification (OA). This vulnerability is due to naturally low carbonate ion concentrations that result from the effect of low temperature on acid-base dissociation coefficients, from the high solubility of CO
30062319|The dynamics of lithospheric plate motions, as denned by plate tectonic theory, appear to exert a fundamental control on many geologic processes, including sulfide ore deposition. An analysis of basic types of sulfide ore deposits, in relation to various plate tectonic regimes reveals a systematic pattern. The calc-alkaline magmatism apparently generated via the subduction process at convergent plate boundaries gives rise, under favorable circumstances, to Kuroko-type (conformable massive sulfide) deposits in submarine volcanic environments, and Cordilleran-type (postmagmatic) ore deposits in epizonal plutonic environments. Porphyry copper deposits, an important subclass of Cordilleran-type deposits, exhibit a remarkable spatial relationship to present or former convergent plate boundary regimes. Certain copper-nickel deposits occurring in ultramafic extrusive or penecontemporaneous intrusive rocks also appear to be related to plate convergence. Sulfide ore deposits generated at divergent plate boundaries (spreading-center systems) are apparently rare, but this may be a function of their submarine habitat. No examples of sulfide ore deposits formed at transform plate boundaries are known. Stratiform copper deposits and most Mississippi Valley-type lead-zinc deposits are generated in continental intraplate environments. Magmatic deposits in layered mafic complexes also occur in intraplate environments, where spreading-center activity was initiated but failed to develop further. Many gold deposits in volcanic arc sequences of greenstone type can be related to a two-stage concentration process operative at inferred convergent plate boundaries. Plate tectonic theory may provide insights into the generation of many metallogenic provinces, and detailed studies of these provinces and their constituent ore deposits will probably provide insights into the processes operative at some plate boundaries. Finally, the plate tectonic approach to the generation and distribution of sulfide ore deposits has much to offer the exploration geologist.
30061131|At Basler Lake, Northwest Territories, Canada, folded and metamorphosed graywackes and slates of the Yellowknife Group are unconformably overlain by unmetamorphosed sediments of the Snare Group; both groups of rocks are Precambrian in age. Snare Group rocks have been folded into concentric, cylindrical folds. This Snare deformation has modified the already deformed Yellowknife rocks to form conic folds in the latter. The fold axes of the cylindrical Snare and conic Yellowknife folds are parallel and are contained within a common axial plane.
30068449|The high-temperature equilibrium relationships in the systems
30058234|During the last 20 years geologists have used statistical methods mainly as an aid in summarizing large numbers of observations in petrology and also to some extent in other fields. In addition to summarizing data, statistics provides methods for analysis of data; and quantitative interpretations of many kinds of geologic data are possible by the use of modern techniques of statistical analysis The confidence interval provides a method for stating precisely what we mean when we present an estimate of some quantity (e.g., a mineral frequency) where the estimate is based on sample data. The terms "rare" or "abundant" as applied to frequency data can be replaced with a confidence interval, and this will be an exact statement of the probability of error involved in the estimate. Acceptance sampling is the basis of industrial quality control, and the methods involved are useful when decisions must be made on the basis of a few samples. For example, an acceptance-sampling plan could be useful in providing a means for deciding whether or not a particular gravel deposit is suitable for use as concrete aggregate or whether or not a piece of well core comes from a certain formation, etc. The usefulness for geologists in these statistical methods centers in the fact that both estimates by confidence intervals and the decisions by acceptance sampling are expressed in a precise manner. We always know what the chances are of being wrong when we make the estimate or the decision.
30068814|Stratigraphic and provenance data from Lower Cretaceous rocks in Utah and Colorado and structural evidence from the Sevier belt in westcentral Utah allow recognition of the ties between early thrustbelt evolution and forelandbasin system development. Regional isopach patterns of Lower Cretaceous strata define forelandbasin system depozones. Lower Cretaceous strata in westcentral Utah that thicken westward from 100 m to 1.2 km were deposited within the flexurally subsiding foredeep depozone. Correlative units in eastern Utah and western Colorado <100 m thick were deposited in the forebulge depozone while Lower Cretaceous rocks in central Colorado >100 m thick were deposited in the backbulge depozone. These thickness trends indicate the Lower Cretaceous forelandbasin system consisted of a foredeep 100180 km wide and forebulge 260460 km wide. A computergenerated flexural model of the forelandbasin system produces a reasonable match of the observed basin geometry using a 400kmwide load with a maximum elevation of 2.5 km located in western Utah. The load used in the model is similar to restored, balanced structural cross sections of the Sevier thrust belt that indicate thrust loads associated with the Canyon Range and Pavant thrusts were at the same location and of similar magnitude during Early Cretaceous time.
30070758|Silicic tuffs of the southern Great Basin and basalts of the Columbia River Plateau are under investigation as potential host rocks for high- and intermediate-level radioactive wastes. Non-welded and partially welded tuffs may contain major amounts (>50%) of the zeolite minerals: clinoptilolite, mordenite, and analcime. Densely welded tuffs and some basalt flows may contain clinoptilolite as fracture filling which limits permeability of these rocks. The cation exchange properties of these zeolite minerals allow them to pose a natural barrier to the migration of cationic species of various radionuclides in aqueous solutions. However, these minerals are unstable at elevated temperatures and at low water vapor pressures, and they may break down either by reversible dehydration or by irreversible mineralogical reactions. All of the breakdown reactions occurring with increased temperature involve a net volume reduction and evolution of fluids. Thus, they may provide both a pathway (shrinkage fractures) and a driving force (fluid pressure) for release of radionuclides to the biosphere. These reactions may be avoided by keeping zeolite-bearing horizons saturated with water and below about 85C. This may restrict allowable gross thermal loadings in radioactive waste repositories in zeolite-bearing volcanic rocks.
JG80150|The known dimensions of hydrothermal fluid circulation associated with emplacement of the 2.055-Ga Bushveld Igneous Complex (BIC) are extended with new isotopic ages for Paleoproterozoic mineral deposits in wallrocks (Transvaal Supergroup) surrounding the BIC. A fluorite-rich Mississippi Valleytype (MVT) deposit in the Zeerust district, dated at 2.05 Ga (Sm-Nd isochron age), has Nd isotopic compositions that are identical to coeval F-rich Lebowa Granite late in the BIC intrusive sequence, suggesting transport of magmatic fluids 100 km beyond the present margins of the BIC. Hydrothermal illite from the Zn-Pb MVT Bushy Park deposit, dated at 2.05 Ga by K-Ar geochronology, links widespread MVT deposits of the Kaapvaal craton to large-scale basinal brine circulation associated with emplacement of the BIC. These data, in combination with gold vein, phosphate mineral, and paleomagnetic resetting ages, indicate a regional-scale Bushveld-age hydrothermal system circulating 700 km outward from the present margins of the BIC.
30057074|A technique is described by which X-ray diffraction studies may be made of substances at pressures in the neighborhood of 24,000 bars. Potassium iodide transforms from the NaCl structure to the CsCl structure above 18,000 bars. Cadmium displayed no transitions at 16,000 bars. Aragonite and vaterite showed no transition to 24,000 bars. A thermodynamic argument shows calcite II and calcite III to be unstable with respect to aragonite. X-ray patterns of calcite II and thermodynamic evidence are consistent with the interpretation that calcite II is an anion-disordered form of normal calcite.
30068527|Analysis of data from 280 rivers discharging to the ocean indicates that sediment loads/yields are a log-linear function of basin area and maximum elevation of the river basin. Other factors controlling sediment discharge (e.g., climate, runoff) appear to have secondary importance. A notable exception is the influence of human activity, climate, and geology on the rivers draining southern Asia and Oceania. Sediment fluxes from small mountainous rivers, many of which discharge directly onto active margins (e.g., western South and North America and most high-standing oceanic islands), have been greatly underestimated in previous global sediment budgets, perhaps by as much as a factor of three. In contrast, sediment fluxes to the ocean from large rivers (nearly all of which discharge onto passive margins or marginal seas) have been overestimated, as some of the sediment load is subaerially sequestered in subsiding deltas. Before the proliferation of dam construction in the latter half of this century, rivers probably discharged about 20 billion tons of sediment annually to the ocean. Prior to widespread farming and deforestation (beginning 2000-2500 yr ago), however, sediment discharge probably was less than half the present level. Sediments discharged by small mountainous rivers are more likely to escape to the deep sea during high stands of sea level by virtue of a greater impact of episodic events (i.e., flash floods and earthquakes) on small drainage basins and because of the narrow shelves associated with active margins. The resulting delta/fan deposits can be distinctly different than the sedimentary deposits derived from larger rivers that discharge onto passive margins.
30066420|Recent detailed field mapping near Pilarcitos Lake, San Francisco Peninsula, California, indicates that a subduction-related suture between the Salinian block continental fragment and the Franciscan subduction complex may be preserved in the area. In this region, a NE-dipping mylonite zone separates Salinian rocks and structurally overlying Franciscan rocks. Asymmetric augen, pressure shadows, and and s surfaces in the mylonite suggest down-dip movement and a NE over SW sense of shear, indicating the thrusting of Franciscan over Salinian rocks. The mylonite is part of a >1 km wide zone of ductile thrust faulting. These structures may have formed as a result of a collision between the Salinian block and the Franciscan subduction zone, Franciscan rocks being thrust westward over the Salinian block. Because Paleocene rocks are involved in the thrusting and clasts of the mylonitized rocks are present in Upper Paleocene (?) and Eocene in the area, the age of thrusting is bracketed at approximately 50-60 Ma. This collision may represent a major early Tertiary deformational event in the North American Cordillera.
30068038|Scaled isothermal experiments of the internal circulation induced by viscous drag at a diapir/country rock interface are compared with published theoretical studies of flow induced finite deformation inside a rising sphere, and new numerical results are presented for the incremental strain pattern developed in spherical diapirs. The results predict a time-dependent deformation history within rising diapirs that produces finite strains characterized by strong oblate flattening strains at the margin and strong vertical prolate strains in the center with an intervening zone of low plane strain. Finite strains are discussed in terms of the different sub-fabrics expected to form in granitoids after considering the history of rheology and temperature distribution in rising magma. Strong rheological and temperature gradients are predicted for the margins of internally circulating diapirs that can lead to the formation of strong penetrative foliations at the margin, and magmatic or even isotropic fabrics in the interior. The experimental results account for many features normally attributed to ballooning of post-tectonic mesozonal granitoid plutons, as well as suggesting a mechanism for the dispersal, distortion, and mixing of entrained mafic marterial, and the formation of reversely zoned intrusions.
30079505|Misinterpretations of several of Branson's statements are pointed out. The conclusion that no large parts of the red beds are eolian in origin is reiterated, and additional evidences are given. The uncertainty of red-bed correlation is emphasized again, and Dr. Reeside's correlations are shown to be based on extremely insecure data. The relationships of the Popo Agie beds are stated to give no basis for making them a positive division-place in the Chugwater. Present information about red-bed vertebrate fossils is considered insufficient for correlations and age determinations.
30062008|Analyses of sodic amphiboles from a blueschist metamorphic terrain of constant grade in the Tavanli area, Northwest Turkey, show that practically the whole range of sodic amphibole compositions is stable in the glaucophane-lawsonite facies. By analysing sodic amphiboles coexisting with magnetite and hematite, it has proved possible to plot for a constant pressure and temperature an oxygen fugacity isopleth. Through the analyses of sodic amphiboles and reference to the extended oxygen fugacity contours drawn on the Miyashiro compositional diagram, relative rock oxygen fugacities can be obtained. The oxygen fugacity isopleth corresponding to the magnetite/hematite buffer from two blueschist terrains with differing P-T regimes, namely Tavanli in Turkey and Shuksan in Cascades, lies along the same loci on the amphibole diagram indicating that the intrinsic
30055696|Uplift of the Himalayas began at the end of the Mesozoic and has continued until recent times. Tertiary sediments accumulated in a trough along the southern mountain border in what was once the western extension of the Tethys. These sediments are marine at the base, followed by transition beds and a vast thickness of continental deposits. The Salt Range was initiated by an overthrust at the close of the Eocene. At the end of the Tertiary the sediment-filled trough was uplifted and greatly deformed and compressed. This was followed by very rapid peneplanation. Uplift of the Salt Range in Pleistocene times, probably accompanied by igneous intrusion, produced ponded conditions between it and the Himalayas. Important modification of the main drain age lines was produced when this barrier was cut through. Recent deformation in the Salt Range and along the Himalayas has resulted in folding and faulting of the Pleistocene sediments.
30060215|Well-developed offshore bars along the 1,355-km-long Alaskan Arctic coast possess three distinctive forms: (1) multiple parallel bars containing inner and outer bar systems; (2) long, parallel bars occurring in series but attached to the shore at their updrift ends; and (3) snorter en echelon bars attached to the shore. Some short en echelon bars are migrating to the west at a rate of
30065516|The Paleoproterozoic Torngat Orogen of northern Labrador, a segment of the TransHudson Orogen, records the consequences of the convergence and collision of the Rae and Nain cratons and the intervening Burwell Domain. To better characterize the ages of the main lithologies and the timing of metamorphism, multiple samples were collected at sites along a transect across northern Torngat Orogen and analyzed for UPb and SmNd. The results support previous models in which the Burwell Domain is an eastern extension of the Nain Province proper and experienced protracted exhumation between 1877 and 1800 Ma above an eastdipping Abloviak Shear Zone. The steep Kormaktorvik Shear Zone to the east, which separates the Nain Province proper and the Burwell Domain, facilitated late, rapid exhumation of the Nain Province. Ages from multiple samples, phases, and localities indicate that metamorphism traversed similar
30081256|Detrital zircon UPb ages determined by SHRIMP distinguish two clastic sequences among Proterozoic metasedimentary rocks from central Madagascar. The Itremo Group is older: zircon data, stromatolite characteristics, and carbon isotope data all point to a depositional age around 15001700 Ma. The Molo Group is younger, deposited between 620 Ma (the age of the youngest zircon) and 560 Ma (the age of metamorphic overgrowths on detrital cores). Geochronologic provenance analysis of the Itremo Group points to sources in East Africa as well as local sources in central and southern Madagascar but provides no evidence for a detrital contribution from northern and eastern Madagascar nor from southern India. Detrital zircon and sedimentologic similarities between rocks of the Itremo Group and the Zambian Muva Supergroup suggest a lithostratigraphic correlation between the two. The Molo Group has a strong 10001100 Ma detrital signature that also indicates an east African provenance and suggests a Neoproterozoic geographic connection with Sri Lanka but shows no indication of input from the Dharwar craton and eastern Madagascar. Central Madagascar was probably juxtaposed with the Tanzanian craton in the Paleo and Mesoproterozoic, whereas northern and eastern Madagascar were connected to India. Internal assembly of Madagascar postdates Neoproterozoic Molo Group sedimentation and is likely to have occurred at about 560 Ma.
30065701|Methods are described which permit the calculation of the orientation of rock fabrics using the orientations of the traces of the fabric on planxar outcrops. They assume that the total fabric has ellipsoidal geometry. They also permit the calculation of the angle V for the fabric ellipsoid, which is equivalent to the axial angle for the optical indicatrix ellipsoid. Several methods, which use different amounts and types of data, are described. Although here the methods are applied to tectonic fabrics, they are relevant to all fabrics where an overall ellipsoidal geometry can be assumed.
30067407|Although the Arikareean North American land mammal age was first typified in the Great Plains, the succession there contains significant unconformities, a generally poor magnetic record, relatively sparse radioisotopic calibration, and a major faunal hiatus. In the John Day Valley of central Oregon, however, is a thick, remarkably complete sequence of Oligocene through early Miocene strata (the John Day Formation) potentially amenable to addressing these shortcomings and long known to harbor one of the richest records of midTertiary mammals in North America. Since Prothero and Rensbergers first magnetostratigraphic study of the John Day Formation in 1985, new advances in geochronology, together with a more comprehensive suite of paleomagnetic sections keyed to new radioisotopic and biostratigraphic data, have greatly enhanced chronostratigraphic precision. In our attempt to refine John Day chronostratigraphy, we sampled nearly 300 sites for magnetostratigraphy over a 500mthick interval and used several radioisotopically dated volcanic tuffs for our correlation with the geomagnetic polarity timescale. Many of the rocks analyzed showed unusual magnetic behavior, possibly due to the known zeolitization in this region, thereby precluding an abundance of class 1 polarity determinations. Nevertheless, preliminary results indicate that the Turtle Cove Member stratigraphically upward through the lower Kimberly Member extends from late chron C12n through C7n.1r, or from about 30.6 to 24.1 Ma. Intensive radioisotopic and magnetostratigraphic characterization of these strata provides a framework by which the associated biostratigraphy is assessed for biochronological significance relative to fossiliferous successions of the Great Plains, in turn resulting in reassessment of Arikareean subbiochron (Ar1Ar4) boundaries. We present a revision of those boundaries that differs from their traditional timing as a hypothesis for testing in other locations.
30080131|The most general property of any sedimentary sequence is its areal variation of gross lithology. This variation, here termed stratigraphic variability, is investigated in the Upper Chester and Lower Pennsylvanian sediments of a portion of the Eastern Interior Basin with the hierarchical case of the analysis of variance. Using electric log data, the hierarchical case of the analysis of variance segregates the total variability of sandstone and limestone proportion into components associated with increasing increments of area. Variability of Upper Chester and Lower Pennsylvanian sandstones is broadly similar on all but the lowest sampling level. Tectonics appears to be the dominant control on the higher sampling levels, whereas length of section and hydrodynamic factors are most important within a square mile. Because limestone is predominantly an autochthonous rather than allochthonous sediment, its variability is much less. This contrast is also reflected in markedly differing distributions of sandstone and limestone thickness. The practical applications of this methodology are important for determination of confidence limits for one or more wells as samples of areas of variable size and for allocation of sampling in comparative studies.
30078495|The question has been raised whether isolated granulite facies islands, which occur throughout the amphibolite facies of the regional amphibolitetogranulite facies transition zone in the central part of the Bamble sector, southern Norway are the result of prograde or retrograde metamorphism. We have studied one of these islands, the sapphirine granulites at Hauglandsvatn. Despite the preponderance of amphibolite facies assemblages in the surrounding rocks and the small scale of distribution of the granulite facies assemblages, the current assemblage is considered to be prograde, and has developed at the expense of biotite in the regional main foliation, leaving relict biotite separated from quartz by a continuous corona of orthopyroxene and Kfeldspar. Other high temperature, low
30078318|Two types of metallic iron were identified in a collection of samples from the Tertiary iron-bearing basalts of Uivfaq, Disko Island, Greenland. High-carbon iron has 2.9-4.0 wt % carbon and eutectic textures of iron and cohenite (
30062453|Experiments have been conducted on the settling rates of cylindrical-shaped grains in a fluid, having application to the settling of certain heavy minerals and fecal pellets in water. The settling objects were fabricated from circular glass rods with diameters 3-8 mm, giving length to diameter ratios ranging 2-12. Glycerine was used as the fluid in the experiments, yielding Reynolds numbers equivalent to quartz-density silt and fine sand grains of similar shape settling in water. Analysis of the data shows that the settling velocity
30056303|The plateau-like surface of San Pedro Mountain in the northwestern part of the Jemez Mountains of New Mexico is a remnant of an exhumed erosion surface. It is overlain in places by a thin veneer of chert, here named the Pedernal chert, with underlying gravel. The chert and gravel are a part of a thin wedge of Tertiary beds which thickens eastward and extends across the northern spurs of the Jemez Mountains. The rocks of the wedge are correlative with the El Rito formation, Abiquiu tuff, and Santa Fe formation, found in the Rio Grande depression east of the border faults of that trough. The stratigraphy and structure of the Tertiary sedimentary rocks of the wedge reveal in some detail the history of the deformation of the Rio Grande depression. The mountains formed during the Laramide revolution were reduced in early Tertiary time to a low-lying erosion surface or peneplain. A slowly subsiding basin then formed and was maintained until late Tertiary time, when it was broken by the normal faults which now bound the Rio Grande depression, leaving some of the Tertiary basin deposits on the western mountain block. Erosion of the larger part of these Tertiary rocks has left exposed on the summit of San Pedro Mountain a large area of the exhumed early Tertiary peneplain.
30063699|Experiments using heat, heat and pressure, and pressure alone show that heat is most effective in dehydrating gypsum.
30059353|The Wisconsin glacial stage is classified on the basis of stratigraphy into six glacial substages, named, from older to younger, Farmdale, Iowan, Tazewell, Cary, Mankato, and Valders. In this paper names are proposed for the intraglacial substages not previously designated, completing the sequence as follows: These divisions fit the natural succession and provide the basis for historical and climatic interpretations of a broad scope, be they glacial advances, pauses, retreats, stagnation, eustatic changes of sea level, events beyond the ice sheet, changes of biotas, climatic changes and climatic controls, and analysis of radiocarbon dating. Valley trains were deposited during active maximum and submaximum stands of the glaciers and were in part followed by glacial torrents. The latter occurred when the icecap was being reduced and sea level was being raised. Except in the case of the Valders, another refrigeration followed, but the climatic change that halted the advance of the Valders was revolutionary. It brought on progressive stagnation and initiated the Recent about 11,000 radiocarbon years ago. This paper also gives consideration to other classifications including the one recently proposed by Frye and Willman's new classification.
30062341|The gradients along the course of 15 streams in the Dead Sea region, Israel, were compared to the apparent dip of rock strata in which the streams are cut (termed for brevity, "the structural gradient"). The statistical correlation between these gradients, measured from maps at 100-500 m horizontal intervals, was tested. In 12 streams a positive, significant correlation (at the 0.05 level) was found. The effect of lithology upon topographic gradients was analyzed in 13 streams, of which only six showed that gradients are dependent upon lithology. It is concluded that local small-scale changes of dip of beds or lithology may explain variations in the topographic profiles in 13 of the 15 streams studied, while no effect of change in their common base level was found.
30060362|Field work by members of the U.S. Geological Survey and others has led to the recognition of an ancient erosion surface or peneplain in parts of Idaho, Montana, and Wyoming. Differences of opinion have arisen regarding the age and character of this peneplain. The problem is regional in character, necessitating more extended field work before a final solution may be reached. The paper gives a discussion of the problem in the light of studies by the author in southeastern Idaho. It is concluded that the idea of post-middle Miocene planation across earlier Tertiary and older rocks, as advocated for Idaho by Blackwelder and Rich, is not proved by the available evidence. There seems a probability that the erosional history of western and northern Idaho and of western Montana was somewhat different from that of southeastern Idaho or of western Wyoming. For southeastern Idaho the evidence seems to favor pre-middle Miocene planation succeeded by: (1) middle Miocene deformation; (2) late Miocene and perhaps early Pliocene erosion; (3) Pliocene deformation, erosion, and deposition; and (4) early Pleistocene deformation or rejuvenation and subsequent erosion.
30070718|Permanently frozen ground underlies 3,728,900 square miles of Soviet territory, largely in eastern Siberia. Ice is not always present, but temperatures remain below 0 C. to depths down to 890 feet. In some places unfrozen layers are found between frozen ground. Most frozen ground has acquired its low temperature from the atmosphere.
30059977|Cored volcanic bombs were studied from several cones in the San Francisco Mountains of Northern Arizona and the Siberia Crater of eastern California. The variety, compositional changes, and possible sources of the core materials were analyzed. Some observations on the possible mechanics in the production of some special features of cored bombs are recorded.
30066400|Grain growth rates for novaculite, flint and jasper have been determined between 1000 and 800C and 15 to 2 kb water pressure. A pre-treatment established an equilibrium microstructure and a nearly uniform mean grain diameter (
30057012|The characteristics of California submarine canyons between Monterey and San Diego differ from land canyons, suggesting that their origin is not subaerial: longitudinal profiles are steeper than those of most land canyons; profiles are more irregular; canyons head near or at sea-level but extend to different depths, some greater than 10,000 feet; etc. Geologic data show that the heads of Redondo, Hueneme, Mugu, and Newport canyons cut Upper Pleistocene and Recent sediments and that no land stream has issued into the Redondo Canyon head during the late Pleistocene and Recent. These arguments, with others, suggest that California submarine canyons were cut by submarine processes which are still operating today in some canyons. Wave-approach and refraction studies along the California coast, with observations, show that considerable sediment brought to the sea by land rivers is moved along the coast by longshore processes. California submarine canyons occur where (1) a supply of sediment is brought to canyon heads by these shore processes, (2) a relatively steep offshore slope heads close to shore, and (3) the transporting power of the longshore current slackens, usually because of coastal configuration. The canyons are probably eroded by the seaward movement downslope under gravity of sediment by some kind of sediment flow, turbidity, density, or 'suspension current.
30063964|A study of modern tidal flats on Sugarloaf Key, Florida, has been made to determine distribution of penecontemporaneous dolomite, the presence of which was previously reported by Shinn. Dolomite occurs in a crust at or near the surface of Recent tidal flat sediments and in lesser amounts in unconsolidated sediments. The greatest concentration of dolomite is near the shoreline and within topographic lows on the flats, that is, areas where sediments are most frequently wet by tides. The dolomite concentration decreases toward interior and higher portions of the flats, and essentially no dolomite was found in adjacent bays. Interstitial waters expressed from Recent sediments on the flats were analyzed at different times in the year and found to be near sea water in salinity and chemistry. This combination of dolomite distribution and interstitial water data suggests that dolomitization is occurring with waters near sea water in composition.
30079614|A modified variation diagram for plotting groups of chemical analyses of related igneous rocks is proposed. The major constituents-
30059401|A number of granite dikes intrude the Huronian formations of northern Michigan. These dikes closely resemble the porphyritic granite of the Southern complex and are thought to have emanated from that granite massive. If this is the case, at least some of the granite of the Southern complex is post-Huronian rather than Archean, is responsible for some of the intense metamorphism of the Huronian formations, and is probably closely related to the tectonic forces that caused the close folding in that area.
30056065|The abrasion of pebbles rolled in a large concrete basin by a revolving current, both on a sandy and on a pebbly floor, was studied-a setup believed to be a substantial improvement on the customary tumbling-mill experiments. One of the most significant results is that, on a sandy floor, abrasion is less than on a pebbly bottom under similar conditions. The difference increases with size of the rolling pebble and can be four or five times less for medium pebble sizes. Hence reports on measurements of roundness in nature should always be accompanied by statements not only of the size of the pebbles, of current velocities, and of type of rock investigated but especially as to the nature of the bottom. On a sandy bottom, weight and velocity have only slight influence on the percentage of abrasion per kilometer. With increasing roundness, there is a small reduction in the rate of abrasion. It was found that abrasion on a pebbly floor is reduced by 10-15 per cent by the introduction of sand. The abrasion on a pebbly floor increases in proportion to the square of the velocity. Over the natural range of stream velocities it is doubled for fine gravel. Pebble weight is of even greater importance, the percentage of loss at low velocities being proportional to the diameter. It increases three to four times between fine and coarse gravel. Increasing roundness, from sharp-cornered to subrounded, reduces abrasion significantly; beyond subroundness, abrasion is reduced much less. As a result of these relations, coarse gravel can lose four to five times as much in percentages as can fine gravel at equal velocities. Twenty-five times as much loss per kilometer is possible under extreme conditions of velocity, size, and bottom cover. The abrasion processes are shown to be as follows: splitting (= breaking), crushing, chipping, cracking (superficially), and grinding. Sharp-edged material rolled on a pebbly floor chips during the first 2-10 km. of transport, losing up to five times as much as by cracking, which is the main process later on. On a sandy bed, only grinding takes place. Roundness measurements by Cailleux's method tend to give values that are too high because of parallax, different investigators obtaining different results. Cailleux's method could be somewrhat improved by using the middle instead of the longest axis. It should be realized that a pebble will pass relatively very swiftly through the first roundness class and still quite fast through the second and third, then more slowly, until, beyond about the fourth class (= roundness 200), the passage from class to class, on an unchanging floor, will require greater and greater distances of rolling until the ultimate shape is attained. The conclusion is reached that splitting is rarely the result of impact, except in poorly consolidated or fissile rock, but breaking does occur and must be attributed to weathering, especially frost action, on pebbles while they form part of alluvial deposits alongside the stream course. Poser and Hovermann studied rounding in rivers of the Harz. The present investigation shows that abrasion of the graywackes they studied is hastened at the start because the solifluction material is superficially weathered. In the experiments on a pebbly floor the abrasion was about four times as much per kilometer as in nature. This indicates that in these natural strearrs much of the bed rray be covered with sand.
30079747|The Kharitonovo pluton is located in the central part of the large Mongolian-Transbaikalian province of Late Paleozoic alkaline syenites and granites. The province stretches for a distance of almost 2000 km and contains over 350 plutons. The Kharitonovo pluton occupies an area of
30056104|Shatter cones (striated percussion fracture cones), apparently formed by explosive percussion, are known only from four cryptoexplosion (i.e., "cryptovolcanic") structures, viz., Steinheim Basin, Wells Creek Basin, the Kentland deformation, and the Crooked Creek structure. The nature of these shatter cones and their orientation at these four localities are described. It is concluded that the shatter cones may be a useful criterion for establishing that cryptoexplosion structures of the damped-wave type are probably formed by the hypervelocity and explosive impact of large meteorites. In any event, it is hoped that this paper will draw attention to these unusual structures so that geologists will be on the lookout for them in small, highly deformed, circular structures.
30063992|Through the National Uranium Resource Evaluation (NURE) program, the Grand Junction, Colorado office of the U.S. Department of Energy, has been conducting aerial radiometric surveys over various portions of the United States since 1974. Among other objectives, these surveys are intended to identify lithologic units favorable for uranium deposition and to indicate those areas of the country where there is the greatest probability of finding new uranium deposits, including new types of deposits. The ratios of bismuth-214 loadings derived from a principal components analysis of aerial radiometric data indicate favorable areas. The ratio of the bismuth loading of the first component to the bismuth loading of the third component and the ratio of the bismuth loading of the second component to the bismuth loading of the third component yielded the best results from modeled data and NURE aerial survey data. After the ratios are obtained, the absolute value of each ratio is taken and a scattergram of one ratio versus the other is made. Formations favorable for potential uranium resources may be identified from the plot.
30059250|Dense colonies of the intertidal barnacle, Balanus balanoides Linn, occur at many places on rocks and pilings on the North Atlantic coast. The vertical range of the barnacle is from about mean low water to mean high water, and its upper limit is commonly sharply denned. The upper limit is controlled by the tolerance of the barnacle to continuous exposure to air. This tolerance, called the lethal limit, was found experimentally to be about 150 hours for first-year barnacles and about 185 hours for older barnacles. It is shown that the maximum emersion interval increases progressively from the base of the tidal zone to the top of the zone. The upper limit of the barnacle for any given year is determined by the lowest level at which the lethal limit falls, which commonly is intermediate between the levels of annual mean high water and annual high-water neap. To this level one must add a small wave factor to determine the barnacle limit for a given year at a given locality. A search was made for photographs showing barnacle-encrusted rocks in order to see if changes in the barnacle level reflected changes in sea level. Three localities in the vicinity of Boston were found. The fluctuations of the upper barnacle limit in reference to the level of the 1962 limit are plotted on a curve of annual mean high water from 1848 to 1961 compiled from tide-gauge records from Boston and New York. There is substantial agreement between fluctuations of the barnacle limit and the annual sea-level values. From this it follows that a series of photographs taken in different years can be used to determine an annual sea-level curve for the locality in the absence of tide-gauge data. The annual sea-level curve and the barnacle data also show that sea level at Boston in the mid-nineteenth century was at approximately the same level as in the mid-twentieth century, but that it was approximately 0.5 foot lower at the turn of the century.
30080014|Theories of scarpland geomorphology developed over the past century have been characterized by divergent conceptual frameworks and have been hindered by language barriers. Here, we review the main theories and assess them with reference to field evidence from central Queensland. This region provides exceptional scope for such an assessment because of the detailed KAr chronology available for basalt that is draped extensively over scarps and valleys. The basalt provides the key to deciphering the pattern and rate of denudation. Erosion began in the late Mesozoic and was greatly advanced when volcanism occurred during the middle Cenozoic. Postbasaltic erosion has been dominated by the incision of the basaltic caprock and by the lengthening of canyons, rather than by scarp retreat. Canyons have extended headward by 12 km/m.yr., widened by 150250 m/m.yr., and deepened by 625 m/m.yr., while scarps between canyons have retreated by only 18130 m/m.yr. Canyon cutting both on the scarp front and on the dip slope has been promoted by pointsource seepage from networks of tubes in sandstone. These field observations support recent findings from elsewhere in Australia and from the Colorado Plateau. What is perhaps more significant, especially with regard to the way in which research in this field has developed, is that this emphasis on dipslope erosion and solutional processes in sandstone was anticipated by research done in Germany more than 70 years ago.
30062283|The dominant micro- and mesoscopic structural features of many melanges, fault zones, and other disrupted rock sequences are anastomosing shear surfaces. These surfaces progressively dismember and isolate sections of stiffer lithologies within more ductile ''matrix" in a process referred to here as "structural slicing." This process is distinct from classical boudinage, and when recognized as such may provide a means for differentiating normal boudinaged schist and gneiss terranes from metamorphosed melanges. In many sheared melanges, structural slicing dominates over both sedimentary processes (olistostromal deposition, soft-sediment deformation) and other tectonic processes (folding, boudinage) in the formation of blocks and control of the overall melange geometry. This is true at all scales of observation, from the production of small clasts to the definition of kilometer-scale "knockers."
30079565|Quartz-bearing plutonites from Vermont long have been known, especially those that are widely used as building stones. Invariably these rocks have been designated as "granites," or more rarely as "quartz monzonites." Usually they have been named from very general qualitative mineral analyses; and even if they were named from partial quantitative mineral analyses, there were very few cases in which the actual percentages of the various feldspars, so important in the modern classification of rocks, had been determined. From detailed, quantitative, mineral analyses it is suggested that the "Dummerston white granite" from the Black Mountain quarry might more properly be called a leucogranodiorite; the "soda granite" just south of Hardscrabble Corner, Springfield, a leuco-sodaclase-granodiorite; the "biotite granite" from the Boutwell, Milne, and Varnum Company's quarry at Barre a biotite-granodiorite; the "biotite granite" from the Mackville quarry south of Hardwick, a biotite-granodiorite; the "Bethel white granite" from Christian Hill, a leucotonalite; the "granite" from the Gosselin Granite Company's quarry, northeast of Chester, a leucotonalite; the "granite" northeast of Gassetts railroad station, Chester, a leucotonalite; and the "soda granite" from 3 miles north of the village of Westminster, a biotite-tonalite.
30080949|Marine and eolian Pleistocene sediments in the Bermuda Islands are composed largely of fragments of mollusks, Foraminifera, lithothamnoid algae, and Halimeda. The Pleistocene sediments range from unconsolidated carbonate sands to well-consolidated limestones. Recent carbonate sediments and major sediment-contributing organisms (except Halimeda) have similar
30068567|A study, of the alkali-feldspar join
30071177|Direct comparison of logs of closely spaced wells and their assembly into cross sections appear to demonstrate a number of inconsistencies in the nomenclature that is currently applied to the lower part of the Chester series and to the Ste. Genevieve formation in different parts of the Eastern Interior Basin. This evidence indicates that: (1) the important oil-producing "Aux Vases" sand of the central basin area is equivalent to the outcropping Rosiclare sandstone member of the Ste. Genevieve formation; (2) the "Benoist" (Yankeetown), Bethel, and Sample sandstones are successively younger rather than correlative units; (3) the Cypress sandstone of Indiana and west-central Kentucky is younger than the Cypress of Illinois; (4) certain continuous limestone units can be traced between the various areas (the Beech Creek or "Barlow" limestone lies above the Illinois Cypress but beneath the Indiana Cypress); (5) the Downeys Bluff limestone, for a long time considered a part of the Renault formation because it lies below the Bethel sandstone, is in reality the basal Paint Creek limestone above the Yankeetown and is correlated with the upper portion of the Paoli limestone of Indiana; (6) the Levias limestone and part of the Shetlerville (Renault) together form a continuous limestone sequence which overlies both the "Aux Vases" of the basin and the Rosiclare sandstone of the outcrop area in southeastern Illinois.
30080235|In southcentral Utah, eolian crossstrata of the Escalante Member of the Entrada Sandstone contain inclined, cylindrical burrows up to 63 cm in diameter and 305 cm long. Of the 14 large tunnels located during this study, 12 descend from second and thirdorder bounding surfaces that formed on the lee slopes of large dune ridges, well above the water table. The tunnels are inclined 1522; one tunnel ends in an expanded chamber. Eolian crossstrata fill proximal portions of four of the tunnels and indicate that after abandonment, sand drifts migrated as much as a meter into the open shafts. Structureless sand and breccia blocks that were generated by roof collapse fill other tunnels. Animals dug the tunnels in rainmoistened, cohesive sand. The burrows may have served as temporary shelters from severe diurnal conditions in the shadeless, subtropical Entrada dune field.
30059013|New evidence is presented in support of the previously suggested hypothesis that combustion of organic matter in a Cretaceous bituminous sedimentary sequence supplied the heat for the high-temperature, low-pressure metamorphism of the Mottled Zone in Israel. Such a model is compatible with stable isotope data on carbonates from the Mottled Zone which are strongly enriched in
30079985|Complex system behaviors such as selforganization are difficult to address in geology. System evolution often cannot be directly observed and, in geology models and theory, must be reconciled with field evidence. However, selforganization can be addressed within the historicalinterpretive paradigm by applying a measure of the degree of selforganization of geologic features, using standard interpretive methods to determine the nature of changes, and determining whether those changes result in an increase or decrease in organization. In this way, stable nonselforganizing convergent development can be distinguished from unstable chaotic selforganizing divergent development. Kolmogorov entropy (Kentropy) was used as a measure of the selforganization of soil profiles in eastern North Carolina. In general, the profiles are low in Kentropy, indicating a generally high level of predictability and information in the vertical arrangement of pedogenetic horizons. As a broad generality, the study profiles appear to be decreasing in entropy if or when surface erosion is minimal and increasing in entropy otherwise. However, results show that whether the profiles demonstrate evidence of convergent or divergent behavior is determined by the relative rates or magnitudes of three main processes: (1) horizon differentiation in surficial horizons by the formation of transitional AE or A&E horizons due to secondary podzolization, (2) thickening of the solum at the weathering front, and (3) surface erosion. There is no direct relationship between the degree of pedogenic development and selforganization. The results suggest that complex system behaviors are controlled by, and can be linked to, specific pedologic and geomorphic processes and that soils and regoliths may be characterized by both convergent and divergent developmental pathways.
30056853|The mechanics of synchronous crossfolding and the relations of high and low normal-pressure areas, pinch-and-swell structures, flowage, and the geometries of the synchronous crossfolds in three dimensions are discussed. One-dimensional uniform or differential compression parallel to the layers and two-dimensional compensating elongation in the alternate elastic and plastic layers or in layers of different elastoviscous properties produce synchronous crossfolds. The trends and the shapes of the experimentally produced structures resemble the structures in nature. "Complementary compression" developed through rotational stress or shear displacement can produce synchronous crossfolds. The trends and the nature of the crossfolds (or of the complex fold system) depend on the disposition of the layers in relation to the compressive direction. The stress-localization hypothesis is proposed as an explanation for the series of parallel and subparallel synchronous crossfolds of different phase but of one tectonic orogeny. Oblique (cross-)folds (i.e., secondary) or crossfolds associated with right-angle crossfolds may originate in one phase of orogeny through plastic flow and as "accommodation structures." In synchronous crossfolds of plastic materials, flow is along the axes of the main and the secondary (cross-)folds. Depending on the magnitude of the flow vectors, the radii of curvature, and the change of trends of the main and secondary (cross-)folds, the resultant directions of flow are close to the axes of either the main or the secondary fold. The magnitude and direction of flow may change with the accentuation of crossfolds, superposition of the minor (cross-)folds due to sudden swinging of the axial trend and in relation to sudden increase of the plunge. The effects of such changes will be reflected through the local variation of the pinch-and-swell structures, changes in the relative high and low normal-pressure areas, changes in the flow lineations, compositional variations, orientation of minor structures like drag folds, etc., relative to the major structures, etc. The disposition of joint-and-fault systems relative to the crossfolds axes and their relative changes of orientation with the change of axial curvature and the ore localization with crossfolds axes are of great significance in structural correlation. In progressive deformation, the geometry and the flowage direction of the main and the secondary (cross-) -folds may change from the initial to the end phase of the deformation, the relict evidences of which might appear with the end-phase structures. The geometry, flowage directions, and the high and low normal-pressure areas of the secondary (cross-)fold may also be different from the main fold. The mathematical analysis of the crossfolds geometry also indicates the simultaneous origin of the double curvatures (i.e., crossfolds) and shows the relations of the geometry of the crossfolds to the stress system. The conditions for elastic and plastic deformation in buckling, conditions for the accentuation of crossfolds, and the mathematical relations for the radius of curvature, wave length, amplitude, and the thickness of the fold are indicated. The importance of using "fold-units" in the analysis of the complex fold system and the possible occurrence of the "reverse-flowage" and "reverse-similar" folds in the plastic rocks are also discussed.
30063915|The cyclothem discussed in this paper is 150 m. thick and is assigned to the Upper Carboniferous Northam Formation, north Devon, England. A regressive sequence of facies, including turbidites, is particularly well developed. The lower part of the cyclothem consists of quiet-water black mudstones. One hundred forty graded siltstone-turbidites represent the first incoming of coarser clastic material into the basin. Above the turbidites, the facies gradually show more and more evidence of basin agitation, and siltstones give way to cross-laminated sandstones. Near the top is a 15-m.-deep channel partially filled with turbidites-the channel presumably acted as a feeder for turbidity currents flowing farther out into the basin. Above the channel are more cross-laminated siltstones and sandstones, and the regressive sequence is topped by a 20-m.-thick large-scale cross-bedded sandstone body. The top of the sandstone is bioturbate and passes very abruptly into black mudstones of the next cyclothem. The sequence is therefore asymmetrical, with almost no depositional record of the transgressive phase. Finally, the nature of the transition from turbidites to shallow-water sediments is reviewed, recognizing small-scale transitions without regional slope deposits; large-scale transitions in which several tens of meters of regional slope deposits are preserved; and the transitions involving unconformity between "flysch" and "molasse" facies.
30078498|The contact separating Ordovician rocks from the underlying lower part of the Raft River Mountains sequence, northwestern Utah, is reinterpreted as a largedisplacement lowangle normal fault, the Mahogany Peaks fault, that excised 45 km of structural section. High 
30058163|This paper is intended as a commentary on past and present classifications and correlations of the Pennsylvanian rocks of north-central Texas, with suggestions regarding solution of some of the regional problems involved. It is apparent that the problems are too complex and numerous to expect early settlement. The following major premises and conclusions are presented: 1. The Pennsylvanian rocks of north-central Texas may now be correlated with considerable certainty with those of other regions. 2. A time-stratigraphic classification in agreement with a standard time-stratigraphic classification for the system would have important advantages. 3. The principal standard section of reference should be established in the northern Appalachian region, with time-stratigraphic divisions based, in part, on data available from other regions, particularly the Mid-Continent. 4. The standard and regional time-stratigraphic divisions should be based on broad studies of structural and lithologic data, as well as on presently available paleontological evidence, in the hope of establishing widely recognizable, distinctive, and equivalent time-stratigraphic divisions which would require a minimum revision of boundaries heretofore used in the various major Pennsylvanian provinces. 5. Division of the Pennsylvanian system into six series appears appropriate, the major Pottsville and Pittsburgh divisions of the northern Appalachian region each being divided into three series, known, respectively, in north-central Texas as the Springer, Morrow, and Lampasas and the Strawn, Canyon, and Cisco. 6. The highest position used for the boundary between these lower and upper major divisions in Pennsylvania appears to agree closely with the usage of the last three decades in north-central Texas, where the boundary between the "subsurface Bend" and the Strawn has been placed above the "Caddo" limestone of oil-field terminology. 7. The top of the Caddo limestone occurs at a variable position in this region. The upper boundary of the youngest Caddo limestone has been used herein as a boundary between the Lampasas and the Strawn series. It is thought to be approximately equivalent to the Dornick Hills-Deese boundary of the Ardmore basin, the Boggy-Thurman boundary of eastern Oklahoma, the Tradewater-Carbondale boundary of the Illinois Geological Survey Bull. 67 (1942), the long-established Kanawha-Allegheny boundary of West Virginia, and the boundary recommended in Pennsylvania on the basis of recent studies. A somewhat lower boundary may ultimately prove more useful.
30056596|Equilibrium pressures of the three-phase system-steam, solid KCl, and saturated aqueous solution-have been determined between 250 and 600 C. A maximum pressure of 225 atm. is found at 565 C. This maximum is evidence that critical phenomena do not occur in aqueous solutions saturated with solid KCl. The specific volume of solid KCl and the apparent volume of water in the saturated solution were also determined. From the measured volumes and certain assumptions about other properties of the system, the specific volume of the liquid phase and the volume change and latent heat in the reaction: Steam + Solid KCl
30065641|Apatite fission track ages (
30060800|The departure of a grain from a spherical shape causes a decrease in its settling velocity within a fluid. The more non-spherical the particle the greater the departure from the settling velocity of a spherical grain of the same weight. This study reexamines the various measures of sphericity and their ability to predict the drag coefficient and settling velocity of a non-spherical grain. Experiments were conducted using ellipsoidal pebbles settling in glycerine which has a viscosity some 1,000 times greater than water. The Reynolds numbers range from 0.07-1.5 which is the same range as quartz-density coarse silt through very fine sand settling in water. Therefore the results of the experiments are applicable to common sedimentary materials. The use of pebbles allows for the better determinations of the shape parameters, and eliminates the effects of grain surface roughness and roundness and grain asymmetries that complicate the settling of silt and sand. Analysis of the pebble-settling data indicates that the Corey shape factor provides a much better prediction of the drag coefficient for non-spherical grains than does the sphericity definition of Wadell which is based on the ratio of the surface area of a sphere with the same weight as the pebble to the actual surface area of the pebble. Regression of the data provides an equation which predicts the drag coefficient of the settling particle from its Corey shape factor and the Reynolds number. This drag coefficient relationship is used to obtain a modification of the familiar Stokes settling velocity equation which accounts for non-spherical grain shape effects on the settling rate. The results based on the pebble data are extended to Reynolds numbers up to
30079730|The following sequence of bed deformation leading to a development of a meandering stream path was observed in shallow flows along a straight laboratory channel molded in pumice: (a) appearance of far-spaced bed undulations; (b) appearance of flow-aligned scours at the leeward ends of the undulation crests; (c) growth and spread of the scours and a gradual deformation of the surrounding stream bed into a thatched at offset pattern of scours with intervening mounds; (d) growth and merging of scours along interconnecting sinuous paths; (e) rapid excavation along a preferred tortuous path and appearance of a pronounced meandering thalweg. These events may be interpreted as results of the inherent structure of the parent flow.
30060194|Relict sediments on shelves, originally defined as "remnant from a different earlier environment," are recognized by petrographic criteria (grain size, iron staining, etc.), fauna, and topography. Recent studies have revealed a second set of attributes which indicate that these deposits, although originating in an earlier environment, are dynamic systems which are undergoing modification in response to their present environment, especially the hydraulic regime, and are approaching a state of equilibrium with this environment. The modification may be simulated by means of a stochastic process model. A spectrum of modern shelf regimes and the resulting deposits is considered. The high-energy, tide-dominated shelf seas of western Europe have extensively reworked their Pleistocene and Holocene transgressive substrates, producing a constructional topography and regional textural gradients. Similar topography and textural gradients are reported from the tide-swept shoals and banks off northeastern North America and from farther south in the Middle Atlantic Bight, a wave-dominated shelf. Reworking in lower-energy environments such as the Gulf of Mexico may result only in textural mixing of the products of deposition of different periods of time and different sources. The reworked portions of relict sediments are thus a facies in transition, physically induced analogues of the chemically induced soil profiles of subaerial surfaces. While "relict sediment" is a valuable genetic name for the unreworked sediment type, "palimpsest sediment" is a convenient operational descriptive term for the reworked parts. A palimpsest sediment is one which exhibits petrographic attributes of an earlier depositional environment and, in addition, petrographic attributes of a later environment. All intermediate stages are possible from pure relict, through palimpsest sediments, to "modern" autochthonous sediments in which all of the earlier petrographic and physiographic attributes have been changed.
30064207|A number of armored till balls averaging 2 inches in nominal diameter were found in a sand pit on the edge of the Defiance moraine near Ann Arbor, Michigan. Their presence indicates that this sand deposit was formed after the bulk of sand and gravel in the moraine had been laid down and covered by glacial till. They are thus useful in distinguishing these sands from those which make up the main mass of the moraine.
30079991|Upper Cretaceous strata of the Mahajanga Basin, northwestern Madagascar, yield some of the most significant and exquisitely preserved vertebrate fossils known from Gondwana. The sedimentology of these strata and their stratigraphic relations have been the focus of renewed geological investigations during the course of five expeditions since 1993. We here designate stratotypes and formalize the terrestrial Maevarano Formation, with three new members (Masorobe, Anembalemba, Miadana), and the overlying marine Berivotra Formation. The Maevarano Formation accumulated on a broad, semiarid alluvial plain bounded to the southeast by crystalline highlands and to the northwest by the Mozambique Channel. The Berivotra Formation was deposited in an open marine setting that evolved from a clastic to a carbonatedominated shelf, resulting in deposition of the overlying Betsiboka limestone of Danian age. New stratigraphic data clearly indicate that the Maevarano Formation correlates, at least in part, with the Maastrichtian Berivotra Formation, and this in turn indicates that the most fossiliferous portions of the Maevarano Formation are Maastrichtian in age, rather than Campanian as previously reported. This revised age for the Maevarano vertebrate assemblage indicates that it is approximately contemporaneous with the vertebrate fauna recovered from the Deccan basalt volcanosedimentary sequence of India. The comparable age of these two faunas is significant because the faunas appear to be more similar to one another than either is to those from any other major Gondwanan landmass. The revised age of the Maevarano Formation, when considered in the light of our recent fossil discoveries, further indicates that the ancestral stocks of Madagascar's overwhelmingly endemic modern vertebrate fauna arrived on the island in postMesozoic times. The basal stocks of the modern vertebrate fauna are conspicuously absent in the Maevarano Formation. Finally, the revised age of the Maevarano Formation serves to expand our global perspective on the K/T event by clarifying the age of a diverse, and arguably the best preserved, sample of Gondwanan vertebrates from the terminal Cretaceous.
30064187|The fault breccia along the Max Meadows overthrust in the Draper Mountain area, Virginia, consists of three cataclastic zones: an upper autoclastic breccia composed of large, angular blocks and smaller tabular fragments of quartz sericite phyllite; a lower autoclastic zone consisting of angular blocks and fractured masses of Elbrook limestone and dolomite; and an intervening zone of crush conglomerate composed chiefly of rounded fragments of limestone, dolomite, and phyllite. Contacts of the upper and lower breccias with contiguous wall rocks are gradational. Crush conglomerate, which grades into the autoclastic breccias above and below, was formed by mingling, crushing, and rolling out of parts of the autoclastic breccias. The crush-conglomerate zone contains fragments of several types of rocks which are not found in the adjacent autoclastic breccias. These must have been acquired down the original dip of the Max Meadows fault surface where it cuts Lower Cambrian and pre-Cambrian rocks. Parts of the Max Meadows fault breccia have been squeezed into fractures of the rocks on both sides of the fault zone and occur in the form of dikes of crush conglomerate. Of the several modes of origin discussed, only strictly tectonic processes could have produced the breccias and crush conglomerate occurring along or near the Max Meadows fault in this area.
30064004|Even though primeval-ocean water is generally assumed to be from volcanic outgassing, the author is of the opinion that most terrestrial water has a different origin. On the basis of the structural characteristics of the water molecule and taking into account the known physico-chemical data on the state of supercritical fluids, terrestrial water is interpreted as being directly separated from magma at the liquid state. It is suggested that, in proximity to the gas-liquid transitional state, the hydrogen-bonding formation is responsible for the water-liquid separation from magmatic rest-liquids. Thus, near the critical region, the liquid water initially separates on submicroscopic scale (by forming doublets, triplets and so on) and then collects into larger liquid masses. The different behavior of water in magmas which cool on the Earth's surface and in magmas which cool at depth is emphasized. The author thinks that this process which produces primary magmatic water is still functioning at the present time.
30085057|On Biq'at Hayareah, an area
30081147|Detailed investigations of high latitude sequences recently collected by the Ocean Drilling Program (ODP) indicate that periods of rapid climate change often culminated in brief transient climates, with more extreme conditions than subsequent long term climates. Two examples of such events have been identified in the Paleogene; the first in latest Paleocene time in the middle of a warming trend that began several million years earlier: the second in earliest Oligocene time near the end of a Middle Eocene to Late Oligocene global cooling trend. Superimposed on the earlier event was a sudden and extreme warming of both high latitude sea surface and deep ocean waters. Imbedded in the latter transition was an abrupt decline in high latitude temperatures and the brief appearance of a full size continental ice-sheet on Antarctica. In both cases the climate extremes were not stable, lasting for less than a few hundred thousand years, indicating a temporary or transient climate state. Geochemical and sedimentological evidence suggest that both Paleogene climate events were accompanied by reorganizations in ocean circulation, and major perturbations in marine productivity and the global carbon cycle. The Paleocene-Eocene thermal maximum was marked by reduced oceanic turnover and decreases in global
30081025|Structural evidence from the 9.6 km, roughly circular Kilmichael disturbance, Montgomery Co., Mississippi, (3330'N, 8933'W) indicates a possible origin by meteorite impact, probably in Late Tertiary time. Interpretation of its origin is based on structural similarities with terrestrial impact structures of comparable diameter in sedimentary rocks. At the surface steep normal faults outline a structural ring graben at a diameter of 6.5 km, in turn partly surrounded by a peripheral faulted zone in which kilometer-sized fault blocks weakly define a horst ring and an outer peripheral graben. In the center, largely unconsolidated Tertiary and Cretaceous sediments have been disturbed to > 1 km depth and have been raised 440-470 m forming a central uplift 2 km across ringed by a peripheral trough 3.2 km in diameter depressed 180 m below normal stratigraphic level. The uplift and peripheral trough have no topographic expression. Unsorted gravels and sands filling a shallow basin surmounting the central uplift may be, in part, unconsolidated impact breccias and reworked surface debris. A 3 mGal, positive gravity anomaly is coincident with the central uplift, and a gravity low of equivalent magnitude overlies the buried trough. The positive anomaly is due to the uplift of Cretaceous chalk and shales of higher density than the unconsolidated sediments of the uppermost section. As no evidence of distinctive shock metamorphism has been discovered, Kilmichael must be considered only as a possible impact structure.
30071194|At the base of the East Kaibab monocline, 6 miles south of House Rock, Arizona, stand two levels of pediment remnants, cut largely in Moenkopi red shales and capped by boulders and gravels of Kaibab limestone. The pediments are produced primarily by lateral corrasion by master-streams, aided by rill-wash and gully erosion. Pediment-cutting has been interrupted by periods of aggradation in which thick protective gravels were spread upon the pediments.
10.1086/604744|The rhyolitic Valles caldera complex, New Mexico, is one of the type examples of resurgent calderas and has experienced two wellstudied calderaforming eruptions. The first formed the Lower Bandelier Tuff (LBT) at 1.61 Ma, and the second emplaced the Upper Bandelier Tuff (UBT) at 1.221.26 Ma. During the time between the LBT and the UBT, the much smallerscale Cerro Toledo Rhyolite (CTR) was sporadically erupted. Quartz crystals from these stages of activity were imaged with cathodoluminescence microscopy, and growth zones in certain quartzes, due to varying Ti content, were revealed. Crystallization temperatures were obtained with a titaniuminquartz geothermometer. The LBT quartzes are unzoned, with temperatures clustering between 660 and 715C when a calculated
30082306|On the north coast of Cuba is a syncline in the incipient stage of development. It is 100 miles long by 11 miles wide, and the vertical differential movement between the axis and the north limb is about 20 feet.
30059117|Assuming seven rigid plates and a relation between depth and age we have reconstructed the bathymetry of the Atlantic Ocean at twelve specific times between the Jurassic and the present. The reconstructions are based on published tectonic histories for the region south of 35N and on a tectonic history outlined in this paper for the North Atlantic. The purpose of the twelve charts is to examine the relation between the position of the continents, the bathymetry of the ocean floor, and the opening of the major seaways bordering and within the Atlantic. The charts shall provide a basic framework for the study of the sedimentary history of the ocean.
30081149|The Precambrian record of carbonate and evaporite sedimentation is equivocal. In contrast to most previous interpretations, it is possible that Archean, Paleoproterozoic, and to a lesser extent, Meso to Neoproterozoic seawater favored surplus abiotic carbonate precipitation, as aragonite and (hi-Mg?) calcite, in comparison to younger times. Furthermore, gypsum/anhydrite may have been only rarely precipitated prior to halite precipitation during evaporation prior to about 1.8 Ga. Two effects may have contributed to these relationships. First, sulfate concentration of seawater may have been critically low prior to about 1.9 Ga so the product
30060466|Calcareous silts deposited along streams of southwestern Ohio contain a large proportion of finely divided, partly digested organic matter, mainly sewage. Desiccation is attended by vesiculation as gases are generated by organic decomposition and by reaction of organic acids formed during decomposition with carbonate present in the mud.
30065707|A sequence of flood deposits left by the Colorado River in the Grand Canyon, Arizona, provides evidence of at least 15 floods with peak discharges greater than
30058828|Structural analysis in the Grenville of southeastern Ontario shows at least two successive directions of movement during folding. The first movement (northwest-southeast) gave rise to folds about northeast-trending, subhorizontal axes. The second movement (northeast-southwest) caused rotation of these preexisting fold-axes about vertical axes, expressed by buckling of competent bands along the strike, and, in certain places, flowage of incompetent layers into vertically plunging cylindrical folds, or "vortices." These formed natural vertical channels for the uprise of magmas and/or granitic emanations and, since they were also dilatant areas, are the sites of concordant batholiths. The Westport pluton is one of these, gabbro and, later, monzonite being emplaced within the vortex.
30059702|A small area of highly disturbed, contorted, and brecciated strata centering at Howell, in north-central Lincoln County, Tennessee, has been mapped and studied in detail. The salient structural feature is a circular area of intensely deformed Black River and Trenton rocks, which have been uplifted approximately 100 feet above their normal positions. This circular area is composed of jumbled blocks of limestone imbedded in a matrix of shatter breccia. The major deformation is believed to have been post-Trenton and pre-Fernvale in age. Overlying the shattered strata is the Fern vale formation, the relative thickness and lithology of which point directly toward deposition in a graded crater. The Fern vale shale unit shows moderately high dips. This partial disturbance of the Fernvale possibly indicates a mild renewal of the forces which caused the major deformation. The younger Silurian and Mississippian formations are relatively undisturbed. A magnetic survey indicates a "closure" of 335 gammas, 1 3/4 miles southwest of the center of the disturbance. While no conclusive evidence has been observed to support either the cryptovolcanic or the meteoritic hypothesis of origin, the Howell structure is considered tentatively as an example of the cryptovolcanic structures as interpreted by Bucher.
30079753|Hack determined that the equilibrium river long profile on a single lithology is a straight line when plotted semi-logarithmically. Deviation from this straight line may be an equilibrium response to lithological variation or disequilibrium following base-level change. The amount of deviation,
30066277|Microscopic kink bands have been found associated with cone-in-cone concretions in undeformed Devonian shales in western New York. The kink bands occur in a continuous zone around the thin edge of the discus-shaped concretions. It is interpreted that the kink bands developed in response to the syngenetic expansion of the concretions while the enclosing sediment was still plastic. The geometry of the kink bands suggests that the kinking mechanism involved rotation of the bedding in the enclosing shale by continuous simple shear parallel to the kink plane, rotation by bedding-plane slip in the center of the kink band, and the locking of the bedding in its new orientation at approximately 90 to the inferred direction of maximum compressive stress.
30062253|Phase relationships in the system
30056949|Five specimens of lava were given a complete chemical analysis. The rock is remarkably uniform in chemical composition and shows no appreciable change as between the old peak (Morne Lacroix) and the fresh lava of 1902. The volatiles prove to be very similar to those obtained from other lavas, with notably greater quantities in the glassy material than in the crystalline. Water is the chief volatile, averaging about 80 per cent by volume, with carbon dioxide averaging 9 per cent. Next in order follow the halogens and sulphur, with fluorine, because of its small atomic weight, reaching 2 per cent by volume though amounting to only 0.005 Per cent of the weight of the rock. If we regard the pumice as perhaps contaminated by ocean spray, the chlorine averages 0.6 per cent by volume and 0.06 per cent by weight of rock. Sulphur and carbon monoxide are about 1 per cent each by volume, with hydrogen showing only 0.3 per cent. Gases of the argon group are present but only to about 0.01 per cent by volume. Attention is called to the misleading inferences which result from accepting the determinations of water made upon rock powders used in analysis as compared with the water determined by exhausting the rock chips in vacuo. The error may be ten times the actual water or may even reverse the order in a series. It is shown that the glassy bread-crust surface of a bomb, instead of having lost its volatiles as has been sometimes suggested, has retained them because of the sudden chilling. Gas-charged volcanic glasses are discussed, and the conditions required for the formation of bread-crust surfaces are indicated. The relation of such glasses to the phenomena of the nues ardentes is discussed. From the volatile content of these glasses as well as from the phenomena of the "spine" it is shown that pressures of the order of at least one hundred atmospheres were probable within the dome during the declining phase of activity.
30062075|According to the hypothesis of punctuated aggradational cycles presented here, the stratigraphic record consists of small-scale (1-5 m thick) shallowing-upward cycles (PACs) separated by surfaces marked by abrupt change to deeper facies. This motif, pervasive in time and environment, is produced by relatively long periods (tens of thousands of years) of base-level stability punctuated by geologically instantaneous relative base-level rises of at least basin-wide extent. As basin-wide lithologic time-stratigraphic units, PACs are fundamental to all aspects of stratigraphic analysis including correlation, paleoenvironmental interpretation, and paleogeographic reconstruction. Of several possible allogenic mechanisms for a pervasively cyclic stratigraphic record, glacial eustasy driven by orbital perturbations is preferred. The PAC hypothesis is presented as a comprehensive model to be tested and modified by examination of the stratigraphic record from an episodic perspective.
30079900|The perception that coastal character reflects lithology via lithology's control on embayment size is tested by an examination of embayment sizes along a tectonically stable coastline to which ancient river systems drain (the New South Wales coast). This coastline is comprised of four distinct geological provinces exhibiting a wide range of lithological and structural variation and is taken to be representative of physiographic settings controlling coastline configuration on a wide range of continentalmargin types. Our analysis shows that embayment size (
30060144|Occasionally sweeping generalizations cling in the literature which are not supported by detailed studies by recent workers. The present paper, based largely upon a study of the literature, is an attempt to draw a coherent picture from the many conflicting statements concerning the pre-Cambrian-Cambrian succession. It is tentatively concluded that many sediments now classed as Lower Cambrian may have been deposited in pre-Cambrian time, resulting in transition from pre-Cambrian to Cambrian sediments with little or no break in deposition. Evidence is also presented to show that the acquirement of the shell-forming habit may have taken place in a comparatively short time and that this time may be represented by continuous marine deposition.
30066230|Paleomagnetic results are described from three Archean rock units, and two sets of diabase dikes that intrude them. The magnetization of the country rocks is reset by intrusion of the diabase up to distances of about 80 m from contacts. The temperature reached during intrusion at this distance determined from thermal demagnetization is about 400C, which is also the approximate temperature predicted from Jaeger's cooling curves assuming intrusion into cool rock. At greater distances other and presumably older magnetizations are found with a westerly direction. The oldest dykes (the Matachewan) have an age of - 2.6 Ga so that this westerly directed magnetization was acquired during the Archean. Its age, other than the fact that it is Archean, is not known, but by comparison with results from the Stillwater Complex it is estimated to be about -2.8 Ga. The results are used along with previously published data to define in tentative fashion an apparent polar wandering curve for the late Archean and early Aphebian which is referred to as Track 6. Track 6 has a simple form, and there is no indication that the horizontal mobility of the crust in the late Archean was any greater than during the Proterozoic.
30068694|The application of probabilistic methods to biostratigraphy and chronostratigraphy is founded on a well-defined theoretical base with few limitations on the type of events used or their maximum number, potentially allowing for universal application and high resolution. The application is demonstrated by example using new biostratigraphic concepts and an equatorial Pacific Ocean data set of 330 species of Tertiary marine planktonic fossils from 32 geologic sections collected by the Deep Sea Drilling Project (DSDP). The major result of the application to the Pacific Ocean data set is a standardized biostratigraphic correlation scheme that is significant because it is interpreted within an internally-consistent, time-stratigraphic framework for the data set. Considering the universal scope of probabilistic methods, a systematic approach to develop a standardized global chronostratigraphic reference system utilizing diverse time-significant, stratigraphic data is envisioned. This reference would have a fundamental impact on the interpretation of earth history by providing a worldwide baseline of mappable stratigraphic data precisely related in geologic time.
30056981|In central Texas on the east flank of the West Texas Permian Basin the drainage is easterly, and the Carboniferous and Permian beds dip westward. Waters from the lower part of the Permian Wichita group rise definitely higher than the local water table in three wells among those studied. Thus, these are not ordinary water wells. Artesian hydrostatic pressure is not the pressure that causes these waters to rise, because the wells are on ground higher than the lowest points of outcrop of the aquifers. The waters are not "free," because their pressures are less than would be those of such waters. The waters are thought to rise higher than the local water table in these wells because of a ground-water hydrostatic pressure generated by the downward passage of water from the surface through the rocks, many of which, though called "impervious," are actually slowly permeable.
30071139|The composition of sandstones derived from erosion of the southern Apennines orogen provides constraints for Cenozoic tectonic evolution. Clastic wedges were derived mainly from the strongly deformed Calabrian arc allochthon. This key tectonic element is interpreted as a thrust sheet of European crust, moved about 300-400 km eastward during the Paleogene to Neogene toward the Adria foreland. During the Paleogene to Early Miocene, the Liguride Complex oceanic terrane was deposited in a remnant ocean basin, east of the Calabrian arc, related to northwestward subduction of Ligurian oceanic lithosphere beneath the European margin. Upper Paleogene quartzofeldspathic and volcanolithic Liguride sandstones testify to provenance from the subduction complex to the magmatic arc, respectively. Upper Oligocene to lower Miocene quartzolithic sandstone suggests a recycled-orogen provenance (i.e., metasedimentary rocks in the growing accretionary Calabrian arc). Final closure of the Liguride remnant ocean basin and onset of continental collision in southern Italy culminated in overthrusting of the Calabrian and Liguride thrust-sheets onto the Adriatic passive continental margin. Continental collision is dated as Early Miocene and was followed by formation of foreland, foredeep, and thrust-top basins. The unroofing history of the Calabrian arc is documented in the detrital modes of Langhian to Tortonian foreland quartzolithic, volcanolithic, and quartzofeldspathic sandstones. A drastic shift in composition toward "ideal arkose" occurred during late Tortonian-Messinian in both foreland and syn-rift sandstone strata, reflecting a crustal-block provenance. An oceanic backarc rift in the southern Tyrrhenian area (i.e., Vavilov basin) contributed to increased uplift of the deeper Calabrian arc crystalline terranes. The Cenozoic geodynamic history of the Peri-Tyrrhenian area, which included an arc-trench system/continental margin collisional suture zone and, since late Tortonian, back-arc oceanic-crust spreading (i.e., Vavilov basin), is reflected in sandstone modal composition. The type of sedimentary provenance analysis presented here, providing an example of the wchanging nature of a collisional-belt source area through time, may have general application to other major orogens.
30068867|The Musgrave Block in central southern Australia separates the dominantly Paleoproterozoic North Australian Craton from the Late Archean to early Mesoproterozoic Gawler Craton in southern Australia. Geochemical and Nd isotopic data from 1.591.55Ga felsic rocks in the Mann Ranges suggest that the early history of the Musgrave Block was linked to the development of subduction along the northern margin of the Gawler Craton. Characteristic geochemical patterns of these felsic rocks include negative anomalies in Nb, Ti, and Y and are accompanied by steep light rare earth element patterns and comparatively juvenile Nd isotopic compositions (
30068045|Highland Group granulite-facies rocks of the Kataragama klippe in southeast Sri Lanka yield a Rb-Sr whole-rock apparent age of
JG80044|The Palisades Intrusive System consists of a 350-m-thick early Jurassic sill together with thinner comagmatic sills and dikes exposed within the Newark Basin of New Jersey and New York. The Palisades System is overlain by flood basalt that is interbedded with early Jurassic redbed formations. New and recently published data indicate that some of the basalt flows correlate with geochemically defined layers within a central well-exposed sill portion of the Palisades System at Fort Lee, New Jersey. Our interpretation views the sill as a progressively inflated conduit through which huge volumes of flood basalt flowed. The geochemical data are consistent with a Palisades sill fed by three compositionally distinct intrusion events. The first magma flowed through the sill and broke out near the northern end as three Orange Mountain basalt flows. Each of the three extrusive pulses is identified within the lower 150 m of the sill on the basis of distinct geochemical reversals. The end stage of each pulse was characterized by pyroxene phenocryst accumulation within the sill. Magma from a second source inflated the sill by an additional 170 m after approximately 260 k.yr. of minor intermittent igneous activity interbedded with sediments deposited above the Orange Mountain basalt. The second magma extruded as a highly fractionated 150-m-thick Preakness basalt flow and crystallized as a central layer of Palisades diabase of similar composition. Subsequent extrusions of relatively thin Preakness flows (magma 3) correlate with upper layers of the Palisades sill. We interpret the distinct layering of the Palisades sill as injections of magmas that were largely prefractionated at deeper levels and then modified to varying degrees by in situ processes.
10.1086/671398|A kinematic analysis of Cretaceous and pre-Cretaceous structures was carried out along the west coast of southern Africa extending from the Cape Town area into Namibia with the aim of investigating whether inherited structural discontinuities controlled Gondwana breakup and the associated opening of the South Atlantic in the Cretaceous. This was augmented by map and satellite image analyses of mainly Cretaceous mafic dikes exposed from SW Angola to the southern tip of Africa. The combined results provide consistent evidence of E-W- to NE-SW-directed extension during the Cretaceous. E-W extension dominated from southern Angola to the NamibianSouth African border, and NE-SW-directed extension occurred in an area extending from west-central Namibia to the southwestern coast of South Africa. These two extension directions overlap from west-central Namibia to southernmost Namibia. The kinematic analysis of Pan-African structures provides evidence of ENE-WSW-directed shortening in the western Saldania Belt in SW South Africa and ENE-WSW- to ESE-WNW-oriented constriction in the Gariep Belt near the border between South Africa and Namibia. Thus, the Pan-African shortening directions that led to the Late Neoproterozoic/Early Cambrian amalgamation of SW Gondwana are parallel to the main extension directions during Early Cretaceous Gondwana breakup and the initiation of South Atlantic rifting in southwestern Africa. This implies that opening of the modern South Atlantic was controlled by Pan-African (or older) structural discontinuities that were reutilized during the Early Cretaceous. The inherited structural basement anisotropies, which are generally parallel to major lineaments and/or crustal-scale shear zones, apparently controlled dike emplacement in the Early Cretaceous and the location of rifting at that time.
30069097|The Iowan glacial drift sheets of Iowa and Illinois were deposited by separate and distinct ice lobes, the former from the Keewatin glacial center, the latter from the Labradorean. Field evidence shows that the Labradorean lobe, which had to travel the greater distance, reached the Mississippi River after the Keewatin lobe had begun to recede. Except for the Des Moines-Wisconsin lobe, the Iowan drift sheet of Iowa is the surface drift over a large part of northern Iowa, and the Iowan drift sheet of Illinois is the surface drift over only the north-central part of the state, west of the Tazewell moraines. No single paper exists in Pleistocene literature that treats of the basal stratigraphie relationships of the two Iowan drift sheets, their contrasts in topography and lithology, and the meteorological aspects of the Keewatin-Iowan lobe. The present paper considers also the interpretation that is thought to be more plausible for the
30068750|Ion microprobe analyses of trace elements in quartz from the Santa Catalina mylonite zone, southern Arizona, show a wide range in Li contents and little or no variation in B, Na, Al, K, and Fe. One large quartz crystal is protected on three sides by a partially altered alkali feldspar crystal. The fourth side grades into small recrystallized quartz grains (perpendicular to the c-axis); a step scan parallel to the c-axis shows an approximately bell-shaped curve for the distribution of Li. The fluid accompanying mylonitic deformation appears to have partially leached the quartz of Li. Given temperature estimates of mylonitization for this sample of ~500C, diffusion coefficients estimated from the observed concentration profiles appear to be at least 7-10 orders of magnitude smaller than experimentally determined coefficients, suggesting that (1) alkali metal diffusion in quartz in nature takes place via a different diffusion mechanism than measured in the laboratory, or (2) a hydrous fluid is required to increase diffusion rates for Li and this fluid was absent during much of the mylonitic event.
30084824|Ocean surface currents of the Cretaceous can be reconstructed by analogy with the modern current system. Constraints on the reconstruction are imposed by the distribution of stenothermal organisms acting as indicators of cool and warm waters. The planetary wind system must have exerted a strong influence on surface oceanic circulation then just as it does today. The outstanding feature of Cretaceous oceanic circulation was the equatorial current system flowing through the Tethys Sea and across the central Pacific Ocean in a circumglobal band of warm water with its own characteristic fauna. West Wind Drift probably existed at high latitudes in both the Northern and the Southern Hemispheres. The presence of cold currents comparable with today's California and Peru Currents and of warm currents comparable with today's Mozambique Current and Kuroshio suggests that current gyres existed then as they do now. The Africa-Arabia land seems to have diverted warm, tropical water into the Northern Hemisphere, producing a sharper climatic and faunal gradient between the Tethyan and Arctic regions than between the Tethys and the regions to the south for much of the Cretaceous Period.
30056885|Caliche underlies the soils of the northeastern Llano Estacado as single, double, or, in a few places, multiple layers, each consisting of relatively unindurated caliche grading upward into the indurated cap-rock. Laboratory studies show that the caliche is composed of varying but roughly equal parts of calcite and/or, rarely, silica gel, silt-size quartz particles, and small water-filled vacuities, all arranged isotropically in space with the elastics being largely non-adjoining. Physiographic and theoretical considerations indicate that the caliche is a product of long continued deposition and results from subsurface evaporation of soil moisture in an eolian aggrading soil profile. The ultimate source of the
30081123|The Hamilton Local Fauna has the combined assets of being a large and well studied mammalian fauna and being directly overlain by a
30079566|Contrary to the somewhat sensational accounts in the public press, the rockslide on Carbon Mountain does not exhibit any unusual features. The slide involves the lower 100-125 feet of the Fruitland formation, of Upper Cretaceous age, which consists largely of shale and lies immediately above the Pictured Cliffs sandstone. The mass involved is about 1,800 feet long, 600 feet wide, and 100 feet deep and has moved about 700 feet obliquely down the back slope of a hogback of Pictured Cliffs sandstone, which dips about 21 SE. The slope along the direction of the major movement has a gradient of only 40 per cent. The mass moved slowly, the maximum recorded rate being about 30-45 feet a day.
30065699|Forty marine and continental Eocene and Oligocene arkosic sandstones and interbedded shales from the Santa Ynez Mountains, California and nine continental Holocene sands from the Salton Basin, California have been petrographically and chemically analyzed for 27 elements each. The arkoses and Holocene sands are composed of quartz and feldspar with minor amounts of clay, mica, and rock fragments. The shales are about 65% clay, 15% quartz, and 15% feldspar; Fe, Mg, Zn, K, Hb, Ti, Nb, Cr, and Ni are largely contained in the clay minerals with little detritai mafic rock or minerals. The data indicate a provenance of plutonio igneous and metamorphic rocks with minor volcanics; probably the Mojave Desert region. The composition of the sediments is roughly equivalent to an intermediate igneous rock minus dissolved material, particularly Na and Ca, plus diagenetically added sulfur. The sediments were derived by moderate weathering, in an area of high relief, as is shown by the abundance and relatively unaltered condition of the plagioclase and some of the unstable heavy minerals, but detrital basic rock is uncommon and the Fe, Mg, Ni, Co, Nb, and possibly Cr were contained in precipitated clay minerals derived from solution of basic rock. Chemical criteria are suggested that would enable a highly metamorphosed or migmatised arkosic sequence to be distinguished from primary injected granitic or partial melts of granitic composition. The diagnostic importance of Zr, Ni, Cr trends and abundances are emphasized; these elements, being relatively immobile, are likely to preserve original igneous or sedimentary trends.
10.1086/683663|Late Ordovician (Hirnantian) glaciation, indicated by periglacial paleosols, tillites, and glacial pavements in Saharan Africa, has been attributed to advances in weathering and carbon sequestration due to evolution of early land plants, in the same way that Devonian-Permian glaciation has been attributed to evolution of forests and Quaternary glaciations to evolution of grasslands. Two problems for carbon cycle explanations of this glaciation are an Hirnantian CO
30068303|Open valleys of the Kaibab and Coconino plateaus were interpreted by Davis, Johnson, and Robinson as mature stream valleys indicating former peneplanation in the Grand Canyon region. The writer proposes a noncyclic explanation in which limestone solution at higher, more humid elevations caused abandonment of young valleys by surface streams. Evidence supporting the latter hypothesis includes: close relationship of valley form to climate and vegetation zoning, abundant sinkholes on the Kaibab summit, absence of surface streams and the presence of slope-wash fans and fill in the open valleys, and the youthful appearance of certain streamless valleys, considered by Davis to be mature. Parks of the Kaibab are elongate closed basins with abundant karst features and only insignificant exterior surface drainage. They are attributed to enlargement and deepening of earlier stream valleys by limestone solution.
10.1086/662737|Secondary, backscattered, high-resolution transmission, and energy-dispersive spectroscopy tools of electron microscopy reexamined Alexander von Humboldts field site of brownish black crust[s] covering rocks along cataracts of the Orinoco River. Modern tools confirm eighteenth-century analysis that the basic composition includes an abundance of manganese, iron, and carbon. Additional major constituents include clay minerals, calcium, and sometimes barium and cobalt. Backscattered and secondary electron imaging confirms the 2-century-old hypothesis of an accretionary nature of the Orinoco coating. The remarkable Orinoco sheen is produced by a smooth lamellate micromorphology and high concentrations of manganesethe same conditions required to produce lustrous varnishes formed in warm deserts. Although von Humboldt deduced, and we agree, that coating constituents must derive from the Orinoco, electron microscope observations of Mn-enriched diatom fragments, Mn-enriched cocci-bacterial forms, and microstromatolitic textures suggests a role for microorganisms in the 60- to 70-times enhancement of Mn over Fe in these varnishes. With the retrospect of 2 centuries of scholarship, Alexander von Humboldt rightfully deserves to be considered the father of rock coating research.
30065140|The bulk chemical compositions, mineralogy, and mineral proportions of sands and muds of the Mallacoota Basin in southeastern Australia reflect the composition of weathering profiles mantling source rocks, rather than bedrock. Muds contain abundant clay minerals that are virtually absent from the source rocks but abundant in the weathering profiles. Sands are strongly enriched in quartz relative to source rocks, even in the headwaters of the fluvial system, demonstrating that feldspar destruction occurs by in situ chemical weathering within profiles and before detritus enters the fluvial system. K-feldspar is proportionally more abundant in fluvial sands than in source rocks because plagioclase is more rapidly destroyed than either quartz or K-feldspar in weathering profiles. Subsequent erosion and sorting produce sands enriched in quartz, with high K-feldspar:plagioclase ratios relative to source rocks. The composition of plagioclase incorporated into the fluvial sands is also controlled by chemical weathering. In weather-ing profiles the anorthite component of plagioclase weathers more rapidly than the albite component so that vestigal plagioclase in the profiles, and in sands derived therefrom, is more albitic than in the source rocks. Traditional point-counting techniques to obtain modal estimates of sediments and sedimentary rocks are not widely applicable because (1) most sedimentary rocks-shales and equivalent mud-grade materials-are too fine-grained for petrographic examination, and (2) rock fragments are rare to non-existant in most "basement" source terranes. We use a method that involves identification of mineral species present, information on their compositions, and bulk chemical compositions to calculate modal compositions by an albegraic method (CAM). The technique is equally applicable to source rocks, sediments, and sedimentary rocks of all size grades, so that meaningful mass balances and provenance studies can be carried out. Results of this study show that, where substantial chemical weathering has occurred, Q:F ratios and P:K ratios more closely reflect those of weathering profiles than bedrock from which they were ultimately derived.
30069367|During Deep Freeze 61, highly saline water was found on the bottom of Lakes Vanda and Bonney, Victoria Land, Antarctica. These lakes, perennially ice-covered, have unusually warm waters for such cold environments. In December, 1960, the bottom 20-foot layer of Lake Vanda (
30059267|Temperature measurements on the surface and at several internal positions within an outcrop of quartz monzonite on the Mohave Desert were taken over a period of 8 months. Rock temperatures have a maximum range of from 24 to 8 C. and temperature gradients range from 15 to 4 C. per foot in the outer 1 foot of rock. Water content of the rock at various points was also determined and was found to increase toward the inside of the rock ranging from 0.05 to 0.15 per cent. These data and the coefficients of expansion of the constituent minerals indicate that temperature change alone is unimportant in rock disintegration. Water content, on the other hand, is sufficient to serve as an important reagent in chemical rock weathering even in a very dry environment.
30055877|Pyrite concretions are common in the Pennsylvanian shales immediately overlying the Bevier coal bed in north-central Missouri. They were studied in place in the shale and also with the microscope in the laboratory. A detailed account of their occurrence is given. The concretions are believed to be syngenetic in origin. This view is based upon the occurrence of the concretions, the possible conditions favorable for their formation which are believed to have existed in the Pennsylvanian seas, and corroborative evidence as furnished by the formation of pyrite in present-day seas.
30069404|Recently several possible kimberlites have been discovered in Brazil, particularly in the states of Minas Gerais, Mato Grosso, Piaui, Santa Catarina, and Rondonia. The presence of alluvial diamonds and kimberlites in the Alto Paranaiba region of western Minas Gerais has resulted in this area being the most investigated. The magmatism here is related to the Alto Paranaiba uplift that developed in the late Cretaceous following reactivation of ancient regional fractures. Kimberlites in other Brazilian localities may be approximately synchronous with the activity in Alto Paranaiba. Associated with the kimberlitic diatremes, especially in the Minas Gerais region, are lamprophyric and other alkalic intrusions.
30063667|Meanders more or less narrowly inclosed by canyon walls characterize certain parts of many streams of the Colorado Plateau. On larger streams, the meanders appear to have been inherited from a preceding well-advanced erosion cycle; they are intrenched with inappreciable change of plan where hard rocks immediately underlay the former valley, but are greatly modified or obliterated where weak rocks have been encountered in deepening the valley. On smaller streams inclosed meanders are restricted to parts of the course carved in hard rocks, and their form indicates origin by downward-lateral corrasion, possibly or probably during the present erosion cycle. In soft rocks the tendency to cut horizontally so widens and clears the valley that the stream flows in a very wide shallow channel which is relatively straight. The origin of these features is mainly controlled by the strength of the rocks and relative loading of the streams.
30082323|This note describes the construction and application of a simple graphical technique for enlarging or reducing topographic profiles from contour maps of any scale. The technique, referred to as radial projection, relies on a few simple tools and mathematical operations whereby lines and index points are laid out on the contour map and linear projections of topographic contours from the map form enlarged or reduced topographic profiles in cross section.
30078493|The Fen Central Complex (FCC) and associated satellite dikes of the Fen Province in southern Norway record a magnetization dating to 583 Ma. The paleomagnetic pole calculated from these rocks falls at 56 N, 150 E (dp = 7, dm = 10) and compares favorably with two previous investigations. The mean inclination in our study is slightly steeper than that of one of the earlier studies and we attribute this to the fact that previous investigators inadvertently sampled younger (late Paleozoic/early Mesozoic) dikes in the area. The age of the Fen paleomagnetic pole is constrained by two consistent
30070778|Emerged reef terraces record the extraordinarily rapid Holocene uplift rate of the fault-bounded Yenkahe resurgent block (YRB), located within a partially submerged Quaternary caldera on Tanna Island, Vanuatu, southwest Pacific. The presently active volcano, Yasur, is located at the western end of the YRB. Episodic uplift of the YRB is probably associated with the movement of magma below the Yenkahe area. A historically recorded uplift at Port Resolution Bay in a.d. 1878 raised the shoreline ~ 15 m. This a.d. 1878 event was accompanied by a local earthquake and a tsunami that reached ~ 12 m elevation. Coral samples from terraces at mean altitudes of 155 m and 15 m above present sea level yield
10.1086/671396|Nitrogen isotope (
30078341|The term "cocite" was coined by Lacroix for rocks that share with lamproites a number of characteristics, among them the presence of K-rich minerals and high MgO and
30068708|Abiotic marine carbonates have been precipitated as ooids and synsedimentary cement within shallow marine carbonate sequences throughout the Phanerozoic. These components exhibit variable abundances and compositions that temporally correlate with estimates of global eustasy. With rising sea level, aragonite and acicular magnesium calcite precipitation gave way to the formation of equant calcite and possibly dolomite. Similarly, the abundance of ooids was limited by positions of global sea level and associated changes in ocean chemistry. Modern abiotic marine carbonates also exhibit variable abundances and compositions as a function of changing fluid chemistry with latitude and depth. Chemical data on ambient marine waters suggest that carbonate ion concentrations and rates of precipitation presently control the nature of marine cement and ooids. Using data from modern oceans to calculate the requisite atmospheric
30057866|An extraordinary type of fossil, manifestly related to Serpulites and Conularia, is described from the Silurian strata near Chicago. It is clearly a new genus and species and is given the name Lecthaylus gregarius. It is associated with a species of Monograp-tus, a genus which is poorly represented in the American Silurian faunas, but which abounds in Europe.
30080984|An analysis of lengths and strikes of continental grabens reveals a predominant north-south orientation. This is borne out both by Cenozoic grabens that have undergone little or no rotation since their formation, and by Pre-Cenozoic grabens when rotated back to their original strike. A similar predominant orientation of oceanic ridges shows that lithospheric extensional features tend to form most frequently in a near-meridional direction. This evidence should be taken into account when investigating the driving mechanisms of global tectonics.
30062007|The spatial distribution of Ti, Ba, Sr, and Rb in the 2400 m thick sheet-like, acid, plutonic phase (Main Granite) of the Bushveld Complex is examined. Zones of greater concentrations of Ti, Ba, and Sr, and lower Rb, are developed along the roof, and especially along the floor. Ti, Ba, and Sr decrease in abundance, and Rb increases, inwards into the sheet, producing nearly-symmetric concentration profiles through the sheet. Asymmetric patterns are developed across a late-forming, miarolitic portion of the sheet (Bobbejaankop Granite). The uppermost portions of this tin-mineralized granite are characterized by relatively low abundances of Ba, Sr, and Ti, and high Rb contents. Comparisons of the observed spatial Sr distribution in the granites with model calculations indicate that simple ionic diffusion in the magma during crystallization could not have produced the observed pattern, but that convective mixing must have occurred in the parent melt. This is confirmed by the likely range of Peclet numbers of the melt during crystallization (
30068838|Structural geology textbooks distinguish among four end members of threedimensional refold structures established from their twodimensional interference patterns. Here it is shown that six different end members of threedimensional refold structures exist. These end members can be described by a reduced direction cosines matrix
30078573|The instrument herewith described is an aid in the rapid preparation and interpretation of stereographic and gnomonic projections for a fundamental sphere of radius either 5 or 2 cm. The use of the instrument in solving distance, angle, rotation, and reflection problems is described in elementary fashion illustrated by simple examples. Application of these to the solution of problems in structural geology and morphological crystallography is brought out.
30056033|Two volcanic necks and a number of sills, recently discovered in central Arkansas, are of considerable interest because of the great thickness of sedimentaries which they intrude, and because of the variety of alkaline rock types found in them. The intrusions cut Pennsylvanian strata, and probably are the result of the same mid-Cretaceous vulcanism which is responsible for the other Arkansan igneous bodies. Diamonds, found in the only other described igneous neck in Arkansas, probably are not present in these newly described intrusions. The presence of these structures may be regarded as only slightly adverse to the possibilities of gas in the general area in which they occur.
30081065|Several recent papers have suggested that completeness of stratigraphic sections can be estimated by using the ratio of long-term sedimentation rates to short-term rates. We show that the median short-term sedimentation rates used in these papers are erroneous and are mostly an artifact arising from improper data manipulation. To demonstrate the artificial character of short-term median rates, we have generated a series of plots assuming a constant sedimentation rate with fixed variance and defined limits of measurement precision. These plots demonstrate that increasing variance in the time required to deposit sediments will result in spuriously high short-term median sedimentation rates. A new method for calculating median sedimentation rates, which eliminates the problem of spurious median rates, is then applied to make an improved estimate of expected completeness. Recalculated median values show that sedimentation rates for pelagic sediments are close to identical for both short-term and long-term time intervals. Applying this method to an expanded compilation of pelagic sedimentation rates confirms the near completeness of typical pelagic sequences. This undermines arguments for inherent temporal incompleteness as an explanation for the synchronous extinctions at the Cretaceous-Tertiary boundary. Finally, we suggest that median short-term sedimentation rates should not be used to assess completeness for individual sections. Problems with compaction, bioturbation, core smearing, uncertainties in radiometric age determinations, and the great variance inherent in sedimentation rates imply that median short-term sedimentation rates are suspect, however calculated. Sedimentation accumulation diagrams may find their greatest usefulness in estimating the completeness to be expected in a given depositional environment or in comparing completeness of one environment to another.
30059400|It is the writer's contention that the various cherts which are found associated with the Paleozoic formations of west-central Virginia can be distinguished from each other. To this end descriptions of the distinguishing features of these cherts are given.
30058043|A test hole with total depth 4,746 feet located near the axis of the Cincinnati arch in Ohio has revealed several new formations which are either Middle or Lower Cambrian or pre-Cambrian in age. Below the Lower Magnesian dolomite and Upper Cambrian sandstones are 100 feet of red sands and shales tentatively correlated with the "Red Clastic series" of Minnesota. Then follow 400 feet of arkose and dolomite, never previously found in this region, which are possibly Keweenawan. Below this the test penetrated over 800 feet of black, carbonaceous limestone which is considered to be pre-Cambrian. Tests drilled farther north on the axis reached granitic gneiss at 2,800 feet with both these latter formations omitted. This black limestone is unknown anywhere else in the Great Lakes region.
30065739|Textures and compositional relationships associated with dark-colored, fine-grained enclaves in the Cadillac Mountain and Somesville granites, Mount Desert Island, Maine, preserve abundant evidence for contamination of host granitic magmas by enclave liquids. Fine-grained enclaves, which apparently represent chilled magmatic droplets, have affected the composition and texture of the host granites by three possible mechanisms: (1) crystallization of feldspar-quartz-hornblende pegmatite pods from fluids of enclave origin in the granite surrounding enclaves, and the disaggregation of the pods and dispersion of crystals into the granite; (2) ionic exchange between enclaves and granitic magmas; (3) the generation around enclaves of rinds consisting of an inner alkali feldspar-quartz zone and an outer zone of hornblende-enriched granite. Coarse-grained pegmatite pods that occur outside of enclaves may result from migration of a hydrous residual fluid, evolved during enclave crystallization, out of the enclave, and into the partially crystalline magma. Crystallization of minerals from this liquid, and their disaggregation into the host granite, contaminate the granite with minerals comprised of exotic components that originated in the enclaves. High zircon concentrations around enclave boundaries may result from transport of zirconium ions in the hydrous residual fluid out of the enclave magma into the granitic magma. The occurrence of alkali and plagioclase feldspars near enclave margins and in pegmatite pods may record hydrous fluid-induced lowering of the solidus to intersect the solvus in the feldspar system. Ionic diffusion, at temperatures either above or below the enclave magma solidus, may be responsible for clinopyroxene-albite and clinopyroxene-potassium feldspar enclave compositions, with sodium and/or potassium diffusing at relatively high rates across enclave boundaries (Baker 1990). Thermal calculations suggest that the alkali feldspar-quartz zones of the rinds surrounding enclaves may result from resorption of alkali feldspar and quartz crystals in the granitic magma by heat of cooling and crystallization of enclave material. The interaction between the hot enclave and the alkali feldspar-quartz composition liquid may be analogous to that between a pluton and meteoric water in a hydrothermal system. The segregation of alkali feldspar-quartz and hornblende-rich zones may result from the minimum melt composition fluid migrating toward the enclave, leaving behind unmelted hornblende, as part of a convection circuit set up by the enclave. Alternatively, hornblende-rich zones concentric to and outside of the alkali feldspar-quartz rinds may record the limit of movement of a front of hydrous fluid driven from the enclave boundary down a thermal gradient.
30058825|A hydrothermal study in the range up to 800 C. and 2,000 atm. water pressure shows the successive "equilibrium" reactions in vermiculite on heating. Under 10,000 psi water pressure, the first dehydration reaction occurs at 550 C, while above 650 C. only non-expanding structures are formed. The most important change in vermiculite occurs gradually, becoming quite marked above 300; this change leads to a redistribution of the mica-layer
30065661|The Cadillac Mountain intrusive complex, located on Mount Desert Island, Maine, provides a superb record of episodic invasion of a floored silicic magma chamber by many pulses of basaltic magma. The complex consists of three units: the Cadillac Mountain granite (CMG), the Somesville granite (SG), and gabbro-diorite (G-D). Basaltic magmas were emplaced before, during, and after the emplacement and crystallization of the granitic plutons, and the chambers of silicic magma acted as traps for basaltic magma. Basaltic magma emplaced into the surrounding country rocks crystallized as homogeneous diabase and gabbro, while basaltic magma emplaced within the perimeter of the granite displays abundant evidence for commingling with silicic magma. The G-D unit (about 1.5 km thick) consists of interlayered gabbroic, dioritic, and granitic rocks. Although thin (<1 m thick) gabbroic layers in the G-D unit are typically chilled on all margins, thicker layers of gabbro commonly form the lower parts of macrorhythmic units that may grade upward from basally chilled gabbro through hybrid dioritic rocks to granite. These macrorhythmic units provide a cumulate record of the temporary stratification of mafic and silicic magmas in the CMG chamber. Widespread, small mafic enclaves occur at all levels of the CMG and were probably generated along turbulently stirred double-diffusive boundaries between mafic and silicic magma. Heat from basaltic infusions promoted convection in the overlying silicic magma, and this convection distributed enclaves thoughout the CMG chamber. Scarce, finegrained enclaves of hybrid, intermediate rock in the CMG may represent disrupted portions of a hybrid magma that evolved near the base of the chamber due to repeated infusions of basaltic magma. Some zones of transgressive granophyre in the CMG probably represent highly silicic liquids that evolved within the CMG magma chamber. The Somesville granite may represent a mixture of magma that evolved within the CMG chamber and injections of new silicic magma from below.
30081069|Geologic mapping in parts of the southern Panamint Range, eastern California, has documented critical stratigraphic relationships at the upper Proterozoic contact between the Kingston Peak Formation and Noonday Dolomite. These relations bear significantly upon the timing and style of development of the latest Proterozoic and Paleozoic continental margin of western North America. They include: (1) an unconformity below Wildrose diamictite, interpreted as glaciogenic, the uppermost Kingston Peak unit; (2) diamictite similar to Wildrose diamictite interbedded within carbonate strata of the overlying basal Noonday Dolomite; and (3) interfingering between rocks of the Kingston Peak and Noonday formations. The Kingston Peak-Noonday contact is thus complex and variable in character and does not represent a regional unconformity. Instead, it marks a transition from rift to post-rift sedimentation without any hiatus and shows there was no regional doming during rifting. The stratigraphic relations also demonstrate that the Kingston Peak and Noonday formations are in part of the same age, and a conformable succession from Kingston Peak through to Cambrian rocks implies a latest Proterozoic age for the Kingston Peak Formation. The erosional contact at the base of the Wildrose diamictite supports a glaciogenic origin for that diamictite and indicates that glaciation occurred in this region at a later time than is commonly given for this important climatic event.
30060234|At the beginning of Cenozoic time a large region between the Pacific and American plates consisted of a continuous Farallon plate. Beginning 55 m.y. ago, the Farallon plate has been complexly fragmented by the formation of ridge-trench transforms, paired ridges, leaky transforms and transverse spreading centers as well as by ridge jumps, and ridge and fracture zone reorganization. Many of these phenomena can be related to pivoting of fragments of the plate around points near ridge-trench-fault triple junctions. Pivoting appears to be a consequence of the shape of the subducted part of the plate which narrows to a point near the oblique intersection of a ridge and trench. Pivoting fragmentation produces two types of phenomena where plates converge. The rate of convergence varies with distance from the pivot and this determines many aspects of topography, structure, sedimentation, vulcanism, and metamorphism. Transverse phenomena which penetrate North America for hundreds of kilometers are associated with the pivoting Cocos plate. They lie over the tapering edge of the subducting plate.
30079428|UPb zircon data on gneisses indicate a Late Proterozoic protolith at 700 Ma at Bixiling and a Late Archean to Early Proterozoic for the Shuanghe sheet within the ultrahighpressure metamorphic terrane of Dabieshan (China). UPb zircon and SmNd dates on the gneisses of the Shuanghe sheet constrain a metamorphic peak at 230 Ma. RbSr and
30056449|A stock of alkaline rocks 2 1/2 by 3 1/2 miles in outcrop is described from seven miles northeast of Libby, Montana. The oldest and chief rock of the stock is a pyroxenite that commonly is made up mostly of pyroxene with much apatite, some garnet and magnetite, and a variable amount of biotite. Parts of the pyroxenite are made up almost entirely of biotite, now altered to vermiculite. Nepheline syenite with some syenite is younger than the pyroxenites, and small dikes of granite were the latest intrusions. Hydrothermal action has altered the pyroxenite in narrow veins and larger bodies to a fibrous amphibole. It has also replaced most of the nepheline of the nepheline syenite to muscovite, less commonly to zeolites or albite, and has introduced abundant aegirite and titanite in parts of the syenite. Veins, made up chiefly of quartz and carrying next the wall rock abundant vana-diferous aegirite, sulphides, strontianite, and celestite, cut the pyroxenite, which is altered next the veins to fibrous amphibole.
30070630|In ensimatic arcs, initial submarine eruptions of island-arc tholeiites are succeeded by subaerial and submarine volcanism which is either calcalkaline or island-arc tholeiitic. Besshi-type massive stratiform sulfides develop in deep water on the submarine flanks of islands. Pluton emplacement beneath waning volcanoes is accompanied by mercury, porphyry copper, and gold mineralization. Renewed calc-alkaline or island-arc tholeiitic volcanism commonly follows arc reversal or splitting; Kuroko-type massive sulfides form in shallow-water clastic dacitic rocks and gold is concentrated around monzonites and in meta-andesites. Reef limestone deposition, block faulting, and uplift may be followed by formation of bauxite on karstic limestones, and of stratiform manganese deposits near the limestone base. Upper mantle and ocean crust rocks, emplaced as ophiolites in mlanges on the arc side of the trench and as obducted slices during arc-arc collision, contain Cyprus-type stratiform massive sulfides, podiform chromite, and nickel sulfides ; nickeliferous laterites may develop on the upper mantle rocks. Increase in island-arc crustal thickness and emplacement of granitic plutons is accompanied by tin-tungsten-molybdenum-bismuth mineralization. Following arc-continent collision, massive sulfides, gold, tin, and ores associated with ophiolites are preserved.
JG80189|Pressure-temperature (
30058428|The average concentration of fluorine in the earth's crust is about 800 gm. per ton. In basalts and gabbros it is present as apatite; in granites, gneisses, and metamorphic rocks it is contained in mica, hornblende, and fluorspar. Much fluorine enters into the magmatic gas phase, which has an acid reaction. Great amounts of fluorine are therefore exhaled by volcanic eruptions. If the magmatic gas phase has opportunity to react with the wall rock, it turns alkalic, and fluorine is extracted (as phosphate?) before it reaches the surface; alkaline hot springs carry no magmatic fluorine. Of the fluorine dissolved by the weathering processes, only 0.2 per cent is found in the ocean. Fluorine is extracted from inland waters and from the sea, forming mineral deposits with a composition resembling fluorapatite.
30080215|The formation of L tectonites is little understood and scarcely studied; however, it is probably an important part of plastic deformation in the crust. To improve our understanding of this strain phenomenon, I present a detailed case study of a kilometerwide domain of L tectonites developed in and around the 2.05Ga Boy Scout Camp Granodiorite (BSCG) in the Laramie Mountains, Wyoming. Detailed mapping and structural analyses allow for the reconstruction of the structural setting of this domain of apparent constrictional strain. Elongation lineations plunge moderately to the southsouthwest and lie parallel with both the local fold hinge lines and regional fold axes, whereas poles to foliation generally cluster in the northwest quadrant, roughly defining fold axial surfaces. Mapscale folds are westnorthwest vergent, but at the outcrop and thinsection scales, there is no evidence for a significant component of simple shear. Reconstruction of the orientation of contacts in and around the BSCG indicates that L tectonites have developed in the hinge zone of a large synform. Deformation fabrics die out to both the east and the west of the map area. These data indicate that the domain of L and
30070753|Consideration is given to the kinematics of epeirogenic movements over the recent geologic past (late Pleistocene) in a region for which there is an abundance of geological and geophysical information-the continental shelf off the East Coast of North America. It is found that there has been a relative change in elevation of 140 m downward toward the northeast over this longitudinal distance of 3000 km during the past 18,000 years. Specifically, Miami has been elevated at a rate of 0.8 cm/yr with respect to the Scotian shelf continental margin. The confirming data include the shelf break corrected for progradation, reef building, and glacio-isostatic adjustment; late Pleistocene shores on the continental shelf; earlier Pleistocene unconformity surfaces; dated geologic samples of known shallow water origin; buried Pleistocene channels; and recent leveling analysis.
30065723|Petrologic studies and application of well-calibrated mineralogic thermometers and barometers reveal several important features common to many granulite terrains: (1) "Peak" metamorphic pressure and temperature conditions cluster around values of
30056756|The Laramide structures in and adjacent to the northwestern corner of the Bear-tooth Mountains are described. During the early stage of the orogeny the North Snowy block of the Beartooth Range was up thrust by deep-seated compressive stresses. In the later stage a large southward-advancing overthrust sheet encountered the corner of the North Snowy block and was deformed by lateral shearing stresses set up within it. Pressure-box experiments are described in which the later-stage structures of the Livingston Peak area were duplicated in almost every detail.
30055961|The low elliptical sand ridges in Horry County, South Carolina that were interpreted as meteorite scars by Melton and Schriever are believed to be beach ridges and bars in extinct lakes or lagoons, and to owe their uniform orientation to winds blowing from the ocean.
30057058|In this contribution I have endeavored to determine the constituents of the earth's core as well as the percentages of such constituents. The proof depends upon the premise that chemical laws are universal as regards both time and space. By such an assumption we are able to confirm many known facts, such as the earth's siliceous crust, and also to solve many problems when given a sufficient number of known facts. The known facts are the mass and density of the earth, the composition and density of the outer 10 miles of crust, and the specific gravity of the various elements. Although two variations of the problem are briefly considered it will probably be found that the results obtained in the main proof more nearly approach the truth, and indicate a composition of approximately 90 per cent of iron; 7 per cent of nickel, cobalt, and copper; and 3 per cent of the remaining elements.
30056244|In the Mesabi iron-mining district of Minnesota, a part of the Giants Range granite was weathered in pre-Animikie time, and the weathered materials later were impregnated with iron-bearing solutions, and then buried and metamorphosed by both regional and contact metamorphic processes to form a peculiar quartz-chlorite-amphibole-garnet-rock, rich in iron.
30064188|The Koolau dome, forming the east half of the island of Oahu, is notably elongate, built about a linear rift zone in which numerous feeder dikes occur in a dike complex over 30 miles long. Scattered dikes and sills occur in the leeward parts of the dome, the concentration being progressively reduced with the distance away from the dike complex. There are secondary rift zones and subcomplexes with increased concentrations of dikes and sills, which trend at right angles to the main rift zone. The dikes and sills show three stages and patterns of columnar jointing which are related to the cooling history. Shallow intrusives are vesicular and banded but not columnar jointed. Dikes with a thickness of about 2 feet are preponderant to such an extent as to suggest that this is an optimum determined by the amount of lateral crowding-together of contracted lava formations which can be achieved by the pressures of invading lava.
30075168|Grneisen's ratio can be derived as a function of pressure and temperature from experimental data for the melting curve if the Lindemann melting relation is assumed to hold.
30056844|This paper is a reply to the criticisms directed against a paper entitled "Amount of Assimilation by the Sudbury Norite Sheet," an article really intended to outline a method of determining quantitatively the amount of assimilation, but in no way pretending to explain the process or to set forth in an elaborate manner the evidence that such a process operated. In this paper an attempt is made to meet the various arguments against assimilation, to outline the process according to which it operates, and to outline in a simpler way methods of calculating composition changes by the use of series of analyses.
30062245|Shape of a sedimentary particle is generally described by a certain measure of sphericity or flatness and a parameter of roundness. Wadell's degree of true sphericity has been accepted herein as the basic measure of sphericity of non-spherical particles. For the sake of simplification of mathematics, however, it was found to be more convenient to work with an index of flatness rather than with the true sphericity itself. Flatness index, by definition, is exactly the reciprocal of true sphericity. It has been shown that the flatness index can be evaluated, with a reasonable degree of accuracy, from only the volume and the intercepts of a particle, without actually measuring its surface area. Some specific cases have been considered to check the accuracy of the proposed method.
30061397|A stepwise regression analysis of twenty-four variables measured from beds of tillite from the Permian Pagoda Formation of Antarctica suggests that the strength of long-axis clast fabric in tillite is largely dependent on subglacial conditions at the time of deposition. In particular, fabric strength depends on the distribution of shear stress at the ice-sediment interface at the time of till deposition. The larger particles in till are subjected to greater shear stress at the depositional interface and are more likely to be reoriented. Consequently, when fabric studies are made it may be more important to select smaller clasts and remain within limited grain size range than it is to select clasts on the basis of shape. The strongest fabrics can be expected in thicker beds and in beds with a high clay content. The presence of striae paralleling the prominent edges of clasts indicates that the interaction between clasts and the depositional interface is a powerful reorienting mechanism. However, the proportion of striated clasts observed in a bed of till does not necessarily offer a direct measure of the degree to which clasts have been reoriented, because a proportion of the striated clasts may have been derived by the reworking of underlying beds by subsequent ice advances.
30062435|Because banded iron-formation (BIF) density evidently decreased toward upper asthenosphere density with increasing water depth, feedback between sediment density and water depth by way of sedimentation-driven subsidence should have modulated the sediments' bulk density to the upper asthenosphere's. This mechanism helps explain why massive BIF's in longer wavelength, continental shelf basins have a more or less uniform bulk composition, and why their bulk densities closely correspond to the modern upper asthenosphere's. The difference between BIF and upper mantle densities in a short wavelength basin yields a rough estimate of the lithosphere's flexural rigidity. The elastic lithosphere of the Witwatersrand Basin, South Africa, 2.7 b.y. ago was about half as thick as typical modern continental lithosphere. Dynamic effects associated with isostatic equilibration yield estimates of the asthenosphere's dynamic viscosity to few hundred km depths. The fluid mantle beneath the Hamersley Basin, Australia, 2.5 b.y. ago was about as viscous as the modern low velocity zone. To the extent that accumulation and storage of iron in massive BIF's played a key role in lowering dissolved iron concentrations to required levels in the deep ocean, buildup of free oxygen there, if not in the atmosphere, must have had to await the growth of large continents with passive margins-for the lithosphere's flexural rigidity should effectively have limited thick BIF's to broad continental shelves.
30058444|Particular attention is devoted to diagenetic changes within firn, leading to an increase in density and producing structures such as ice layers, lenses, and glands. Density increases irregularly downward in the Seward firn, with layers of exceptionally low density underlying impermeable horizontal ice masses. The mean rate of density increase with depth in the first 50 feet is 0.0054 per foot, being more rapid-0.01 per foot-in the first 20 than in the last 30 feet, where it is 0.0023 per foot. The rate of density increase in time varies with depth and with the season. Mean density of the 1948-1949 firn layer increased by 0.10 in ten weeks during the summer of 1949, but mean density of the 1946-1947 layer at a depth of 15-18 feet increased only 0.021 in a year. On the upper Seward, a geo-physically temperate glacier, the increase of firn density is caused about 25 per cent by meltwater freezing and about 75 per cent by compaction-settling within the zone of annual chilling, the upper 40-50 feet. Horizontal layers and lenses of ice in firn are formed by freezing of meltwater that has percolated downward and collected above or moved laterally along impermeable horizons. An estimated 20-25 per cent of the Seward firn is converted to solid ice by this process before passing beyond the depth of annual chilling. Ice glands-crude vertical columns of ice within the firn-are likewise attributed to the freezing of meltwater that has been concentrated along channels extending downward into the firn. The process is pictured as occurring in two stages: first the development of a water-rich condition without much freezing, followed by freezing of the entire mass as a unit, rather than as a process of incremental growth produced by alternate meltwater invasions and repeated freezings along a single channel. As ice layers and lenses are thickest and most numerous near ice glands and extend horizontally from them, a common origin is indicated. These bodies of ice form within the firn during spring when the winter's chilled layer is being ameliorated by the heat given up through freezing of the meltwater that has percolated downward from the surface.
30068437|The Lower and Middle Mississippian rocks of Ohio are briefly described. The principal stratigraphic problem is the subdivision of the Cuyahoga and Logan formations into fades and members. For these two formations some new member and facies names are proposed, and a possible explanation for the conditions of their deposition is suggested.
30065610|Late Miocene strata of the Bermejo basin, Argentina, (11-7 Ma) yield a magnetic polarity record of unusually high fidelity. Three sections, spaced along-strike over 20 km, are firmly correlated with the magnetic polarity time scale. All three sections demonstrate high accumulation rates (up to 0.88 mm/yr) and include an interval of normal polarity (extending from 7.84 to 7.81 Ma) that has yet to be resolved on the magnetic polarity time scale. The "polarity completeness" demonstrated by Bermejo strata is a result of high accumulation rates as well as environmental factors. Strata were deposited in an arid setting in which unconfined flows were the primary transporters of sediment. Shallow flow depths led to low basal shear stresses, and thus to little potential for erosion; these interpretations are corroborated by field observations. Steady sedimentation in the Bermejo basin is expressed by the low variance short-term accumulation rates have from the average long-term accumulation rate. Uniformity of sedimentation in the Bermejo basin is expressed by identical accumulation histories, even though time-transgressive formational boundaries and texture indicate that the depositional environments were not identical at all locations. These observations suggest that a change in accumulation rate does not necessarily produce a change in depositional environment and, conversely, a change in depositional environment is not necessarily accompanied by a change in accumulation rate.
30068196|The earliest deformation of the curved Kongsberg-Bamble Belt in Norway produced a northwestward-directed tectonic wedge, suggesting oblique NW-SE collision during the Labradorian-Gothian Orogeny in southern Scandinavia. Oblique terrane assembly, with the outboard (western) units colliding last, explains the trapping of the Ostfold-Marstrand island arc (formed at c. 1760 Ma) between younger (1700-1600 Ma) terranes, the apparent lack of Svecofennian crust west of the Trans-Scandinavian Igneous Belt, and the apparent lack of Labradorian-Gothian age crust in the British Isles. The Labradorian of North America may have also resulted from oblique terrane assembly.
30068843|The 20 to 1000mthick >2.8 Ga Bell Lake group is a siliciclasticdominated succession in the Slave craton that contains features consistent with continental rifting. The Archean succession is composed of four principal lithofacies: (1) conglomerate, (2) quartz arenite, (3) sandstoneargillite, and (4) argillitesandstone. An unconformity with 2.84.0 Ga basement indicates an autochthonous cratoncover relationship, and pillowed flows in depositional contact with the argillitesandstone lithofacies reflect contemporaneous sedimentation and volcanism. The basement, composed of layered intrusions, granitic plutons, and gneissic rocks, served as the source for the quartz arenite with detrital chromite. Mesoarchean Slave stratigraphic sections contain finingupward (FU) and coarseningupward (CU) sequences, with the former predominant at cratoncover contacts. The CU sequences are considered to be the results of rifting that produced a coastline featuring estuaries and embayments affected by tides and sporadic terrestrial floods. Successions from the Superior, Dharwar, and Zimbabwe cratons compare favorably with those of the Slave craton, wherein all examples contain quartz arenite, quartz pebble conglomerate, and basaltickomatiitic volcanic rocks. The Slave craton, interpreted as a rifted continental margin, underwent significant crustal attenuation, which facilitated the ascent of mantlederived magma. Modern analogues include a passive margin or shelf adjacent to an orogenic collision zone. The Bell Lake group and other documented cratoncover successions exhibit a recurring theme of early quartzrich sedimentation and subsequent basaltickomatiitic volcanism. This is consistent with continental breakup successions that are commonly induced by mantle plumes.
JG80133|Secondary ion mass spectroscopy U-Pb zircon ages and mineralogical, geochemical, and Nd isotopic data are reported for the Tongde picritic dikes in the Yanbian area of the western Yangtze Block, South China. The picritic dikes, which intruded in the ca. 820-Ma Tongde complex, are dated at
30084976|The Nipissing beach bar east of Sarnia, Ontario, covers wave-reworked material, including several logs and other remains of plants and mollusks, and, at one place, soil below it. Radiocarbon dates of two logs are:
30068615|The pattern of the intersection lineation in metamorphic terrain, as revealed by isogonic maps, often provides sufficient information to determine completely the geometry of major early folds, the recognition of tectonic slides and unconformities, and the establishment of the stratigraphic succession. In all cases the determination of structural geometry from a lineation isogonic map theoretically involves solving Lagrange's partial differential equation. Quick and straightforward graphical procedures can be used in the common case where it is possible to use cylindrical fold subareas. All of the methods can be used independently of any theories of deformation history or finite strain.
30062338|The Papuan and New Caledonian Ultramafic Belts lie 1,770 km apart on the southern branch of Glassener's inner Melanesian arc; a site of a former Mesozoic geosyncline. Both belts show strong affinities with the alpine-type ultramafic association. In both instances a dominant, noncumulate harzburgite forms a substrate on which cumulates of peridotite and gabbros appear to have formed. Overthrusting from the northeast of the complexes onto the sialic crust of the islands was preceded by eruption of voluminous tholeiitic basalts in the Cretaceous or Eocene. Intrusion of felsic stocks into both basement and overthrust sheets succeeded emplacement. The belts differ in their tectonic relationship to Tertiary blueschist metainorphism and to the tholeiitic basalts; in the greater variety and abundance of cumulate rocks in Papua; in the widespread occurrence of chromitites in New Caledonia; and in the relative abundance of clino-pyroxenites in the non-cumulate substrate. An upper mantle origin is indicated for the non-cumulates which perhaps represent depleted pyrolite following removal of the basaltic fraction.
30075110|Batholiths have been commonly pictured as enormous masses extending to great depths. Field studies, however, are showing that many of these "bottomless" batholiths rest in places on visible floors of older rocks. There is evidence of much lateral movement by the magma which has formed sheetlike, tack-shaped or tonguelike masses of much less volume than commonly supposed. Experiments were made by the junior author to determine the mechanics of intrusion without the complicating factor of lateral compression. They show that liquids forced upward through artificial strata do not progress straight upward, but follow inclined pathways, and that, if conditions permit, they spread out laterally. Tension cracks formed on the surface above an intrusion are not ordinarily penetrated by the liquid, which, if it does reach the surface, pours out along the margin of the area uplifted. Batholiths develop characteristically in the hearts of strongly folded belts during late stages of the folding. The forces involved are a combination of the mountain-building compressive stresses and the magma's own force of intrusion. Both forces independently tend to develop wedge-shaped blocks. Beneath the middle portion of the wedge the deformation extends deepest, relief of pressure is greatest, and potential magmas may become actual magmas. From the deep root zone, magmas work upward along inclined pathways following the lines of least resistance. The upfolding of the overburden, with potential cavities beneath, facilitates lateral spreading of the magma as it approaches the surface. Reasons are given why the roof is not commonly broken through.
30081001|A reconstruction of the global paleogeography of the mid-Cretaceous (100 m.y. ago), including adjustment of continental outlines to account for microplate movements, cmstal shortening, and accretion in mid-Cretaceous and later orogenic regions, is described and a map presented. On the modified continents, coastlines and significant mountain ranges are added. This paleogeography is used as a framework for a reconstruction of ocean surface circulation and temperature distribution. Then the main features of the atmospheric circulation are deduced using the paleogeography and ocean temperatures as boundary conditions. Relative to the present, these features are: a much weaker westerly wind belt and greater seasonality of wind patterns leading to more extreme surface climates over the continents; slightly equatorward positions of the subtropical anticyclones; and monsoonal regimes over the continental margins bordering "Tethys" and the central Atlantic. A comparison of the results with climatic evidence from the geologic record shows good agreement with the ocean circulation and consistency with the atmospheric circulation.
30068770|Mafic granulites occurring as conformable lenses within khondalite, leptynite, and calc-silicate rocks from the Anantagiri-Araku areas of the Eastern Ghats belt contain orthopyroxene, clinopyroxene, garnet, quartz, ilmenite, and plagioclase as major constituents. Orthopyroxene contains (100) lamellae of clinopyroxene, and clinopyroxene contains (100) orthopyroxene lamellae and (001) spindles of pigeonite. Reaction textures indicate formation of garnet through coupling of two reactions, viz. orthopyroxene + anorthite = garnet + clinopyroxene + quartz and anorthite + ilmenite -
30064943|The phase relationships in the systems
30063035|Data are presented that represent the results of a series of experiments conducted in an attempt to measure in quantitative terms the rle of bacteria as agents of chemical weathering. Common igneous and sedimentary rocks were subjected to leaching under sterile conditions and under natural conditions, and the increase in salinity of the leaching solutions noted. By comparing the results obtained from all of the samples it was found that the total of the analyzed constituents was 53 per cent greater for the solutions with bacteria than for those leached under sterile conditions.
30060409|The Castle Peak, Permian, footprint fauna has already been shown to contain representations of several new genera and species of ichnites indicating the presence of small branchiosaurian and microsaurian amphibians and reptiles of a varanoid type. Trails of insects, myriapods, borings, and traces of unrecognized form, as well as abundant weather markings, make the deposit near Merkel, Texas, one of exceptional interest. The present paper is a continuation, describing new facts about known species, discussing new species, and announcing the recognition of a species described by Gil-more from the Grand Canyon Permian. A two-toed saltatorial reptile is of interest.
30059124|It appears that five years before Ampferer, P. J. Holmquist recognized the process of large-scale underthrusting of the entire basement of the foreland along a localized zone as a cause of folding and thrusting in orogenic belts. He inferred that the foreland must have descended beneath the orogen to considerable depths, but did not offer any mechanism of getting rid of the underthrusted material. In the same year Eduard Suess supported Holmquist's interpretation, but also added that his mechanism for orogenic deformation was not a final solution as it only transported the problem of shortening in the crust to a deeper level in the Earth.
30060955|The chronology of tectonometamorphic events in granulite terranes of Dronning Maud Land, East Antarctica, is relevant to the controversy regarding the correlation of the Neoproterozoic East African Orogen into Antarctica. The Schirmacher Oasis in the northern Dronning Maud Land preserves mediumpressure (8 kbar, 800C) granulite assemblages whose evolution has been proposed to involve a major and regionally pervasive tectonometamorphic cycle (D
30084929|Clastic masses of cylindrical and dike-like form, with slight local copper mineralization, occur in shales and sandstones of probable Triassic age in the Cimarron Valley area of Union County, New Mexico. A brief account is given of the exposed sedimentary and igneous rocks, which range in age from Triassic to Recent, and two hitherto undescribed stratigraphic units-the Sloan Canyon formation and the Sheep Pen sandstone-both of probable Triassic age, are defined. The area is situated on the east flank of the Sierra Grande arch, but the local attitude of exposed formations is highly modified by numerous subsidiary flexures. Most of this local folding as well as the main development of the regional structure occurred during the second of two well-defined periods of post-Paleozoic deformation. Field evidence indicates that the clastic masses were formed by injection, from below, of water-saturated sand into consolidated sediments.
30070691|A body of rock occurring near the Franklin Furnace ore body has been variously interpreted by writers on the local geology. This paper is a further study, leading to the view that the rock, hitherto considered of sedimentary origin, is an altered pegmatite dike.
30059305|The late Precambrian rocks of the northeastern Great Basin and adjacent areas occur as three distinct sedimentary-rock associations with quite different geographic distributions. These associations, designated as Subprovinces I, II, and III in this investigation, reflect in varying degrees different histories of weathering, erosion, and sedimentation and perhaps different source areas. Because of inadequate exposure, complex thrust faulting, and varying degrees of regional metamorphism, the relationships between the subprovinces are not clear. A gradational contact indicative of continuous clastic deposition occurs between late Precambrian and Cambrian rocks west of the Wasatch Range, while a slight angular uncomformity indicative of late Precambrian uplift and erosion exists between rocks of these ages within and east of the Wasatch Range. Textured and mineralogical evidence from late Precambrian and Paleozoic rocks in the northeastern Great Basin and adjacent areas indicates widespread post-late Paleozoic regional metamorphism in this area.
30078529|There is a continued debate about the sequence stratigraphic interpretation of deepmarine sand accumulations. The conventional notion states that it is preferably (but not only) falling stage and lowstand of relative sea level that favor the formation of the deepmarine systems because, at these times, the fluvial and deltaic transport system tends to extend relatively easily across a shallowmarine shelf surface and hence has potential for sand delivery into deepermarine environments. It has been argued recently, however, that sand delivery across the shelf to the shelf edge is equally likely during highstand, as gauged from the estimated time periods for modern natural rivers to build their deltas to the shelf edge, during the modest relative sea level rise of the past 7000 yr. This argument and counterargument are examined here quantitatively by using, as a basis, the concept of shoreline autoretreat. The autoretreat theory predicts that under conditions of constant sediment supply (
30078363|Three groups of eclogite xenoliths have been identified from the DeBruyn and Martin Mine of the Bellsbank kimberlite, South Africa. These eclogites are divided into the three groups on the basis of petrography, clinopyroxene and garnet mineral chemistry, and rare earth element (REE) contents of the whole rocks, clinopyroxenes, and garnets. Abundances of the REE and garnet-clinopyroxene Kd's are consistent with a petrogenesis by fractional crystallization for Group A eclogites, but not Groups and We suggest, on the basis of bulk-rock major-element and REE analyses and reconstructed REE patterns, that eclogites from Groups and are the metamorphosed products of ancient subducted oceanic crust. Group eclogites have major element chemistry similar to Archean basalts, and Group eclogites have high
30078366|Charnockites and granodiorites, which occur within granulite facies metasediments of the Bhilwara Supergroup of Rajasthan, northwest India, are cogenetic and exhibit petrologic characteristics indicative of a magmatic derivation. Zircon U-Pb data yield a common crystallization age of 1723 +14/-7 Ma. These rocks, earlier believed to represent oldest (Archean) and deepest crust, actually mark a major Proterozoic event. They are believed to be the products of continental arc magmatism, where a basic layer underplating the lower crust led to intrusion of differentiated melts in crustal domains undergoing dry metamorphism.
30062456|Recent studies of scarps produced by normal faulting of cohesionless materials indicate that older scarps are steeper than younger ones, and that slope angles are less for lower scarps of the same age. These observations may be explained by a simple quantitative model of slope degradation in which the rate of change of elevation at a point on a slope profile is proportional to the curvature of the profile at that point. The convex-upward (negative curvature) slope crest will be lowered and the concave-upward (positive curvature) slope base will be raised. The model assumes that the slope remains covered with loose debris and that the local rate of downslope movement of the debris is proportional to the local hillslope gradient. The model provides a simple morphologic dating technique for fault scarps in cohesionless material. It predicts that the rate at which the maximum slope angle of a scarp decreases is related to the initial height of the scarp. It may also be possible to apply the morphologic dating technique to hillslopes formed in other ways.
30056239|In this paper the writer shows that the principle of the Abbe refractometer can be applied to modern petrographic microscopes, and that the refractive indices of minerals can be measured more accurately by using the Fedorow stage than by other microscopic methods. He also introduces a new method of microscopic goniometry by means of that stage.
30056450|There has long been a question as to whether the accordance of hill summits in south-central New York is due to peneplanation. The results of the author's study of this problem tend to show that the region was peneplained and later uplifted and dissected. This erosion surface is correlated with the so-called Schooley peneplain in central Pennsylvania. Remnants of an older erosion surface, the Kittatinny, are demonstrated to exist on the highest hills and ridges in southern New York and in central and northern Pennsylvania. Erosion surfaces, younger than the Schooley, representing partial cycles of erosion are recognized and traced, by means of projected profiles, along the Susquehanna River from Harrisburg northward.
30057123|The sandstones of the Stanley and Jackfork formations represent the two arenite types indigenous to geosynclines. Bedding characteristics, intra-formational stratigraphy, and depositional structures are described. The Stanley formation consists of shale, graywacke, silts tone, siliceous shale, and tuff, interbedded in more or less rhythmic fashion. The graywackes do not show clear evidence of grading, although they present other features characteristic of sequences of graded arenites. The Jackfork formation consists principally of sandstone, with minor amounts of shale. Ripple marking and other bedding-plane structures, and cross-bedding, rare in the sandstones of the Stanley, are not uncommon in those of the Jackfork. The quartz grains of the sandstones were assigned to either an igneous or a metamorphic source on the basis of shape. Percentages of rock fragments, feldspar, and heavy minerals were also determined, and the roundness of grains estimated. In addition, grain size distributions were plotted. All lines of evidence suggest that the Stanley was derived from a source composed primarily of igneous and other crystalline rocks and the Jackfork principally from metasediments. The Stanley graywackes are interpreted as having been deposited in relatively deep water, possibly by turbidity flows, and the clean Jackfork sands in shallow water.
JG80105|In the South Tibetan Himalaya, major detachment systems exhumed midcrustal rocks from different structural levels that are exposed in the Ama Drime and Mount Everest massifs. The South Tibetan detachment system (STDS) accommodated exhumation of the Greater Himalayan Series (GHS) until the Middle Miocene. Field- and laboratory-based structural data presented here indicate that early melt-present deformation in the footwall of the STDS accommodated large-scale flow of a low-viscosity middle crust. Decompression-related anatexis and emplacement of leucogranites in the structurally highest positions of the GHS (1618 Ma) mark the final stages of south-directed extrusion within a relatively narrow solid-state mylonite zone that progressed into a brittle detachment. Estimates of mean kinematic vorticity and deformation temperatures record a progression in deformation conditions, from ultra-mylonitic leucogranite (400500C; 51%67% pure shear) to mylonitic marble (>300C; 41%55% pure shear) to moderately foliated marble 200300C (46%59% pure shear). Previous investigations demonstrated that the cessation of movement on the STDS at 1613 Ma was followed by anatexis in the lower portion of the middle crust (1213 Ma; Ama Drime Massif). The Ama Drime and Nynno Ri detachments (812 Ma; Dinggy graben) exhumed rocks from the deepest structural position in the central Himalaya during orogen-parallel extension. Brittle faulting dissected the upper crust (<4 Ma; TingriKung Co graben) in a setting that was kinematically linked to extension in the interior of the Tibetan plateau.
30070662|Size distributions of distal ashfall particles from correlated 10Ma layers in Nebraska, measured using laser diffraction methods, are lognormal with mode diameters of 90 m. This ashfall is 100% bubblewall shards of rhyolite glass and apparently represents a distal ashfall from an eruption 1400 km away. Measured terminal velocities of these ash particles are 0.218 cm/s, consistent with Stokes Law settling of spherical particles with diameters of 950 m. Surface area of the ash particles, measured with gas adsorption, is 2030 times the surface area of equivalent Stokes spheres. These results highlight the effects of shape and atmospheric drag in distal ashfalls. They also highlight atmospheric transport and fallout of distal ashfall particles, because these deposits resemble many other ashfalls preserved in the Great Plains of North America throughout the Tertiary and Quaternary. Because the ashfalls preserve major mammalian death assemblages, they demonstrate that deposits with modes of optical diameters >100 m are still hazardous by aerodynamic definitions of lung disease risk and include particles substantially within hazardous PM10 ranges. The aerodynamically fine particle size may lead to substantial aeolian redistribution, causing local thicknesses of >2 m. Overall, the ashfall thicknesses observed are at least several times larger than would be expected based on exponential thinning from the volcano. Shape measurements of distal ash particles may be necessary to assess risk. The possible health risks in the central United States from a future rhyolitic eruption in the western United States may be significant.
30065752|In order to comprehend the geometry of drainage basins and channel networks, which is prerequisite to explaining their mechanics, it is necessary to understand the close connection between network topology and such planimetric elements as stream lengths and basin areas. Topologically random channel networks constitute an important theoretical case. In an infinite topologically random network, (1) the expected magnitude of a randomly drawn link of order <tex-math>$\omega$</tex-math> is (<tex-math>$2^{2{\omega}-1} + l$</tex-math>)/3, (2) 2/3 of all links and 1/6 of the interior links head streams, (3) complete subnetworks of any given order have the same distribution of magnitudes as all networks of that order, which explains why it seems to make little difference whether or not basins chosen for investigation are complete, (4) the probability that a randomly drawn stream of order <tex-math>$\omega$</tex-math> will consist of <tex-math>$\lambda$</tex-math> links is <tex-math>$2^{-({\omega}-1)}(1 - 2^{-({\omega}-1)})^{{\lambda}-1}$</tex-math>, and (5) the average stream of order <tex-math>$\Omega$</tex-math> will have <tex-math>$2^{{\Omega}-1} - 1$</tex-math> tributaries entering from the sides, of which <tex-math>$2^{{\Omega}-{\omega}-1}$</tex-math> will on the average be of order <tex-math>$\omega$</tex-math>. Link lengths measured on 1:24,000-scale maps of eastern Kentucky are approximated more closely by a gamma density with parameter v = 2 than by either a log normal or an exponential. The mean length of the exterior links is almost twice that of the interior links, in agreement with the findings of others. In an infinite topologically random channel network whose interior link lengths are gamma distributed with v = 2, (1) the densities of the logarithms of the stream lengths are slightly left-skewed and increase in dispersion with increasing order, and (2) the densities of the logarithms of the Schumm total length of all streams in a subbasin of given order are highly symmetrical, decrease slightly in dispersion with increasing order, and for orders 1 and 2 agree well with Schumm's observations at Perth Amboy, New Jersey. If the link lengths are exponentially distributed, then the stream lengths will also be exponentially distributed. In finite topologically random channel networks with specified stream numbers, the expected number of links per stream and per subnetwork of given order are given by closed but complicated formulas, from which the expected stream lengths and Schumm lengths can be calculated. As observed in natural networks, in a topologically random population, (1) the expected stream lengths do not satisfy Horton's geometric-series law as well as the expected stream numbers, whereas the expected Schumm lengths do, (2) on Horton diagrams the curves are straightest for the most probable networks, and are concave upward or downward for networks of order lower or higher, respectively, than the most probable, and (3) the geometric-mean stream-length and Schumm-length ratios are about 2 and 4.5, respectively. The corresponding results for basin areas are exactly the same as for Schumm lengths. In the Perth Amboy basin studied by Schumm, the average area draining directly overland into unit length of channel is not a constant independent of the particular position of the channel in the basin as he proposed, but is less for exterior links than for interior links. Substantial differences in the relative areas draining into sources and in other geomorphic characteristics are not reflected in Horton diagrams because the Horton variables are averages that are mainly determined by network topology. Of most fundamental significance, therefore, are not the Horton variables, but the more elementary quantities, such as link lengths and source areas.
30058691|Little North Mountain, the western boundary of the Shenandoah Valley in northern Virginia, is an overturned monocline, with steep southeast dips, bounded on the east by a thrust fault. The formations involved, Upper Ordovician to Lower Devonian, show pronounced variations in thickness, and one or more units are absent at different locations along the mountain. Such discontinuous distribution of sediments, especially the ridge-making Tuscarora sandstone, is thought to have acted as a weakened zone during deformation and determined the locus of the fault and the uplifting and overturning of the formations. Numerous water and wind gaps mark locations where the Tuscarora formation is thin or absent, and the higher altitudes correspond to a thickening of this sandstone.
30066153|Bedrock in the Pleasant Bay area, southeastern coastal region of Maine, consists of the schist of Columbia Falls (greenschist, greenstone, and conglomerate), the Bar Harbor series (quartzo-feldspathic sedimentary rocks and tuff), a body of gabbroic rocks, granophyre, and biotite granite. The Bar Harbor series is unmetamorphosed and younger than the schist of Columbia Falls. The gabbroic mass encloses fragments of the Bar Harbor series but is intruded by granophyre and biotite granite. The gabbroic mass, which consists of olivine-gabbro, gabbro, quartz-gabbro, and quartz-ferrogabbro, displays stratiform features. These include: rhythmic layering, "turbulence layering," igneous lamination, quartz-diorite layers, and cryptic layering. The structural attitude of these features indicates that the body has the form of a broad, eastward-plunging syncline. Abundant exposures of sheared and brecciated rocks and fault traces indicate that faulting has been important. The complications of faulting prohibit simple correlation of mineralogical composition with stratigraphic position, but mineralogical trends indicate that cryptic layering has occurred in the sequence: olivine gabbro (lowest), gabbro, quartz-gabbro, quartz-ferrogabbro (highest). Although the body appears to have differentiated in a manner similar to many other basic bodies, certain variations are of interest. These have been studied in the light of Osborn and Muan's experimental work in the system
30079547|A restudy, with more ample descriptions than previously published. New interpretations are that the fragmental rhyolite at Alloa is a true flow breccia and not a basal phase of the Baraboo quartzite; that the sheared rhyolite at the Lower Narrows of the Baraboo River is older than the quartzite; that the so-called granite in Merrimac Township is flow rhyolite; and that evidence is lacking to substantiate the idea that the Otter Creek granite is intrusive into the Baraboo quartzite.
30060235|Fault plane solutions of 67 earthquakes along the Middle America arc were determined. These focal mechanisms delineate tectonic activity characteristics of a subduction zone. Focal mechanisms of shallow events beneath the trench axis indicate normal faulting resulting from initial flexure of the downgoing plate. Shallow focus earthquakes along the inclined seismic zone yield focal mechanisms which indicate underthrusting on fault planes dipping beneath the coast. The tensional axes of the focal mechanism solutions of the intermediate focus earthquakes are aligned down the dip of the seismic zone and indicate that the subducted portion of the plate is under extensional stress. The strike-slip solutions of nine events along the arc possess one nodal plane which strikes approximately perpendicular to the trend of the arc. The locations of these nine events correlate very well with transverse features mapped by Stoiber and Carr (1973) from discontinuities and offsets in the volcanic chain and dip changes in the inclined seismic zone. These discontinuities are marked by more and larger magnitude earthquakes than the areas between them. An aftershock sequence in eastern Guatemala was spatially bounded by two transverse breaks. The data suggest that the underthrust plate is broken into segments 100-300 km wide which are bounded by tear faults and which are subducted with dips and strikes which may differ from those of adjacent segments.
30068066|A diamond-bearing eclogite has been studied using industrial high-energy computed tomography and volume visualization techniques. Using this non-destructive technique, in which distinction between phases is based on density differences, seven diamonds (five completely enclosed in the rock) have been isolated and viewed in three dimensions. Six diamonds appear to be single crystals of well-formed to malformed octahedra. One is a spinel twin (macle). Partial to complete rimming by secondary barite provides sufficient density contrast with surrounding silicates to allow the diamonds to be easily recognized by their morphology. They appear to be confined to a 1 cm-wide layer. Diamonds range in size from 0.9 to 2.4 mm in maximum dimension and are estimated to constitute 0.19 wt % of the sample, equivalent to a "grade" of 9500 carats per metric ton. Several models for diamond genesis can be ruled out for this sample (e.g., pseudomorphs of graphite by diamond, precipitation as glomeroporphyritic aggregates from a magma), based on the details of diamond distribution.
30066389|Previously published studies on the amount of Cary snow-line depression and of the Pleistocene climate of New Mexico allow computation of the mean annual and mean monthly temperatures for the Estacado during Cary time. Construction of a Cary hysteresis loop for the Estacado thus gives the mean monthly and annual evaporation rates. The reasons for development of pluvial lakes in west Texas are revealed by determination of the Pleistocene climatic parameters. Pre-Wisconsin and Wisconsin strand lines, when combined with the equilibrium equation, the present extent of the lake basins, and the derived Cary evaporation rate of 44 in/yr, indicate that Pleistocene precipitation varied little from today's average. It is therefore suggested that the pluvial lake levels in west Texas were controlled mainly by runoff fluctuations produced by the rhythmic temperature changes.
30068764|Apatite fission-track apparent ages (
30066369|Brief notices in books and old newspapers report eruptions from Mount Rainier on at least fourteen dates between 1820 and 1894. Descriptions of the supposed eruptive activity are vague, however, and in no case is there a clear record of the emission of new lava or ash. Recent mapping of the geology of Mount Rainier National Park brought forth no geologic evidence to substantiate such recent activity. The youngest blanket of pumice and ash from Mount Rainier consists of two or more distinct ash falls. Both tree-ring and radiocarbon methods of dating indicate that it was deposited about 550-600 years ago. Mount Saint Helens, on the other hand, was in eruption more recently. Historic accounts of eruptions from this volcano in 1831, 1842, and 1843 appear to be reliably documented, and there is also geologic evidence of very recent activity.
30058620|The phylogenetic relationships of the Phytosauria are discussed, and a new species of Angistorhinus is described from Big Spring, Texas.
30065021|There has been lack of agreement concerning the ecological conditions of loess deposition in the central Great Plains region. Data from the molluscan faunas and the physical nature and distribution of the deposits are reviewed. They indicate that the surface of deposition was well vegetated with forest conditions along the eastern Missouri Valley and a grass cover on the western plains; the climate was somewhat more moist, and the temperature (although slightly cooler, on the average) had less severe extremes than at the present; and the primary source of the silt was in the outwash-carrying valleys during an episode of continental glaciation.
30063962|The British geosynclinal complex was bounded on both northwest and southeast by continental margins during the Lower Paleozoic. The northern margin, in Scotland and the northern parts of Ireland, consisted of a mountain range, the Scottish Highlands, which was technically active and was positioned between a stable continental foreland to the northwest, and an uncoupled oceanic crustal plate to the southeast. The southern margin, in Wales and the Welsh Borderland, was characterized by a horst and graben structure and was gradually subsiding during most of the Silurian period. The Scottish margin produced tremendous quantities of immature graywacke sands which accumulated in a trench adjacent to the source area, on the site of the present Southern Uplands. A pattern developed about the middle of the Silurian in which deposits in this trench became deformed and uplifted shortly after deposition and, in turn, contributed sediments to the trench which was progressively displaced to the south toward the Lake District. In this way, the marine area was gradually overwhelmed by crustal foreshortening, deformation, and sedimentation, and by the end of the Silurian, continental conditions were established.
30079532|Woodson County in southeastern Kansas has been the scene of post-Douglas (Upper Pennsylvanian) intrusive igneous activity. Evidence of this is the presence of (1) an outcropping granite dike, (2) basic dikes or sills which were encountered by at least three drilled wells, and (3) hydrothermally metamorphosed rock in four separate bodies, one of which outcrops. The dikes and metamorphic rocks occur where the strata are folded into domes which are exceptionally sharp for Kansas. The writers suggest that the domal structure is due to the force of intrusion of magma into the deeper sedimentary rocks and that consequently these domes may properly be termed laccoliths.
30068846|The Qilian Mountains in NW China comprise the North Qilian Orogenic Belt, Central Qilian Block, and South Qilian Orogenic Belt. The North Qilian Orogenic Belt consists of the Northern and Southern terranes separated by a volcanic rock belt. This belt is composed mainly of felsic and mafic volcanic rocks. Volcanic rocks in the Baiyin area of the eastern part of the belt include rhyolites, rhyodacite, andesitic basalts, and basalts. New zircon UPb isotopic data yield a crystallization age of ca. 445 Ma for the rhyolite, 30 m.yr. younger than the associated basalts. The mafic volcanic rocks are relatively enriched in Th, Sr, and light rare earth element with (La/Yb)
30070742|A three dimensional beach model applicable to open sandy coastal environments is presented. The model consists of ten beach stages incorporating erosional and accretionary sequences of beach-surfzone morphody-namic conditions. Each stage is associated with a particular level of breaker wave power. Decreasing breaker wave power produces spatially controlled onshore bar migration, eventual bar welding, beach accretion and reflective surfzone conditions (
30062293|We used an ion microprobe (SHRIMPRG) for UPb dating of individual zircons in highgrade metamorphic basements of the felsic Sredinny and mafic Ganal Massifs in Kamchatka. Thirty percent of zircons from paragneisses of the Sredinny Massif contain Archean (28002500 Ma), early Proterozoic (17002100 Ma), and late Proterozoic (1000 Ma) detrital cores. In addition, a broad and almost uninterrupted range of Phanerozoic detrital cores (460175 Ma) is present, with Jurassic to Lower Cretaceous (15096 Ma) zircons forming the youngest detrital age group. Ubiquitous
30071141|The cumulate terminology outlined by Wager and coworkers provided a logical system for describing the textures of the rocks of layered intrusions, but recent work shows that this model fails to accommodate all the processes responsible for the petrographic features of coarse-grained rocks. Textures of "adcumulates" and "orthocumulates" in the Skaergaard Intrusion cannot be correlated with concentrations of incompatible elements representing "trapped liquid." Compaction and open-system percolative processes have altered their textures, modes, and even bulk compositions. Although a rock may be a cumulate, in the absence of other evidence, it can be misleading to refer to it in terms of the cumulate nomenclature.
30067396|Spatial heterogeneity is a fundamental characteristic of modern and ancient depositional settings, and the scaling of many carbonate environments has been shown to follow power function distributions. The difficulty in obtaining information on the horizontal persistence of sedimentary lithotopes at the basin scale has, however, hampered evaluation of this fact over larger geographic areas. In recent years, largescale maps of reef facies derived from remotely sensed data have become widely available, allowing for an analysis of reefscale map products from 26 sites spread through four reef provinces, covering >7000 km
30084956|The subsidence in a lava flow after the feeding source has ceased activity often produces scarps closely resembling true fault scarps. The name "slump scarps" is proposed for such features.
10.1086/648460|Drilling and submersible studies of the Atlantis Bank (Southwest Indian Ridge) and the Atlantis Massif (MidAtlantic Ridge) oceanic core complexes reveal gabbrolocalized and peridotitelocalized endmember models of strain localization and deformation during core complex development, in which the gabbroic fault rocks exhibit extensive and rare hightemperature ductiledeformation fabrics, respectively. Both models emphasize a footwall cored by gabbroic intrusions, therefore precluding an amagmatic origin of core complex formation. We test these models by using relict oceanic core complexes preserved in the western Mirdita Ophiolite in Albania. The Puka and Krabbi massifs display traits of the peridotitelocalized detachment model, whereby amagmatic tectonic extension is not required for the formation of this category of core complexes.
30065743|The Taltson magmatic zone is a north-trending belt of Early Proterozoic granitoids exposed over an area exceeding
30065643|Detrital micas (mostly white mica) from Devonian-Middle Pennsylvanian strata of the north central Appalachian Basin at 12 sites were dated by conventional K/Ar. Three small pilot samples were less precisely dated than the rest. The youngest stratigraphic sample of Pennsylvanian depositional age (Alleghenian) produced 414/Ma muscovite and 361 Ma biotite. Excluding this sample, a narrower 35 m.y. range of Early to Middle Devonian detrital dates (from 406-371 Ma) were obtained. The precise dates from the proximal and distal Catskill wedge represent an even narrower 19 m.y. span (406-387 Ma), which is entirely Early Devonian and only approximately 30 m.y. older than the Late Devonian-Early Mississippian time of deposition. All these detrital dates from pre-Alleghenian samples correspond to reported primary ages of crystallization, or cooling therefrom, of regional metamorphism and plutonism during the Acadian orogeny, believed to be the principal Paleozoic orogeny in New England and eastern Canada. The dominance of the Acadian Orogen as a source region is evident. Even though these are conventional K/Ar dates of multi-grain separates, the mean provenance ages from so many individual samples are so close to the age of deposition to preclude almost any Precambrian contribution from either the nearby Canadian Shield or the uplifted cores of the orogen. They imply Acadian sources dominated considerably over Taconic ones. Furthermore, our results for the Mauch Chunk (377 Ma), Pottsville (371 Ma), and our youngest (Alleghenian) sample suggest that the Acadian Orogen persisted as the major provenance for post-Catskill clastic pulses that prograded into the central Appalachian Basin at least up until Middle Pennsylvanian time.
30060264|Field evidence has shown wide variation in the velocities of sound waves in shales, the most abundant sedimentary-rock type. The sound velocity in and the bulk densities of a variety of natural and artificial aggregates were measured, and an attempt was made to show how mineral composition, particle orientation, and interparticle adhesion affect the velocity-density relationship. In natural samples minerals were identified by X-ray diffraction, and the degree of preferred orientation of the illite particles was measured by comparing the ratio of the intensities of the (002) to (110) lines obtained from irradiated sections cut parallel and perpendicular to the bedding. Sound-velocity measurements and X-ray results indicate that the bedding planes of flat-lying argillaceous sediments have circular symmetry for all stages of compaction and that the degree of preferred orientation parallel to the bedding plane of the basal planes of illite particles increases with increasing compaction. Large differences in sound velocities in similarly prepared drying illite and kaolinite aggregates are explained on the basis of their different fine-structure bonding. A tentative explanation is offered for the observed variation in sound velocity in pure and mixed aggregates with water content. The sound velocity in kaolinite-quartz sand mixtures apparently cannot be explained by any simple averaging of component properties but is probably intimately related to the differences in the adhesion between kaolinite particles themselves and kaolinite and sand particles. Other tentative conclusions are advanced which will require study of larger varieties of both natural and artificial aggregates for confirmation.
30066419|Complete alteration of fresh mid-ocean ridge basalt to albite + actinolite + smectite took place in the presence of quartz and 3.4m NaCl at 350C and 400 bars. Significant Na-metasomatism occurred in exchange for Ca + Fe + Mn. In contrast, alteration of the basalt/quartz mixture with a synthetically prepared "natural brine," and basalt with 3.4m NaCl or "natural brine" did not produce significant albitization. Based on these and previous experiments that reacted basalt with a variety of fluids, it is concluded that excess silica, a high Na/Ca ratio, and an absence of strong acidity (dissolved Mg) in the altering fluid are important for the albitization of basalt.
30080837|The theory of retrograde metamorphism as first outlined by Becke and later elaborated by Harker probably is not adequate to explain the mineral changes which have been repeatedly cited as retrograde. This inadequacy is discussed, and a broader definition of retrograde metamorphism, not involving theoretical causes and processes, is proposed.
30061940|The Khondalite Belt of southernmost India is an immense section of granulite facies metasediments of probable early Proterozoic age. Dominant rock types are migmatized khondalites (garnet-sillimanite
JG80006|The 600-km-long Ollo de Sapo Formation was generated during the Cambro-Ordovician rifting that affected the pre-Variscan basement of Europe and represents the largest accumulation of pre-Variscan igneous rocks in Iberia. It consists of variably metamorphosed felsic volcanic rocks and granites characterized by an abnormally elevated zircon inheritance (
30058273|Evidence is presented to show that the big potash feldspars in the aplite-pegmatite complex at Tremearne and in the Carnmenellis granite in western Cornwall have grown in solid or nearly solid rock. It is considered that the rocks present before metasomatism were aplitic and that these rocks have been permeated by a fluid phase containing potassium; there is evidence that this dispersed phase caused the metasomatism and re-crystallization of the aplitic rocks to produce porphyritic granite and pegmatite. These conclusions can be extended to other granitic rocks of southwest England.
30065046|The occurrence of extraordinarily large garnet crystals (many are 15 cm in diameter) on Gore Mountain is generally attributed to an influx of water that caused retrograde metamorphism along the margin of a granulite facies olivine meta-gabbro body. We propose that the mechanism responsible for this influx of fluids was a high-temperature shear zone that crossed contacts between rocks with contrasting rheologies. Adjacent to the hydrated border of the olivine meta-gabbro are two feldspar-rich lithologies, a meta-syenite and gabbroic meta-anorthosite. At amphibolite facies temperatures, such feldspar-rich lithologies deform by dominantly ductile processes, while deformation of mafic rocks, such as the olivine meta-gabbro, is dominantly brittle. The juxtaposition of rocks of contrasting plastic strengths produces unusually high strain rates along the margin of a competent body, where it is pulled along passively by the weaker plastically deforming lithologies. Resulting fractures and microfractures in the border of the competent body provide conduits for fluid flow, and increase rock-fluid contact surfaces, providing ideal conditions for retrograde metamorphic reactions. These metamorphic reactions would increase ion diffusion, allowing for enhanced mineral growth, fracture annealment and plasticity, and result in a plastic deformation overprint along the boundary of the initially more competent unit.
30062161|The geologic history of rocky shore biotas has been neglected by paleontologists. Under present conditions of high continentality, rocky shores account for more than 33% of the world's coastline. They are generally located on shores facing narrow continental shelves, where the pattern of global plate tectonics exerts much influence over their regional concentration. The highest frequency of rocky shores occurs on islands associated with hot spots, island arcs, and convergent-plate margins associated with subduction. Rocky shores situated in these settings are subject to recycling, so their remains are rare in the stratigraphic record. Some passive continental margins, including those along newly rifted oceans and those with low rates of sedimentation, exhibit frequencies of rocky shores as high or higher than those found on many convergent-plate margins. These have a good chance of being retained in the stratigraphic record for geologically significant periods of time. Epicontinental flooding reduces the overall extent of rocky shores during major high stands in sea level, but unconformable surfaces produced by the fluctuation between marginal seas and epicontinental seas are a common feature in the stratigraphic record. These surfaces are the only stable archives of rocky-shore biotas. Ancient rocky shores are rarely described in the paleontological and geological literature because unconformable surfaces are seldom excavated in three-dimensional relief. Important data are easy to overlook in cross-sectional slices of limited extent.
30062080|The Acadian structural history of the Merrimack Synclinorium involves a phase of nappe emplacement and thrusting at 400 m.y.B.P. followed by a second thickening event before 370 m.y.B.P.; at the end of this phase the present erosion surface was buried at pressures of 6 to 8 kbar and subsequently experienced peak metamorphic temperatures in the range of 500C to 650C. The thermal history of the Acadian metamor-phism of the Merrimack Synclinorium is examined in a well-studied area of central New Hampshire to determine the conditions required for the high grade metamorphism of the region. Constraints are provided by metamorphic pressure estimates, by information on the erosional history, and by present day heat flow determinations in the Synclinorium. One-dimensional heat transfer calculations show that the high grade metamorphism could readily have been produced during thermal relaxation of the thickened continental crust under conditions of normal continental heat flow. These conditions also permit the melting of the lower continental crust between 50 and 100 m.y. after the end of crustal thickening, which could account for the generation of some of the post-tectonic Concord Series plutons (370-275 m.y.B.P.). If portions of the Acadian orogen experienced rapid erosion (faster than about 1 mm/yr) at the end of crustal thickening, then they would achieve peak metamorphic temperatures 100C to 150C lower than calculated here; this perhaps was the case for the Bronson Hill Anticlinorium to the west. Equally, if it can be shown that the Merrimack Synclinorium was eroded rapidly at the end of the Acadian, then an augmented heat supply during the metamorphism is required. More data on the rates of Paleozoic uplift and on the Pressure-Temperature-Time paths followed by these rocks are needed in order to place tighter constraints on the thermal history of the Acadian metamorphism.
30065659|U-Pb (zircon) dates from volcanic and plutonic units confirm that igneous activity throughout the Caledonian Highlands of southern New Brunswick occurred in two main episodes: ca. 620 Ma and ca. 560-550 Ma. The ca. 620 Ma episode is represented by mainly metatuffaceous rocks of the Broad River Group and associated dioritic to granitic plutons that form most of the eastern highlands. Igneous rocks of similar age and type have been documented in Avalonian areas throughout the northern Appalachian Orogen and are interpreted generally to have formed during subduction at a continental margin. In contrast, the ca. 560-550 Ma igneous episode may be unique to the Caledonian Highlands. It is represented by tuffs and bimodal flows of the Coldbrook Group and co-genetic gabbroic and granitic plutons that occur mainly in the western highlands. This voluminous magmatism may have taken place in a volcanic arc and intra-arc extensional setting, perhaps like that represented by older but lithologically similar rocks of the ca. 575 Ma Fourchu and Main--Dieu groups in southeastern Cape Breton Island. It contrasts in petrological character with igneous activity of similar age in eastern Newfoundland, which produced alkaline to peralkaline rocks. Younger volcanic rocks of minor extent also occur in the Caledonian Highlands: (1) rhyodacitic flows with a maximum age of
10.1086/605779|The Arkansas alkaline province (AAP) consists of intrusive bodies ranging in lithology from carbonatite and lamproite through nepheline syenite. Apatite and titanite fissiontrack ages fall into two groups10194 Ma and 88 Ma. New
10.1086/674803|This study investigates the petrographic, mineralogical, geochronological, and geochemical signatures of river sands across southern Africa. We single out the several factors that control sand generation, including weathering and recycling, and monitor the compositional changes caused by chemical and physical processes during fluvial transport from cratonic sources to passive-margin sinks. Passive-margin sands have two first-cycle sources. Quartz and feldspars with amphibole, epidote, garnet, staurolite, and kyanite are derived from crystalline basements exposed at the core of ancient orogens and cratonic blocks (dissected continental block provenance). Volcanic rock fragments, plagioclase, and clinopyroxene are derived from flood basalts erupted during the initial phases of rifting (volcanic rift provenance). First-cycle detritus mixes invariably with quartzose detritus recycled from ancient sedimentary successions (undissected continental block provenance) or recent siliciclastic deposits (e.g., Kalahari dune sands; recycled clastic provenance). U-Pb ages of detrital zircons mirror the orogenic events that affected southern Africa since the Archean. Damara (0.50.6 Ga) and Namaqua (1 Ga) age peaks are prominent throughout Namibia, from the Orange mouth to the Namib and Skeleton Coast Ergs, and also characterize Kalahari dunes and sands of the Congo, Okavango, and Zambezi Rivers. Instead, sharp old peaks at 2.1 Ga and 2.6 Ga characterize Limpopo and Olifants sands, matching the age of the Bushveld intrusion and the final assembly of the Zimbabwe and Kaapvaal Cratons, respectively; discordant ages indicate Pb loss during the Pan-African event. Chemical indices confirm that weathering is minor throughout the tropical belt from South Africa and Zimbabwe to Namibia and coastal Angola but major for quartzose sands of the Congo, Okavango, and upper Zambezi Rivers, largely produced in humid subequatorial regions. Recycling of quartzose sediments is extensive in all of these catchments. From Congo to Mozambique, along the >5000-km Atlantic and Indian Ocean rifted margins, polycyclic detritus reaches commonly 50% and locally up to 100%, in line with the estimated incidence of recycling worldwide. Quantitative information provided by provenance studies of modern sands helps us to better understand the relationships between sediment composition and plate-tectonic setting and to upgrade the overly simplified and often misleading current provenance models. This is a necessary step if we want to decipher the stratigraphic record of ancient passive margins and reconstruct their paleotectonic and paleoclimatic history with greater accuracy.
30079552|Poorly indurated unstratified sediments such as loess and tuff are commonly resistant to erosion, whereas stratified sediments of similar texture may be very susceptible to erosion by running water. A case of silt originating from the redistribution of loess illustrates the principle. It is concluded that the orientation and concentration of platy minerals in certain laminae cause the rock to become impervious to water in directions transverse to the bedding, thereby increasing the relative amount of run-off. Since erosion is dependent on run-off rather than rainfall, erosion is greater on stratified deposits.
30059951|The impregnation of friable rocks with bakelite varnish, followed by a period of baking in an oven, produces a very coherent rock-chip from which thin sections can be readily made. This method has advantages over others in that the resulting rock-chip is very hard and tough and is not affected by heat. The detailed technique is described.
30071549|New mineral age measurements are reported from several subdivisions of the Finnish Precambrian. Samples of zircon, feldspar, and muscovite collected from the gneissose pre-Karelian basement area in eastern Finland indicate an age of about 2,700 million years for these rocks. In contrast, biotite ages from the same rocks agree at 1,800 million years, presumably representing the effect of the orogeny at this time. the correlation of these rocks with the pre-Karelian basement to the east, while again the biotite ages represent the time of the 1,800-million-year orogeny. These results are very analogous to data previously reported for mantled gneiss domes near Baltimore, Maryland. Additional measurements on the younger Precambrian rocks of Finland confirm earlier data indicating an age of around 1,800 million years for plutonic rocks associated with both the Svecofennian and Karelian orogenic belts.
30081099|Igneous blocks in Franciscan melanges are of three chemical-petrologic types: (1) tholeiitic basalts of both arc and spreading center origin, with depletions in light relative to heavy rare-earth elements,
30063883|An eclogite xenolith from the Roberts Victor kimberlite mine in South Africa contains evidence of permeation by a metasomatizing fluid rich in
30059964|The thesis and its corollary have been proposed by Campbell that streams flowing essentially at and below tidal level have no power to meander, and that meanders in such streams are indicative of drowning. The Brazos River, Texas, is tidal for the lower 48 1/2 miles of its course; it is discontinuously meandering throughout that distance, and a meander within a mile air-line distance from the coast has shifted 1,600 feet coast-ward since the first survey of the river in the seventies of the past century. The problem of the meandering involves a consideration of many factors. Special conditions of some of the factors aid the meandering of tidal streams, and a change of these conditions may leave stagnant tidal meanders not due to drowning. The paper does not pretend to be a finished study of the problem, but its purpose is to show the necessity of a more thorough study of meandering, especially the meandering of tidal streams.
30064715|In the early Cambrian of eastern North Greenland an initial peritidal carbonate platform developed following a transgression across a Precambrian craton. Subsequently, this was replaced by a terrigenous clastic shelf formed by shelf tilting, drowning offshore regions, and relatively uplifting shoreface areas so that clastics prograded shelfwards. In the late early Cambrian abrupt shelf drowning cut the supply of clastic material, and condensed phosphatic and glauconitic hardgrounds developed. Drowning may have been associated with initial shelf tilting, which proceeded to uplift the eastern shelf and caused substantial middle and late Cambrian erosion and produced a northwesterly prograding carbonate ramp wedge. A widespread early Ordovician transgression was followed by a large peritidal carbonate platform, which during the middle and late Ordovician evolved into a rimmed carbonate platform with occasional drowned interior. In the late Ordovician-early Silurian a peritidal carbonate platform developed, possibly by build-out from the rim and over the subtidal facies under the influence of a eustatic regression. Subsequently, the early Silurian shelf is comparable to a ramp as a composite series of sand shoals and drowned segments developed. Finally, the carbonate shelf was destroyed as it foundered into deep water, and terrigenous clastic turbidites covered it. Pinnacle reefs developed briefly at the beginning of subsidence.
30075113|Iron-sulphide concretions from the Illinois coal field in some cases show well-preserved plant structures which may be studied in detail by polishing and examination with the reflecting microscope.
30081098|Discrimination and comparison between relatively young (recently dead) and relatively old (less recently dead) shells has been an important component of studies on modern death assemblages. We employed amino acid dating to determine whether or not various shell and taphonomic attributes could be used to categorize Donax into age (time-since-death) categories (e.g., old vs. young). As expected, biological interactions and whether the specimen was a right or left valve were not time-dependent. Abraded shells, shells lacking sheen, those showing evidence of dissolution, fragments and chipped shells tended to be relatively old, but many old shells retained the species' original (living) characteristics with regard to all of these attributes except color and sheen. Shell color was the only attribute yielding a satisfactory division of shells into two age categories, old vs. young. The formation of a typical beach assemblage requires the gradual addition and taphonomic alteration of shells over many hundreds of years. No large "age cohort" consisting of many shells of similar age was present on a beach at Port Aransas, Texas. The importance of burial and sediment chemistry as a factor controlling the rates of abrasion, fragmentation, dissolution and dark-staining cannot be minimized. Burial explains the discrepancy between the rapid rates of abrasion typically measured in field experiments, for example, and the much longer time, a hundred years or more, required in a real beach assemblage to obtain heavily abraded shells.
30058711|The moon shows little evidence of folded mountain ranges. Faulting (especially in radial and concentric patterns) has been prevalent; and one area of aligned ridges, which extends several hundred miles from the Mare Imbrium, across the elevated environs of the Mare Serenitatis and the Mare Tranquilitatis, and is older than the flattish maria surfaces, shows some resemblance to our faulted Basin Ranges. But why are the long arcuate folded ranges, so characteristic of the earth, lacking on the moon? What have been the notably different conditions on the moon and the earth which may have been responsible for their dissimilar diastrophic histories? Four differences come readily to mind: (1) The moon has neither atmosphere nor hydrosphere. (2) The moon has only 1/81 of the earth's mass, and its surface gravity is only about one-sixth as great. (3) Its average density is only 3.34, against 5.52 for the earth. (4) Its period of rotation is a little over 27 days, compared with the earth's daily rotation. Some of the possible consequences of these differences are discussed briefly to indicate lines for further investigation.
30066294|Lower Cretaceous volcanics in Samaria, Central Israel, consist of a 230 m thick sequence defined as Tayasir Volcanics. It is subdivided into a Lower Basalt, a Tuff Member (a volcano-sedimentary unit), and an Upper Basalt. Concurrent normal faulting controlled the volcanic activity as well as the nature of the accumulation of the entire unit. K-Ar absolute ages are 144 and 148 m.a. for the lower flow and 133 and 134 m.a. for the upper flow. These represent Berriasian-Valanginian ages and suggest a slip rate of 0.015-0.018 mm/year along the main fault system. The Tayasir Volcanics are distinguished from other younger (110-120 m.a.) Lower Cretaceous volcanic occurrences previously described both in northern and southern Israel. Lower Cretaceous age of the volcanics is supported by field relations. It is concluded, therefore, that the absolute date of the base of the Cretaceous in the area is about the determined age of the lower basaltic flow. This conclusion is relevant to the numeric age determination of the Jurassic-Cretaceous boundary in general.
JG80184|We present an impactoclastic density current model for terrestrial meteorite impact ejecta emplacement that is based on a hitherto-unreported threefold sequence of lithofacies in the recently identified Stac Fada impact ejecta outflow blanket in Scotland. Massive suevite (division A) grades seamlessly up into massive suevite containing whole and broken accretionary lapilli (division B), and this is overlain by a thin layer of clast-supported dust pellets (division C). The sequence closely resembles sequences in accretionary lapilli-bearing ignimbrites emplaced by pyroclastic density currents at volcanoes, and we deduce similar emplacement mechanisms. We propose that 99% of the thickness of the Stac Fada ejecta blanket as seen at outcrop was deposited from a single depletive (spatially decelerating), granular fluidbased density current that rapidly waxed and then waned. A previously unreported thin layer of pellets (division C) records direct fallout from a residual atmospheric dust plume. We propose that the impactoclastic density current was density stratified and comprised a ground-hugging component of granular fluid passing up into less concentrated, more turbulent levels and a buoyant, dilute upper component. Larger rock fragments rolled and saltated within the basal granular fluid. In the buoyant plume, dust agglomerated into pellets, and these dropped into lower, more vigorous levels of the density current, where successive concentric layers of fine dust accreted to them as they circulated and hardened. The resultant accretionary lapilli sedimented through the granular fluid into lower levels of the current and were deposited from its base. Dust pellets continued to form in the residual atmospheric dust plume after passage of the density current and fell out to form the thin layer (division C) of framework-supported pellets at the top of the ejecta blanket. The impactoclastic density current model may have applications to finer-grained parts of some continuous impact ejecta blankets elsewhere on Earth as well as on Mars and Venus, where features indicating flow processes are evident.
30080216|All tectonostratigraphic levels of the continental crust, from carbonate platforms in the Dolomites to granulites in the Ivrea Zone, are exposed along strike in the worldfamous Southern Alps cross section. In this extraordinary natural laboratory, we studied the composition of modern stream sands shed by each distinct type of source rock in order to improve on existing models of sediment provenance and specifically to reconstruct the stepbystep changes of detrital signatures ideally produced during unroofing of a continental block. Detritus from progressively deeper crustal levels of the Southern Alps changes systematically from lithic sedimentaclastic (unmetamorphosed cover sequences) to lithoquartzose, quartzolithic, and quartzofeldspathic metamorphiclastic (greenschist facies to amphibolite facies basement units) and finally to feldspathoquartzose and feldspathic composition (granulite facies basement units). Six progressively richer types of heavy mineral assemblages (ZTRbrookite, garnetchloritoid, garnetstaurolite, blue/green hornblendekyanite, green/brown hornblendefibrolitic sillimanite, and garnetbrown hornblendeprismatic sillimanite) faithfully reflect the increasing grade of metamorphic source rocks. Hypersthenebrown hornblende and olivineenstatite assemblages characterize detritus from lower crustal gabbros and mantle peridotites. In alpine settings undergoing rapid erosion and minor chemical weathering, the mineralogy of detrital sediments faithfully mirrors the mineralogy of their parent rocks. Therefore, our database can be used to integrate direct measurements of physical and chemical properties of exposed bedrock and to reconstruct an ideally complete mineralogy and density profile from the base to the top of the South Alpine crust. This shows a progressive upward increase in quartz and muscovite at the expense of plagioclase and heavy minerals and an effective density stratification from lower crustal (3.103.00 g/cm
30085005|Biogenic reworking of marine sediments is described from intertidal deposits in Barnstable Harbor and subtidal sediments of Buzzards Bay, Massachusetts. Reworking activities of three polychaete species were studied in Barnstable Harbor: Clymenella torquata, Pedinarla goiddii, and Amphitrite ornata. Sediment reworking by these tube-dwelling annelids is primarily a vertical and lateral size-sorting process. The selective ingestion and transportation of sand and smaller-sized particles leads to the formation of biogenically graded deposits. Clymenella is estimated to ingest 274 ml. of sediment per worm per year. Pectinaria ingests 400 ml. of sediment per worm per year according to Gordon (1966). The annual reworking rate of Amphitrite remains unknown, but probably exceeds that of Clymenella and Pectinaria. Five stations in Barnstable Harbor were artificially laminated with colored sand horizons to observe biogenic reworking at depth within the sediment. After 2 months, differences in intensity of reworking between stations appeared to be related to faunal composition rather than to faunal density. Tidal flats populated by low densities of predators were more highly reworked than stations populated by relatively high polychaete densities. Disturbance of the artificial laminae was found to be most intense in the upper 10 cm. of sediment (near surface predators). Reworking by polychaetes extended to a depth of 30 cm. Artificial lamination of subtidal Buzzards Bay sediment revealed extensive reworking of the upper 2-3 cm. of sediment after a 2-month period. Infaunal activity was restricted to a depth of 10 cm. Yoldia limatula (bivalve) was primarily responsible for extensive near-surface reworking. Nucula proxima (bivalve) and Nepthys incisa (polychaete) are also important reworking organisms in Buzzards Bay. Rates of biogenic reworking recorded in this study indicate the importance of benthic organisms as agents of sediment diagenesis. Differences in burrowing depth between intertidal and subtidal environments may prove valuable for paleoecologic determination of onshore-offshore facies relationships. Deep vertical burrowing (to a depth of 30 cm.) is common in nearshore environments, especially in intertidal sediments. Shallow horizontal burrowing (to a depth of 10 cm.) is best developed in offshore level bottoms. Burrowing attitude may be observed in vertical thin sections of sediments that otherwise lack fossils, permitting paleobathymetric analysis of un-fossiliferous as well as fossiliferous deposits.
30080931|Defined as a group of sediments interrelated by common ancestry, environment, and evolution, a consanguineous association is a "facies" in the broad sense but is not equivalent to a single lithologic type. Thus a "fiysch" is such an association; a graywacke is not one, but it may often be included in a flysch assemblage. Terms like "flysch" and "molasse" have special time-environment connotations. "Paralic" sedimentation is yet another environmental association, in this case related to the floodplain-deltaic sequence of a heavily, alluviated epicontinental location. The conclusion is that geotectonic units have typical (and atyptical) geographic expressions, a characteristic (but not universal) bathymetry, a typical (but not isolated) association or facies, marked by common (but not unique) lithologies.
30056890|The Nirasaki mudflow extends from the slopes of volcano Yatsuga-dake southward approximately 23 km. to the town of Nirasaki, Japan. The mudflow consists of andesite blocks and smaller fragments in a matrix of volcanic ash and dust. The mudflow is broad on the open lower slopes of the volcano, but the lower length of 9 km. is confined within a valley leading from the volcano and averages 2 km. in width. Numerous isolated hills rise above the general surface of the mudflow, particularly in this lower length, where some 25 conical or curvilinear hills range from 10 to 60 m. in height, 75 to 400 m. in width and 100 to 600 m. in length. The origin of the hills has been attributed variously to glacial deposition and to stream erosion. The authors propose that under hydrostatic pressure of that part of the mudflow stream on the volcano's slope, material of relatively low viscosity from the interior of the mudflow was extruded through fractures in the drying, hardened crust. Where the mudflow and one of these hills are together exposed in section, flow layers curve from horizontal in the mudflow mass to vertical where they extend upward into the overlying hill.
30062622|The phenomena of (i) inverse correlation between the oceanic carbon and sulfur isotopic curves, and (ii) covariation between the oceanic carbon and oxygen isotopic curves at all their major excursions appear as paradoxes in the current paradigm of global biogeochemical cycles. These phenomena, however, are fully explicable by our model proposing that the ocean alternates between two general modes: stagnant, stratified, and net autotrophic (overfed) ocean, on the one hand, and vigorously mixed and net heterotrophic (hungry) ocean, on the other. This model is in fact strongly supported by the carbon isotopic evidence. The directions of change in the isotopic ratios of carbon, oxygen, and sulfur should be different in the lower, anoxic box of a stratified ocean than in the upper, oxic box; whereas ocean destratification and mixing of the two boxes should lead to coeval shifts in the oceanic isotopic curves of these elements. The model has far-reaching implications for (i) the causal explanation of both secular trends and major shifts in the oceanic isotopic curves, and (ii) for the application of oxygen isotopic data for paleotemperature and paleoenvironment determinations.
30070775|Multivariate discriminant analysis of four varieties of granites, classified a priori exclusively on field observations, provide assignment rules that, using major element compositions alone, successfully distinguish late-orogenic (LO) from post-orogenic (PO) granites related to orogeny as well as the anorogenic granites in the anorthosite/rapakivi complexes (AR) and the alkaline ring complexes (RC). Choice of major elements as good group predictors is based on a stepwise selection method with reduction of Wilk's Lambda as the selection criterion. In two-group (P and Q) discriminant analysis of the orogenic versus anorogenic, LO versus PO, and AR versus RC pairs of groups, the former in each pair has been considered as group (P). A sample is assigned to (P) when its discriminant rule, R, obtained from
30065525|An improved and updated version of the statistical LOWESS fit to the marine
30079587|A dynamical method has been adapted to the measurement of the velocity of torsional waves in cylinders of rock exposed to pressures as high as
30078246|In a study designed to relate geological and soil mechanics properties, the grain size distribution and the plasticity and natural water content were determined on 71 samples of Lake Agassiz clay from Grand Forks and Fargo, North Dakota. Using the hydrometer method, the sediments were found to range in  mean diameter from 6.44 (11.3 ) to 11.53 (0.34 ), with an average value of 9.50 (1.35 ). The standard deviation of the grain size distribution varies from 1.50 to 4.36  units and averages 2.43. Thus the sediments have a wide range of size and sorting that centers about normally sorted, medium-grained clay. The plasticity characteristics, determined by the usual soil mechanics procedures, were found to have a wide range of values, with an average liquid limit of 83.6, plastic limit of 25.2, and plasticity index of 58.4, all in percentage water content. The natural water content varies considerably from the average value of 51 per cent of dry weight. In general, then, the Lake Agassiz sediments are highly plastic and have relatively high natural water content. These grain size properties and plasticity and natural water-content properties are closely related. High statistical correlation coefficients (averaging 0.89) were obtained for distributions of liquid limit, plastic limit, plasticity index, and natural water content versus  mean diameter; high values of all these parameters being associated with high values of  mean diameter (i.e., with fine grain sizes). The  standard deviation of the grain size distributions varies inversely with the  mean diameter and can therefore be correlated equally well with the other properties. However, it is shown that the  mean diameter is the more significant grain size parameter. For comparison with other sediments, background information on mineralogy and particle shape is presented, based on X-ray diffraction, electron diffraction, and differential thermal analyses and electron photomicrographs.
30063939|The number of reverse and normal (upright) graded beds has been recorded in three well-exposed homoclinal sections in an attempt to evaluate the reliability of graded bedding as a structural or stratigraphie tool. Results suggest that grading is a fairly sound indicator of the order of superposition in the "deep" marine section, but an unexpectedly high proportion (about 30 per cent) of reverse graded beds was found in both the non-marine and shallow marine sections examined. In all three environments reverse graded beds commonly occur in groups, resulting in areas where a locally convincing but erroneous indication of the stratigraphie order is observed.
30060526|A skeletal model of Seymouria, a primitive tetrapod, is described and figured, together with a life-restoration. Seymouria is to be considered a reptile rather than an amphibian, for it possesses many positive reptilian characters, while the amphibian structure of its otic region is that to be expected in the ancestry of the reptiles.
30056486|This area, lying between the northwest corner of the Beartooth uplift and the southern extremity of the Bridger Range in southern Montana, comprises an arcuate belt of overthrusts and asymmetrical anticlines, arranged en echelon. In its eastern and central parts, the thrust planes dip northward, as they do in the adjacent portion of the Beartooth uplift, and the anticlines are asymmetrical toward the south and southwest; while in the western part of the area and in the adjacent Bridger Range the thrust planes dip to the west. The trends and direction of movement in the anticlines and over-thrusts are believed to have been controlled by the larger uplifts of the Beartooth and Bridger ranges, the Laramide forces having been locally resolved into components normal to the trendy of the ranges. In the eastern part of the area mapped there is evidence that the overthrusting was preceded by a period of folding and erosion and that the extensive thrusts there are "erosional thrusts," in the sense that they moved across an erosion surface. The Trail Creek coal field is shown to be a syncline with its north limb overturned beneath the Trail Creek thrust, and the hypothesis of an earlier report (that the coal field occupies a "fault block") is hereby rejected.
30063885|South Atlantic sea-floor spreading during post-Jurassic time had a major effect on the degree of invertebrate faunal similarity between the South American and African plates. Faunal similarity among genera, as expressed by the Simpson coefficient, has a strong negative correlation with ocean basin width estimated from published paleogeographic maps. Trans-South Atlantic Simpson values are lower than North Atlantic values. Probability calculations indicate that as the known fossil record diverges from original biogeographic patterns, Simpson values tend to decrease. This probably contributed to the difference between the northern and southern Simpson values, because northern faunas are better known.
30060836|Alkali-ion exchange between rock and aqueous phases during devitrification and secondary hydration of ignimbrite sheets contributes significantly to observed chemical variations in densely welded glassy and devitrified tuffs. Probably most of the alkali-ion exchange occurs during the cooling period because ion exchange affects interiors of slowly cooling thick (>300 foot) units, whereas rapidly cooling thin (<100 foot) units show no evidence of alkali exchange in their interiors. Leaching by groundwater removes alkalis from partially or nonwelded margins of cooling units. Distinct stratigraphic breaks in trends of alkalis indicate that individual eruptive pulses of ash-flow material, now welded into one cooling unit, had distinctive alkali ratios related to magmatic inhomogeneities.
30063784|The configuration of sedimentary strata revealed by continuous seismic-reflection profiles over submarine canyons on the upper continental slope off Cape Hatteras is best explained by the hy pothesis of composite origin of submarine canyons. The canyons were originally incised into a post-Miocene (?) surface of unconformity. The intercanyon areas were constructed by deposition of sediment up to several hundred meters thick forming the canyon walls while the canyons were maintained by sediment removal processes over the sites of original incision. Canyon heads are presently buried under a smooth sediment cover which extends from the shelf break at about 90 m down to about 400 m below sea level, where the canyons emerge from the cover. The depth of emergence of canyons approximately coincides with the inferred level of no motion between the northeast-flowing Florida Current and the southwest-flowing Western Boundary Undercurrent.
30058241|The solution alteration of a limestone depends on the rate at which water entering the rock becomes saturated. This rate is governed by the rate of transport of solute away from the solid-liquid interface, where the solution is always saturated. For laminar flow in a straight circular capillary of radius a, the solution will be 90 per cent saturated after penetrating a distance 0.572va/D, where v is the average flow velocity of the fluid and D is the diffusion constant of the solute in the solution. Under normal conditions below the water table, v and a are sufficiently small that the water in a limestone is always saturated with respect to calcium carbonate. Solution alteration can therefore take place only where the water first enters the rock or where the solubility changes.
30063339|Rip currents are defined as seaward-moving streaks of water which return the water carried landward by waves. These currents are believed to be an almost universal accompaniment of large waves breaking on an exposed coast. Unlike the largely hypothetical undertow, rip currents flow principally at and near the surface. They attain velocities up to at least 2 miles an hour and extend on occasions for 1,000 feet or more from the shore. Geologically the currents are of importance, since they carry a suspended load of fine sediment out from the shore. Small channels in the sand are produced by the flow in the near-shore portions of the rip currents. The development and changes of these channels have been investigated. The strong outflow of the current and the presence of the channels along the bottom constitute a serious danger to inexperienced swimmers.
30064168|The hypothesis that the Milton belt is a high-grade infrastructural equivalent of the immediately adjacent suprastructure of the Carolina terrane, the Carolina slate belt, was tested by comparing the Nd isotopic compositions of the two belts. Milton belt samples have
30075191|Subsurface data define a belt of deformed Paleozoic rocks that extends beneath the Gulf coastal plain from the Appalachian Mountains to the Ouachita Mountains. Different stratigraphic sequences are exposed in the Ouachitas and Appalachians, but transitional aspects of the sedimentary facies are recognizable in well data. A large-scale curve in the structural front defines the Ouachita salient; and, toward the east, the structural system curves into the Alabama recess in the southern Appalachians. The large-scale curve from the Ouachitas to the Appalachians has been the subject of several interpretations, some of which have included large-scale strike-slip faults or megashears. Tectonic models of the Ouachita salient generally have been designed to introduce a late curvature into a presumed originally straighter structural system. Regional stratigraphic synthesis indicates that Paleozoic sediments accumulated around a large-scale reentrant in the continental margin at the position of the Ouachita salient. Thus, the Ouachita salient has developed within a structural outline that had formed at the inception of Ouachita sedimentation. The curve of the structural system reflects the shape of the early framework. Possibly the original shape of the continental margin was produced by a transform fault, the present trace of which extends southeastward from near the center of the Ouachita salient to the southern outline of the Alabama Appalachian recess.
30070680|The preservation of nonrapidly buried autochthonous shell concentrations with noncementing epifaunal animals in life position presents a taphonomic dilemma if in fact an increase in shelliness is driven by a decrease in sedimentation rate. A 150cmthick, densely packed shell bed with brachiopods from the Lower Jurassic of Morocco shows lower levels of postmortem alteration than shellpoor beds, indicating that its formation is primarily governed by variations in hardpartinput rates. Varying dominance and size structure of the main shell producer, brachiopod
30071108|A compound corresponding in optical properties and in X-ray powder pattern with the natural mineral sapphirine has been synthesized by repeated sintering of the constituent oxides at atmospheric pressure. The most probable formula for this artificial compound is
30066047|Individual channel networks ordinarily are portions of far larger, essentially infinite, networks. The overall network is by definition at infinite topologically random network if the populations of subnetworks within it are topologically random. From such a network, the probability of randomly drawing a link, a subnetwork, or a basin with Strahler order
30064657|Exposures of late Pleistocene sediments near San Felipe, Baja California, Mexico, provide an unusual opportunity to observe shoreline features in ancient sediments. The deposits contain interbedded alluvial gravels, dune sands, beaches, intertidal mud, and evaporites in sequences that reflect repeated transgression and regression of the shoreline. The area contains the most complete record of late Pleistocene events preserved anywhere along the coastal plain of the northwestern Gulf of California. Stratigraphic and geomorphic relationships document the following sequence: (1) alluviation and pedimentation; (2) erosional transgression and arroyo cutting; (3) depositional regression and arroyo filling during continued sea level rise; (4) Recent erosional transgression and arroyo cutting. Present dating techniques do not permit correlation of these events with the subdivisions of the late Quaternary time scale.
30068627|A small layered and differentiated diorite pluton in Cape Breton Island contains abundant layers and pillow-like inclusions of hornblende gabbro. The diorite is characterized by cryptic layering, lamination, and sporadic mineral layering. Compositional variation (diorite to adamellite) was controlled largely by gravitative settling and accumulation of plagioclase, hornblende, magnetite, biotite, and quartz at appropriate levels of the intrusion. Hornblende gabbro layers and inclusions have sharp, generally chilled margins and are conformable with layering and lamination in the diorite. Many of the layers have forms resembling pahoehoe lava flows. Hornblende gabbro also occurs as a large homogeneous pipe and as pillow-like inclusions within several small pipes of re-mobilized diorite cumulates. These small composite pipes have fed inclusion-rich layers in the diorite. Bodies of hornblende gabbro often carry rounded, apparently stretched inclusions of diorite. Field relations indicate that basic magma was injected through pipelike bodies into a chamber of actively fractionating dioritic magma. There, the basic magma flowed out onto diorite cumulate-liquid interfaces and solidified as "flows" and "pillows" of hornblende gabbro. These flows can be termed "intramagmatic." Deposition of major cumulus minerals from the dioritic magma continued on top of the gabbroic bodies. Beneath the solidifying gabbro, the diorite cumulates contained a large amount of interstitial liquid. Because of higher solidus temperatures, the gabbroic layers solidified well before the underlying diorite cumulates. Some gabbroic layers have been fractured, allowing upward injection by these cumulates. Mixing and reaction between diorite and gabbro are quite restricted. Gabbro inclusions above the thickest layers show the greatest effects of assimilation by diorite. Extensive crystallization of intercumulus liquid in the diorites led to the formation of a separate vapor phase which concentrated, rose into, and reacted with overlying gabbro layers forming "flame" structures.
10.1086/666944|The crystal growth features of andalusite and the transformation of andalusite to kyanite allow recognition of pre-Alpine and Alpine tectonometamorphic histories in the metapelites of the Alpujarride Complex. Two types of mineral segregations occur in relation to the andalusite  kyanite transformation. One type of segregation consists of a mantle of muscovite around a pre-Alpine andalusite chiastolite core that is partially transformed to fine-grained Alpine kyanite within a matrix particularly rich in biotite + quartz. The second type of segregation consists of Alpine muscovite + kyanite domains that form after dissolution of pre-Alpine andalusite + biotite domains within the matrix. The formation of these two types of mineral segregations involves similar reactions between the fluid and the local mineral assemblage. These reactions progress simultaneously. Each of them acts as source (or sink) for the ions, and intermediate mineral phases are consumed (or produced) by the other reactions, so that a combination of individual reactions produces the andalusite  kyanite net reaction. This reaction is catalyzed by the muscovite and biotite of the matrix, whose dehydration provides the chemical driving force needed to break Si-O bonds for the andalusite  kyanite transformation. Surfaces perpendicular to F-type {110} faces of the andalusite chiastolites associated with layeritic crystal growth mechanisms constitute fast reaction pathways for the andalusite  kyanite reaction. The transformation of pre-Alpine andalusite to Alpine kyanite constitutes the first solid textural evidence of the existence of a polymetamorphic history in the rocks of the Alpujarride Complex (Betic Cordillera, southern Spain).
30062607|Correlation of Cambrian strata in the western part of the Grand Canyon involves consideration of formations and faunas from eastern and southeastern Nevada and from the Granite Gorge area of the Grand Canyon in Arizona. Lithologic units defined in both regions are recognized. With priority of definition as the basis for acceptance of formational names, all units to which such definitions apply have their type localities in the Basin Range region. The Cambrian sequence near Grand Wash Cliffs in the westernmost part of the Grand Canyon contains 179 feet of Lower Cambrian Prospect Mountain quartzite (Eureka district, Nevada), which rests unconformably upon pre-Cambrian granite gneiss. These rocks are overlain by 304 feet of Lower and Middle Cambrian Pioche shale (Pioche district, Nevada), carrying the Olenellus zone fauna at the base and Albertella near the top. Above the Pioche formation lie 70 feet of strata consisting of two massive dolomite members separated by 40 feet of sandstone, shale, and dolomite. This unit is the lithogenetic equivalent of the Lyndon limestone (Pioche district). The Lyndon is followed by 99 feet of Chisholm shale (Pioche) with the Glossopleura zone fauna. The Chisholm formation is in turn overlain by about 380-400 feet of Peasley limestone (Pioche). All the above-mentioned Cambrian formations are conformable in western Grand Canyon. The last three are of medial Cambrian age. Disconformably above the Peasley limestone lie 110 feet or less of limestones of probable medial Cambrian age. These beds, which here are named the "Mead formation," are disconformably overlain by a thick series of undifferentiated dolomites and limestones of Cambrian(?) and post-Cambrian Paleozoic age.
30079917|Analysis of data on the chemical composition of primary fluid inclusions (brine inclusions) in primarybedded halite from many evaporite formations of northern Pangea shows that during the Phanerozoic the chemical composition of marine brines was oscillating significantly between the NaKMgCaCl type and the NaKMgClSO
30056410|Two theories as to the method of the final act of stream capture and the growing tendency to assume that it always takes place underground are discussed. The factors governing capture are analyzed, and the possibilities of the two methods are compared. It is shown that, in soluble or pervious formations, subterranean transfer of water may take place and that capture will probably be by underground methods. In impervious formations, however, capture must usually be by surface methods. Therefore, the underground method is important in limestones, pervious sandstones, sand, and gravel; but in most igneous and metamorphic rocks and in shales and clays the final act of capture usually occurs on the surface.
30061395|The quartz fabric of granulite fragments encased in the serpentines of Mohelno, western Moravia, is inhomogeneous. It has been overprinted on the earlier fabric of the rock only during the folding. It shows a clear relation to the shapes of the fragments and to the distance from their boundaries. In general, the sequence of types of the patterns, beginning from the contact and moving toward the central parts, is as follows: great-circle girdle patterns (with the girdle parallel to the contact plane), crossed-girdle patterns, small-circle girdle patterns. Just in the contact zone, patterns sometimes appear which show single prominent maximum 7. According to the types of tectonites, the respective sequence is
30060696|A new normative calculation is presented for feldspathoidal and melilitic igneous rocks. It is similar to the CIPW system but favors calculation of nepheline as
30057928|Marginal to the Western Coal Basin in western Kentucky is a sandstone-capped cuesta, unusual in that the capping layer is less resistant, from the standpoint of normal surface erosion, than the underlying limestones. Only because solution is, locally, the more important process and only when the opened fissures in the limestone have captured the surface streams can the limestone be removed more rapidly than the sandstone. Thus the cuesta is formed and maintained (with gradual migration down dip) by solution rather than normal surface erosion.
30064655|Five experiments are described in which a bed of sand was subjected to shear and the resulting grain orientation estimated from measurements of anisotropy of magnetic susceptibility. Two experiments involved dry sand on angle-of-repose slopes, two involved the immersion of the inclined bed in still water, and in one the bed formed the foresets of a delta produced in a horizontal flume. It was found that the longest and shortest axes of the sand grains were always preferentially aligned in the plane perpendicular to the strike, longest axes being at a small (25-37) angle to the surface of accumulation. High magnetic q-values were characteristic of all the deposits. The results are consistent with theoretical prediction.
30061965|The
30056378|On the basis of Hans Ahlmann's determinations of the temperature at the glaciation limit, the altitude of the mean June-September isotherm of 36 F. is taken as the modern climatic snow line in New Mexico. This plane naturally rises southward. The actual snow line of the last glacial maximum, probably the Cary of more than 24,000 years ago, is determined mainly from data presented by Louis Ray. The Cary snow line is found to have been practically horizontal from Pikes Peak in central Colorado to Cerro Blanco (Sierra Blanca) in southern New Mexico. The altitudinal difference between the snow-line planes, the Cary snowline depression, ranges from 3,000 feet at Pikes Peak to 4,300 feet on Cerro Blanco. Since the temperature lowering probably was slightly greater at Pikes Peak than at Cerro Blanco, the smallest snow-line depression, 3,000 feet at Pikes Peak, is the largest amount referable to lower temperature. Therefore, the mean June-September temperature during the Cary maximum was, at most, 10 F. (5?5 C.) lower in the area. The snowline depressions in excess of 3,000 feet are the minimum lowerings caused by heavier snowfall. Thus the Cary glaciation in New Mexico was a product of both lower temperature and greater snowfall, and the latter increased in importance southward. Lake Estancia and other pluvial lakes in New Mexico and contiguous regions postulated both heavier rainfall and lower temperature. Over Lake Estancia the rainfall can have been 9 inches greater. The exceptional precipitation in November, 1940October, 1941, demonstrates that an altered and favorable circulation of the atmosphere can produce a greater precipitation in the region during all seasons, even in winter. Therefore, the glaciers and the lakes must have been caused by the same temperature lowering and precipitation increase and may have culminated at the same time, for the lakes did not receive any water from melting glaciers. The pluvial maximum was probably attained slightly earlier than in the Great Basin, where glacial meltwater contributed to most lakes. This dating of the pluvial culmination in New Mexico is new, for I earlier referred it to a late stage of the deglaciation. The revised dating is based mainly on the finding that the Cary glaciation was in part produced by heavier snowfall and on the realization that the abnormal precipitation of November, 1940October, 1941, might be a sample of the normal one during the glacio-pluvial maximum. At the latitude of Santa Fe, the Cary snow-line depression was 4,000 feet and equaled that of the life- and climatic zones deduced by Charles Stearns from the present and one-time altitudinal distribution of the dusky marmot or western woodchuck. The present semiarid pinon-juniper woodlands and short-grass steppes in New Mexico were then subhumid timberlands and tall-grass prairies.
30082341|The Kontum massif of southcentral Vietnam has long been classified as lower continental crust of Precambrian (Archean) age. UPb zircon and
30068227|Archean and Early Proterozoic basalts from the Kaapvaal Craton in southern Africa have geochemical characteristics of subduction-related basalts. These basalts, however, cannot be produced in the subcontinental lithosphere, if ultramafic xenoliths depleted in Fe, Ti, and Ca are representative of this lithosphere. Geochemical and isotopic data are consistent with an origin by assimilation-fractional crystallization of Al-undepleted komatiite in the mid-to upper crust with Archean granitoids as the major contaminants. The proportion of granite to tonalite needed in the contaminant is higher for most of the Proterozoic basalts than it is for the Archean basalts. Widespread 2.3 Ga old within-plate, anorogenic granites in the Kaapvaal Craton may be crustal melts produced by komatiitic magmas heating the crust. Komatiitic magmatism in southern Africa could have lasted for
30060855|Limestones between and within basalt pillows on the Olympic Peninsula originated in at least three ways. Some were generated when subaqueous pillowed flows and pillow breccias were extruded onto layers of pelagic carbonate sediment, incorporating it as clasts or forcing it into pockets between pillows. Others formed when pillowed basalt intruded carbonate ooze; the resulting rock frequently is a loosely packed pillow lava in which individual pillows float in thermally altered limestone. Another kind of limestone, however, was produced through gradual filling of cavities between and within pillows by later sediments; in most of these, precipitation of void-filling drusy calcite preceded and alternated with clastic sedimentation into the cavities. Crucial to the interpretation of these different limestones is whether they are younger or older than associated pillows. Determination of the age relations is nearly always possible by detailed examination of field and petrographic characteristics.
30078492|The Sveconorwegian Bamble Sector of south Norway is a segment of the highgrade metamorphic basement of the Baltic shield generally considered an integral piece of the global Grenvillian orogenic belt. In particular, the Bamble Sector is generally directly linked to the Grenville Province of North America in middle Proterozoic tectonic reconstructions. However, few highprecision data exist on the metamorphic chronology of the Bamble Sector to test such models. In this paper high precision UPb data for monazite, allanite, and titanite indicate that rocks from the Bamble Sector near Arendal underwent granulite facies metamorphism at 1140 Ma. A second phase of metamorphism may be indicated by UPb titanite ages of 1105 Ma, or alternatively these may simply record delayed cooling or growth of titanite below temperatures for significant lead diffusion. Hornblende
30066248|A review of presently available age and stratigraphic data on the Late Preeambrian glaeiogenie deposits of Africa provides compelling evidence for two major widespread glacial events, one between about 740 m.y. and 1,000 m.y. ago and the other between about 630 m.y. and 720 m.y. ago. It is proposed that the centers of glacial activity developed and shifted due to an increased obliquity of the Earth's ecliptic and the rapid movement of the African plate or the Late Precambrian paleopoles. There is no evidence to support the model of a severe Infracambrian ice age of global dimensions and non-synchroneity of the glacial sequences as well as stratigraphic relationships do not favour the hypothesis that such glaciation was triggered by a worldwide fall of temperature following the locking up of
30056093|This paper attempts to evaluate the importance of inertia in the mechanics of the large low-angle thrust faults. Because of a lack of precise information many assumptions have been necessary, involving both the mechanics of thrusting and the numerical values of the factors involved. The analysis indicates that under certain hypothetical conditions inertia may be a factor of great importance. Further field data will have to be obtained before it can be determined to what extent these principles can be applied in nature.
30080192|The kinetic and thermodynamic properties of quartz, plagioclase, and Kfeldspars, which constitute 70 to 80% of the upper crust, provide a framework for prediction of mineralogical and chemical changes involved in the production of siliciclastic sediments. Chemical weathering of bedrock may produce weathering profiles with distinct mineralogical zones, compositionally much different from the parent rock. Mass wasting of such profiles produces sediments that reflect the mineralogy of the zones exposed to mechanical erosion, rather than the composition of fresh bedrock. The relative rates of chemical weathering and mechanical erosion determine which mineralogical zones are exposed to mass wasting, and therefore control the compositions of siliciclastic sediments. Stable rates of chemical weathering and erosion result in steadystate weathering, so that thickness and the mineralogical composition of eroded soil zones, and therefore the mineralogy of derived sediments, remain unchanged while steadystate weathering prevails. Nonsteadystate weathering occurs where climate and tectonism vary. Changing conditions alter rates of chemical weathering and physical erosion, resulting in exposure of different, and sometimes all, weathering zones of profiles, or exposure of bedrock. Such conditions result in production of sediments with diverse mineralogy, reflecting incipientlytohighly weathered zones of profiles. Steady and nonsteadystate weathering of granitic rocks therefore can be assessed by study of variations in quartz and feldspar contents of sands and variations in bulk compositions of muds, as shown for sediments derived from the Sierra Nevada and Bega batholiths, and the Appalachian Piedmont. Compositional variation of sediments, or its absence, are controlled by the relative rates of chemical weathering and erosion and provides insight into climatic and tectonic conditions in source lands, as well as information about provenance composition.
JG80080|The Thluicho Lake Group is a middle-Paleoproterozoic succession of greenschist-facies continental clastic rocks that was deposited on variably mylonitized crystalline basement rocks in the southwestern Rae Province of the Canadian Shield, near the end of 2.021.92-Ga Thelon-Taltson orogenesis. Two informal formations are proposed for this fining-upward succession. The Powder Lake formation comprises predominantly coarse-grained rocks including conglomerate (Gulo Lake member), pebbly sandstone (Camel Lake member), and sandstone (Wellington Lake member), whereas the overlying Camsell Portage formation consists of sandstone to siltstone (Falls member), rhythmic sandstone and argillite (Waterloo Lake member), and argillite (Slate Island member). The two informal formations represent two principal facies associations: a lower conglomerate-sandstone facies association representing an alluvial fan to distal braided plain that underwent episodic flash flooding events and an upper sandstone siltstonemudstone facies association representing a lacustrine environment. The Thluicho Lake basins are interpreted to have been symmetrical and elongate, and are broadly parallel to older, west- to northwest-trending basement structures. Transverse alluvial fans and braided rivers and/or fan deltas developed on elevated basin margins and drained into a large perennial lake. Similarities in lithology, age, and provenance suggest that the Thluicho Lake Group may correlate with the more extensive Nonacho Group to the north. Both groups represent remnants of a strike-slip and intermontane basin system that formed in the hinterland of the Taltson orogen at ca. 1.92 Ga.
30080198|The Achankovil shear belt of the southern Indian Peninsular shield is prominent on Landsat images. It coincides with the boundary between charnockites of the Madurai block to the north and khondalites of the Trivandrum block to the south, and with a major change in the aeromagnetic pattern that can be traced across southern India. Field investigations reveal a major shear zone along the southwestern edge of the Achankovil shear belt, the Tenmala shear zone. Rocks in the Tenmala shear zone include charnockite, garnetbiotite gneiss, garnetsillimanite gneiss, cordierite gneiss, and granite. Kinematic indicators include stretched and asymmetric garnet, feldspar and quartz porphyroclasts, shear bands, asymmetric folds, extensional and contractional composite structures, hook folds on rotated and deformed gash veins, and lineations. Kinematic analysis of these features along 60 km of the shear zone indicates primarily dextral shear, with a minor component of reverse shear. Textures, as well as mineral assemblages, are consistent with deformation under granulite facies conditions. Some overprint by the most recently formed charnockite postdates the shearing. Limited geochronologic data suggest a late Proterozoic (PanAfrican) age of shearing. Dextral shear along the Achankovil shear belt is opposite to the sinistral shear reported for the BongolavaRanotsara shear zone in southerhem Magascar; hence these two shear zones cannot be correlated in reconstructions of these parts of Gondwana.
30070615|In former attempts to explain the development of beach cusps, stress has been laid on the erosion of the beach. It is argued in this paper that concomitant deposition on the horns is at least equally important. Refraction of the swash in building the cusps in emphasized, and an attempt is made to explain the rhythmic, roughly equidimensional nature of cusps.
30061390|The commonly used techniques for hierarchical or multistage sampling of cross-bedding foreset azimuths (for paleocurrent study) are based on the conventional analysis of variance. It is now well known that the classical method of analysis of variance (ANOVA), which partitions the sum of squares of the observations, can not be indiscriminately applied for the analysis of circularly distributed directional data. An efficient and economical sampling technique for cross-bedding data has been developed using the circular measures of dispersion and the approximate ANOVA of Watson. The technique is illustrated here with the help of the pilot-survey data of tne flu via tile Kamthi formation. The following sampling problems have been solved: (1) the minimum sample size required for estimating, with a desired precision, tne mean direction of a formation, (2) the optimum allocation of the samples between and within the outcrops that would allow efficient sampling at minimum cost.
10.1086/683113|A key factor in the downstream dispersal and fractionation of sediment is the grain size distribution of sediment supplied by upstream catchments. Modeling of the grain size distribution of modern bedload in the main trunk channels of tectonically uplifting catchments, including the sediment at their outlets, and the weathering products of a range of bedrock lithologies in southern Italy and Sicily reveals fractal dimensions of 2.32.7, similar to the fractal dimension of many natural materials undergoing fragmentation. We examine the impact of changing statistical properties of the grain size distribution of the sediment supply in simulating grain size trends in sedimentary basins. Model simulations show a marked movement of the gravel front and patterns of progradation and retrogradation in basin stratigraphy. These grain size trends and sedimentary architectures are generated simply by variations in the grain size mix of the sediment supply, without variations in base level or sediment discharge. Variation in the grain size distribution of the sediment supply may therefore act as a first-order control on sequence stratigraphic architectures in sedimentary basins.
30066150|A mathematical theory of erosion on soil-covered slopes is proposed. The model is based on the hypothesis that soil particles subject to the influence of forces normally operative within soil covers execute randomly directed movements of minute extent. The distribution and characteristics of the pore space of the soil aggregate exert a restrictive influence and determine the nature and magnitude of the particle displacements. Macroscopically, the motion of the soil particles induces a rate of flow on the hillside slope proportional to the surface gradient. The model is used to supply a series of illustrations of the humid cycle of erosion.
30080130|This report concerns the paleoecology of a sequence of Pennsylvanian marine shales in Palo Pinto, Jack, and Young counties, Texas. New techniques for analyzing the fauna are suggested.
30079696|The vertebrate fauna from deposits at the Holloman gravel pit, Frederick, Oklahoma, is described and compared with other Pleistocene faunas. The Frederick fauna lacks the early Pleistocene (Nebraskan) genera Nannippus, Hippotigris, Borophagus, and Rhynchotherium but contains Equus and Archidiskodon, which first appear in North America at this time, and Stegomastodon and Gigantocamelus, which are not known to survive into middle Pleistocene Kansan time. This fauna indicates an Aftonian age for the deposit.
30067318|A study of about a score of recent sands collected from California deserts, beaches, and stream channels reveals the widespread occurrence of a feature that is interpreted as immaturity. Attention is called to the possible importance of this factor in the interpretation of certain Cretaceous and Tertiary sedimentary formations.
30056643|Failure to employ stratigraphie terms, as set forth in the Stratigraphic Code, has resulted in a situation perplexing to both professional and student geologists. To demonstrate that multiform usage is illogical and confusing, examples are presented from the Paleozoic section in New York State to show the varying ways in which the term "formation," fundamental in stratigraphy, has been used. Formation should be used only for lithogenetic (rock) units on geologic maps. Closer adherence to the Stratigraphie Code is advocated, in order to stabilize and clarify stratigraphy. If it is necessary to revise the Stratigraphie Code in the light of recent techniques in stratigraphy, the opinions of the current American Commission on Stratigraphie Nomenclature should be obtained.
30067383|The petrology and P-T conditions of eclogites and associated gneisses from the nienik Mountains (Sudetes, SW-Poland) were investigated to establish an exhumation path for these ultrahigh-pressure rocks. Peak-pressure conditions are represented by the assemblage garnet-omphacite-phengite-kyanite-coesite-rutile. Post-dating this assemblage, but still in the eclogite-facies, garnet with lower grossular-content and a first generation of amphibole are formed under lower pressure conditions, giving rise to the assemblage garnet-omphacite-phengite-kyanite-quartz-rutile-calcic amphibole(I). Continuing depressurization caused the successive destabilization of omphacite, garnet, kyanite, and phengite. In some places the primary eclogite assemblage was completely transformed into amphibolite-facies mineral assemblages. Estimated peak pressures in the nienik and Midzygrze units lie in the coesite stability field (P > 27 kbar at temperatures of about 700-800C) and are not significantly different to the Zote unit. Although isofacial high-P metamorphism of eclogites and associated Gieratw gneisses has been previously suggested, we show for the first time geobarometric evidence that the country rock gneisses experienced pressures >27 kbar, indicated by the mineral assemblage garnet(
30068277|Two stages of glaciation are recognized in the Du Noir River Valley. The first of these, previously recognized, is believed to be early Wisconsin, probably Iowan, in age and probably is to be compared with the Wisconsin I glaciation described by L. L. Ray in the southern Rocky Mountains. A second glacial stage, hitherto unrecognized, is believed to represent a late stage of the Wisconsin glaciation, probably comparable to the Wisconsin II stage as described by Ray.
30068583|A satisfactory geological interpretation of many gravity anomalies based on Airy's hypothesis of a floating crust seems impossible. The author therefore postulates a plastic deformation of a much thicker layer, in alternate anticlinal and synclinal undations, separated by surfaces dipping at approximately 45. Such deformation, by the displacement of surfaces of equal density, causes gravity anomalies and disturbances of isostatic equilibrium. Examples are given, showing that the gravity anomalies observed in various regions (Hawaiian Islands, Mid-Atlantic Ridge, the Alps, the Mediterranean Basin) correspond in a satisfactory manner with those required by the hypothesis of plastic deformation. The usual methods of calculation of the isostatic anomalies of certain regions indicate a large isostatic unbalance for which there is no adequate geological interpretation. The author's hypothesis shows that these same regions are in isostatic equilibrium. Although vertical adjustments tend to restore the isostatic equilibrium, there still remain pressure differentials which cannot be entirely suppressed by these vertical adjustments. They produce deep currents, the effect of which is to modify the previous isostatic equilibrium and, consequently, to provoke downward and upward movements in the mountain chains, as well as in the basins. The final result is a tendency to restore a stable equilibrium, in which the equal-density surfaces coincide with the equipotential surfaces, as before the deformation.
30060884|Evidence from comparative planetology is combined with independent evidence from terrestrial geology to produce a general theory for the origin of continents. The Moon, Mercury, Mars, and possibly Venus each had a similar sequence of early crustal evolution: (1) a first differentiation, forming a global igneous crust; (2) major impact fracturing of this crust, probably peaking about 4 b.y. ago; and (3) a long period of basic magmatism. Mars evolved beyond this stage to initial tectonic fracturing of the early crust and construction of volcanic massifs. Since the Earth has far more internal energy and a greater volatile content than the smaller planets, it must have undergone differentiation at least as rapid and as extensive as theirs. It must also have had a comparable cratering history. The following sequence of events is therefore proposed for the Earth's internal crustal evolution: Stage I (4.7 b.y. ago)-Origin by rapid, high-temperature process; Stage II (4.7-4.0 b.y. ago)-First differentiation, producing a global igneous crust of dominantly andesitic composition, with subordinate amounts of basaltic and anorthositic rocks, and concurrent impact peaking at about 4 b.y. ago with formation of mare-like basins and impact fracturing of crust; Stage III (4.0-ca. 3 b.y. ago) - Second differentiation, by regional basic and ultrabasic magmatism, producing primitive ensialic ocean basins analogous to Oceanus Procellarum and the northern plains of Mars, concurrent with continuing generation of sialic magma from mantle, crustal deformation, and redifferentiation of initial crust by partial melting and remobilization; Stage IV (3 b.y. ago to present)-Initial tectonic fracturing by crustal foundering under basic lavas, and beginning of plate tectonic processes. Ensialic ocean basins were converted to the present type of basins by sea-floor spreading and subduction. Fundamentally modern crustal evolution by plate-tectonic processes began about 2.5 b.y. ago, in Stage IV. The original andesitic crust underwent repeated redifferentiation by partial melting and other processes, producing mantled gneiss domes-now intrusive into greenstone belts (remnants of Stage III basic volcanics)-and Proterozoic massif anorthosites, and-by interaction at plate boundaries-orogenic batholiths. Some enlargement of the ocean basins and formation of new basins (oceanization) has occurred through Stage IV by various processes, but constancy of continental freeboard suggests that the volume of continental crust has not changed greatly in the last 3 b.y. The Earth's continents in this theory are the greatly altered remnants of an originally global crust, rather than aggregations of orogenic belts or sialic nuclei.
30067244|A recently formed fissure in basin-fill material is described. Several possible modes of origin are discussed and the conclusion is reached that the rupture was probably the result of vibrations from a distant earthquake, aided, perhaps, by tensional strain in the superficial deposit.
30084812|Chemical reorganization occurs during diagenesis as a response of a rock to its physicochemical environment. The mineral assemblages produced will be dependent on the environment and the materials present. Physicochemical factors of importance in diagenesis appear to be environmental pH-cation concentration, environmental Eh, pressure, and temperature. Mineral assemblages which can be expected to appear in given rocks under given conditions can be inferred from data derived from inherent properties of minerals, such as abrasion pH, from laboratory studies on mineral stability fields and hydrothermal alteration, from theoretical studies on mineral stabilities, from hydrothermal deposits, and from diagenetic depth sequences. These data suggest the possibility of erecting a sequence of facies, analogous to metamorphic facies, starting at the surface and passing down into the low-grade metamorphic facies. Each diagenetic facies can be defined as including all rocks or sedimentary detritus which have, by a process of diagenesis, developed mineral assemblages that are the result of adjustment to a particular diagenetic environment. The concept of equilibrium cannot be universally applied because metastable minerals are characteristically present in some assemblages. Teodorovich (1954) has erected 13 "fades" (here termed "parfacies"), representative of halmyrolosis and early diagenesis, which constitute a low-rank facies of diagenesis. Satisfactory definition of higher-ranking facies is not yet possible, but facies characterized, with increasing rank, by heulandite-analcite, laumontite, prehnite-pumpellyite, and albite-epidote may be recognizable in rocks of suitable composition modified under alkaline conditions. Variations of assemblage with composition and pH are not satisfactorily known. However, kaolinite will become important as pH decreases.
30065002|Widespread retrograde alteration assemblages document the migration of mixed
30062237|In the past, sand ridges and the associated marine sand waves have been studied extensively from a morphological point of view, but several important historical and dynamical problems associated with these features have been neglected. This paper outlines the present dynamical setting of a sand ridge (a shoal named Middle Ground) in Vineyard Sound, Massachusetts, then discusses its origin. Sand waves cover the ridge. Those with amplitudes of 2 m. are found to be completely rebuilt in half a tidal cycle, and those with amplitudes of 6 m. are found to be significantly rebuilt over half a tidal cycle. Net movements of the sand waves are consistent with the counterclockwise net circulation of water around the ridge. The velocity profile is logarithmic only over the sand-wave crests where the average maximum shear velocity is 4.5 cm/sec. The results of a grab sample study, when combined with dynamical considerations, lead to the conclusion that Middle Ground is a body of sand, whereas its southwest extension (Lucas Shoal) is composed of glacial drift and veneered with sand. By the use of these and other data, the geomorphological history of Middle Ground is traced from the deposition of a small Wisconsin recessional moraine, through a period of sea level rise during which wave erosion and longshore drift created an elongate submarine sand ridge, to a period of submergence during which waves modified the relic morainal feature and tidal currents reshaped both the submerged sand ridge and the relic moraine. Theory and field measurements indicate that the present morphology of the shoal is in dynamic equilibrium with the tidal current system, and that large-scale morphological changes occur within a period of only a few years.
30055906|Structures in the Columbia River lavas were studied principally in the Moses Coulee area of central Washington. Here a 1,900-foot section of olivine basalts rests with apparent conformity on Upper Miocene sedimentaries. The lavas exhibit many different types of structure, such as columns of various sizes, cross jointing, irregular fracturing, fanlike forms, rosettes, horseshoe shapes, ellipsoidal and brecciated basalts. The conditions under which the lavas were extruded, the probable methods of formation of the fans, and ellipsoidal and brecciated basalts are discussed.
30060228|The Hurricane Agnes flood, the greatest ever recorded in the drainage basin of the Conestoga River, raised two significant questions: why was such massive flooding caused by such a relatively small total rainfall? and why did this catastrophic event cause only minor geomorphic changes in channels and flood plains? Total precipitation averaged only 8.5 inches in 54 hours. However, other factors-including high rainfall intensity in one 10-hour period, even distribution of rainfall throughout the basin, pre-Agnes saturation of the ground, the storm's arrival in June before crops were well established, and Man's shortsightedness-combined to produce exceptionally high runoff. The insignificant geomorphic effects of the storm also resulted from a combination of factors. The low stream velocity of flood waters associated with low gradients, a 15-20 times increase in stream widths and water depths rising 7-20 feet above floodplain surfaces minimized the water's erosive power. Also, the silt and clay loads of the flooding streams throughout much of the basin failed to provide effective abrasive tools for channel widening. Deposition on channel bottoms and floodplains was also minor because by the time the flood was ebbing, the suspended silt-clay load had diminished markedly and there was little sediment to deposit except at scattered localities possessing special characteristics. The effect of this flood with a several 100-year recurrence interval was to transport large quantities of fine sediment out of the basin but not to alter significantly the shape of channels or the contour of floodplains.
30056284|The intrusive rocks of the Red Lake area are all of post-Timiskaming age. They have been divided into three general ages of intrusion-early pre-Algoman, late pre-Algoman, and Algoman-and into several subdivisions. Separation into three general ages is based on intrusive relations, lithological differences, and relative amounts of deformation and alteration. In the most complex period, the Algoman, the relative age of different formations is based on intrusive relations and on helium-radioactivity age determinations of hornblende separates from selected representative rocks. A genetic relationship between Algoman grano-diorite and later basic dikes, which was suggested by field evidence, is corroborated by radioactivity investigations. This establishes the genetic association of the auriferous quartz veins with both granodiorite and basic dikes.
30066306|Pure quartz arenites are especially characteristic of lower Paleozoic and Proterozoic strata deposited in nonorogenic settings. A centurylong debate over the origin of these remarkably pure sandstones has remained unresolved, largely because they seem nonactualistic. The much greater importance of wind and fluvial processes prior to the Silurian appearance of macroscopic vegetation supported a physical origin, but it is now clear that both multicycling and intense chemical weathering can produce them. Multicycling seemed essential to account for their extreme textural maturity, with the exceptional rounding of many examples pointing to important eolian abrasion. Other attributes such as evidences of mixed sources, upward maturation, association with major unconformities, and an inverse relationship between labile grain content and grain size also were consistent with recycling. A singlecycle origin proven in the modern humid tropics, however, is supported in the ancient record by examples with underlying mature paleosol profiles, chemical etching and lesser rounding of quartz grains, single populations of accessory minerals, downcurrent maturation, dissolution ghosts of labile grains, oversized pores filled with clay, and interstratified pelites composed of only kaolinite or illite. Postdepositional diagenesis also can contribute to maturation either with or without multicycling and may even produce pure, diagenetic quartz arenites in extreme cases. Accounting for the compositional maturity of ancient quartz arenites chemically seems paradoxical without something to stabilize land surface areas long enough to allow intense weathering. Biological crusts or microbial mats composed of complex communities of cyanobacteria, algae, and lichens are here proposed as the likely means of stabilization. Although most familiar today in arid regions, such crusts are known in practically all climatic zones. Apparently they developed early in Precambrian time from marginal marine or lacustrine stromatolites and mats and were the first life forms to invade land long before the advent of vascular land vegetation.
30068531|The mid-Paleozoic, greenschist-grade Rockfish Valley Fault Zone (RVFZ) of central Virginia cuts the Grenville-aged Pedlar River Charnockite Suite (PRCS) and contains zircons that underwent brittle failure during ductile deformation. Electron microprobe analyses and scanning electron microscope (SEM) backscattered electron (BSE) imaging show that zircons from the protolith PRCS are concentrically zoned (with alternating U-Hf-rich and U-Hf-poor bands), and contain numerous radial microcracks. Zircons from the RVFZ mylonite are unzoned, fragmented, show no internal microfractures, and have low U and Hf concentrations relative to the PRCS zircons. U-Pb isotopic studies of zircons from the mylonites and from the charnockitic protolith demonstrate that no preferential Pb loss occurred in the zircons from the mylonite, and that the
10.1086/648400|We report the UPb age distribution of detrital zircons collected from central and southern Appalachian foreland basin strata, which record changes of sediment provenance in response to the different phases of the Appalachian orogeny. Taconic clastic wedges have predominantly ca. 10801180 and ca. 13001500 Ma zircons, whereas Acadian clastic wedges contain abundant Paleozoic zircons and minor populations of 550700 and 19002200 Ma zircons consistent with a Gondwanan affinity. Alleghanian clastic wedges contain large populations of ca. 9801080 Ma and ca. 2700 Ma and older Archean zircons and fewer Paleozoic zircons than occur in the Acadian clastic wedges. The abundance of Paleozoic detrital zircons in Acadian clastic wedges indicates that the Acadian hinterland consisted of recycled material and Taconicaged plutons, which provided significant detritus to the Acadian foreland basin. The appearance of PanAfrican/Brasiliano and Eburnean/TransAmazonianaged zircons in Acadian clastic wedges suggests a Devonian accretion of the Carolina terrane. In contrast, the relative decrease in abundance of Paleozoic detrital zircons coupled with an increase of Archean and Grenville zircons in Alleghanian clastic wedges indicates the development of an orogenic hinterland consisting of deformed passive margin strata and Grenville basement. The youngingupward age progression in Grenville province sources revealed in Taconic through Alleghanian successions suggest a reverse unroofing sequence that indicates at least two cycles of Grenville zircon recycling.
30055674|Stocklike masses of gabbro are a subordinate but very characteristic feature of the Adirondack geology. The age oi these numerous masses has been in doubt, since they have been interpreted as intrusive stocks in one quadrangle and as older inclusions in the same country rock in the next. The writers have made a field and laboratory study of a considerable number of these gabbros and have reached the conclusion that they are younger intrusives in the older granite-syenite series, thus agreeing with the views of Kemp and Cushing and the earlier view of Miller. The kelyphitic reaction rims abundant in them and their dioritic border phases are thought to be the result of an attack on the already solid rock by emanations from the gabbro reservoir in depth.
30060382|As a rule, the earthquakes of Great Britain are weak and infrequent. Once a month, on an average, the ground is shaken somewhere within its limits. Once in every twelve years, a shock occurs that is strong enough to throw down chimneys or fracture walls. Though simple in nature and of brief duration, there are, however, two well-marked types of earthquakes, which I have called "simple" and "twin" earthquakes. In the first section of this paper, I propose to point out the differences between the two classes; in the second, to describe some typical twin earthquakes; in the third, to state the characteristic features of twin earthquakes in general; in the fourth, to show that twin earthquakes originate in two detached foci; in the fifth, to notice that there are two classes of twin earthquakes and to summarize their essential features and points of difference; and, in the sixth, to consider the origin of twin earthquakes and to mention some further properties of these earthquakes.
30063976|The Baraboo Quartzite and overlying metasediments in south-central Wisconsin long were assumed correlative with middle Precambrian Huronian and/or Animikean strata of the Lake Superior region-that is, presumably between 1,800 and 2,600 m.y. old. Like Animikie rocks in northern Wisconsin and Michigan, the pure quartzite at Baraboo is overlain by dolomite, banded iron "formation," and slate. But rhyolitic tuff breccias and welded tuffs that stratigraphically underlie the Baraboo metasediments have yielded a Rb-Sr whole-rock isochron date of
30075162|Several different iron sulfides have been synthesized from aqueous sulfide solutions at low temperatures (20-90 C.) and atmospheric pressure and identified by means of X-ray diffraction and/or chemical analysis. These are tetragonal FeS, pyrite, marcasite, a magnetic cubic iron sulfide of the spinel structure type, pyrrhotite, and an X-ray amorphous precipitated iron sulfide of composition approximating FeS. The nature of the resulting iron sulfide depends upon many factors, the most important of which are pH, temperature, the presence of specific oxidizing agents, and the type of iron source material used as a reactant. Tetragonal FeS was formed over a wide range of conditions and was the iron sulfide most commonly encountered in this study. It results from the reaction of hydrogen sulfide with fine-grained goethite under conditions simulating those in natural marine sediments. The substance described as hydrotroilite in many sedimentary occurrences is believed to be, at least in part, poorly crystallized tetragonal FeS. Tetragonal FeS has been found in the sediments of the Mystic River, Boston, Massachusetts, and in an iron sulfide concretion from the sediments of the Black Sea. The initial corrosion product of metallic iron in
10.1086/600863|The Albemarle Group is one of the major defining stratigraphic units of the Carolina terrane, the bestknown division of the southern Appalachian periGondwanan block of Carolinia. As such, the group is a significant factor in the correlation of Carolinia with other periGondwanan blocks both in the Appalachians and globally. The traditionally held Ediacaran age of the group has been in question for more than a decade because of a report of Late Cambrian and younger fossils from two quarries in the group. The fossil report led to a major revision of the stratigraphy and structural reinterpretation of the Carolina terrane. Our recent studies have focused on the stratigraphy, paleontology, and geochronology of the Cid Formation in the vicinity of one of the reported Paleozoic fossil locales. Contrary to the structural reinterpretation of the Albemarle Group, Cid mudstone is shown to be in conformable and gradational contact with Flat Swamp felsic volcanics of the Cid Formation; we have obtained a precise UPb zircon age of
30062196|This paper, by simple model studies, demonstrates that the low friction observed for long runout landslides can be explained in terms of simple particle dynamics, without the intervention of extraneous devices such as air-layers. The proposed mechanism assumes that the bulk of material rides on a thin layer of highly agitated particles at low concentration. By employing the technique of two-dimensional particle dynamic computer simulation, I demonstrate that (1) this is the state to which a granular material tends when sliding down an inclined plane and (2) it is sufficient to explain the friction reduction. Finally, I present a simple mathematical model that yields order of magnitude predictions of runout distance. The argument suggests that there may be nothing particularly special about long runout landslides (except, perhaps, in the way they are initiated) and that they behave as would be expected given the current state of knowledge of particle flows.
30064162|Mass balances for both denudation in the Himalayas and sediment accumulation in the Subhimalayan basins, including the Bengal deep-sea fan but excluding the Indus fan, yield
30063376|Too many conflicting terms are used by petrologists and ore geologists in relation to late-magmatic and post-magmatic processes. An attempt is made to evaluate these terms and to show which are worthy of preservation and which might be eliminated.
30079412|By the method of least squares, trend components and deviations are computed for areally distributed data drawn from five granites. Modal data for the Bahalda Road granodiorite, India; the Beinn an Dubhaich granite, Skye, Scotland; the Wollaston and Deloro plutons, Ontario; radioactivity data for the two Ontario massifs; and bulk chemical data for the Mourne Mountain granite G2, Ireland, are analyzed with the aid of numerous maps. In each case trend components suggest the degree and type of variability for each mass. In the light of the probable areal variability within all five of the granites, emphasis is placed upon the relatively small value to be accorded isolated "typical" or "representative" specimens as a basis for petro-genetic conclusion and comparison with other massifs. The importance of quantitative analysis for assessing the composition and variability of massifs is demonstrated. Some variates yield good patterns (e.g., Wollaston pluton), although in other cases (e.g., Beinn an Dubhaich granite) the available density of data is inadequate for estimation of the composition and variability of the rock-mass. An adequate sample of specimens for these granites would enable deviation studies to illuminate petrogenetic problems (e.g., assimilation of xenolithic material by magma).
30085022|The least-squares regression comparison of linear, exponential, logarithmic, and power functions for 13 diverse profiles demonstrated that: (1) a standard method of plotting profiles from source to mouth should be followed; (2) the exponential function is preferred for profiles ending downstream in aggradational areas; (3) the logarithmic function is preferred for profiles that terminate upstream at scarps or steep divides; (4) the power function is inadequate for most longitudinal profiles; (5) a composite function is recommended for complete profiles; and (6) a power regression of slope against distance provides the most useful method of describing and comparing curvature and rugosity, two basic properties of profiles.
30065791|The Kingston complex of southern New Brunswick, Canada, is a regional, NE-trending belt of mafic and felsic dikes bordered by dextral ductile shear zones. The complex separates two contrasting late Precambrian-early Paleozoic tectonostratigraphic assemblages near the NW margin of the Avalon composite terrane. Rhyolitic dikes within the complex record an early Silurian crystallization age. Dike orientations suggest that emplacement of the complex accompanied sinistral movement interpreted to reflect accretion of the Avalon composite terrane to cratonic North America. Mafic dikes within the complex display greenschist to epidote-amphibolite facies metamorphic assemblages that developed during dextral transpression. Amphibole concentrates from seven metamorphosed mafic dikes record Late Silurian to Early Devonian (ca. 416-390 Ma)
30061038|Subsolidus phase relations in the ternary systems
30060158|A succession of Crag deposits is described from the island of Sylt (coast of Schleswig, northwestern Germany). These record, in part, the hiatus between the marine Pliocene and the Mindel (Elster) glaciation in this region. The succession consists of a marine sandstone at the base, estuarine sands in the middle, and fluviatile sands and gravels on top. The marine deposit at the base is contemporaneous with the Waltonian Crag of England; its top marks the beginning of the Pleistocene. Sedimentation was controlled by a system of streams issuing from Scandinavia. Owing to a rejuvenation of the relief and increased precipitation, the whole of northern Germany became a vast aggrading river plain. The deterioration of climate contemporaneous with the deposition of the fluviatile member is correlated with the Giinz glaciation of the Alps, on the one hand, and with the cold phase observed in the Dutch and British Icenian, on the other. Local mountain glaciation in Scandinavia at this time is probable, although unproved; but no ice sheet of that phase ever reached northern Germany. It is proposed to take the outcrops of the island of Sylt as the standard section for the Plio-Pleistocene boundary in northwestern Germany.
30058634|Examination of mining properties in the Salmon River region of north-central Idaho has disclosed a thick section of metamorphosed sediments in which sedimentary gneisses are important. These gneisses resemble underlying gneisses of probable igneous origin but are distinct from them. The dominant structural feature of the area studied is a great anticline trending northeast-southwest with large-scale thrust faulting paralleling this fold on its northwest limb. The metasedimentary series forms the northwest limb of this regional anticline. The sedimentary gneisses were apparently derived from conglomerates and coarse sands formed near a shoreline and were in part probably terrestrial. An eolian origin is suggested for some of these sandy phases. It is suggested that these gneisses and the associated schists and quartzites represent the basal part of the Upper Proterozoic (Belt series) which has widespread exposures in adjacent parts of Montana and northern Idaho. The sediments were derived from a granitic land mass lying to the north and northwest.
30061398|Drowned valleys, cliffs, and erosional features of continental shelves require a prolonged period (or periods) of low sea level followed by a period of gradually rising sea level. Because tectonism cannot account for the relatively uniform depth of these features, and because Pleistocene glacioeustatic regressions were too brief, a hypothesis of preglacial low sea level caused by tectonic changes in ocean floors is proposed. Pleistocene glaciations temporarily restored sea level to near its preglacial position. Preglacial and inter-glacial high sea levels were relatively minor incidents in the late Cenozoic evolution of coasts.
30059948|En chelon folds and miniature arcuate mountain systems were produced experimentally in several ways. Differential stress transmission in the horizontal plane, through rigid materials bordering incompetent beds, gave rise to en chelon folds and arcuate systems even though non-rotational compression was applied. The same phenomena were also produced by applying differential (rotational) compression in the horizontal plane against homogeneous materials. Application of principles derived from the performed experiments are made to specific examples in nature.
30058011|The article by Charles Butts, "Some Issues in Chester Stratigraphy in Kentucky and Illinois," is discussed; and new evidence on this long-standing controversy is presented. The narrowly restricted Campophyllum zone upon which Butts bases his correlation between Breckinridge and Christian counties, Kentucky, is shown to be a misconception based upon inadequate evidence, and the species of Pentremites and Talaro-crinus cited by him are shown to be unsuited for such precise correlation. The entire faunal characters of the Renault formation in Illinois, the "Lower Ohara" in Christian County, Kentucky, and the "Lower Gasper" in Breckinridge County, Kentucky, prove their equivalence; and likewise the Paint Creek of Illinois, the entire "Gasper" of Christian County, Kentucky, and the "Upper Gasper" of Breckinridge County, Kentucky, are equivalent. The authors present their reasons for being unable to accept Gasper as a valid formation name. The names Levias and Gerkin are proposed, respectively, for the so-called "Lower Ohara" member of the Ste Genevieve and the combined Renault and Paint Creek formations where the Bethel (or Sample) sandstone is absent from the section.
30085004|Alluvial fans were studied in the field, largely in the desert regions of California, and in the laboratory. Field study consisted of detailed mapping of parts of four fans and reconnaissance work on over one hundred additional fans. Features mapped included the nature and age of deposits, material size, and channel pattern. In the laboratory small alluvial fans were built of mud and sand transported through a channel into a 5-foot by 5-foot box under controlled conditions. Material is transported to fans by debris flows or water flows that follow a main channel. This channel is generally incised at the fanhead, because there water is able to transport on a lower slope the material deposited earlier by debris flows. The main channel emerges onto the surface near a midfan point, herein called the "intersection point." On laboratory fans most deposition above the intersection point is by debris flows that exceed the depth of the incised channel. Fluvial deposition dominates below the intersection point. This depositional relation probably also occurs on natural fans. On fans deficient in fine material large discharges may infiltrate completely before reaching the toe of the fan. Coarse debris is then deposited as lobate masses, herein called "sieve deposits." In many respects sieve deposits resemble debris-flow deposits, but they lack primary fine material, and fresh lobes are highly permeable.
30080983|Two small outcrops of igneous rock of post-Devonian age occur near Norris Lake, eastern Tennessee. These outcrops are the most southerly of a series of isolated kimberlites which extend northeast into New York State and parallel the Appalachian fold belt. Pyrope-rich garnet and magnesian ilmenite (MgO ~ 14 wt %) are common and often occur as xenocrysts. A garnet-serpentinized pyroxene (?) xenolith has also been found. Secondary minerals include euhedral crystals of magnetite, large discrete masses of serpentine, dolomite, and vermiculite. Sulfides are comparitively rare. The porphyritic texture of the rock, the lack of thermal alteration of local sedimentary xenoliths-including crinoid ossicles within the intrusion-plus the mineralogy and presence of xenoliths of mafic rocks are all evidence that the intrusions are kimberlite.
30063790|Studies of the New Zealand Pleistocene have been based mainly on advances of valley and piedmont glaciers on South Island, though interglacial marine terrace deposits occur on North Island also. Drift deposits of the early Pleistocene Ross glacial advance were strongly deformed by continuing Kaikoura orogeny, which had begun in the late Miocene. Deep erosion followed the Ross glaciation but preceded less-deformed deposits of four later glacial stages, the Porikan, Waimaungan, Waimean, and Otiran. These may correspond respectively to Nebraskan, Kansan, Illinoian, and Wisconsinan of central North America. Carbon-14 determinations indicate that the Otiran corresponds to the Altonian and Woodfordian substages but not to our Valderan.
30062026|The Cretaceous fluvial sandstones of the Au Formation, Potiguar Basin, northeastern Brazil, contain abundant, very early, authigenic Kfeldspar overgrowths around detrital orthoclase and microcline grains. Detailed optical and cathodoluminescence petrography, scanning electron microscopy, and electron microprobe analyses provided information about the conditions and timing of precipitation of these overgrowths, as well as of the associated diagenetic phases. The overgrowths are optically discontinuous with the detrital grains, untwined, nonluminescing, and were formed clear on grain surfaces under phreatic conditions. The overgrowths commonly show a rhombohedral (sanidine) habit, range in thickness from about 0.4 to 1.0 mm, are chemically pure KAlSi
30056717|When cross-bedding is mistaken for normal bedding and its attitude used in the calculation of formation thickness, an error will result, the magnitude of which depends upon the angle between the normal bedding and the surface of outcrop as well as upon the angle between the normal bedding and the cross-bedding. The effect of the former angle upon formation thicknesses so calculated is discussed for several sets of conditions.
30058981|The solution mechanism of -quartz in water at elevated pressures and temperatures corresponds to a bimolecular, heterogeneous gas reaction. The reaction is described by the equation
30066085|Crenulation cleavages have formed during a noncoaxial strain history in anisotropic tectonites of the Slacks Creek Anticline near Cooma, Australia. A constant sense of rotation of strain increments has led to (1) the super-imposition of a differentiated crenulation cleavage
30058256|The geometry of originally rectilinear structures deformed during a later phase of fold movement is described. Lineations lying on a surface which is deformed by concentric folding have their locus on a partial cone (stereogram plots show a partial small circle pattern), whereas those lying on a surface folded in a similar manner have their locus on a plane (stereogram plots show a great circle pattern). A method of determining the actual movement or a-direction of particles during similar folding is described. The fold axis is not necessarily at right angles to this a-direction.
30063046|The relation of several theories of fracture is pointed out, and the important determinants of the angle of rupture are considered. The most important factor is thought to be friction which tends to localize fracturing on planes less than 45 to the axis of compression. The general assumption that fracture cleavage can best be explained by the strain ellipsoid is questioned. It is pointed out that since fracturing increases bulk, relief from compression necessitates rotation of fragments in the special case of fracture cleavage where conjugate fractures are absent. Rotation of fragments changes the inclination of the initial rupture planes, and the final result depends on the amount of readjustment as well as on the initial angle of fracturing. Thus typical fracture cleavage may be readily explained without assuming a strain ellipsoid and an obtuse fracture angle facing compression.
30062227|A consideration of the mid-Paleozoic stress chronologies of certain areas of the British Isles provides an outline correlation of the structural and igneous events of those times and also gives a general picture of the orogenesis. It is found that the orogeny had a markedly pulsatory nature, compressional phases alternating with long periods of relief of pressure, which it is proposed should be called cross-phases. In any one area there is often evidence of change of direction of the main horizontal stress during a compressional phase or cross-phase, but it is not yet known whether such rotations of stress orientation were of local or widespread occurrence.
30066308|The observed average lifetime of minerals, as estimated by the average survival time of dated detrital grains, correlates linearly with
30062322|Late Quaternary relative sea-level changes along the Malibu coast can be deciphered by study of geo-morphic features and marine and associated stream deposits. Evidence for such changes includes (a) stream downcutting in large valleys during low stands of sea level, (b) stream aggradation in the same valleys during high stands of sea level, and (c) marine shoreline angles whose altitudes coincide with the tops of valley-fill stream deposits. This evidence, and open-system uranium-series dates for shells from the Corral and Dume terrace deposits, provide a time scale for certain sea-level changes. Evidence from other coasts of the United States suggests that sea level was close to its present position about 30,000 years ago. Such a post-Dume, pre-Holocene relatively high stand of sea level has not been recognized in marine deposits along the Malibu coast. There is evidence, however, for stream aggradation at possibly 30,000 years B.P. Sea-level position at that time cannot be determined, but considerations of tectonic rate of uplift suggest that it was no higher than about -30-foot altitude. Most of the relative sea-level changes identified here are probably due to eustatic variations in sea level. Tectonic movements complicate the interpretation of the stratigraphic and geomorphic record; however, because movements seem to have been consistently upward, relative rises of sea level are interpreted as eustatic and relative falls as partly eustatic. Eustatic origin is also suggested by the similarities in ages of sea-level fluctuations between the Malibu coast and the coasts of Alaska, Barbados, Mallorca, and New Guinea.
30058955|Five distinct faults described by various earlier workers were recognized as parts of one great overthrust fault in the field seasons of 1924 and 1925. This fault extends from Kootenay River in Canada to Clark Fork River in Montana, a distance of 118 miles. It has been named the Moyie-Lenia overthrust fault. The fault plane dips west. The vertical stratigraphic interval may be more than 45,000 feet at some places, but it may be as low as 15,000 feet at others. There is no evidence that the overthrust displacement is greater than the vertical displacement. The age of the overthrust was probably post-Jurassic and pre-Eocene, and it it is believed to be part of the great overthrust system known to exist farther south.
30058995|Extensive terranes of basement reactivation are interpreted as resulting from crustal thickening following continental collision. It is suggested that terranes, such as the Grenville Province and much of the Variscan orogenic belt in Europe, have their modern analog in the Tibetan Plateau. The Tibetan Plateau is underlain by a continental crust between 60 and 80 km thick and is characterized by extensive high-potash Neogene vulcanism. Following T. H. Green's arguments that partial melting of a dioritic lower crust may yield potassic granitic liquids and refractory anorthositic residues, we consider that continental collision is followed by crustal thickening, to accommodate further plate convergence, with ensuing partial melting of the lower crust. At high structural levels, silicic-potassic ignimbrites are extruded in intermontane basin-horst terranes, with subjacent granite plutons. At deeper levels, a dry refractory lower crust consisting of pyroxene granulites and anor-thosites is generated.
JG116403|Lithofacies in kimberlite pipes in southern Africa exhibit features consistent with welded pyroclastic rocks. These include flared conduit-filling geometries, abundant lithic clasts, lithic clast layers, subhorizontal clast fabrics, gradational contacts with volcaniclastic rocks and sintered and coalesced globular ash, and lapilli and melt-coated particles. The welding dynamics of kimberlite pyroclasts differ from those of glassy, vesiculated pyroclasts in silicic volcanic systems. Low melt viscosity (
30075177|The writer's interpretations of Great Lakes history, which have been seriously questioned by J Harlen Bretz in this Journal (1959, 1964), are explained in detail in a review of the field facts, and a new alternative hypothesis of the lakes history is presented. The principal points of disagreement involve the acceptance or rejection of recent studies in the Lake Ontario basin and St. Lawrence valley, which require a revision of the correlation of events in the Huron and Michigan basins. A distinction is made between field facts and Bretz's interpretations of field facts.
30059170|In this paper the general results of the writer's study of the large fauna oi the Kimmswick limestone are presented. The description of species is to be published elsewhere. The study has demonstrated the marked faunal homogeneity of the formation vertically as well as horizontally, and from different types of evidence establishes the age of the Kimmswick as early Trenton rather than late Black River. Although essential contemporaneity is postulated for the Kimmswick and the Prosser of Minnesota, certain faunal differences strongly suggest a barrier between the northern and southern Mississippi Valley in early Trenton times. Evidence is presented to show that part of the Kimmswick fauna reached the lower Mississippi Valley by way of the Appalachian Valley, while another faunule seems to have entered from the west.
30080173|Tables of the Gibbs free energy of water for temperatures up to 800 C. and pressures up to 2,500 bars are presented. These tables have been prepared by using Keenan and Keyes's thermodynamic data on water at low pressures and by graphically integrating Kennedy's specific-volume data to high pressures. The equilibrium curve for the brucite-periclase reaction is calculated by using these data, and the results of the calculations are compared with direct experimental work on the system
30058244|An assemblage of fossil plants has been discovered about 16 feet above the base of the Devonian section in central Arizona. This section, at the mouth of Flying V Canyon, is rediscribed, and rocks of the lower portion are reported in detail. All Devonian deposits in this region have previously been assigned to the Upper Devonian series, but the plant fossils reported here indicate either Middle or Early Devonian age for the basal part. The plant fossils are at the base of the lower dolomitic member of the Martin formation as denned by Huddle and Dobrovolny (1952). This member is the stratigraphic equivalent of the lower part of the Jerome formation of Stoyanow (1936). Thus it is evident that sedimentation began no later than in Middle Devonian time over a wide area in central Arizona. The plant assemblage consists of branching axes similar to Hostimella and Aphyllopteris; of fertile structures comparable in organization to Cooksonia, Hicklingia Rhynia, Dawsonites, and Hedeia; and of isolated megaspores and meiospores evidently representing several kinds of terrestrial plants. A singular type of fungus-like microfossils, resembling Tasmanites and Leiosphaera in its composition, is also present. The character of the assemblage is evident, but several genera probably are new, and a later taxonomic report is planned. The plant fossils and lithologie facies suggest that the environment of deposition was essentially estuarine or lagoonal. Sedimentation seems to have been continuous between the time of deposition of the plant-bearing bed and the deposition of the marine beds above that contain Late Devonian fossils. A further study may indicate the position of the boundary between the older and younger Devonian series.
30078365|The elevated concentration of iridium-one of the platinum-group elements (PGE)-at the Cretaceous-Tertiary boundary is still the most generally accepted evidence that a large bolide struck the earth at the time of the end-Cretaceous mass extinctions. New chemostratigraphic data for cross-boundary sections from both hemispheres are not easily explained in terms of such an impact event, for example the observation that the PGE patterns show marked differences between the hemispheres. The new constraints indicate that models of mantle-derived PGE should be seriously considered, and that PGE anomalies might not be as useful as previously thought as unambiguous identifiers of large impact events in the earth's history.
30079514|A study of the circumstances under which eskers and varved clay in southeastern Zealand, Denmark, were built has revealed that the ice remained as a stagnant body for many years before it finally melted away. Moraines, earlier regarded as deposits of the ice border, were deposited underneath the ice along a line of demarcation between the moving ice and a broad stagnant ice-border zone. This line was found in places probably more than 50 miles inside the true ice border. Four chains of eskers have been studied, and it has been shown that they are composed of similar successions of different links and that the corresponding links in each of the four chains were deposited contemporaneously just outside or partly inside the said line. The chains are composed of a series of bows, each deposited during a single year. This has led to a determination of the inward migration of the line during ten succeeding years, and has resulted in an exact relative dating of the deposits and the events during the late Pleistocene development of that region.
30059088|Clastic dikes cutting sediments belonging to the Verdun and Chira formations of Upper Eocene and possible Lower Oligocene age in northwestern Peru were studied. The openings may have been caused by subaqueous gravitational slipping, producing low-angle normal faults according to Baldry. The dike fillings differ in mineralogy from all other sands studied except that from the Mirador conglomerate horizon which is found at the base of the Mancora formation. The sand is considered to have been injected from above and may have been derived either from the Mirador conglomerate or from material being deposited during Mirador time.
30063810|Recrystallized-grain-size piezometry has been used to estimate the differential stress levels for the mantle source area of a suite of xenoliths collected from the Pali-Aike volcanic field in southernmost South America. The present geothermal gradient below this region, as calculated from the mineral chemistry of the xenoliths, is similar to that expected in suboceanic mantle. Grain boundary migration is the dominant recrystallization mechanism in the deeper parts of the mantle profile represented by the xenoliths. In a xenolith derived from the shallowest level of the mantle (54 km depth), the evidence is ambiguous whether grain boundary migration or subgrain rotation was the dominant recrystallization mechanism. The latter would imply a mantle rheological profile similar to continental rift zones, which is appropriate for the neotectonic setting of the Pali-Aike volcanic field. The former is also consistent with continental extension given the high geothermal gradient in the region. The strain-rate and viscosity profiles show increasing strain-rate and decreasing viscosity with depth.
30059257|Twenty chemical analyses, including determinations of trace elements, are given for representative samples of an amphibolite body in the Precambrian basement of Jaragu, Sao Paulo, Brazil. Petrographic descriptions and field data are also given. Chemical and petrographic data are consistent with origin by regional metamorphism of a basic rock of tholeiitic composition, with only minor migration of components other than water. The temperature gradient of metamorphism was locally influenced by syntectonic intrusion of granite.
30071096|The evolution of cave waters can be divided naturally into three stages: a stage of carbonation in the soil zone, a stage of solution of calcite and/or dolomite, and a stage of equilibration with cave air. Much of the necessary physical-chemical data for the interpretation of the chemistry of cave waters is available: the solubility of
30062199|Regionally extensive two-pyroxene granulite facies orthogneisses of Early Cretaceous age in Fiordland, southwest New Zealand, are criss-crossed by garnet-bearing feldspathic veins (and dikes) having associated marginal reaction zones of garnet granulite. The two-pyroxene granulites resulted from fluid-absent meta-morphism of a suite of synkinematic primary anhydrous intrusions. Subsequent restricted formation of garnet granulite in feldspathic compositions, and locally eclogite in ultramafic compositions, proceeded chiefly via reactions involving hornblende breakdown, and occurred in response to sharply increased load pressure and local lowering of water activity. The restricted occurrence of carbonate scapolite and
30060685|Fresh Proterozoic and Paleozoic granitic rocks in South Australia possess approximately 0.06% soluble salts (chiefly Ca, Na, S, and Cl), possibly in fluid inclusions. Active tafoni developed in these rocks show small-scale flaking on their ceiling and walls. Fresh and flaking granite are similar in all respects (chemistry, mineralogy, degree of alteration, texture, and structures), except that soluble salts are 2-13x more abundant in the flakes, where they occur as gypsum and halite crystals. An external source for these salts is ruled out by their chemical character. They are most likely a concentration of soluble substances present in the fresh rock and leached to a near-surface location when available moisture is evaporated. Tafoni configuration, distribution, and mineralogy argue against either thermal changes or wetting-and-drying being major contributors to the flaking process. We believe that salts cause flaking by crystal growth. Residual strain energy in the granites could help explain how only 0.4% salts can create 10-20% fracture porosity in an otherwise fresh rock.
30062224|Distribution coefficients with reference to Mg-Fe exchange and Mn-(Mg, Fe) exchange have been computed for sixty-four calcic pyroxene-orthopyroxene (or pigeonite) combinations from a variety of rocks. The distribution coefficient with reference to Mg-Fe exchange is denned as
30084829|The alluvial terraces of the Lower Vaal River, South Africa, are well known for their unique strati-graphic record of the Pleistocene period and as the focus of an apparent Acheulian sequence. Recent field examination indicates that this terrace suite is both more complex and more systematic than previously understood, extending downstream from the classical study area at Windsorton and Barkly West to the Orange-Vaal confluence. An expanded stratigraphic framework for the late Pliocene to early Pleistocene Older Gravels is described, while major subdivisions for the Younger Gravels (with Middle Pleistocene fauna and Acheulian occurrences) are proposed. A new late Pleistocene to Holocene lithostratigraphic entity, the Riverton Formation (with five members), is defined. Finally, problems of paleoenvironmental interpretation are discussed.
30068557|The terms "euhedral," "subhedral," and "anhedral" have limited value as an expression of crystal morphology relating to conditions of crystal formation and rock-forming processes. The basis of this traditional nomenclature is the presence or absence of crystal faces, implying that if a crystal has faces its overall shape is likely to reflect crystal structure. Experimental reproduction of growth, dissolution, and melting textures, along with an ever-increasing awareness of the importance of incomplete and malformed crystals in natural systems, is the impetus for presentation here of a more detailed morphological classification of crystals at the petrographic scale. The classification is binary, based on the degree to which crystals are an expression of crystal structure and on the degree of completeness. Unlike the traditional scheme, the proposed classification is sensitive to faceted crystals that do not have "ideal" shape and to incomplete crystals variously described as skeletal, dendritic, cellular, spongy, and sieve.
30082318|We present crystallization experiments on Archean Nuk gneiss from West Greenland, and relate these to conditions for early continental crustal genesis. The studied composition is a trondhjemite from a voluminous felsic intrusive phase dated at 2,800-3,000 m.y. In a detailed set of experiments at 10 kbar, the liquidus mineralogy is observed to change with increasing water content from plagioclase above 1000C and <3.5 wt % water, to clinopyroxene at 850-1000C with 3.5-7 wt % water, to hornblende below 850C with >7 wt % water. Water saturation of the melt occurs with 10.5 wt % water at 800C. Mafic liquidus minerals at 15 kbar differ from those at 10 kbar in that garnet replaces pyroxene, and that epidote replaces hornblende below 690C at >13 wt % water and at water saturation (15.5 wt %). Garnet crystallization is never observed at pressures below 13 kbar. Using additional experiments at 12.5, 13, and 17 kbar, the liquidus phase variation for trondhjemite with water is accurately defined between 8-18 kbars and 700-1200C. Based on its liquidus mineralogy, this trondhjemite melt with 7-8 wt % water coexists with garnet, hornblende, clinopyroxene, and plagioclase at approximately 900C at 14 kbar. At lower water contents than 7 wt % and higher temperatures than 900C, plagioclase
30081059|Shell-armored wood cobbles occur on detrital-peat beaches along the seaward edge of the Mississippi Delta. Shell material consists exclusively of Mulinici lateralis, a dwarf surf clam. Soft, heavy, waterlogged wood fragments are abraded and become armored by hard shells in response to wave activity on the beach. Although their preservation potential is suspect, fossilized shell-armored wood clasts would probably be recognized as a type of coal ball and might indicate an allochthonous origin for the host coal.
30068137|Reconnaissance magnetometer work on the Carolina Coastal Plain has shown that several striking anomalies exist in that region, and that many of these anomalies may be correlated with the structural features of the basement rocks. Northeast-southwest structural trends have been observed, further evidence in favor of a northwest-southeast upwarp in the neighborhood of Wilmington has been obtained, and a concealed Triassic basin has been partially outlined.
30064960|The irregular upper surface of the dolomites of the Prairie du Chien Formation in southwestern Wisconsin has been interpreted by various authors as an unconformity, a primary depositional surface, or as the product of differential compaction and solution. The gross configuration of this surface was reconstructed from outcrop and well data where available and from gravity data in areas where geologic data were not available. The surface reconstructed from these two mutually supplementary sources of data is characterized by a well-integrated system of linear, topographic depressions and highs which are believed to be the product of fluvial erosion.
30063636|A wedge-shaped projection of early Wisconsin till into underlying Farmdale loess indicates that the ice advanced over periglacial frozen ground and that a crack, possibly formed by melting of a ground-ice wedge, became filled with till.
JG117105|Time bracketing of thousands-of-meters-thick, unmetamorphosed, fossil-free sedimentary successions is a long-standing challenge in Indian Proterozoic stratigraphy. Limited geochronologic ages from either the basal or the upper part of the successions prevent workers from constraining the precise age interval for individual basin fill, leaving aside the issue of correlatability between different basin sequences. This article deals with silicic tuff units from the basal part of two areally separated Proterozoic sedimentary successions of central India, the Singhora Group of the Chattisgarh Supergroup and the Khariar Group. The Singhora tuff is enriched in large ion lithophile (Rb, Ba, Th, etc.) elements and light rare earth elements and in a discrimination diagram falls within the volcanic arc granite field. U-Th-Pb electron probe microanalyzer geochronology of monazite and zircon grains from the Singhora tuff revealed several age data clusters, namely,
30058969|Till samples were collected from the Valparaiso moraine around the southern end of Lake Michigan, and along a line paralleling glacial movement from Chicago south. The samples were analyzed, and. the pebbles classified according to lithology. In the Valparaiso moraine the mechanical composition was influenced by a loading of the ice with surficial material, and by drainage at the ice margin. The pebbles changed abruptly from dominantly limestone to shale and siltstone about 40 miles west of the corresponding bed rock contact. The westward movement of these pebbles was attributed to radial ice currents from the lake basin, over an area mantled with earlier drift. The samples in the line of glacial movement grouped themselves into three types on the basis of their mechanical composition. The results of the study are summarized in terms of the differentiation of tills by their textural composition. As an example of the method, the thickness of the Bloomington above earlier Wisconsin drift was determined in the absence of any intermediate weathered zone.
30068558|Nested stream terraces, warped upward over actively growing anticlines along the north flank of the Tien Shan in western China, appear to record alternating phases of valley widening and incision. Differences of relative heights between remnants of four separate strath terraces along one river and between two such terraces along another reach 100 to 120 m over the crests of the anticlines. We infer that this spacing is due to alternating stages of valley widening and rapid incision associated with climate changes with a periodicity of 100 kyr. The crests of the anticlines appear to emerge from the aggrading flanks of the anticlines at an average rate of about 1 mm/a. The maximum heights of 25 and 35 (  10) m for the lowest terraces above their projected initial profiles imply ages of roughly 25 kyr and 35 kyr (  10 kyr). Hence, they suggest that flood plains, which were abandoned to form the terraces, developed adjacent to active stream beds during the last glacial period, when climates were relatively cold and dry. We presume that they were incised during deglacial periods when discharges and stream power increased. Apparent durations of exposure, obtained from
30082303|A thick conglomerate series unconformably overlies Triassic metamorphics and Jura-Cretaceous intrusives and probably conformably underlies marine early Upper Cretaceous sandstones. The lower 300-400 feet of this series are deeply weathered, red, soft, massive; the upper 100 feet are fresh, greenish-gray to brown, resistant, thick bedded, and probably marine. The red lower part, named the "Trabuco formation" by E. L. Packard, was interpreted as a continental deposit older than the overlying gray conglomerate, and by Bernard Moore as a marine deposit continuous with and genetically inseparable from the gray conglomerate but weathered to its present condition by circulating iron-bearing meteoric waters after the deposition of the entire conglomerate series. Field studies of the conglomerates and pebble counts show that the upper and lower conglomerates are probably conformable and have no constant differences in composition, size, or rounding of the included pebbles. The marked and constant differences in color, consolidation, and topographic expression are believed due to differences in weathering. The Trabuco conglomerate is interpreted as a flood-plain deposit weathered deeply in place before deposition of the gray marine conglomerate overlying. The Trabuco conglomerate is thus recognized as a valid formation, confirming Packard's original interpretation.
30059286|Forty-eight chemically analyzed orthopyroxenes have been analyzed by microprobe X-ray-emission techniques for Na, Mg, Al, Si, K, Ca, Ti, V, Cr, Mn, Fe, and Ni. As far as possible intergrown phases such as augite and ilmenite were avoided, and a systematic bias with respect to the bulk chemical analyses is to be expected. For each specimen the lowest Ca reading, which is assumed to give the best estimate for orthopyroxene uncontaminated by augite, increases on average for Fe-rich specimens. Microprobe analyses for Al tend to be lower than chemical results; for Fe-rich samples the Al content tends to be lower. Microprobe readings for Mn and Cr tend to be higher than chemical values, suggesting a bias in one or both of the techniques. Mn increases strongly while Ni and Cr decrease on the average as the Fe content increases. The highest Ti reading of 0.12 wt. per cent is much lower than the highest chemical value of 0.8 wt. per cent: this discrepancy results at least principally from ilmenite lamellae in the chemically analyzed material. Microprobe analyses of Ti show no correlation with the Mg/Fe ratio. Highest readings of Na and K for the few specimens analyzed are 0.04 per cent and 0.00 per cent. Oxide totals (assuming all iron is divalent) range from 97.3 to 101.3 per cent, with thirty-four between 99 and 101 per cent.
30063804|The early Proterozoic (1.82 to 1.89 Ga) Penokean orogenic province represents the initial phase of a major period of crustal growth of the North American Proterozoic craton. In central Wisconsin, the orogeny is dominated by the intrusion of variably deformed and metamorphosed tonalite-trondhjemite suites, in part hosted by Archean gneisses and migmatites. The magmatism is calc-alkaline and similar in composition to modern high-K orogenic andesites. Moderate abundances of Sr (600-750 ppm) and REE in the most primitive tonalites are consistent with derivation from an eclogitic, altered tholeiite rather than a crustal (Archean), amphibolitic tholeiite, or enriched mantle source. Existing Nd-Sr isotopic data for other tonalites of the Wisconsin Penokean orogen also indicate a mantle origin but with some admixture of Archean crustal component. This study shows that an Archean component most likely was incorporated during emplacement. The tonalite to trondhjemite differentiation of these magmatic suites is not compatible with any form of simple fractionation. The most probable model is one of coupled fractionation-contamination involving changing proportions and composition of removed solid phases plus incorporation (to 7 wt %) of Archean crust such as that represented by some of the host gneissic terrane.
30071520|A drowned barrier spit-lagoon-headland complex has been located south of Block Island, Rhode Island, at a depth of about 80 feet. The morphology of these submerged shore-line features is similar to that of features occurring on the Rhode Island coast at present. If isostatic adjustments have been insignificant in this area, the drowned features were related to a sea level still stand at an estimated 80 feet (24 m.) below present sea level. A changing pattern of sediment types and structures across this shore line was observed from a submarine.
30056680|An episode of proglacial aggradation, here named the "Clarkston stage," is recorded in the Lewiston Basin region on the lower Snake River. Stream gravels accumulated to a depth of more than 400 feet in the Snake River canyon and in the lower portions of most tributary canyons. One or two tributary streams were ponded by the fill of the main canyon. The deposits are characterized by considerable cementation, weathering of basalt and granitic stones, and iron oxide stain. Two-story canyons were formed by cessation of erosion beneath the fill, prolonged lowering of slopes above, and later excavation of the fill. The Clarkston stage followed earlier Pleistocene deposition, deformation, and dissection but antedated the Wisconsin stage.
30062621|Within the Lake of the Woods greenstone terrain, in the Wabigoon Subprovince of northwest Ontario, gold is in faults, shears, and tension veins that developed in response to a late Archean northwest-directed contraction and emplacement of contemporaneous plutons. Nine rocks in this area have been dated using U-Pb analyses of zircon in order to obtain precise time constraints on gold mineralization and to compare its timing with the age of major crustal events in the region. A mineralized dike at the Duport mine, Shoal Lake, is
30065709|The metamorphism and accompanying isotopic alteration of country rock in contact with an instantaneously emplaced sheet-like body of hydrous magma has been studied using a one-dimensional analytical solution and numerical modeling. The model includes a consideration of the complete crystallization and degassing history of the magma, coupled with conductive and convective heat flow and mass transfer in the porous country rock, and in the magma layer itself. The dynamics of cooling of the magma determine the velocity with which the solidus point (solidification front) moves downward, and this in turn gives (by conservation of fluid mass) the magnitude of the flux of aqueous magmatic fluid that is released to flow upward through the country rock. The fluid flux is therefore variable because it depends upon the temperature evolution of the magma, and this allows us to make several new statements about the
30079414|Recent geological and engineering investigations at Hamilton, Ontario, have resulted in the discovery of buried plant-bearing beds in deposits of Lake Iroquois and Lake Ontario. Fossils in these beds indicate cold, shallow-water conditions of sedimentation for the earlier-deposited beds and warmer conditions for later-deposited layers. Radiocarbon dating of buried wood suggests that Lake Iroquois was formed during the retreat of Port Huron ice. The Valders drift boundary is inferred to be north of Lake Ontario. Lake Ontario probably began over 10,000 years ago.
30081216|Aragonite, calcite, monohydrocalcite, dolomite, magnesite, hydromagnesite, and talclike kerolite have been identified in speleothems from basaltic caves on the island of Kauai, Hawaii. These secondary minerals have crystallized in the presence of freshwater seeping from the basaltic host rock, and the mineralization process is ongoing at some locations. The deposits are extremely variable in macroscopic character, ranging from millimeterthin, powdery coatings to hard crusts several centimeters thick. Many deposits are associated with actively forming microbial mats, and stromatolitic structures are common in the thicker deposits. Formation of the mineral deposits is a result of a combination of direct precipitation from solution by evaporation and CO
30056828|Little North Mountain rises in Bear Pond Mountains, Maryland, and extends southwestward across West Virginia and northern Virginia to southern Rockbridge County in middle-western Virginia, with a total length of 160 miles. It is the easternmost of the Alleghany ridges, and hence forms the western boundary of the Great Valley Province, and exhibits the typical close folding and overthrust faulting characteristic of Appalachian structure. The region has apparently experienced three cycles of erosion previous to the Tertiary, and at least as many cycles during Tertiary and Quaternary times. Structurally, Little North Mountain is a faulted monocline of overturned beds with steep southeastward dip. Seventeen formations are involved, representing a very complete sequence from the Middle Cambrian to Middle Devonian. The faults are overthrusts from the southeast, the major overthrust presenting a continuous trace on the west side of the mountain. The other faults are distributive from the major overthrust and hence are discontinuous, merging with the major overthrust at infrequent intervals, their traces in general lying east of the mountain crest.
30063628|The surfacing process of a single large granular particle in the shear flow composed of smaller dry, cohesionless grains was explored through an inclinedchute experiment using a video camera. The experiment indicated that the large particle climbed obliquely upward, rolling over small grains. A simple mechanism, but one never observed before, emerged: rotational motion of large particles, caused by shear rate increasing toward the flow surface, is responsible for boosting the particles.
30084823|Participation in the Tektite man-in-the-sea experiments provided a unique opportunity to observe bioturbational rates and effects in carbonate sand at depths ranging from about 10-20 m near a coral reef. Experimental studies established the rate at which organisms in this environment modify the surface, disturb the interior of the sediment, and undermine solid objects on the sea floor. Inactive sand ripples are totally destroyed in 2-4 weeks. Lamination in the upper 2 cm is largely obliterated in the same amount of time. Pebbles on the sea floor can be buried in a few days by faunal undermining. The rate and style of bioturbation are strongly controlled by grain size of the substrate: surface modification and pebble burial are most rapid in relatively fine sand, whereas the rate of shallow internal disruption of the sediment may be more rapid in coarser sand. Bioturbation in this environment results largely from activity during daylight hours. A prodigious amount of sediment can be moved vertically or laterally by such activity.
30062222|Zircons in a single 250-pound block of Precambrian Johnny Lyon granodiorite from the Dragoon Quadrangle in Cochise County, Arizona, have been concentrated with special attention to yield and nature of impurities. Morphology, zoning, color, inclusions, size distribution, radioactivity, refractive indexes, cell dimensions, and other properties have been compared with the isotopic properties in the U-Pb system (and to a less precise degree in the Th-Pb system). It has been observed: (1) Uranothorite impurities, while less than 1 per cent in abundance, contribute much more than 50 per cent of the activity in conventionally prepared concentrates. The presence of uranothorite drastically affects the apparent ages in the zirons. (2) The uranothorite can be satisfactorily removed by an appropriate acid-washing procedure. (3) The uranothorite-free zircon concentrates are not homogeneous and show systematic variations in radioactivity and various isotopic properties as a function of average crystal size. (4) Individual zircons show internal variation in radioactivity and may differ in specific activity from other individuals by as much as an order of magnitude. (5) It is possible to strip outer layers experimentally from an aggregate of zircons to determine variations in composite internal isotopic properties. (6) The family of uranium-lead systems distinguished in the in-homogeneous zircon suite may be utilized to establish patterns of isotopic ratio variations that yield much more useful geochronological information than any single system. (7) All systems in this rock appear to have formed 1,655 million years ago and to have been profoundly disturbed by an event 90 million years ago. There is no evidence of any type of disturbance other than this simple episodic pattern. (8) While the mechanism of disturbance is not directly established, it is evident that radioactivity and radiation damage strongly influence susceptibility of the systems to disturbance. (9) It is possible to offer reasonable explanations for some of the puzzling discrepancies between uranium-lead and thorium-lead ages determined on a single mineral concentrate. (10) Recognition of the existence of families of uranium-lead systems among the variable members of a single mineral species, or in associated mineral species, in a single typical granitic rock provides a powerful tool for investigation of the processes and conditions that have influenced the age-dating systems. (11) The systematic variations in U and Th provide interesting information on the role of some trace elements and accessory minerals in the crystallization history of the rock. (12) The Johnny Lyon granodiorite is the oldest igneous rock dated in Arizona thus far and places a minimum age of
30071225|Detrital amphibole and biotite grains were extracted from five volcaniclastic sandstones of the Seymour Canal Formation (Late Jurassic-mid-Cretaceous Gravina belt, southeastern Alaska); forty of these grains were dated by fusion with the
30064031|The Cannibal Creek Granite in northeastern Australia consists of two adamellite plutons and several dykes, each group representing two very similar batches of peraluminous magma. The magma ascended through the crust and fractionated plagioclase, biotite and zircon, producing a zonation within the larger of the two plutons in these minerals and their constituent elements Fe, Mg, Ca, Zr, Sr, V, Ti, and Ba. Minor amounts of quartz and K feldspar were probably also fractionated during this period, but not sufficiently to result in a detectable zonation across the main pluton. At this stage, the magma probably contained less than 50% crystals and hence was Theologically weak, which enabled it to ascend via fractures and by kinking and stoping the country rock slates. The later stages of crystallization proceeded when the crystals formed a continuous framework; they could not segregate from the melt, and hence no zonation was developed in alkali feldspars or quartz, or in Si, Al, Na, or K. With falling temperature, the magma crystallized very rapidly. When it became more than 70% crystalline, its yield strength became so great that further ascent was prevented. Continuous injection of this strong magma into the core of the immobilized pluton inflated it like a balloon, intensely deforming both the adamellite and the aureole slates. A foliation which was imposed on the adamellite may have begun development as a flow alignment of microcline megacrysts, but its late-stage development involved recrystallization of microcline, quartz, and mica and probably took place with little or no melt present. The change in crystallization rate and process marked the change from ascent to final emplacement. After emplacement of the ballooning diapir was complete, two sets of dykes were injected, one forming an external sheath around the complex and the other a set of internal ring dykes. As the ring dykes were injected, an enclosed block (or blocks) of the main pluton collapsed.
30063882|Low magnesian calcite ooids growing on shallow lake-margin bench platforms of Higgins Lake in central Michigan represent the first reported occurrence of ooid formation in a modern low-salinity lacustrine system. Ooid cortex accretion about palimpsest medium sand nuclei is restricted to shallow water depths and to a narrow belt which lies parallel to the lake margin. Landward, terrigenous grains derived through erosion of glacial outwash predominate on the platform surface. Lakeward, lower energy conditions and infrequent agitation of terrigenous sands preclude ooid growth at these greater depths. Cortices of individual ooids are poorly laminated, exhibit highly irregular mucilagenous outer surfaces, consist of interlocking equant anhedral low-magnesian calcite crystals, and contain scattered unoriented endolithic cyanophyte filaments throughout. Fabric relationships between external mucilage, cortical carbonate, and cyanophytic filaments indicate that algae are largely passive during ooid accretion, while surficial organic mucilage may be critical to cortex growth.
30068023|Three ocean-bottom core samples were obtained from within the pack-ice area in the mouth of the Ross Sea, Antarctica, during the U.S. Navy Antarctic Expedition of 1946-1947. These cores consist of several alternations of glacial marine sediment and of fine-grained sediment which apparently is nonglacial. Age determinations of the material, made by Dr. W. D. Urry, provide a time scale on which the lithology may be plotted. Because the cores record periods of from one hundred and seventy thousand to over a million years, a record of the Pleistocene glacial history of Antartica is provided. A comparison of this with the record for the Northern Hemisphere indicates that glaciation was contemporaneous in the two hemispheres.
30063342|A generalized consideration of the nature, importance, and distribution of the acid clays was made. The physical-chemical nature of the acid clay was compared with some of the more familiar ordinary acids. A study of the effect of the acid clay in chemical weathering by mixing primary minerals with suspensions of acid clays revealed that the acid clay was extremely effective as an agent in weathering. In a comparatively short time interval of 107 days 3.4 per cent of the crystal-lattice calcium of anorthite was transferred from the mineral crystals to the adsorbed atmosphere of the clay. The hydrogen adsorbed on the clay was effective in bringing about removal of calcium from crystals of hornblende and augite. Reactions with biotite and microcline were found to be extremely slow. The importance of the acid clay and its place in natural weathering, giving consideration to equilibrium conditions, completeness of reactions, etc., are discussed.
30082337|Satellite SO
30060993|Unevenness of geographical distribution of metals and abundant evidences of fortuity of association of igneous rock and ore are considered to be anomalous under the theory of magmatic differentiation, which is commonly extrapolated to imply that compositionally diverse igneous rocks and, presumably, their affiliated metalliferous deposits were derived during geologic time from a universal type of homogeneous parental magma. Recent deductions from the constancy of atomic weights of ore lead of all ages and the variability of rock leads are similarly disturbing to current metallo-genic theory. A hypothesis of primordial differentiation of earth material with a consequent primitive segregation of metals is outlined, which seems to remove the anomalies shown by metal distribution and association and to explain the evidence from lead atomic weights.
30067253|This study of the St. Croixan standstones was made to devise methods, other than paleontological, for correlating these formations. The variations in texture, shape, inclusions, and minerals are found to be as great in a single formation as they are in the different formations studied. Suggestive correlations can be made on the abundance of certain heavy mineral grains in definite grade sizes.
30056216|The facets of certain sandstone pebbles of the North River near Lexington, Virginia, were found to represent well-cemented fracture surfaces modified by abrasion. Their history advises caution in attempting to relate faceted pebbles to specific processes of sedimentation.
30062305|Repeated transverse profile surveys were made in the summers of 1959, 1960, and 1961 on the Atlantic beach of Sandy Hook, New Jersey. The beach experienced accretion (progradation) throughout early and middle summer at the same time that a summer berm was built. By late July progradation largely ceased, yielding an equilibrium profile closely fixed in position and slope. Superimposed upon the late-summer steady state are rhythmic minor changes in beach profile attending the semidaily tidal cycle in which the swash-backwash zone and breaker zone shift up and down the foreshore. Elevation changes at selected points on the foreshore transverse profile were measured at half-hour intervals using engineer's level, level rod, and steel tape. From accumulated level data, a model cycle was synthesized to represent elevation and form changes at various levels on the beach. As tide rises, a short phase of initial deposition of about 0.02 foot of medium sand takes place near the inner limit of swash. There follows a scour phase in which about 0.2 foot of sand is removed in a period of 1 1/2-2 hours. Scour is followed by deposition, representing advance of a wedge of mixed sand and pebbles, terminating in the well-sorted pebble and gravel step formed under the breaker point. As step-phase deposition continues, median diameter increases, and sorting becomes poorer. Total step deposition ranges from 0.5 to 0.7 foot. During falling tide, changes at a given survey point are repeated but in reverse order. Thus, under equilibrium conditions, the beach is restored to its original elevation, slope, and composition. About 0.2 foot of sand is completely removed and redeposited during each cycle at points in the mid-tide region of the zone of swash and backwash under characteristic summer wave conditions.
30060273|Iron-titanium oxides in the compositional range magnetite-ulvospinel-ilmenite are likely to undergo oxidation during cooling in the presence of magmatic gases or air. The mineralogy and magnetic properties of igneous rocks depend on the initial composition of the oxide phases, the composition (particularly with regard to sulfur) and amount of gas phase, and the relative rates of cooling, unmixing, and oxidation. Tlfe oxides in an igneous rock may have a more complicated chemical and magnetic history than a deceptively simple mineralogy might lead one to suspect. Several mechanisms for self-reversal of the remanent magnetization are described. Approximate free energies of formation have been calculated for ulvospinel and maghemite. Partial pressures of oxygen have been calculated for some oxidation reactions involving ulvospinel. The equilibrium between members of the ilmenite-hematite and ulvospinel-magnetite series has been investigated.
10.1086/675908|Apatite (U-Th)/He and apatite fission-track cooling ages from high-pressure (HP) metamorphic rocks in the South Aegean forearc along the Kythera Strait (Kythera and southeastern Peloponnese) suggest rapid exhumation during Middle to Late Miocene times. HP rocks from the Kythera Strait exhibit two perpendicular extensional structures. Samples with arc-normal or arc-parallel extensional fabrics yielded apatite (U-Th)/He cooling ages of 810 Ma. The more precise (U-Th)/He ages are consistent with previously reported apatite and zircon fission-track ages obtained from the same rock units. The less precise, but still accurate, fission-track data provided a reference for (U-Th)/He dating on relatively young uranium-poor apatites. The combined data, therefore, precisely and accurately constrain the exhumation history of HP rocks and indicate that localized arc-parallel extension in the Kythera Strait was active for an 5 m.yr. interval during the regional arc expansion.
30078264|Pelagic carbonate oozes interlayered with mixed carbonate-volcanic silts and sands have been the principal sedimentary facies deposited on the northwest African continental rise during the late Quaternary. Terrigenous sediments are absent, having been trapped along the slope and upper continental rise in basins formed by islands or seamounts. Most quartz silts and kaolinite clays have probably been supplied by eolian sources, and montmorillonite clays by the diagenesis of volcanic rocks. 3.5 kHz profiles show reflectors which are generally parallel to the seafloor. Individual reflectors are traceable for hundreds of kilometers. Faunal analysis and radio-carbon dating indicate sedimentation rates of
30056678|Small-scale structures, including ripple marks, slump marks of two types, and rain patches, occur locally on the surfaces of steeply dipping laminae in the eolian Coconino sandstone. These surface features are described and analyzed. Comparisons are made between them and similar structures observed in the modern dunes of the Navajo country. Most of these structures were reproduced experimentally in a wind tunnel and sand box, where controlled conditions made possible a determination of factors involved.
10.1086/661110|Concretions cemented by iron oxide are abundant and diverse in the Jurassic Navajo Sandstone of southern Utah. Some of these structures are considered terrestrial analogs for concretions imaged on Mars. The Navajo concretions can be spheroidal, pipelike, or tabular with multicompartmented boxworks. These iron oxide concretions typically display a rinded structure: dense sandstone rinds cemented by iron oxide surround pale, iron-poor sandstone cores. Within a single structure, the iron-rich rinds may be single or multiple. Pseudomorphs of siderite are present in local residual, iron-rich cores of boxworks. Workers in the late nineteenth through mid-twentieth centuries, many of whom found evidence for siderite precusors, concluded that many spherical, rinded, iron oxide-cemented concretions were formed by centripetal precipitation of iron oxide inward from the perimeter of the concretion; in contrast, the walls of pipelike concretions of iron oxide grew centrifugally outward. We interpret the Navajo spheroids and boxworks as centripetal products of the oxidation of siderite-cemented (precursor) concretions that were very similar in both size and shape to the current concretions: rinds grew (thickened) inward toward the internal source of Fe(II). Siderite pseudomorphs appear to be absent from spheroids and many boxworks because all siderite was dissolved. In the cores of the larger boxworks some siderite was oxidized in situ; the Fe(II) did not migrate away from the original siderite crystals. The oxidation process was mediated by iron-oxidizing microbes and began at concretion perimeters when oxidizing groundwater started to displace the CO
30080119|A study of paleotemperatures of the post-Aptian Cretaceous, using the oxygen isotope method for measuring temperatures, is here reported. The investigation, an elaboration of the initial exploratory one reported earlier (Urey et al., 1951), was made by using belemnite guards, Inoceramus, brachiopod and oyster fragments, chalks, and bioclastic matrix materials. The samples were collected primarily from western European localities and from the southeastern part of the United States. A few samples were from Greenland, Japan, Australia, India, and Algeria. The results indicate a progressive rise in ocean temperatures from the Cenomanian, climaxing in the Coniacian-Santonian, followed by a general decline to the Maestrichtian. This climatic history is particularly evident from the many belemnite data and corroborated by the data for the other associated burial elements. The validity of temperatures measured by the use of various fossils is evaluated from the point of view of the preservation of original skeletal material and from considerations of what fraction of local temperature amplitude is recorded by different forms. The study also indicates that during the Coniacian-Santonian temperature climax, marginal subtropical ocean temperatures extended northward into the present-day cold-temperate belt, with this northward displacement decreasing toward Maestrichtian time. It appears from the belemnite data and from the paleogeographical distribution of belemnites in the post-Aptian Cretaceous that the belemnites became stenothermal following Albian times. A study of the temperatures recorded by the unusually well-preserved elements of the Maestrichtian Coon Creek assemblage from Tennessee permitted a comparison with the recorded temperatures of the present-day Bermuda biota. A parallelism between the temperatures recorded by these two faunal assemblages appears to be present.
30065658|Regional carbonate alteration of the crust associated with major shear zones provides direct evidence for
JG80175|The Haiyuan-Liupan Shan delimits the northeastern margin of the Tibetan Plateau. We present the integrated results of new stratigraphic investigations, apatite fission track analyses, and related thermal history modeling tied to the structural fabric of this region. These constraints provide insight into the timing of northward propagation of the plateau with (1) local relief creation and enhanced erosion in the latest Jurassic to earliest Cretaceous, representing the local element of a complex, regional, far-field deformation response to the Lhasa-Qiangtang collision with the south Asian margin; (2) evidence for likely Late Cretaceous exhumation, but this is uncertain given the regional sedimentary gap that exists across this interval; (3) Eocene relief generation as a first likely response to far-field effects of the India-Asia collision and related to wider regional events recognized in this part of northwestern China; and (4) the latest deformation episode propagating strongly into the Haiyuan-Liupan Shan in the early Miocene, increasing in intensity in the later Miocene and possibly again in the Quaternary. The diachronous nature of the apparent responses to distant plate-boundary events demonstrates that structural preconditioning on its own is inadequate to account for this far-field deformation, suggesting that subcrustal tectonic architecture may play a role in the transfer of stress north of the Tibetan Plateau.
30079768|Major gold deposits of the world are often associated with carbonate alteration halos and
30063769|Two-mica granites and biotite-rich monzogranites and granodiorites constitute the main types of late- to post-kinematic Hercynian intrusions in Galicia (northwestern Iberian massif). Both rock types exhibit analogous total REE content, although the two-mica granites have generally more fractionated normalized spectra. The Hercynian granites studied can be modeled as partial melts, which in some cases experienced feldspar-dominated fractional crystallization. Model source materials may be compared to the rocks outcropping in the area studied. These granites are not accurately described by the I- and S-type classification. Those with S-type characteristics (two-mica granites) are derived mainly from an orthogneiss-rich model-protolith (i.e., I-type source), whereas those with I-type affinities (biotite-rich granitoids) may be modeled from mixtures of orthogneiss and graywacke (eastern Galicia) or from orthogneiss-rich protoliths containing only a small proportion of metabasite (western Galicia). The proposed models indicate that strongly peraluminous, two-mica granites and mildly peraluminous, biotite-rich granitoids can form in a late- to post-collisional setting, unrelated to either subduction or the influx of mantle-derived melts. Recycling of the pre-existent, tectonically thickened continental crust through post-collision thermal recovery was the main mechanism behind the origin of late- and post-kinematic granitoids in this sector of the Hercynian fold belt.
30061182|Pressure solution is the dominant mechanism for the Alleghenian age deformation of Pennsylvanian quartzite conglomerates from the Narragansett Basin, Rhode Island. This deformation is accompanied by inter-cobble rotation and occurred at low metamorphic grades. No microscopic evidence for internal penetrative deformation of cobbles in the conglomerate is observed. Three major pressure solution features are characteristic of this conglomerate. Adjacent cobbles show indentation relationships with no change in quartz fabrics within the individual cobbles. Insoluble material is concentrated between cobbles in mutual contact, both in the matrix and within the outer margins of the cobbles. Quartz overgrowths are found at the long axis terminations of the cobbles. Many other pressure solution features are discussed. These features remain recognizable after subsequent metamorphism. Review of other studies suggests that pressure solution may well be a common conglomerate deformation mechanism during early deformation and metamorphic histories.
30060253|Occurring at Porth Maen Melyn, near Fishguard is a rhyodacite lava flow, over 40 m thick, which shows a transition from massive lava through tubed and pillowed lava into isolated-pillow breccia. Evidence is presented to show that the tubes and pillows of the rhyodacite flow are primary features and were probably the result of the rapid effusion of relatively high temperature, low viscosity magma. This magma was erupted in a submarine environment, where the combined effects of water depth, gas content and magma viscosity were such that extensive vesiculation was limited. Formation of the isolated-pillow breccia was the result of desquamation of developing tubes and pillows.
30064178|Many articles have cited a study of apatite and zircon fissiontrack ages from the Eastern Cordillera of the central Andes, Bolivia, as evidence for a marked acceleration of uplift rates over the last 40 m.yr. However, we show that an artifact of the graphical technique used to interpret the data, namely the commonvariable problem, drives the apparent increase. In order to determine what can be inferred about exhumation history from the data, we developed a simple quantitative forward model to calculate the coupled apatite and zircon age profiles as a function of height and then used Markov ChainMonte Carlo techniques to estimate the family of solutions that provide reasonable fits to the data. This model improves on linear regression analysis of elevationage plots, which treats apatite and zircon data as independent systems. Results suggest that both exponential or stepfunction velocity models fit the data well. We prefer the exponential model, however, because it appears to be more consistent with uplift history as inferred from paleoelevation data. In this model, the exhumation rate doubles every 2035 m.yr. from about 120 m/Ma at 50 Ma to around 400750 m/Ma for the present. Thus, we concur with the original interpretation of an acceleration in the exhumation rate, but our inference is based on a more physical model along with paleoelevation data. This interpretation differs from other reinterpretations of the data based on linear regression analysis that suggest that exhumation began at 40 Ma and then increased sharply sometime between 30 and 10 Ma. More fissiontrack data, especially zircon data, are needed to distinguish between these two scenarios.
30068111|Though non-instrumental records of earthquakes give an apparent nocturnal maximum, it is shown that, for several regions in which earthquakes are weak or moderately strong, there is a real diurnal period, with its maximum about midnight. The instrumental records obtained in Japan and Italy and at various seismological observatories are examined, and it is shown that the maximum epoch of the diurnal period usually falls about noon or midnight, and that the noon maximum of the diurnal period is associated, as a rule, with a summer maximum of the annual period, and the midnight maximum of the former with a winter maximum of the latter. It is suggested that the noon and summer maxima occur in earthquakes caused by an elevation of the crust, and the midnight and winter maxima in those caused by a depression of the crust. It is noticed that the midnight and winter maxima prevail in regions in which the earthquakes are of slight or moderate intensity, and the noon and summer maxima in those visited by the most destructive shocks. In the after-shocks of great earthquakes, the maxima epoch are suddenly reversed, usually from near noon to near midnight, and the duration of the reversal varies from about a week to a year or more.
30071562|An Alleghanian duplex of three rootless anticlines in the central Appalachians, containing Oriskany Sandstone, provides an example of mesostructural development in detached folds. These mesostructures, which include stylolites, veins, vein arrays, joints, and faults developed before, during, and after duplex formation. Non-Alleghanian mesostructures are the most ubiquitous. Joint sets began forming during the Late Pennsylvanian in response to burial stresses and fluid overpressure. Subsequent pre-Alleghanian N-S compression reactivated the joint trends to form stylolites and vein arrays, again in the presence of large fluid pressures. During Alleghanian deformation, mesostructures developed only locally in the folds in response to layer rotation, interlayer-slip, and hydrofracturing during thrusting. During Alleghanian and post-Alleghanian uplift and erosion, thermal-elastic relaxation and arc-length changes reactivated a joint trend to form new joints. The resulting varied distribution of mesostructures results from (1) many sets occurring in less than 15% of the rocks; (2) older structures partially reactivating during younger deformations; and (3) many mesostructures not being coeval with duplex formation.
30053574|Nd model ages of amphibolite- and granulite-grade rocks in Sri Lanka form a simple regional pattern that broadly correlates with mappable geological units, and is in effect an isotopic map of the island's basement. The granulite-grade units of the Highland Group and Southwest Group have model ages of 2.2-3.0 Ga indicating derivation mainly from late Archean sources. They are bounded to the east and west by late Proterozoic gneisses of the Vijayan Complex with model ages of 1.1-2.0 Ga. The isotopic data identify three distinct crustal provinces and are not consistent with earlier suggestions that the Vijayan gneisses are retrograde equivalents of the Highland granulites. Sri Lanka is not a direct continuation of the Archean Dharwar Craton of southern India. Identification of "Vijayan-type" juvenile crustal terrains in other Gondwana fragments may play a key role in determining the precise attachment of southern India-Sri Lanka in eastern Gondwana.
30056938|Selected analyses from the Moine of the northwestern Highlands of Scotland have been considered in relation to the recently questioned (Weiss, 1955, p. 225-236) interpretation of non-coaxial girdles of quartz and mica having resulted from two distinct movements and with respect to the relative ease of reorientation of muscovite, biotite, and quartz. It is concluded that quartz can acquire a pronounced preferred orientation in response to stress conditions which fail to modify or only incompletely modify a pre-existing mica fabric; that quartz acquires a new preferred orientation more rapidly than biotite, and biotite more rapidly than muscovite.
30070686|Prominent tufa localities along the Provo level (14,000
30062592|The basic information on North American glaciation that has been gained during the last fifty years is briefly reviewed. In recent years special progress has been made in correlating glacial events with fluctuations of sea-level, in understanding the crustal warping caused by glacial loading and unloading, and in improving our timetable of the later Pleistocene by means of organic, chiefly botanical, evidence. One of the important tasks that face us now is to explain the location and mode of origin of the great Pleistocene ice sheets in the Northern Hemisphere. It is suggested that these ice caps did not grow up in situ but were immigrant, having gradually evolved from valley glaciers in Arctic highlands that stood east of them. Rapid further progress in Pleistocene stratigraphy will depend more than ever on planned, co-ordinated effort by groups that include scientific workers other than geologists. Such planning should be put into effect at once.
30068222|In this paper coal rank trends on both sides of the Pine Mountain thrust in eastern Kentucky are used to place constraints on thrust evolution. Vitrinite reflectance (
30061055|A hypothesis that applies the concept of a stantionary deep mantle plume to a restricted area of the Massif Central is shown to have many shortcomings. An alternative hypothesis fits the structural and tectonic development of the region into the general evolution of the Alpine fold systems of the western Mediterranean, using a plate tectonic model as framework. The Massif Central is seen as an area that for much of the Cenozoic has been under viselike compression between the Alps and the Pyrenees. It responded by flexing upward and eventually crestal rifts formed on the flexures. Ultimately, the faults provided conduits for mantle-generated magmas, thereby giving rise to the well-developed volcanic features of this part of Europe.
30070658|The DoraMaira ultrahighpressure (UHP) unit, exposed in the internal Western Alps, is a 1kmthick continental slice sandwiched between lowerpressure rock units. The contact at the base of the UHP unit is a major contractional shear zone that thrust the UHP unit and the overlying continental and oceanic units onto the SanfrontPinerolo unit. The latter, metamorphosed under blueschistgreenschist conditions, is the lowest structural unit exposed in the Western Alps. Our analysis indicates that all rock units of the DoraMaira massif were sheared and juxtaposed together within a toptotheSW, largescale, mediumtemperature/lowpressure ductile shear zone in the middle crust. Thrust faulting was accompanied and followed by vertical thinning that progressively reduced the thickness of the orogenic wedge and brought the ultrahighpressure (UHP) unit into the brittle crust. Contractional tectonic contacts in the southern DoraMaira were concealed by late extensional structures. The majority of the extensional structures postdated the emplacement of the UHP unit over the SanfrontPinerolo unit, implying that extension lagged behind much of the exhumation of the UHP unit. Extensional shear zones in the DoraMaira and elsewhere in the Western Alps are parallel to the strike of the orogen; their overall effect was to widen the orogenic belt in the (north)east(south)west direction. The sense of extensional movement was toward the frontal part of the orogen so that rather than defining tectonic wedges formed during extrusion, the extensional structures represent lateral spreading of the mid to upper crust of the internal Western Alps toward the foreland. Rapid compression of the DoraMaira was coeval with the transition from marine flysch deposits to molasse sedimentation in the foreland of the Western Alps. The switchover from burial to exhumation and the lateral spreading of the upper crust in the internal Western Alps were coupled by readjustment of the entire orogenic wedge.
30064000|New analyses of rare earth and transition elements are summarized for 29 high-pressure metamafic rocks, which occur as lenses and layers in the Beigua serpentinite of the Ligurian Alps. Included are data for 2 metarodingites, 8 eclogites, 5 glaucophanic eclogites, 7 barroisitic amphibolites and 7 porphyroblastic greenschists. Trace element data, similar to major element compositions previously presented, show broadly intergradational chemistries among the several lithologies. Rare earth distributions are relatively flat at 10-30Xchondrite, with LREE relative depletions. Transition elements exhibit a marked decrease in abundance with increasing atomic number, but patterns are characterized by positive anomalies for Ti, Mn + Fe, and Ni. The bulk-rock trace element concentrations are analogous to those of oceanic tholeiites. Similar REE patterns and overlapping ranges, and sensibly identical transition element patterns, demonstrate that a continuous spectrum of compositions is present in the analyzed rocks, thus arguing against the existence of two unrelated and chemically distinct precursor magma types, leucogabbro and melanogabbro. Combined with the discovery of eclogitic mineral assemblages developed in (Mg + Al)-rich lithologies, the hypothesis of profound post-eclogite metasomatism also may be discounted. The extent of retrograde metamorphism does not appear to correlate with trace element distributions. All analytical data are compatible with a model involving intrusion of a differentiating, consanguineous magma series into shallow levels of the Beigua mantle; earlier solidification of portions of this melt series at relatively low oxygen fugacities produced less evolved cumulates consisting principally of calcic plagioclase and magnesian olivine, whereas later, more fractionated melts precipitated abundant ilmenite. Lower REE concentrations and a positive Eu anomaly characterize the former, whereas the more evolved (Fe + Ti)-rich types have flat REE patterns and high concentrations. High-pressure subsolidus recrystallization attests to a subsequent sub-duction event, but eclogitic overprinting failed to obliterate the trace element signature of the earlier igneous fractionation.
30067306|The geyser theory of Bunsen appears to the writer to be imperfectly presented, as found in English and American textbooks on geology. Two erroneous assumptions are to be found. First, that the relief of pressure assumed in this theory is due to an overflow from the top of the water column or to expansion into a basin with resultant shortening of the column. Many splendidly functioning geysers have no visible overflow preceding an eruption and very many have no basins. Second, it is assumed that the mere lifting of the upper portion of the water column without overflow would relieve the pressure below sufficiently to bring on an eruption. As long as the head remains the same, obviously there could be no such relief of pressure. The observations of Bunsen and Descloizeaux upon the Great Geyser of Iceland established the existence, about halfway down in the tube, of what may be called the "critical zone." Here the actual and boiling temperatures come very close together as the conditions for an eruption are being slowly attained. Steam bubbles are first formed in the lowest depths of the system and when powerful enough slightly elevate a portion of the water at the critical zone, bringing it to a level where it can flash into steam, thus starting the eruption and relieving the pressure on the lower portion of the water column.
30068753|The third occurrence of combeite is in lapilli ejected from the active carbonatite volcano Oldoinyo Lengai, Tanzania. The combeite occurs as euhedra in equilibrium with nepheline, Na-melilite, Tiandradrite, and Ti-magnetite, and as coronas replacing corroded clinopyroxene and wollastonite crystals. Garnet and nepheline euhedra do not have combeite coronas. The combeite of the coronas is associated with minor Na-melilite, nepheline, and calcium silicates (rankinite? and larnite?). The coronal combeite is attributed to incomplete reaction between Ca-bearing silicates and sodium carbonatite magma. The mean of 11 analyses,
30068192|Based on stratigraphic and petrologic similarities, it has been proposed that rocks exposed in roof pendants of the central Sierra Nevada, California are part of a tectonically displaced fragment of the Cordilleran miogeocline. We have identified significant geochemical similarities between metamudstones making up this miogeoclinal fragment and rocks comprising its proposed parents in the Mojave Desert-southern Great Basin region by geochemical analysis of samples collected from Snow Lake and Boyden Cave roof pendants, and from the Precambrian to Cambrian section of the Cordilleran miogeocline exposed in the Nopah Range, southeastern California. In order to circumvent the constant-sum problem inherent in geochemical data, the data were transformed into a continuous-variable format using logratio techniques. When the differences in means of aluminum-normalized logratioed data derived from the Snow Lake-Boyden Cave data set and the Nopah Range samples were calculated on an element by element basis, ~86% of the differences were not statistically significant at the 95% confidence level. The large number of compositional similarities identified between Snow Lake, Boyden Cave, and Nopah Range samples are consistent with the idea that the metasedimentary rocks of the central Sierra Nevada batholith are composed of material shed from the western North American interior and that roof pendants in the central Sierra Nevada are part of a displaced miogeoclinal fragment. This work demonstrates that rigorous statistical analyses of geochemical data transformed into a continuous-variable format can be a useful tool in evaluating the plausibility of lithostratigraphic correlations between metamorphosed, complexly deformed, and displaced metasedimentary rocks.
30081135|The first thin sections of artificially melted rocks were made in 1862 by Henry Sorby from specimens of Sir James Hall's experimentally fused basalts and of a fused granodiorite. Sorby's work on the fused basalts showed that the cooled charges contained the same three phases, although texturally different, as the starting materials and thus vindicated Hall's experiments. Sorby's observations on the granodiorite reinforced his earlier conclusions, based on fluid inclusion studies, that water plays a major role in plutonic crystallization. It is here suggested that Sorby's work on fused rocks in the period 1860-1863 was a response to a challenge from Alexander Bryson to prove that granite is of igneous origin.
30059988|Clinch Mountain, in southwestern Virginia and northeastern Tennessee, is a long homoclinal ridge with a dip angle that varies along the strike. The base width and height both decrease with increasing dip, so that the mountain provides an excellent example of a system with uniform lithology and structure but varying structural parameters. Various properties of the stream networks on both the dip and scarp slopes were measured and analyzed as a function of dip angle. A random-walk headward-growth model of stream network development was used to simulate the Clinch Mountain network; the criterion for a successful simulation was that the simulatedand actual networks should have statistical geometrical similarity. Satisfactory results were obtained if both the reduced width (product of width and drainage density) and the number of outlets per unit length were assigned as input parameters.
30058700|The intrusion of the Idaho batholith in the Paradise Ridge area of north Idaho was accompanied by clearly defined contact and endomorphic phenomena. Hydro thermal solutions emanating from deeper parts of the consolidating magma changed a part of the early, chilled marginal hornblende-biotite diorite of the batholith to a less calcic biotite-quartz diorite and some of the quartzite above to biotite-quartz diorite and to a quartz-biotite-diorite gneiss. In a part of the area the emanations were enriched in potash and these, permeating through the gneissic rock, changed much of it to an augen gneiss with microcline porphyroblasts and the adjacent biotite-quartz diorite to granodiorite. Toward the end of the period of igneous activity the emanations were highly silicic and introduced exceptionally large amounts of quartz into all the rocks, even causing silicification of the invaded quartzite. Minerals added to the rocks by hydrothermal replacements include biotite, andesirie, microcline, quartz, sphene, zircon, apatite, magnetite, garnet, allanite, zoisite, epidote, muscovite, sericite, and calcite. As consolidation progressed downward and hydrothermal solutions were drawn off from deeper levels, the solutions moved upward along fractures in the already endomorphosed rock and by replacement changed the bordering rock to coarse but variable-grained bodies of biotite pegmatite. One of these bodies is extraordinarily rich in garnet. As the solutions became more silicic, fissures were filled with quartz, or the wall rock was replaced by quartz, and bodies of silexite were formed. This study shows the importance of igneous emanations in the formation of quartz-feldspathic gneisses, augen gneisses, and pegmatites, and the extent to which hydrothermal replacements enter into their origin. It is suggested that such phenomena may be widespread in the crystalline schists of extensive metamorphic terranes.
30063786|Analysis of conditions necessary for submarine slope failure shows that submarine slumping is to be expected in eugeosynclinal belts where rapidly deposited muddy sediments are shocked by earthquakes. The physical properties of the sediments and variability of available stresses during submarine sliding appear conducive to irregular, localized deformation and a similar style of folding. In the Appalachian eugeosynclinal belt of Newfoundland, Upper Ordovician flysch greywacke is characterized by abundant mesoscopic slump folds. These tolds typically display variable style, varying wave lengths, and curvilinear hinges and are localized between undisturbed strata. Axes of slump folds commonly parallel both the paleocurrent directions determined from sole marks and also the early fold axes in preflysch strata, Therefore, the flysch trough is interpreted as an early synclinorial structure of Taconian age having contemporaneous submarine slides. Later, main-phase Acadian folds and cleavage are often concordant with slump-fold axes and axial surfaces; commonly it is difficult to distinguish between mesoscopic slump and Acadian folds. Thus slump folds could be misinterpreted as early or main-phase tectonic structures. These data suggest that the earliest, "
30081249|Within the Pennsylvanian Atoka Formation of Oklahoma, strata in the frontal Ouachita belt deposited by eastflowing turbidity currents yield the same 
30067380|Recent models for the chemical composition of the continental crust rely on various geophysical, geological, and petrological constraints and display a wide range in composition, with
30064205|The so-called Middle Ordovician, Lacolle "conglomerate" of southeastern Quebec, and related breccia masses in northeastern New York and northwestern Vermont are reanalyzed. A sedimentary origin propounded by Clark and McGerrigle (1936) is rejected. Physical features and field relations of the breccia masses are described, and a new interpretation of the origin and significance of the breccias is given. Characteristic features of the breccias, such as a pulverized rock-powder matrix with common cataclastic structures, sharp angularity and large size (75 feet) attained by fragments, lack of sorting, wide range in age of fragments (Upper Cambrian to Middle Ordovician), common secondary dolomitization of outcrops, and association with faulting in the field, indicate a tectonic origin. A geologic history of early Taconic, high-angle wrench-faulting, followed by later Taconic, low-angle overthrusting, is proposed as a working hypothesis to explain the formation of the breccia masses. Thus these resistant masses are interpreted as klippen left by the erosional retreat of a complex overthrust sheet.
30061250|Absolute surface areas of a set of seventy-five representative deep-sea core samples have been measured by the gas-adsorption method. The values range from
30080834|Steps in the longitudinal profiles of valleys and reversals of the general downvalley slopes frequently associated with the steps are characteristic features of glaciated troughs, and the origin of stepped profiles presents some unsolved problems. Some steps are rather obviously related to structures of the underlying rock, but in other cases such a relation is very doubtful. Whether controlled by rock structures or not, steps are explained according to one hypothesis as closely related to preglacial valley constrictions. In contrast with this view, however, is an explanation which connects breaks of slope with expansions of the glacier channel necessitated by accessions of volume in the ice stream, where it was augmented by the junction of tributaries. This hypothesis is particularly applicable to some prominent steps near the heads of troughs which have been fed with ice from expanded catchment areas. Other hypotheses relate step development to subglacial sapping and to processes associated with cirque-wall sapping.
30063343|Flood waters released by the 1915 eruptions of Lassen Peak carried a heavy load of boulders and forest debris, which was deposited on a relatively flat portion of the mountain slope. Succeeding waters were split by the boulders and caused parallel gullies to be eroded.
30078346|Precise isotopic analyses of zircon, titanite, and rutile from units in the Rainy Lake area of northwest Ontario are combined with structural investigations to develop new stratigraphic interpretations in which lithotectonic sequences were juxtaposed by thrusting prior to steepening by wrenching. Ages for the oldest volcanic and plutonic rocks in the area range from
30062294|North American Ordovician strata record a large shift in their neodymium isotopic composition (
30066398|A geologic study of three different melange belts in Turkey revealed that the melange units in these belts were formed by gravity sliding in basins underlain by continental basement rather than by tectonic crushing in trenches. Mafic volcanic activity is a characteristic feature of such basins, which are located on continental margins adjacent to tectonically active belts. The peridotite and gabbro blocks of the melange units were transported, but some of the basalts, radiolarites, and mudstones originated within the basins and hence are not part of an ophiolite suite.
30078410|Recent models for the Cenozoic tectonic evolution of the western margin of North America propose that delamination of ancient lithosphere accompanied asthenospheric upwelling, magmatism, and uplift subsequent to Laramide deformation. On the basis of the age of an alkaline dike in southcentral Montana, thermometry of mantle xenoliths from the dike, and Sr, Nd, and Pb isotopic compositions of the dike and a xenocryst, we show that refractory lithosphere, derived from ancient, depleted mantle, remained in place under the Wyoming Craton as late as 42 Ma. The Haymond School Dike, a camptonite, yields a
30068718|K/Na ratios of metasomatic phlogopite and amphibole of the upper mantle origin are high in garnet peridotites and low in spinel or plagioclase peridotites. Combined with the observation that the phlogopite/ amphibole volume ratio is high in garnet peridotites and low in spinel or plagioclase peridotites, it is concluded that the bulk K/Na ratio of the metasomatized part decreases upwards in the upper mantle. This vertical variation of the K/Na ratio may be due to the fractional crystallization of phlogopite and amphibole from the metasomatizing fluids. The upward decrease of the K/Na ratio of the bulk metasomatic minerals is, at least partly, responsible for the layered structure of the upper mantle in terms of the K/Na ratio.
30062375|Late Miocene and younger structures in and around Jamaica are dominated by east-west left-lateral strike-slip faults, on which we have identified cumulative offsets of about 40 km indicating a displacement rate which is equivalent to 10% to 20% of the contemporary rate of displacement between the North American and Caribbean plates. This movement is the cause of NE-SW shortening and NW-SE extension (much as in simple shear experiments) in a plate boundary zone (PBZ) that reaches 200 km into the Caribbean plate. Extensional structures are mainly depressions and lie offshore, whereas compressional structures are mainly elevations on the island. Minor alkalic basalt occurrences are associated with extensional structures. A similar tectonic style can be recognized elsewhere along the northern border of the Caribbean and its mirror image occupies the southern border of the plate. Detailed studies of neotectonics in PBZ's are becoming important as attempts begin to directly measure movements between plates. These studies may also complement seismic network results in helping to pinpoint areas of seismic hazard.
30057864|Assimilation has long been recognized as a process associated with all large intruded or injected masses. The following article attempts to show that the Sudbury norite magma has assimilated an amount of rock equivalent to two-thirds of its original volume and possibly as much as two to three times that amount.
30063768|In order to understand better the relation of cross-bed azimuth distributions to bedforms, geometric models were developed for migrating bedforms using a minimum number of parameters. Semi-elliptical and sinusoidal bedform crestlines were modeled with curvature and sinuosity as parameters. Both bedform crestlines are propagated at various angles of migration over a finite area of deposition. Two computational approaches are used, a statistical random sampling (Monte Carlo) technique over the area of the deposit, and an analytical method based on topology and differential geometry. The resulting foreset azimuth distributions provide a catalogue for a variety of situations. The resulting thickness distributions have a simple shape and can be combined with the azimuth distributions to constrain further the cross-strata geometry. Paleocurrent directions obtained by these models can differ substantially from other methods, especially for obliquely migrating low-curvature bedforms. Interpretation of foreset azimuth data from outcrops and wells can be done either by visual comparison with the catalogued distributions, or by iterative computational fits. Studied examples include eolian cross-strata from the Permian Rotliegendes in the North Sea, fluvial dunes from the Devonian in the Catskills (New York State), the Triassic Schilfsand-stein (West Germany) and the Paleozoic-Jurassic of the Western Desert (Egypt), as well as recent tidal dunes from the German coast of the North Sea and tidal cross-strata from the Devonian Koblentzquartzit (West Germany). In all cases the semi-elliptical bedform model gave a good fit to the data, suggesting that it may be applicable over a wide range of bedforms. The data from the Western Desert could only be explained by data scatter due to channel sinuosity combining with the scatter attributed to the ellipticity of the bedform crestlines. These models, therefore, may also allow simulations of some hierarchically structured bedforms.
30081184|The Tinaquillo orogenic spinel lherzolite is a piece of subcontinental mantle that emplaced in the Caribbean belt during Late Cretaceous. It was thrust with an overlying sequence of garnetsillimanite granulites and pyroxenegarnet enderbites. This crustal formation also contains mafic and ultramafic granulitic rocks similar to those within the peridotite. The crustperidotite contact is a severalhundredmeter thick ductile shear zone parallel to the lithologic units and probably originally flatlying. The shearing was coeval with the emplacement of gabbronoritic sills SmNd dated at 9087 Ma. Macro and microstructures and geothermobarometry show that this tectonomagmatic event was preceded by gabbroic intrusions responsible for hightemperature metamorphism (800C) and anatexis in the preexisting crustal gneisses. UPb zircon dating gives a 125 Ma age for the anatexis. Data suggest that nearly continuous magmatic activity occurred during MidCretaceous times. The early gabbroic bodies emplaced at low pressure (0.50.6 GPa) at Moho level, but the subsequent intrusions crystallized at higher pressure, suggesting a significant thickening of the crust above the peridotitegneiss contact. The
30057394|The Silurian System of the Great Basin comprises at least three major facies: (1) a dolomite fades, developed in Utah and in eastern and central Nevada (Laketown dolomite and Lone Mountain dolomite), (2) a limestone facies, locally dolomitized, exposed in central Nevada (Roberts Mountains formation), and (3) a chert-shale facies, probably deposited originally in central and western Nevada, but since carried eastward into central Nevada by large-scale thrust faulting. Mapping in the Roberts Mountains region in central Nevada shows that the Lone Mountain dolomite and the Roberts Mountains formation are largely, and perhaps wholly, lateral equivalents. Evidence from textures, structures, and fossils indicates that the Lone Mountain dolomite represents a reef complex, most of whose original features are obliterated by dolomitization, and that the Roberts Mountains formation comprises deeper-water reef-flank, off-reef, and basin deposits. A regional isopach map shows a generally north-trending band through the Roberts Mountains in which the Silurian is as much as four times as thick as the regional average for the system-that is, 4,500 versus 1,000 feet. The reef complex of the Lone Mountain dolomite merges with the thinner but lithologically similar Laketown dolomite to the east but interfingers abruptly with the lithologically dissimilar Roberts Mountains formation, which thins very rapidly westward.
30080840|Mountains surrounding the San Augustin plains in western New Mexico are composed of an extraordinary variety of volcanic rock types, including rhyolite, andesite, basalt, both silicic and basic tuff, and agglomerate. Correlation based on lithology indicates at least seventeen members in this volcanic series. The series probably is related to the Datil formation of Tertiary age described by Winchester in the Bear Mountains northeast of this area.
30059276|Analysis of rotational slumping in the Carboniferous of western Pennsylvania has shown that disconformities have a wider geographic extent than heretofore supposed. Furthermore, variation in relief of the disconformity markedly affects the composition and thickness of subjacent and superjacent rocks. Welldrained higher areas are characterized by residual clays, thin coals, and thick limestones, whereas the low regions contain transported clays, black shales, and carbonaceous sandstones and siltstones. Based on these and other observed relationships, the Carboniferous variation is generalized in a genetic cycle.
30056956|This note is contributed to the criticisms, published in the October-November, 1926, number of the Journal of Geology, which have grown out of an earlier article by Mr. George W. Bain. Mr. Bain advanced arguments for the apparent disappearance of over 10,000 feet of sediments, which he attributed to the intrusion of the Sudbury norite. Bain's understanding of the stratigraphy of the district seems to be at fault according to the work of the present writer which was quoted by Bain to support his own views.
30063866|Compilation of geologic mapping and study of chemical analyses of Mesozoic and Cenozoic granitic rocks in the western United States show that there is a relation between the composition and the geographic distribution of the rocks. Rocks of the western zone are dominantly quartz diorite; rocks of the eastern zone are dominantly quartz monzonite and granodiorite. The line separating these two zones is called the "quartz diorite boundary line" and is traced on a map. The line crosses the Washington-Canadian border near the 120th meridian, strikes southeast through the western margin of the Idaho batholith, swings around to a southwest trend across eastern Oregon, strikes south through California, remaining in the western margin of the Sierra Nevada batholith. The contrasting compositions of granitic rocks in the two zones is believed to be inherited from contrasting compositional differences in the crust existing before emplacement of the granitic rocks.
30060579|Chink-faceting is the name here applied for the first time to the localized grinding of facets on the surfaces of pebbles and cobbles which are lodged in chinks of various shapes and sizes on rocky beaches. The pebbles are lodged in these crevices in such a way that they are free to move to and fro to a slight extent, but not to escape, under the continual action of the waves. The process takes place both between the bowlders of a stable bowlder beach and in cracks and grooves of the bedrock of projecting headlands, and develops pebbles of distinctive form.
30065695|The real ocean surface-the equipotential surface of the geoid or the geodetic sea level-is rough and uneven and characterized by humps and depressions of several meters. The present geoid configuration cannot have remained stationary back in time. The main question is over what time units geoid changes may have played a significant role. The instability of the geoid configuration has not been considered previously. The geoid may change both horizontally (geographical dislocation of the geoid relief) and vertically (magnitudinal changes in relief). There are numerous variables (during different geological time units) that must have affected the geoid. Geoid changes must certainly have occurred during the Phanerozoic and the Late Quaternary. Holocene "eustatic" data also yield indication of geoid changes. Tide gauge data and Holocene eustatic short-period fluctuations seem to indicate geoid changes even during short-period time units. Geoid changes are related to fundamental geophysical-astronomical problems. Late Quaternary data suggest a cyclic pattern of the geoid changes that resembles the precession cycle. Holocene geoid changes-like correlated magnetic, climatic, and volcanic fluctuations-seem to be caused by changes at the core/mantle interface (bumps and eddies) and coupling. Because of geoid changes, eustasy is not globally valid.
30070670|Comparison of the duration, onset conditions, and biotic response to the four Phanerozoic glaciations suggests that there are two Phanerozoic glacial modes. Late Ordovician glaciation typifies shortduration, high atmospheric CO
30056271|A small, intensely disturbed area in Jackson County, Tennessee, has been mapped and studied in detail. All the data accumulated indicate a crypto-volcanic origin of the structure. A magnetometer survey showed a well-developed magnetic high offset 4 miles to the south-southwest. The history of this disturbed area is interpreted as follows: Shortly preceding Chattanooga deposition an explosion took place near the surface, blowing out a crater 2 miles in diameter and 300 feet deep. The Ordovician limestones forming the floor and walls of this crater were shattered into breccia composed of angular fragments of varying sizes imbedded in a matrix of smaller fragments and "rock flour." The deeper parts of the crater were filled with redeposited breccia, either as talus breccia or as bedded breccia deposited in a fresh-water lake that occupied the crater at one time. The Chattanooga sea invaded central Tennessee and filled the crater with black mud, now represented by about 250 feet of black shale. Fort Payne chert was later deposited upon the relatively smooth surface of the black shale.
30062298|Taking Sir Charles Lyell to task for having distorted the image of Abraham Gottlob Werner in his historical introduction to
30059269|Fourteen subaerial shorelines and five submarine shelves were previously recognized on and around Oahu, Hawaii. Field evidence and morphometric analyses show that the only three shorelines above present sea level are the Hanauma at 10-15 feet, Waimanalo at 25 feet, and Kaena at 95 feet. Bathymetric data indicates two major submarine shelves. The uppermost is the Mamala shelf at a depth of 350 feet. Two minor platforms are superposed on the Mamala shelf at depths of 40 and 160 feet. These three members are not deformed but are essentially level around the island. The lowermost is the Lualualei submarine shelf, ranging in depth from 800 to 2,400 feet and possibly tectonically warped and tilted around the island. Fauna from the Lualualei shelf indicate a Miocene age. The three subaerial shorelines and Mamala shelf probably resulted from glacio-eustatic sea-level changes of the Pleistocene.
30078313|For the last 1,000 to 10,000 years, dozens of large debris fans have severely constricted the path of the Colorado River in the Grand Canyon, Arizona. At most of these fans, the narrowest part of the channel eroded by the river is 0.5 of the upstream width. At Crystal Creek, a debris fan was emplaced in 1966, constricting the channel of the Colorado River to about 0.25 of its upstream width between 1967 and 1983, forming a major rapid. In this paper the hydraulics of Crystal Creek rapid are described, and an analysis is presented to support the hypothesis that the major wave in the rapid was a normal wave (one type of hydraulic jump). Hydraulic jumps rarely occur in natural river channels with erodible beds, but one was present at Crystal Rapid because of the unusually severe constriction of the Colorado River by the 1966 debris fan. Observations on the hydraulics of the river during this time (including mid-1983, when progressively higher discharges culminated in excess of 96,000 cubic feet per second) have demonstrated that the velocity of water going through the constriction and into the hydraulic jump was so great that there was erosion of the Crystal debris fan in the vicinity of the jump. Each new level of record high discharges caused the river to erode a channel of sufficient width to reduce flow velocities below a threshold value required for movement of the larger boulders of the debris fan, thus contouring the fan toward a configuration more in equilibrium with the high discharges. A quantitative model for river debris fan shapes is proposed and is used to estimate prehistoric flood levels from the observed constrictions: the 0.5 value of river constriction found at the more mature debris fans in the Grand Canyon suggests that peak flood discharges of approximately 400,000 cubic feet per second (
30081188|High 
30062280|Temperature and pressure conditions of metamorphism in the Peavy Node area in northern Michigan have been estimated from the garnet-biotite geothermometer and garnet-plagioclase-aluminosilicate-quartz geobarometer. Sillimanite zone rocks yielded an average temperature ~592C; in the staurolite zone temperatures ranged from 545 to 582C and in the garnet zone temperature estimates were 485 to 557C. The pressure estimate of sillimanite-bearing assemblages is 4.4 kb whilst that of andalusite-bearing rocks is 2.9 kb at 534C. Temperatures due to the Peavy Pond Complex (PVC) intrusion as a heat source were calculated at various positions within the Michigamme Fm assuming that the magma was emplaced at 1000C and taking into account the latent heat of solidification of magma and the heat consumed by metamorphic dehydration reactions. If cooling proceeds by conduction, a one-dimensional 3.2 km-thick sheet heat source reaches a maximum temperature of 355C at 2.5 km from contact, within the staurolite zone. During cooling involving convection of the magma, the furthest advance of the 500C-isotherm is 1.1 km from contact 105 years after intrusion. A two-dimensional 3.2 x 4.4 km magmatic heat source gives a maximum temperature of 200C at 1.5 km from contact, which is within the sillimanite zone to the south and the staurolite zone to the west. If the upper limit of initial temperature in the Michigamme Fm was 300C, the calculated temperature due to the rectangular prism heat source was ~504C at the same distance as the 250C isotherm if initial temperature was ~0C. The maximum displacement of 504/250C and 383/100C isotherms are respectively 1.1 and 2.7 km from the contact whereas the observed metamorphic temperatures at those positions are 590C and 560C respectively. Thus heat transfer by conduction from the intrusion into surrounding rocks appears to have been inadequate to give rise to the observed metamorphic temperatures in the Michigamme Fm.
30070740|The concentrations of
JG80182|Well-defined metamorphic zones are developed in pelitic and psammitic rocks of the Late Neoproterozoic to Cambrian Anakie Metamorphic Group of the Anakie Inlier, central Queensland. They are defined by the incoming of biotite, garnet, and andalusite, with or without staurolite. Mineral assemblages indicate that low pressurehigh temperature metamorphism is associated with D
30056601|Sand ridges having a steep slope on one side and a gradual slope on the other occu on some subaqueous terraces in Lake Michigan which have a plentiful supply of sand The origin and behavior of these ridges is explained in connection with one class c beach cusps. A similar subaqueous mass movement of sand on a larger scale is describe! as it occurs off a large cuspate projection such as a cape. An understanding of the be havior of subaqueous dunes is important in explaining the common occurrence of cross bedding, the preservation of ripple marks and other bottom irregularities, and the em bedding in sediments of organic remains and other objects.
30063916|The preferred orientations of quartz in a number of small fine-grained specimens of experimentally deformed and recrystallized flint were determined with a Norelco pole figure goniometer. The device was modified by introducing small (0.5-1.0 mm.) collimators to examine restricted areas of flat specimens in both the reflection and transmission modes. Scans in the two modes were combined to yield complete pole figures. The preferred orientations in the specimens are shown to be axially symmetric and are given by intensity profiles extending 0-90 from the symmetry axis. Profiles for as many as fifteen diffraction peaks from individual specimens are subjected to spherical harmonic analysis to obtain a complete determination of the preferred orientation (the crystallite distribution function), which is represented concisely in the form of an inverse pole figure. From the inverse pole figure the preferred orientation of any crystallographic direction (such as the [0001] direction in quartz, which is difficult to measure directly) may be generated. Similarly, the preferred orientations of positive and negative trapezohedral and rhombohedral forms (such as the pairs
30079724|The bearing of Mesozoic geology on the time and character of the opening of the North Atlantic is investigated. Of the alternative initial fits of the continents, that along the boundaries of the Quiet Magnetic Zones is preferred. Igneous and tectonic activity along the continental margins, the nature and distribution of epicontinental sediments, and several features of fossil distribution are briefly reviewed and the following interpretation tentatively proposed. Although some tension and subsidence occurred in the late Triassic, it is believed that the continental fragments did not begin to move apart until the Jurassic. Based mainly on the collapse of the Mediterranean carbonate platform, faunal divergence between Europe and Africa, and igneous episodes in the Atlantic region-the earliest likely date of opening of the southern North Atlantic is late Lower Jurassic, although it could possibly have been late Upper Jurassic, a time of tectonic disturbance on the eastern margins. Rifting extended northward in the Cretaceous to separate the Rockall Bank from the British Isles, and a probable accelerated rate of sea-floor spreading in the Upper Cretaceous is associated with increased tectonic and igneous activity, collapse and detachment of parts of the continental margins, and opening of the Bay of Biscay. Cenozoic spreading in the northern North Atlantic was preceded by a long period of subsidence and episodic tensional faulting. Eustatic sea level rises, notably in the late Cretaceous, may relate to oceanic ridge uplift consequential upon accelerated sea-floor spreading rates. Possible causes of crustal thinning in regions of continent margin subsidence are discussed. Subsidence prior to separation may result from crustal thinning under tension. Limited evidence for uplift close to the rifting axis, and stronger evidence for marginal subsidence after rifting, is held to support the Vogt-Ostenso model based on analogy with the East African rift system. Tensional effects associated with continental drift are, to variable extents, dispersed in both space and time.
30061027|A revised classification of marine shorelines has been proposed by Shepard to supplant the present widely accepted genetic system. Analysis of the proposed new classification indicates that (1) it takes account chiefly of the genesis of the coast back of the shoreline instead of the shoreline itself; (2) its mainstay, the coast chart, is inadequate for classification under the system proposed; (3) it does not sufficiently recognize the sequential stages of shoreline development, and (4) it is so incomplete as to provide no place for certain major types of shorelines.
30075202|U-Pb systematics in small fractions of zircon, monazite, and sphene (5 to 20 grains each) have been analyzed in order to decipher the age and origin of magmatism in the Lhasa block and to date the tectono-metamorphic events. Additionally, we analyzed a few minerals for Rb-Sr. The results show that the granites and an ignimbrite were formed essentially through anatexis of continental crust, the magma source regions of which consisted of Palaeozoic to Precambrian materials up to 2 b.y. in age. The following episodes can be distinguished: (1) an early Tertiary plutonism-volcanism in the southern Lhasa block (Yangbajing region), strongly related to intracontinental tectono-metamorphism, (2) a late Jurassic to early Cretaceous plutonism in the central and northern Lhasa block, and (3) a middle Jurassic low-grade metamorphism, affecting the basement at the northern margin 171  6 m.y. ago. The early Tertiary magmatism and metamorphism in the south are probably a direct result of Tethys subduction (Indian plate) underneath the southern Tibetan Plateau (Eurasian plate). In contrast, the plutonism in the north-e.g., the emplacement of the 121  2 m.y. old granite at Bange and 120-140 m.y. old granite near Anduo-appears to be a result of intra-block thrustings resulting from the collision of the Lhasa block and the Qintang block (Bangong-Nujiang suture). This collision probably occurred in middle Jurassic (Bajocian) times as indicated by the low-grade metamorphism at the northern margin of the Lhasa block. Moreover, the existence of a
30061053|In a 1-m wide, meandering flume with movable sand bed, uniform flow was established at discharges of 20, 35, and 50 1/sec. Bed shear stresses, bed geometry, the distribution of sediment in transport, and the strength of secondary flow were determined at each discharge. The zones of maximum bed shear stress, \tau, and maximum sediment discharge per unit width,
30064001|Miaskitic nepheline syenites of the Ilmenogorsk-Vishnevogorsk Alkaline Complex in the Ural Mountains were emplaced approximately 450 m.y. ago, as indicated by Rb-Sr whole rock ages. Their intrusion coincided with a dilatation period along the eastern margin of the Russian platform, and predated the compres-sive stage of the Hercynian orogeny in the Urals which began during the Silurian. Thus these rocks are not orogenic type nepheline syenites as previously postulated. Internal mineral isochrons for two nepheline syenites and an alkali-feldspar syenite from different regions of the complex yield consistent Permian ages of 245 m.y. These ages are interpreted as dating the cooling of the alkaline rocks after a final amphibolite grade Hercynian metamorphism. The
30057881|The Beartooth Mountains are truncated by two remarkably flattish surfaces. The summit plateau has an altitude of 12,000 or more feet over a large area in the most rugged portion of the range. The subsummit plateau extends the length of the range on both sides of the medial divide, at an elevation of about 9,500-11,000 feet. These plateaus are interpreted as remnants of two former peneplains. The summit peneplain can hardly be older than Oligocene, whereas the subsummit peneplain appears to be of Pliocene age.
30060271|The data on solubility of amorphous silica and quartz at low temperatures are reviewed. Determinations of the metastable equilibrium solubility of amorphous silica at 25 C. in distilled water and artificial sea water give values of about 140 p.p.m., in agreement with earlier workers' results. Solubility in simulated oilfield brines of 30,000 and 50,000 p.p.m. is about the same. Solubility was drastically reduced in peat waters, presumably due to adsorption of organic material on free silica surfaces. Quartz solubility was determined between 125 and 181 C. in sealed bombs; the results interpolate well between the lower temperature data of Van Lier and the higher temperature data of Kennedy. The solubility of quartz under directed stress at 95 C. approximates that of amorphous silica at the same temperature. Diagenetic changes in silica content of sediments, in particular the origin of chert and silica cementation of sandstones, are explained by the metastability of amorphous silica, the dissolution of biogenic amorphous silica, the effects of increased ionic strength of subsurface formation waters on silica and carbonate solubility, the equilibria between clay minerals of differing Si/Al ratios, the action of clays as semipermeable membranes, and the effects of pressure and temperature increase on burial.
30065742|Oxygen fugacities have been estimated for the high-grade portion of the Bamble granulite facies terrane, SE Norway, using both titaniferous magnetite-ilmenite and orthopyroxene-titaniferous magnetite-quartz oxygen barometers. The two oxygen barometers show good agreement, for samples indicating high titaniferous magnetite-ilmenite temperatures whereas agreement is poor for low-temperature samples. Oxygen fugacities estimated from titaniferous magnetite-ilmenite are considerably lower than those estimated from orthopyroxene-titaniferous magnetite-quartz. This discrepancy increases with a decrease in temperature, which appears to reflect preferential resetting of the hematite content in the ilmenite grains, without much alteration of the more numerous titaniferous magnetite or orthopyroxene grains. The mean temperature for the non-reset samples, 795  60C (1), agrees well with temperatures obtained from garnet-orthopyroxene
30068469|During late Pleistocene time an integrated river system occupied several of the desert basins in eastern California and southwestern Nevada, with Death Valley as the sump. A study of the Recent and fossil fishes of the region supports the physiographic evidence for the existence of this drainage and presents zogeographic data which strongly suggest connections between this system and the Lahontan basin to the north, as well as with the Colorado River basin to the south and east. Both the physiographic and the fish evidence harmonize. Detailed maps of the Pleistocene and Recent hydrography of the southern Great Basin are presented, and two new lakes are mapped and named.
30066386|The distribution coefficient,
30067030|We report newly obtained data of total suspended sediment concentrations (
30068542|The most important controls of the redox state of natural waters are the flux of organic matter from the photic zone, the degree of physical mixing, and oxygen concentrations of any connecting water masses. In coastal upwelling zones, these factors can be described with a simple box model constrained by data from modern field settings. Onshore-offshore mixing is largely controlled by the intensity of coastal currents that generally are found at depths of <400 m. As a result, onshore-offshore chemical gradients are greater in deeper waters. Application of the mass balance models to Late Devonian paleogeographic reconstructions of western North America illustrates how bedded barites in this setting may have formed in conjunction with a sulfate-reducing coastal upwelling zone. Low-oxygen waters from an extensive equatorial undercurrent entered the upwelling zone during regressive periods of the Late Devonian. The steep bathymetry of emergent bank carbonates to the east meant that the most intense portion of the coastal upwelling system occurred over deep water. Sinking organic matter was remineralized in these deep waters rather than being incorporated into sediments of the continental shelf and shelf break. The influence of coastal currents, and therefore onshore-offshore mixing, was minimal, thereby leading to the depletion of available oxygen and nitrate. Recent geochemical studies of particulate and dissolved barium in the modern ocean in conjunction with the mass balance model illustrate how waters with only minor sulfate-reduction and elevated dissolved barium concentrations may have led to extensive barite flux to the Late Devonian deep-water sediments off the North American continent.
30066062|Spectral analysis of Great Lakes water level elevations reveals the presence of prominent cycles with periods of approximately 1, 11, 22 and 36 years. These frequency components can be isolated and described with respect to their amplitudes and phases. Because these fluctuations are natural phenomena that have recurred throughout recorded history and are expected to continue into the future, they can be extrapolated and combined to provide a forecast predicting future stages of high and low lake levels. Extreme water levels are quite rare because these can only occur when peaks or troughs of all components are aligned. However, since most cycles have peaks and troughs extending over a number of years they need only be approximately in phase to create marked changes in lake levels. Forecasts appear sufficiently reliable to be useful for anticipating episodes of higher or lower than average water levels and should be utilized for future long-term shoreline planning policies.
30082315|A papyrus map discovered around 1820 and now in the Egyptian Museum in Turin, Italy, illustrates the topography and geology of Wadi Hammamat in the mountains of the central Eastern Desert of Egypt. It accurately depicts the areal distribution of sedimentary and igneous/metamorphic rocks, which are shown as black and pink hills, respectively. The ancient map also shows the gold-working settlement at Bir Umm Fawakhir, the gold-bearing quartz veins on the adjacent mountain, the famous "bekhen-stone" quarry, the lithologically diverse wadi gravels, and various cultural features. Hieratic texts on the map comment on the occurrence of gold in the area and the quarrying of bekhen-stone (grayish-green chloritic sandstones and siltstones). This papyrus is the oldest surviving geological map in the world, and it predates by 29 centuries the next oldest known geological map. The map was drawn during the reign of Ramesses IV (1151-1145 B.C.) as an aid to or a record of one of this king's bekhen-stone quarrying expeditions to Wadi Hammamat.
30081039|Proglacial lake sediments of Late Pleistocene age exposed in southeastern Michigan contain an 8.25 m thick sequence of ball and pillow structures. The pillows are well developed in the upper part of the sequence but become much more angular and plate-like with increasing depth. It is postulated that the entire sequence of silts and sands foundered all at once as a result of a disturbance related to an advancing glacier.
30066137|Lava flows and other igneous rocks become magnetized in the direction of the local geomagnetic field when they cool down after their formation. Similarly, sediments acquire a weak magnetic polarization on deposition. The mean direction of magnetization of series of recent lava flows and sediments has been determined; it is found that these mean directions agree closely with the theoretical dipole field. This field is the field due to a geocentric axial magnetic dipole. The conclusion is therefore drawn that the mean position of the magnetic poles (taken over a period of several thousand years) coincides with the geographic poles. Assuming that the same is true for the geological past, the position of the geographic poles can be defined within fairly narrow limits by using the mean direction of magnetization of older rocks. Measurements on igneous rocks, of Tertiary and Quaternary age and from Europe only, are available. It is concluded that the large amount of polar wandering suggested by Kreichgauer, Kppen and Wegener, and Milankovitch cannot be reconciled with the new data. If polar wandering has taken place at all, it has not exceeded 5-10 since Eocene times.
30059298|Laminated, diatomaceous sediments of the Gulf of California consist of regularly alternating light-colored (diatom-rich) and dark-colored (clay-rich) laminae, approximately 2 mm. thick. The mean contents of opal (as diatom frustules) and quartz in the laminae, determined by X-ray diffraction methods, are: light-colored laminae, 52.4 per cent opal and 7.0 per cent quartz; dark-colored laminae, 26.5 per cent opal and 10.0 per cent quartz. The laminae cannot be distinguished on the basis of the contained diatom assemblages, only on the total contents of biogenous and terrigenous materials. Rates of deposition, determined by radiocarbon dating of organic and carbonate carbon in selected core sections, demonstrate that one light-colored lamina and one dark-colored lamina are deposited in a year, and a couplet of laminae constitute a varve. Phytoplankton production in the central Gulf of California is reasonably constant throughout the year, but river discharge fluctuates greatly during a year as a result of torrential summer rains in coastal Sonora and Sinaloa. Terrigenous sediment supply to the central Gulf is therefore highly variable. Calculations of rates of accumulation of opal and quartz in the laminae using the data on lamina compositions and thicknesses demonstrate that the varves originate by a more or less constant rate of accumulation of biogenous material and an annually increased rate of accumulation of terrigenous material as a result of the summer floods.
30063932|The island of Barbados, West Indies, was an area of tectonic emergence during the Pleistocene. As Barbados was uplifted, reef tracts formed around the island. The interaction of gradual tectonic uplift of the island and glacio-eustatic sea level fluctuations has resulted in the formation of a complex, terraced "coral cap." Each individual terrace represents an elevated reef tract and is therefore constructional rather than erosional in origin. Subsequent to formation, the reef terraces have been abraded by waves and subjected to minor faulting; in particular, wave abrasion has extensively modified the morphology of some of the terraces. Radiometric dating of successive reef terraces suggests periods of high sea level and associated individual reef tract developments about 82,000, 105,000, and 125,000 years ago. The next higher group of terraces was formed between 170,000 and 230,000 years ago; the rest of the terraces were formed more than 250,000 years ago. Marked interruptions in the development of well-defined reef terraces from Recent to 80,000 years ago and from 130,000 to 170,000 years ago apparently record prolonged periods of relatively low sea level. The ages of the reef terraces compare closely with times of maximum summer solar radiation in the Northern hemisphere and therefore lend strong support to the astronomical theory of climatic change.
10.1086/673265|The Archean nucleus of Laurentia, the Superior province, formed between 2.7 and 2.6 Ga. There is little record of sediment deposition on the craton for 100 m.yr. until deposition of the Huronian clastic sedimentary rocks (412 km thick) began along the south-central margin of the Superior province between 2.5 and 2.2 Ga. Huronian detrital zircon ages (
30059397|The history of the Payette and Idaho formations and their place in the literature is reviewed. Previous to 1928 the formations were mapped as a unit and undifferentiated. Evidence is presented which shows that the true Payette formation is exposed only on the flanks of the down warp which comprises the great Snake River plains. Its characteristic occurrence is between two great lava extrusions. It has a characteristic lithology and a flora of Miocene age. The Idaho formation occupies the surface over much of the plains area and was formerly referred to as Payette and Idaho formations. It possesses a great thickness and overlies the Columbia River basalt and the Owyhee rhyolite. It has a characteristic lithology and a fauna and flora of Pliocene and later age. By the revision, new age relations, stratigraphic positions, and areal distribution are established but no confusion results because at the same time the originally assigned names and ages, which are now established in the literature, may be retained.
30062113|Xenocrysts and xenoliths from three Ithaca kimberlite localities are consistent with derivation from mantle depths of less than 150 km. Mantle mineral assemblages reconstructed from xenocrysts and rare 2-4 mineral fragments include spinel and garnet peridotites, and garnet pyroxenites. The Cr-rich garnets, pyroxenes, and spinels and the subcalcic diopsides commonly found in mantle xenoliths from other kimberlites are apparently absent. Secondary pargasitic amphibole attributed to mantle metasomatism is found associated with pyrope garnet. Al-rich pyroxenes and spinels suggest that Al-spinel lherzolites of the type commonly found in alkali basalts, but rarely found in kimberlites, occur. Some of the spinels are the most aluminous ever reported from kimberlites. These Al-spinel lherzolites suggest either a fossil high geothermal gradient or a very undepleted mantle in the Ithaca region. Fragments of presumed crustal origin include a suite of Mg-rich minerals which may belong to a granulite carbonate assemblage, small mafic syenite xenoliths, and clinopyroxene and garnet xenocrysts similar to minerals found in basic to intermediate composition granulites. The Ithaca basement is probably an extension of the Grenville metamorphic terrain, and the lower crust may be in the granulite facies. The Ithaca kimberlites are kimberlites on the basis of their whole rock compositions and mineral components, yet they lack the deep mantle fragments found in other kimberlites. The Ithaca kimberlites may have been finally emplaced by explosive eruptions from depths of less than 150 km.
30079437|The posteruption readjustment of landscapes to major explosive volcanic eruptions is one of the most dramatic processes in physical sedimentology and geomorphology. Large ignimbriteemplacing eruptions from rhyolitic caldera volcanoes can form new landscapes over >10
30065741|Andalusite (And) and sillimanite (Sil) occur in well-defined zones in the Ballachulish aureole. In most of the aureole's sillimanite-bearing rocks, sillimanite grain diameters range from  2 m to  10 m. The boundary between prograde andalusite and prograde sillimanite is constrained to a zone of max. 30 m width upgrade of the muscovite + quartz = andalusite + K-feldspar +
30079654|Published free-energy data on carbonates in the system
30055889|In southern Oregon east of the Cascade Mountains a varied series of Tertiary lavas is cut by the northern continuation of the Basin Range faults, giving rise principally to relatively undissected horst and graben structure rather than to tilted fault-block mountains. The tensional origin of these faults is indicated by definite normal faulting, curving, and zigzag faults, step faults, circular fault basins, volcanic activity parallel to the faults, absence of folds, thrust faults, or other pressure effects, and by the even distribution of faults rather than their local concentration in zones of initial failure.
30067283|Colloidal clay of the montmorillonite-beidellite group extracted from the Putnam soil of Missouri was studied under the petrographic microscope while undergoing flocculation. The floccules were relatively coarse aggregates so well oriented as to resemble crystals. They were platy in shape, resembling in that respect the mineral in a bedded clay shale. It is suggested that bedding in shale may originate in part in the colloids contributed to it, that clay may be carried far seaward as a colloid and be flocculated and deposited in coarser floccules, and that clay partings and films in limestone may originate from flocculated clay colloids. The texture of fire clays is contrasted with that of shale.
30081019|Analyses of along-the-coast variation of inshore bathymetry, rates of change of the shoreline, shoreline orientation, swash zone sediment, and width of the active sand zone on Horn Island, Mississippi, show a strong periodicity of 7.2 km, or about one-third of the island length. The island's bathymetry consists of three well-developed echelon (oblique) bars. All of the attributes with periodicities near 7.2 km are in phase with variations in the inshore bathymetry.
30061056|Cluster analysis of 352 garnets from kimberlites, associated xenoliths, and diamonds has allowed recognition of 12 chemically coherent groups, on the basis of
30066387|Two Precambrian mafic dike swarms, differentiated Archean metadolerites and Late Precambrian dolerites, intrude Archean rocks of the Beartooth Mountains. The trends of the dike swarms are analyzed by the use of contour diagrams of measurements of dike attitudes and histograms of dike lengths derived from maps. Both methods show that: (1) trends followed by the Precambrian dikes are essentially the same as the fracture pattern of the Archean rocks, and (2) Late Precambrian dolerites have essentially the same dike trends as the Archean metadolerites. Thus the Archean fracture pattern exerted a strong influence on later intrusion and/or deformation. The dike trends are complex, but clearly show that the N. 65 W. direction was normal to the axis of principal extension. Contorted Archean metadolerite dikes with northeast trend are found mainly in two areas. The dikes are of uniform thickness and lack cataclasis. In one locality, a contorted dike cuts a straight dike of the same dike swarm. Some leopard-rock dikes are also contorted and have central and border zones that remain intact throughout. Detailed study of two contorted dikes shows that the folding is complex, and the fold geometry shows no relationship between nearby dikes or between dikes and the fabric of the country rocks. The contorted dikes are analogous to primary ptygmatic structures and were probably injected into ductile country rocks which retained residual stresses along northeast-trending fractures that were essentially normal to the axis of principal compression. Thus dike trends in this direction are often discontinuous as well as contorted.
30057348|Studies of the continental shelves off Labrador and the west coast of southeast Alaska suggest that there are marked topographical similarities between these and the Norwegian shelf. A large longitudinal channel or depression is present outside the northeast coast of Labrador, running almost parallel to the coast for more than 400 km., with depths of 300-400 fathoms. Another submarine arcuate channel of smaller dimensions runs parallel to the coast for about 140 km. north of Belle Isle. In the Yakutat Bay region of Alaska and in the Cross Sound area similar, but less significant, channels are present. Both in the Labrador and in the Alaskan area large transverse depressions on the shelf terminate landward in a relatively steep slope which is located along the line of the longitudinal channels. The features are thought to indicate that these present land areas are bordered by major fracture zones along which dislocations took place during the Cenozoic uplift.
30070773|A major tectono-metamorphic event affected the southern half of the Northern Marginal Zone of the Limpopo Belt at 2.0 Ga. Structural analysis along a 43 km-long profile perpendicular to strike shows extension inclined toward the northeast, extension parallel to axes of folds that uplift the southeast of the section (i.e., the Central Zone of the Limpopo Belt), and dextral shear. These deformation patterns developed coevally. The lineations form distinct, tightly clustered groups that occur together in the profile: there is no evidence for superimposed deformation or deformed lineations, nor are lineations observed cross-cutting each other. This single episode of deformation can therefore be called transpression. Petrographic and thermobarometric evidence support this kinematic picture, in that decreases of both pressure (2.5 kb) and temperature (150C) are documented from southeast to northwest across strike.
30063863|Cata-, meso-, and epinorms are proposed for metamorphic rocks. The catanorm is essentially the CIPW norm calculated on the basis of molecular percentages and applied to high-grade metamorphic rocks. The mesonorm, which reflects mineral associations of metamorphic rocks of the mesozone, is a new norm. Rules for its calculation are presented in detail. The epinorm is outlined briefly. Quantitative chemico-mineralogical classification of metamorphic rocks can be achieved by recalculating chemical analyses of metamorphic rocks into the "standard" minerals of these metanorms.
30079726|The melting relationships of five rocks from the alkaline igneous complex at Kungnat, southwest Greenland, were determined in the presence of 25 wt percent water at pressures to 3 kbar. Run durations varied between 4 and 27 days. The rocks studied are samples from the two layered syenite bodies comprising the complex and from late granite sheets intruding the syenites. The experimental results are consistent with the petrogenetic hypothesis that there were four magma portions tapped from an already differentiated magma chamber, with each subsequently differentiating along independent paths after emplacement. They suggest that the magmas were emplaced at low water pressures at temperatures about 1,000C, with water pressure reaching about 1.5 kbar in the stages of crystallization when amphibole was precipitated as reaction rims around pyroxenes. The phase relationships in the syenites differ from those previously reported for calc-alkaline plutonic series from tonalite to granite mainly by (1) the wide temperature interval for crystallization of two feldspars (feldspars did not reach equilibrium compositions) and (2) the absence of amphibole through the melting interval because of the low dissociation temperature of the amphibole. All rocks investigated are at least 75 percent melted at temperatures 100C above the solidus.
30063624|Recognition that the Fisher Tuff (Unimak Island, Alaska) was deposited on the leeside of an 500700mhigh mountain range (Tugamak Range) more than 10 km away from its source played a major role in defining pyroclastic flows as momentumdriven currents. We reexamined the Fisher Tuff to evaluate whether deposition from expanded turbulent clouds can better explain its depositional features. We studied the tuff at 89 sites and sieved bulk samples from 27 of those sites. We find that the tuff consists of a complex sequence of deposits that record the evolution of the eruption from a buoyant plume (22 km) that deposited 0.2 km
30078283|A planetary albedo model is developed to examine the influence of geologic variables (specifically, land-sea distribution, temperature, sea ice, vegetation, and cloud cover) on the solar radiation absorbed by the Earth. By specifying conditions 100 million years ago, based on a paleo-continental reconstruction which includes paleogeography, and on interpretation of the paleoclimatic record, we compare the planetary albedo and absorbed solar radiation of the mid-Cretaceous and present day. The warm, equable mid-Cretaceous, characterized by extensive inland seas, provides the greatest known geologic and climatic contrast from the present day for which boundary conditions can be specified. We compute an increase of 2.3% in global mean absorbed solar radiation for 100 million years ago using present day cloud cover. Paleogeography and land surface albedo are important components of the change. Although the planetary albedo is only one component of the climate system, the results have considerable significance for the study of paleoclimates. The increase in absorbed solar energy during the Cretaceous is of the right magnitude to help maintain the warm global climate.
30063991|Dune sand from the Ka'u Desert, southwest flank of Kilauea volcano, Hawaii, is moderately well-sorted (
30079944|We present evidence for two distinct stages of Tertiary metamorphism (M
30080205|The age and inferred tectonic setting of the 1.76 Ga Horse Creek anorthosite complex (HCAC) in the Laramie Mountains of southeastern Wyoming place important constraints on the origin of middle Proterozoic anorthosite complexes. The 100 km
30079918|The heterogeneously deformed Longtown metagranite intrudes mylonites and felsic metatuff in the Carolina terrane in northeast South Carolina. Structural and UPb zircon geochronologic data suggest that the felsic metatuff was emplaced at 550.5  5.9 Ma, prior to the development of ductile deformation fabric in the Carolina terrane. Structural data indicate that the Longtown metagranite is late synkinematic relative to the ductile deformation fabric, and UPb zircon geochronologic data suggest that the Longtown metagranite was emplaced at 551.2  2.6 Ma. The geochronologic data from this study, together with previously published data of other workers, suggests that the entire Carolina terrane experienced pervasive ductile deformation ca. 557535 Ma. Substantial differences between the geologic history of the Carolina terrane and the geologic history of the southeastern Laurentian margin are interpreted to indicate that the Carolina terrane is exotic relative to Laurentia, that it originated outside of the Paleozoic Iapetus Ocean, and that it may not have been accreted to Laurentia until the late Paleozoic.
30060527|This paper describes a method of teaching vertebrate paleontology. Because of lack of illustrative material for this subject in the small colleges, difficulties are often encountered. By letting the students make their own clay models of extinct vertebrates, the situation is improved.
30065005|Four pavements from central and western Canada display uneven pavement surfaces, abundant tilted and inverted stones, reversed lee ends, fine crossing striae in various directions, weak striae around curves, worn facets distributed evenly on rounded stones, and till fabric girdles; collectively inconsistent with the popular concept of stones firmly held in till being abraded by overriding ice. Based on these data, new models are offered that involve stone rotation in viscously deforming till to produce deformation pavements. In the specific model, increased pore water pressure under moving ice locally mobilizes previously formed lodgment and/or erosional pavements into deformation pavements. In the more general model stones released from the sole of a wet-based glacier rotate, interact, and settle into a viscous suspension zone in deforming till according to velocity, density, and viscosity gradients. Stone axes and striae settle into various orientations following dewatering and till stiffening. Conceptually, pavement types include lodgment, deformation, meltout, and erosional formed by end-member processes in a continuum schematically depicted in a pavement prism. Pavements of this study are hybrids, and probably so are many others. An abundance of deformation-dominated pavements in an area has important implications as a record for rapid glacier flow that influences the stability of ice sheets.
30056092|Observations have shown three joint systems other than the columnar system for which the Devil's Tower is famous. These systems are conspicuous in the basal cliffs where the joints are arranged in peripheral, radial, and up-curving groups. It is believed that these joint systems indicate an original shaftlike mass which has been only slightly modified to give talus accumulations. Similarity of jointing in one group of volcanic necks and its absence in known laccoliths seem to favor the former origin of the Devil's Tower.
30068650|Six major replacements among marine faunas have been described from the North American Late Cambrian to Silurian stratigraphic record. Analysis of these replacements suggests that they may be grouped into two basic types. One type includes replacements within the same general organismal groups that had the same modes of life and trophic relationships. These replacements, which occurred during the Late Cambrian and in the Late Ordovician to Early Silurian interval, took place in response to eustatic (glacio-eustatic in at least the Late Ordovician to Early Silurian) sea level changes during which the areal extent and number of shallow marine environments diminished and expanded. The second type, which occurred during the Middle Ordovician and the Latest Cambrian to Early Ordovician interval, took place in response to major ecologic changes that involved destruction and re-establishment of basic trophic relationships. Animals with modes of life different from those of their predecessors came to inhabit marine benthic life zones and communities in those life zones left vacant by former occupants as a consequence of the changes. In the Middle Ordovician replacements, the change from an expanding to contracting proto-Atlantic Ocean with related formation of lands from prior continental rises appears to have been a primary factor behind the environmental and ecologic changes. Stromatolitic heads and mats spread widely across shallow marine environments of the platforms during the Latest Cambrian to Early Ordovician. The algae provided an environmental resource that was new in terms of its breadth of distribution. Its spread appears to have taken place in response to long-term relative tectonic stability of the continental platform sites.
30081269|The Pampean Orogen in the Eastern Sierras Pampeanas contains two paired magmatic belts, an eastern calcalkaline magmatic belt and a western peraluminous granite/highgrade metasedimentary belt. The relationship between the two belts and their relative timing are constrained through new UPb zircon ages on granodiorites, monzogranites, and associated volcanic rocks from Sierra Norte and the easternmost Sierras de Crdoba. These ages indicate that calcalkaline arc magmatism was active over at least a 30m.yr. period from 555 to 525 Ma, terminating at the same time that peraluminous magmatism and associated highgrade metamorphism began in the adjoining metasedimentary belt (525515 Ma). These temporal relationships and the metamorphic characteristics of the two belts appear to be in conflict with previously proposed models for the Pampean Orogeny as a continentalcollision event, but they are consistent with models that propose eastwarddipping subduction of oceanic crust initiated at ca. 555 Ma, followed by ridgetrench collision at ca. 525 Ma. Similaraged belts of arcrelated and peraluminous magmatism occur elsewhere along the paleoPacific margin of Gondwana, suggesting that similar processes of subduction and noncollisional peraluminous magmatism occurred along much of the Gondwana margin in late Neoproterozoic to Cambrian time.
30068744|Plots of Sr and Nd isotopic ratios, and La/Sm ratios of MORB from the Pacific and Atlantic oceans show a decrease in variability with increasing spreading rate, a decrease in the average value of the Sr isotopic ratio and La/Sm ratio, and an increase in the average Nd isotopic ratio. Pb isotopic ratios do not exhibit a similar correlation. In modeling this data we assume a mantle source for MORB that is heterogeneous in concentration, isotope ratios, and melting on a scale much smaller than the region from which melts are drawn. Viewed on a larger scale the mantle source would appear homogeneous by averaging over a fixed distribution of heterogeneous material. The Sr isotopic composition of melt derived from such a source is calculated using a simple sub-ridge melting and segregation model. If increasingly incomplete extraction of sub-ridge melt correlates with an increase in spreading rate, this model generates Sr isotopic variations similar to those seen in the MORB data set. This illustrates that melt extraction processes may well significantly modify mantle isotopic signatures, which has important implications for deciding whether isotope and REE ratios seen to vary in MORB should be attributed to process (i.e., melt extraction) or to the mantle source.
10.1086/683334|The Archean Hutti-Maski greenstone belt (HMGB) and the south Kolar greenstone belt (SKGB) are the two richest gold provinces in India. Here, we present results of texturally constrained U-Th-Pb
30081270|Although terra rossa has long been thought to form by residual dissolution of limestone and/or by accumulation of detrital mud, ash, or dust on preexisting karst limestones, we present conclusive new field and petrographic evidence that terra rossa forms by replacement of limestone by authigenic clay at a moving metasomatic front several centimeters wide. The red clays major chemical elements, Al, Fe, and Si, probably come from dissolved eolian dust. The replacement of calcite by clay exhibits a serrated, microstylolitic texture that helps prove that replacement happens not by dissolutionprecipitation, as conventional wisdom has it, but by pressure solution of calcite driven by the crystallization stress generated by the growth of clay crystals. The acid produced by the isovolumetric replacement of limestone by clay quickly dissolves out additional porosity/permeability in an adjacent slice of limestone within the front, triggering a reactiveinfiltration instability that should, theoretically, convert the moving reaction front into a set of wormholes, then funnels, then sinksthe very karst morphology that in nature does contain the terra rossa itself. This beautifully explains why terra rossa and karst are associated.
30068707|To study correlations between petrography and provenance of modern sands, and thus contribute to improved interpretation of ancient sandstones, this study reports on the petrography of 218 modern South American beach sands obtained from a shoreline of 25,300 km. Judged by quartz-feldspar-rock fragment ratios, there are five major associations: Pacific (24:16:60), Argentina (28:14:58), Brazil (91:4:5), Caribbean East (59:8:23), and Caribbean West (54:17:29). Study of potash feldspar, volcanic rock fragments, and the
30081183|Major element compositions of glass inclusions in olivine and plagioclase phenocrysts from representative Mariana arc lavas show that mafic Mariana arc liquids are tholeiitic and not highalumina, implying that the highalumina characteristic of these lavas reflects accumulation of plagioclase. Glass inclusions also show the common occurrence of felsic melts previously unrecognized among Mariana arc lavas and indicate that felsic melts are important, if cryptic, components of this magmatic system. Primitive, mantlederived melts have not been found. Glass inclusion data indicate that the arc magma systems sampled by erupting lavas are compositionally bimodal, with Ferich mafic and highsilica (66 to 76% SiO
30060112|The observed means and variances of data occurring as proportions or percentages may be used to estimate analogous parameters of a theoretical open array, X, which, on closure, yields a new array, Y, whose means and variances are exactly those of the observed data, but in which the covariances have been generated entirely by closure. The correlations in Y, found directly from the means and variances of X, are appropriate null values against which the observed correlations may be tested, A testing procedure is outlined, and a practical example is given.
30064206|The technique described involves (1) collection from the field of an oriented block of till or englacial debris, (2) laboratory reorientation of the block on the stage of a large two-circle contact goniometer, (3) measurement of the orientation of critical parameters of particles in the 3-40-mm. size range, and (4) treatment of the results by standard methods or, where applicable, by a useful new statistical test. Total error in orientation measurements of individual particles runs as low as 6-8, on the average. Initial applications of the technique show that 6-8 hours are commonly required for a complete fabric analysis.
10.1086/682278|The East Asian monsoon forms a significant element of the global climatic system. We here present detailed sedimentologic investigations of the Oligocene to early Miocene succession in the Sikouzi section, northern China, to determine monsoon evolution during this time. The particle-size characteristics and grain surface structures, in combination with the large-scale cross-bedding arrangements, graded bedding laminations, and small-scale deformation structures, type the Oligocene red beds in association I as eolian, attributable to large dune forms. Rare earth element results imply that the Oligocene sediments are possibly sourced from a local provenance in the West Qinling Mountains, excluding a more regional wind system during this time. Packages of thick-bedded dark-red mudstone/silty mudstone as well as subordinate medium-bedded pale-gray fine- to medium-grained sandstone and thin-bedded gypsum, with the massive mudstone/silty mudstone taking dominance, point to a lacustrine deposition with deeper-lake phases taking dominance for the early Miocene association II. This significant transition in depositional environments, while possibly linked to local tectonic and/or global eustatic events, is more likely to reflect a shift of regional paleoclimates from arid to more humid regimes. We attribute the shift to the impact of an active East Asian summer monsoon. Our results, combined with those for previously well-defined loess in the early Miocene, demonstrate activity (onset or possibly intensification) of an East Asian monsoon system around the Oligocene-Miocene boundary.
30059147|On five Lambert equal-area maps and three Lambert equal-area "composites" of the world in Phanerozoic time are plotted distributions of evaporites, tillites, coal, eolian sands, and radiolarian cherts. The paleolatitude distributions of tillites and evaporites confirm the plausibility of the view that the Earth's magnetic field has approximated to a geocentric dipole whose axis paralleled the Earth's spin axis throughout Phanerozoic time. Coal formed in a wide range of latitudes. Paleolatitude distributions of oceanic cherts support those dynamic models of the atmosphere that require the later Mesozoic and Tertiary high-pressure subtropical belts to have been more or less stable features of atmospheric circulation. Paleolatitude distributions of eolian sands provide inconclusive evidence for the extent of these belts. Though rainfall and temperature have varied at a particular paleolatitude, marked equatorward shrinkage of the subtropical high-pressure belts during ice-sheet glaciations and marked poleward expansion during ice-free epochs is not evident from geological observations. There is a need for quantitative work on these problems and for an integration of the continental with the oceanic data.
30079999|This article reports the first joint paleomagnetic and UPb geochronologic study of Precambrian diabase dikes in the Anabar Shield and adjacent Riphean cover of Siberia. It was undertaken to allow comparison with similar published studies in Laurentia and to test Proterozoic reconstructions of Siberia and Laurentia. An easttrending Kuonamka dike yielded a provisional UPb baddeleyite emplacement age of
30061978|The eight bivalve life habit groups-(1) epifaunal suspension feeders, (2) borers, (3) deep-burrowing siphonate suspension feeders, (4) infaunal nonsiphonate suspension feeders, (5) infaunal mucus tube feeders, (6) shallow-burrowing siphonate suspension feeders, (7) labial palp deposit feeders, and (8) infaunal siphonate deposit feeders-are distinct with regard to escape potentials. Escape potentials (i.e., the maximum depth of burial from which the members of an animal group or taxon are able to dig out and successfully reestablish themselves in normal feeding position) have been determined through laboratory experiments for 25 species of bivalves. Escape potentials range from < 5 cm to > 50 cm. Major factors controlling escape potentials are bivalve life habits, degree of mantle fusion and siphon formation, and sediment type. Examination of sedimentary structures formed by escaping bivalves has revealed that, while all species produce what appears in vertical section to be a nested series of inverted cones, horizontal sections show a cross-sectional outline of the bivalve shell. X-ray photography shows that some bivalves have escape orientations (anterior uppermost) distinctly different from normal feeding orientations (posterior uppermost). The escape potentials of the various bivalve life habit groups are a selective factor in the formation of modern and fossil communities, bias fossil assemblages, and probably were important in evolutionary radiations. Because of their escape burrows, escape behavior, and distribution, bivalves are excellent indicators of sedimentary environments and rates of sedimentation.
30065790|Formation of a garnet clinopyroxenite restite may have important physicochemical consequences for deep crustal and mantle processes. We have experimentally simulated the dehydration-melting of amphibolite, and report the modal and compositional evoltuion of the mafic granulitic mineral assemblage (the restite), with an emphasis on garnet. A natural, low-K, calcic amphibolite was powdered and run in sealed, gold capsules in a piston-cylinder apparatus at 10 kbar, 750-1000C, 1 to 9-day runs, and
30056332|The craters on the moon appear to have been formed by meteoritic impact rather than by volcanism. This mode of origin is suggested by their size, shape, distribution, associated features, and other considerations. Many of the aspects of lunar craters, such as their circular shape and the presence of central peaks, which have been considered as disproof of their impact origin, are the result of the crater's being formed by explosion rather than by percussion. Variation of the physiographic form of these craters, with increase in their size from small, cup-shaped pits to large, walled plains, is mainly due to modification and melting by superheated molten lava, generated by the impact in the case of the larger craters. Maria are probably extensive lava plains generated by the impact of bodies of asteroidal dimensions and were formed relatively late in lunar history, as is indicated by the physiographic youth of the superimposed post-maria craters. Aside from the shape of the craters and the maria, the small mass of the moon and its low internal pressure make volcanism unlikely in the lunar environment.
30070739|Data are reported for oriented coal samples taken on traverses oblique to two high angle normal faults in underground mine workings in the Southern Coalfield of the Sydney Basin, N.S.W. Apart from faulting and regional warping, relatively little tectonic deformation has occurred in this portion of the basin. Four oriented sections cut normal to bedding at known azimuth were prepared from each of twenty-one coal samples. Vitrinite mean maximum reflectance (
30056505|Pisolites up to 13 mm. in diameter occur in depressions in a veneer of calcium carbonate which mantles rubble in an abandoned mine. They were formed by precipitation from mine water, and the high polish that characterizes some specimens is due to agitation caused by dripping water. The period of formation is 35-42 years.
30062320|The high-pressure breakdown of Mg-cordierite to talc + sillimanite + quartz in the hydrous system and to enstatite, sillimanite, and quartz in the wet and dry systems was determined experimentally. The latter reaction was determined by indirect means because of melting in the system for
30060180|Phenocrysts of nepheline-kalsilite perthite,2 of average composition 72  3 mol. per cent Ks, surrounded by a nepheline margin of composition 40 mol. per cent Ks in parallel orientation occur in the lava of the Kabfumu flow in North Kivu, Belgian Congo. The perthitic core consists mainly of two nepheline phases, Ne I (59 mol. per cent Ks) and Ne II (35 mol. per cent Ks), d-kalsilite with
30063953|The Charlestown-Green Hill barrier beach-lagoon complex lies along Rhode Island's south shore. Barrier beach and tidal delta sands, lagoonal fine sediments, and lag deposits have been deposited on a base of glacial till, outwash, and glaciofluvial sand. The beach and lagoonal sediments have been derived mainly from reworking of glacial sediments. Tidal currents have built a sand delta at the inshore end of an inlet, but sand on the barrier beach's lagoonal side has been introduced over the barrier. Fine sediments are deposited in the deeper areas of the lagoon. The barrier beach was formed at a lower sea level, and moved landward as the sea transgressed, with lagoonal deposition migrating with the barrier. The small size of this barrier places its base at a shallow depth, resulting in erosion of the entire seaward side by storm waves and also permitting considerable transport of sand across the barrier to the lagoon side. The barrier has remained small because of lack of sand supply. Thus lack of sand supply seems to be the dominant factor in allowing the landward migration of this barrier.
30059352|Amygdale minerals in the Tertiary basalt lavas of eastern Iceland have a well-marked zonal distribution; the flat-lying zones mapped in the field bear no relationship to the lava stratigraphy and are inferred to be approximately parallel to the original top of the lava pile. An independent method of deducing the position of this is available, depending on the fact that the intensity of the Tertiary dike swarm in the area everywhere diminishes upward; extrapolation gives the altitude of zero intensity, which is in good agreement with the altitude of the original top of the lavas deduced from the mineral zones. Both support the observation that the lavas thin up-dip, and the implications of this on the interpretation of the structure and geology of Iceland are discussed.
30068226|The Late Proterozoic Kuiseb Formation (Damara Sequence) of the Khomas Trough in Central Namibia consists of metapsammites (metagraywackes) and metapelites. Within the study area these rocks were metamorphosed under conditions above the first sillimanite isograd. The metamorphic grade is marked by assemblages containing sillimanite, staurolite, muscovite, and biotite in the pelitic schists, which indicate a temperature range of 600-660C at 3-4 kbar water vapor pressure for the regional metamorphism. The structural setting of the investigated area is characterized by two phases of deformation with folds varying from open asymmetric through tight to isoclinal and with a heterogeneous distribution of strain. Notwithstanding strong deformation and metamorphic recrystallization delicate sedimentary structures have been discovered in several localities. These include cross-stratification, cross-lamination, load structures, ball-and-pillow structures, flame structures, scour surfaces, flute casts and rip-up clasts, associated with graded bedding. A high proportion of the sedimentary structures are arranged in Bouma sequences. The well-preserved sedimentary features, unusual in such high-grade metamorphic rocks, has allowed a detailed fades analysis within the Kuiseb schists, proving that the studied sequence has been deposited by turbidity currents. The organization of the Kuiseb schists into large-scale and small-scale cyclic successions of progradational and retrogradational character as well as the lateral extent of major sedimentary units indicate deposition within an elongate submarine fan system. Paleocurrents measured from flute casts and sets of cross-laminae indicate a sediment transport along the basin axis of the Khomas Trough from the ENE to the WSW. This supports the contention that sediment supply into the trough was derived from an easterly source.
30084984|Tintina Trench marks one of the great faults in western North America extending about 600 miles from southeastern Yukon Territory to Yukon Flats in Alaska. Most of the trench appears to have been excavated by the Pelly and Yukon Rivers before they were deflected from the trench by Pleistocene ice. Offsets of geological units and regional trends indicate a right-hand movement along Tintina fault of from 220 to 260 miles. Two belts of late Proterozoic sediments and an intervening belt of older metamorphic rocks are best matched across the fault if a 260-mile displacement is assumed. A belt of Carboniferous (?) greenstone can be best matched across the fault if a 220-mile displacement is assumed. Regional trends flanking the southeastern part of Tintina fault are about parallel with the fault and offsets are difficult to establish, but adjacent to the northwestern part regional trends make angles as large as 70 degrees to the fault. The matching of these regional trends also requires restoration of a right-hand displacement of from 220 to 260 miles. Available evidence suggests that about 40 miles of transcurrent movement took place along the fault in lower Palaeozoic time and about 220 miles in Cretaceous time.
30071132|Late Quaternary sediment yields from the Isfjorden drainage area (
30079754|We propose a new method to describe quantitatively rock textures with a special emphasis on the spatial distributions of minerals. The method employs a statistical approach and examines probabilities for particular mineral pairs to occur for variable interpoint distances. The probability is measured by counting the number of point-pairs on digitized images of rock textures that are obtained with a computer-aided digital image processor. Several problems in obtaining textural images and processing the data that were encountered in the actual procedures are reviewed. The method is applied to two rock samples, granite and contact metamorphic hornfels. The method is useful in examining the extent of homogeneity and randomness of mineral distributions and spatial correlations among minerals of different kinds.
30078385|In the lower 11 km of its course around the resurgent dome of Long Valley caldera, the Owens River displays two parallel meander belts, comparable in meander wavelength and amplitude but unequal in age, elevation, and discharge. It appears the two belts take turns carrying the river's flow depending on whether the dome is inflating or subsiding. The inboard belt, some 200-300 m closer to the dome and now 30-60 cm higher in elevation, contains an underfit stream and is now being abandoned. The outboard channel formed in a series of avulsions apparently induced by recent uplift of the dome. In the upper 4 km of the two-channel reach, avulsion occurred between 1856 and 1878 as inferred from the original U.S. Coast and Geodetic Survey mapping in the caldera. Avulsion had already occurred by 1856 in the lower 4 km of the river, suggesting a possible migration of the center of uplift through time. Muted remains of older oxbows in the outboard meander belt indicate an earlier occupancy by the river, and thus an earlier episode of uplift, separated from the current uplift by an era of subsidence. More ancient meander scars at the inboard and outboard limits of the floodplain imply additional earlier episodes of inflation and subsidence. Projection of surveyed topographic profiles across the river's floodplain to the center of the dome suggests that cumulative recent uplift is on the order of 15-35 m, or about 30-70 times greater than that measured for the caldera since 1979 (Castle et al. 1984). The duration of the era of subsidence can be estimated by comparing oxbow densities in the old and new meander belts in the upper two-channel reach; the data suggest that the dome may have been in subsidence for a period of at least 500 to 1000 yr ending about 150 yr ago. No eruptions of the Long Valley volcanic system have accompanied these inflations and subsidings. However, the 14th century eruptive activity of the Inyo Craters volcanic chain may have coincided in time with the subsidence implied by the river's occupancy of the inboard meander belt.
30075112|The recent discovery of a block-fault with vertical displacement of several hundred feet in the rarely disturbed Paleozoic rocks of the Upper Mississippi Valley is reported, and the faulted area described. The age of the faulting is problematical.
30059173|A detailed comparison of the Permo-Pennsylvanian strata in the Sangre de Cristo, San Juan, Crested Butte, and other areas of southwestern Colorado and north-central New Mexico, shows that the Permo-Pennsylvanian mountains in southwestern Colorado occupied the position of the present San Luis Valley, La Garita Hills, Cochetopa Hills, Vernal Mesa, Uncompahgre Plateau, and probably extended even farther to the northwest. This ancient highland is named the "San Luis Mountains."
30055637|By the scaling off of side corners and edges, blocks of massive rocks commonly develop into bowlders. In geologic literature this type of weathering has been rather generally ascribed to alternating heat and cold. In this paper the various current ex planations are considered, and the conclusion is reached that hydration and similar chemical processes, rather than temperature changes, are the principal causes of exfoliation.
30060837|Buckling experiments with layered wax models including anisotropic materials have resulted in folds whose geometry is very close to the condition implied by the term similar. Therefore, when a field occurrence is found that approximates similar folding, genesis by buckling alone is among the possibilities to be entertained. This possibility is an addition to the one emphasized by Ramsay and de Sitter, where folds approximating similar folds form by buckling combined with homogeneous flattening. If the folded rocks contain lineations, poles of the lineations can be plotted stereographically. It is suggested that a great-circle pattern in the resulting plot is not evidence for or against the buckling hypothesis but that comparison of the attitudes of the lineations on the intrados and the extrados of a layer may be a clue to the folds' genesis. The conclusions concern only folds that are close to similar in geometry. Mechanisms for generating folds that are exactly similar are excluded from discussion.
30079451|Extensive series of ripple mark at various horizons have been observed in Silurian rock salt of the Salina formation. Anhydrite lamellae which show similar ripple mark have been observed in the clear salt mass. These are the first large-scale observation of ripple mark in rock salt. The only other published observation was made in 1908 on small ripples in a rock-salt drill core of Permian age from the Zechstein in Hesse.
30062589|The dominant transportation agent within the extramarginal zones to continental glaciers is for most of the time exclusively the fierce anticyclonic storm wind directed outward normal to the glacier front. Transportation by running water during the remainder of the year is almost exclusively by meltwater. The volume of this water over the outwash plain fluctuates between trickling braided streams and floods covering the plain on warm days, so that the boulders carried in small icebergs from the glacier front either are buried within the deposits or are left stranded upon the plain. During the longer period of wind dominance there result pebble bands (pavements), ventifacts, etched boulders, dunes, and loess deposits-all of them extramarginal to the glacier.
30056652|This paper describes a laboratory investigation of problems connected with frost heaving. The principles developed have applications in geology, plant physiology, and engineering. Pressure effects accompanying the freezing of soils are due to the growth of ice crystals and not change in volume. Pressure is developed in the direction of crystal growth, which is determined chiefly by the direction of cooling. Heaving is often greater than can be explained by expansion. It is due to the segregation of water as it freezes, more water being drawn up by molecular cohesion. The chief factors controlling segregation and excessive heaving are: size of soil particle, amount of water available, size and percentage of voids, and rate of cooling. The pressure developed is limited by the tensile strength of the water. More water may be concentrated in the surface soil through ice segregation followed by thawing than in any other way. Segregation causes shrinkage cracks below if the supply of water is limited or the soil very impermeable. Differential heaving is due chiefly to differences in soil texture and in the amount of available water, but differences in the kind and amount of soil cover are also factors.
30068731|Published local relative Holocene sea level histories, derived from various dated materials at positions along the United States east coast, fail to agree on the timing and magnitude of sea level change. Published eustatic curves suffer the same disagreement and have lead to recent declarations in the literature that a true eustatic history is unattainable. This has been generally accepted by workers in light of the myriad of complicating factors which have been identified as influencing the position of sea level through time. In this study, a single local relative sea level curve (Kraft 1976) has been analyzed for elevation and temporal errors resulting from fine sediment compaction, paleotidal-range, and neotectonic phenomena. Additionally, the cross-latitude history of vertical crustal velocity along the United States east coast is suggested as providing a means of correlating adjacent curves which have been corrected in such a manner. This enhances the applicability of a local relative curve for purposes of understanding the regional sedimentology and stratigraphy associated with Holocene sea level rise. It is suggested that the pursuit of eustasy may best be conducted through the use of corrected, globally distributed, local relative sea level histories which together define regional trends and non-eustatic factors. In this way the histories of eustatic and non-eustatic phenomena may be separated.
30081097|An Early Proterozoic paleosol that preserves Archean granite protolith textures occurs beneath the Lorrain Formation in the Early Proterozoic Huronian Supergroup near Ville Marie, Qubec. Textural, mineralogical, and geochemical comparisons between this "saprolith" and a modern weathering profile developed on the Devonian Toorongo granodiorite in eastern Australia indicate similarities that can be attributed to the effects of primary weathering reactions. The comparison also reveals anomalous features at Ville Marie that are caused by diagenetic reactions between the weathered granite and meteoric waters. K-metasomatism, in the form of sericite replacement of kandites, is ubiquitous in the Ville Marie saprolith zone and is ascribed to reaction of low Na/K meteoric waters with the weathered profile as they moved along a relatively permeable unconformity surface. Earlier diagenetic reactions may have produced calcite alteration occurring in a thin zone at the base of the profile, thought to represent the position of the paleowater Table. Elevated
30053571|The Marathon Basin of West Texas is a window into the southwestern end of the Ouachita system and formed as a response to north-to-northwest-directed late Paleozoic thrust faulting. Folds in the basin are elongate, trend northeast, and are highly non-cylindrical. Thickness and facies changes within the flysch sediments of the basin are coincident with the plunge of major anticlinoria. These features are superimposed on a pre-existing structural framework inherited from earlier deformation and modified by pre-, syn-, and post-tectonic sedimentation. Field, seismic, aeromagnetic, and deep well data indicate the presence of both northeast-trending frontal ramps and northwest-trending transverse ramps beneath the allochthonous rocks of the Marathon Basin. Evidence for reactivated northwest-trending features includes: (1) changes in plunge of first- and second-order folds; (2) large offsets in Devonian carbonate/top of basement seismic reflectors; (3) structure contours on Cretaceous rocks surrounding the basin; (4) dramatic changes in elevation of top of Ellenburger along strike; (5) variable tectonic stratigraphy and flysch thickness along strike; (6) a northwest-trending magnetic low through the middle of the basin; and (7) outcrop and well data for large-scale vertical movements along colinear northwest-trending features both north and south of the basin proper. These basement structural features (high-angle faults?) were inherited from Late Precambrian rifting and reactivated during Ouachita, Laramide, and Basin and Range events. Basement-influenced transverse structures affect the sedimentological and subsequent deformational histories of this and other fold-thrust belts around the world.
JG80051|Silicic segregation veins in the Basement Sill, Dry Valleys, Antarctica, represent fracture-filling liquids differentiated from mid-Jurassic Ferrar tholeiitic basalt magmas. Geochemical and mineralogical characterizations for several of these veins and for their host gabbros within centimeters of sharp contacts with the veins provide information about silicic liquid produced from basalt in closed systems. The Basement Sill silicic veins are coarse- to pegmatite-textured diorites (
30081170|Diamictites, especially those deposited before the breakup of Gondwana in the Late Carboniferous and Permian, have recently been suggested to represent ejecta deposits from large comet or meteorite impact events. This is in contrast to the commonly held interpretation that these rocks represent glaciomarine sedimentary deposits. To test this controversial hypothesis, we carried out a detailed petrographical study of over 75,000 mineral and rock clasts from a large number of Dwyka Group diamictite samples from localities covering an extensive part of the Karoo basin in southern Africa. No definitive evidence of impactdiagnostic shock metamorphic deformation in mineral or lithic clasts from any of these samples was detected. We conclude, therefore, that to date no unequivocal evidence for an impact origin of these diamictites in the South African stratigraphic record has been documented. What is more, the general hypothesis that some diamictites in the stratigraphic record could represent impact ejecta is not supported by firstorder observations of bona fide shock (impact) related phenomena in such rocks.
30059707|From a discussion of the relative number and mass of metallic and stony meteorite falls, the ratio of mass accretion is considered to lie between 2: 1 and 1 -.4. Since no precise value for the ratio is apparent, the mean composition of meteoritic accretion is computed for a range of ratios.
30061268|An analysis of the oxygen isotope content of ice of the englacial and basal zones of the Matanuska Glacier at its terminus reveals the origin of the ice and entrained debris. The decrease with depth in the
30070529|We present new stableisotope data for the Mesoproterozoic Franklin Marble from outcrops along an 80km traverse parallel to and across strike of the structural grain of the western New Jersey Highlands. Calcite and dolomite from marble have an average 
30084971|Several processes of energy transfer in the earth's mantle are examined: (1) gray radiation, (2) ambipolar diffusion of electron-hole pairs, (3) exciton transfer, and others. Using Rikitake's values of the electrical conductivity and correcting for the frequency dependence of the conductivity and the variation of the index of refraction with depth, the values for the radiative contribution to the heat flow are found to be appreciably larger than those estimated by Clark. Estimation of contributions from the electronic processes shows that conduction by excitons may play an important role in the lower parts of the mantle.
30064002|The physical and thermal properties of carbonatite magmas are estimated by analogy with alkali carbonate melts, which are ionic liquids, composed of discrete, unpolymerized ions. Carbonatite magmas are estimated to have low viscosity (on the order of
30063977|A synthetic foliated material made of mica flakes and NaCl has been compressed normal to the foliation, in plane strain, with and without interstitial brine, at room temperature. The experiments have employed confining pressures to 2,070 bars, and strain rates from
10.1086/662735|Plate convergence analysis in collisional orogens is usually based on the study of major contractional structures and strike-slip shear zones. Here we show how the structural analysis of extensional structures may report the regional or far stress field during relatively local, gravity-driven extensional collapse of a thickened continental crust and how this information may be used to constrain the broad vectors of plate convergence at that time. The Padrn migmatitic dome is a synconvergent extensional system developed in the axial zone of the Variscan belt exposed in the NW part of the Iberian Massif of Spain. This system affected the allochthonous and autochthonous sequences involved in Pangaeas assembly in Southern Europe. It includes three major extensional shear zones, which have been analyzed in detail to provide a wide ground data set for the discussion of the proposed model. The tectonic flow in the Padrn migmatitic dome and in other coeval structures is characterized by vectors ranging from parallel to oblique, in the latter case with a counterclockwise azimuth in relation to the trend of the orogenic belt. Our model suggests that the extensional collapse of the Variscan belt in NW Iberia would have developed if the convergence between Gondwana and Laurussia had not stopped and that it would have included a dextral component.
30068224|The microstructures and fabrics of naturally deformed intermediate composition plagioclase feldspars from the amphibolite-granulitic gneisses from the lower crust have been studied. Special interest in the effects of dynamic recrystallization and deformation fabrics has been taken. The plagioclase feldspars (An40-50) have undergone extensive ductile deformation by intracrystalline slip and twinning. They show strong crystallographic preferred orientation which was produced by dominant (010) [001] slip. Dynamic recrystallization is indicated by fine-grained new grains (neoblasts) interspersed with deformed relicts (porphyroclasts). The neoblasts have formed preferentially along grain boundaries, kink band boundaries (KBBs), intracrystalline shear zones, and around solid inclusions, such as garnet and pyroxene. Optical microstructural evidence suggests that dynamic recrystallization occurred primarily by grain boundary migration with subsidiary subgrain rotation which appears to have occurred only at low strain. The orientation of neoblasts is closely related to the kinematic framework of flow (X-Y-Z), not to the original orientation of their host grains. The stable preferred orientation developed by dynamic recrystallization favours the easy glide of dislocations on the (010) [001] system. We suggest that recrystallization-accommodated dislocation creep is an important process in the development of preferred orientations in plagioclase feldspars, which will result in geometric softening.
30057958|Much confusion arises from the current use of "normal" and "reverse" to describe faults. The sources of confusion are discussed in this article. Suggestions are offered which, if generally adopted, will leave no room for doubt as to the meaning intended when these terms are used in descriptions of faults. At the same time their usefulness will not be restricted.
30055890|Near the base of the Decorah shale in Minnesota is a thin clay layer that represents an altered pyroclastic deposit, for it consists of montmorillonite retaining a pumiceous texture and contains sanidine, quartz, biotite, apatite, and zircon. It differs materially from the associated sediments, but resembles the Ordovician bentonites of Kentucky and Tennessee with which it has been correlated. The clay of the St. Peter-Platteville transition zone appears to be a normal Ordovician sediment and gives no suggestion of volcanic origin.
30058837|The Magnesian limestone (Permian) near Sunderland on the east coast of England exhibits a series of remarkable concretionary structures. The forms of these structures are extremely varied and intergrown, producing what are probably the most remarkable patterns in sedimentary rocks found anywhere in the world. The exposures of the rocks containing them appear to be covered by a lovely lace drapery. Some forms are spherical, and others are aggregates of rods. The occurrence and origin of these structures are discussed.
10.1086/651540|The TanLu fault zone (TLFZ) along the East China continental margin (ECCM) experienced a change from sinistral to normal faulting in the late Mesozoic. Thirtyfour laser ablation (LA)ICPMS zircon UPb dates for plutons and volcanic rocks along the TLFZ indicate that extensionrelated magmatism started as early as 136 Ma. The development of preeruption rift basins along the TLFZ during the earliest Early Cretaceous further constrains the onset time of the TanLu normal faulting to the beginning of Early Cretaceous (ca. 145 Ma). Association of extensive rifts, metamorphic core complexes, and magmatism along the margin with the TanLu normal faulting suggests an Early Cretaceous extensional regime for the ECCM that also started at the beginning of the Early Cretaceous, about 145 Ma. An undeformed granite dike that intrudes the sinistral ductile shear zone yields an LAICPMS zircon UPb age of 122 Ma. Seven
30064712|Recent siliceous sediments of the Guaymas Basin, a rapid spreading center in the Gulf of California, are intruded by basaltic sills, which induced significant diagenetic and metamorphic changes in the sediments. The transformation from opal-A to opal-CT, opal-CT to quartz, and opal-A directly to quartz in these sediments, cored on DSDP Leg 64, can be used to infer the temperature history and order of emplacement of intrusives. At or near contacts with sills of 30 m or greater average thickness, opal-A inverts directly to authigenic quartz, but there is less quartz than would be expected from the amount of opal-A dissolution. Opal-CT forms in sediments sandwiched between adjacent sills. Based on high rates of quartz nucleation and growth at high temperatures (>150C), and on considerations of convective solution transfer, opal-CT is thought to form only where temperatures were lower or at positions between sills, an environment which prevents rapid convective dissipation of silica in solution. Where temperatures were higher or convection uninhibited, solutions remained at silica concentrations too low to permit opal-CT crystallization, and opal-A inverted directly to quartz by dissolution and reprecipitation. These arguments allow inference of the order of sill emplacement and estimates of thermal history in a high heat flow regime perturbed by local sill intrusions. These are the youngest oceanic siliceous sediments known to have been converted to opal-CT and quartz; in the Guaymas Basin this evolution took only thousands of years, whereas in deep sea oceanic environments far from igneous activity it would have taken millions to tens of millions of years.
30055647|The character of stream offsets along the Haywards fault throws light upon the nature of horizontal displacements taking place on that line.
30061058|Biotite and hornblende from the western portion of the Cortlandt complex record undisturbed
30066063|Calc-alkaline intrusive and extrusive suites frequently show a trend from diopside- to corundum-normative with increasing
30059219|The results of investigations on a variety of late Paleozoic and Mesozoic rocks from western Europe are described and are incorporated with results already published predominantly from Great Britain. Mean pole positions have been obtained from the Triassic, Permian, and Devonian periods, for which numerous results are available. The angular distance between the mean Triassic pole and a similar American pole lends force to the separation of the two continents, while the greater separation of Permian poles implies that separation commenced in earlier times. Because of the problems, still unresolved, of the European Carboniferous, this drift history cannot as yet be checked in earlier times.
30063880|The rhythmic Touchet Beds in the Walla Walla and lower Yakima valleys resulted from many separate backfloodings by hydraulically ponded glacial Lake Missoula water. At least once this episodic lake briefly contained half the
30065686|Microprobe X-ray-emission analyses have been made for sodium, magnesium, aluminum, silicon, phosphorus, potassium, calcium, titanium, manganese, iron, rubidium, strontium, cesium, and barium in sixty chemically analyzed alkali feldspars. The highest concentrations (weight per cent) of the minor elements are: magnesium, <0.02; phosphorus, 0.10; titanium, 0.07; manganese, <0.01; iron, 0.80; rubidium, <0.04; strontium, 0.80; cesium, <0.02; barium, 1.80. Agreement with chemical data for the minor elements is poor; for example, most microprobe analyses of iron are lower, and most analyses of barium are higher, than values previously reported. Agreement for titanium and phosphorus could not be expected because of possible inclusions of ilmenite and apatite. Older gravimetric analyses of sodium and potassium show considerable scatter with the microprobe data, but there is excellent agreement between the latter and recent flame-photometer analyses. Empirical calibration curves were derived by comparison with flame-photometer data, from theoretical X-ray-emission formulas, and from the expectation that feldspars will be nearly stoichio-metric. The calibration curve for sodium differs from the one calculated using the formulas of Part I. The calibration curves for silicon and aluminum were adjusted empirically so that the average atomic proportions agreed with those calculated from the alkali and alkaline-earth metals. The resulting correction factors agree with those calculated from the formulas of Part I. Microprobe values of silicon are higher than the chemical data, while those of aluminum are lower, in conformity with the bias previously suggested in co-operative studies of the test specimens Gl and Wl. Only seven of the analyses give oxide totals outside 99-101 per cent. Totals of the feldspar molecules calculated from the alkali and alkaline-earth metals range more widely: forty-seven lie between 99 and 101 per cent with others as low as 97.1 and as high as 102.1 per cent. The scatter increases with sodium content, reflecting the lower accuracy for this element.
30061393|Previously reported K-Ar dates on biotites from the Oak Point rapakivi granite range from 343 m.y. to 354 m.y., and a K-feldspar has been dated by the same method at 264 m.y. Previous biotite determinations from the Stonington rapakivi granite yield dates of 350 and 360 m.y. It is presumed that the K-feldspar date is low because of normal diffusion of radiogenic
30071235|We propose that a very oblique or transpressional tectonic regime was dominant during the early (precollisional) orogenic evolution of the Northern Apennines (Late Cretaceous to Early Oligocene). This hypothesis resolves many inconsistencies in the previous reconstructions of this orogenic belt, which were based on a classic model of orthogonal convergence between the European and Adriatic plates. The crucial lines of evidence that point to a major role of oblique tectonics in the structuring of the Northern Apennines are: (1) the plate tectonics framework, that indicates leftlateral oblique convergence along the Europe/Adria plate margin; (2) the lack of a magmatic arc during the entire precollisional convergent history of the chain (a time span >45 m.y., from Late Cretaceous to Early Oligocene); (3) the long (20 m.y.) residence time of turbidite sequences in the trench (the dormant trench); (4) the multiple source areas of turbidites from both sides of the basin, and the associated coarse gravity deposits; (5) the opposite vergence of deformations in some oceanic units; (6) the unmatching stratigraphic features, distinct deformation and metamorphic histories between adjacent overthrust oceanic units (Ligurids), here interpreted as tectonostratigraphic terranes. Specific aspects of Apennine stratigraphy and tectonics and the geometry and structure of the contacts between the Ligurid Units suggest the existence of a number of terranes juxtaposed by transpression during the early (Late Cretaceous to Early Oligocene) orogenic evolution of the chain.
30056375|A new variation diagram has been devised in which the ratio
30067348|Moraines at Bethlehem, New Hampshire, on the northwestern slope of the White Mountains have been known for eighty-seven years and were shown by Goldthwait to have been made by a re-advance of the continental ice sheet at the close of the last glaciation. They were formerly known to extend intermittently for 12 miles. This study shows that there are moraines west of those previously known and also exposures of two till sheets, proving that there was a re-advance of the ice over a front of at least 25 miles and possibly 50 miles. These moraines have been correlated with the varved clay studies of Antevs, which showed that the ice sheet re-advanced to the mouth of the Passump-sic River and uncovered it the second time about two hundred and eighty years after the first uncovering. The moraines were formed by a re-advance of the ice during the closing stage of the last glaciation.
30056660|The San Acacia area includes a part of the Rio Grande depression in central New Mexico and is underlain predominantly by basin deposits of late Tertiary age, the Popotosa and Santa Fe formations. The Popotosa formation, heretofore undescribed, is a tuffaceous fan deposit which was laid down in an enclosed basin during late Miocene (?) time. The Santa Fe formation, of Pliocene and late Miocene (?) age, was deposited in several contemporaneous and contiguous basins, some of which had exterior and others interior drainage. A reconstruction of the paleogeography of the area in Santa Fe time is presented. The Tertiary rocks are downfaulted as a graben between highlands composed predominantly of pre-Tertiary rocks. Minor horsts are found within the Tertiary rocks. There were at least three, and possibly five, episodes of deformation during Tertiary time.
30062310|Soil characteristics and geomorphology were investigated in an area designated Glacial Lake Douglas, in Douglas County in east-central Illinois. The study area was once covered by a glacial lake, with a surface elevation of approximately 650 feet, which occupied a broad, shallow depression in the Wisconsinan till plain. Beneath the solum there were clayey, silty, and sandy sediments which had been deposited in a lacustrine environment, and glacial till. X-ray analyses indicated that the solum was mainly of loessial origin, while the lacustrine sediments were outwash materials from the glaciers which deposited the nearby Wisconsinan till. The lakebed sediments were thickest southwest of the Embarras River and became thinner northeast toward Newman. Laminated, clayey sediment was absent in a wide area west-southwest of Camargo, probably because this was a delta when glacial meltwaters filled the lake. Elevation of the top of the clayey sediment was lowest close to the main drainage outlet, and it became higher in an outward-radiating pattern until it reached an average maximum elevation of
30063698|Field occurrences are described which indicate that there has been a profound reaction, in the cases cited, between granite magma and some large inclusions in the magma resulting in the advancement of the crystallization of a part of the magma to pegmatite. The occurrences are regarded as illustrative of some of Bowen's views of magmatic reaction.
30059218|1. The electron and the proton content (measured as electrode potential [Eh] and pH) of an environment characterize this environment in many ways. In this paper the electrode potential and the pH are used as empirical parameters rather than as electrochemical data capable of thermodynamic interpretation. From published and unpublished work by the authors and from the literature, more than 6,200 pairs of characteristics were gathered, covering most types of the aqueous environment as well as the potential milieu of the chief actors in these environments: algae and bacteria. 2. It appears that the Eh-pH limits of biological systems and of the naturally occurring aqueous environment almost coincide. This would indicate that there are few, if any, sterile terrestrial environments caused by limiting Eh-pH characteristics. 3. As it seems unlikely that environments will be found outside the limits outlined in this paper, physico-chemical speculations on the sedimentary environment should be limited by this outline. Substances which do not occur (sulfuric acid, sulfide ion) should not be used in the electrochemical characterization of the environment. 4. The biogenic master reaction in the environment, changing one or both characteristics (Eh-pH), is reductive photosynthesis by algae and by colored bacteria. A photosynthetic mass may raise the pH of a water to 9.4; and in the absence of bivalent cations, to 12.6. 5. The intensity of sulfate reduction depends upon the sulfate content of the water and on the available hydrogen, in both organic and inorganic form. The iron concentration is also important, as iron is the principal acceptor of the
30057055|It has generally been assumed that the marine invertebrate fossils occurring in the rocks of the Pennsylvanian system have such a great vertical range that the species are of no value as markers of particular formations within the system. The purpose of this paper is to call attention to the fact that while many of the marine species found in these rocks in Illinois do range through a great vertical thickness, a number of the species are so restricted in their range that they are diagnostic of a single formation, or of a narrow horizon within a formation. Also there are other species that may occur in more than one formation, but their shells are present in great numbers only in a single formation so that even these can be used in the recognition and correlation of the subdivisions of Pennsylvanian rocks in this state.
30061008|The rock assemblage of the Kashabowie Lake area, excluding later intrusives, consists of an altered greenstone series (Keewatin) with adjacent meta-sediments. The age relations are in doubt, though the sediments have been shown as Coutchiching on a previously published map (Kenora sheet). Field work greatly extended the area of known sediments in Ames and Moss townships. The main greenstone sedimentary contact has been redefined and some sediments discovered on the greenstone side of this contact. Detailed studies near Kashabowie show that interfingering of lavas and sediments does not exist, but thin flows are interbedded with the sediments. The main contact is made by a fault. The fault contact makes age relations difficult to determine, but evidence points to upthrust of the south side, suggesting older age for the volcanics. Major structural considerations favor Knife Lake age for the Kashabowie sediments.
30071571|A medium- and coarse-grained granite has been encountered in the lower 914 m of deep drill-holes in northwestern Illinois. The mineralogy and chemistry of both types of granite suggest they are anorogenic A-type granites after the definition of Loiselle and Wones (1979). The major oxide composition for both types is nearly identical. Trace element data (Rb, Y, Th) indicate the medium-grained granite crystallized from a more evolved melt than did the coarse-grained granite. Trace element data (Y, Th, Ba, Sr) for the coarsegrained granite show it to be slightly zoned from the bottom upward to the contact with the medium-grained granite at 731 m.
30059721|Rock surfaces are eroded by particle-laden currents of air and water so that under given conditions polishing, grooving, and fluting result. Polish is characteristic when the particles are fine and when abrasion predominates over solution in removal of material. Grooving and fluting in homogeneous rocks are caused by the more or less regular variation in abrasive intensity resulting from vortical movement of the fluid. When the vortices are shed from points of separation of flow from the rock surface, it seems that grooves elongate in the current direction may be cut. Under some conditions the vortices appear to be fixed in position and discontinuous flutes are cut. The stream flutes and wind flutes which have been observed are similar in form although the stream flutes are between fifteen and twenty times larger. Under certain conditions fragments are faceted in particle-laden currents. Facets at high angles toward the current tend to be worn off uniformly and polished, while those inclined at low angles are cut by the most characteristic flutes and grooves. Limestone fragments partially imbedded in alluvium may be faceted by solution during rain wash. Moisture driven by rain commonly produces solution effects consisting of an anastomosing and rugose system of ridges and rills on nearly horizontal surfaces and of deflected streamlike rills on steep-side and lee surfaces. In erosion of limestone fragments by particle-laden air currents abrasion is dominant over solution. Rilled surfaces tend to be smoothed and polished. However, it is believed that all the various types of polish, fluting, grooving, faceting, and rilling may develop essentially simultaneously in one locality, presumably during the time span of a few tens of years The predominance of one feature or another depends upon the idiosyncrasies of the immediate neighborhood of the limestone fragment.
30062440|Spaceborne radar imagery obtained from SEASAT allows an unobscured large-scale view of Jamaica that can be used for geological interpretation. We have mapped lineaments and textures visible in these images and compared them with the known geology of the Tertiary karst limestones covering the central and western parts of the island. Some of these radar textures correlate with lithological units, while others follow tectonically-controlled zones or structural blocks. Mapping of radar lineaments has led to the recognition of three new aspects of Jamaican faults: (1) a major through-going NE-SW fault system, termed here the Vere-Annotto lineament; (2) a series of curving scissor faults in the central part of the island; and (3) the related observation that the dominant NNW-SSE tectonic fabric of the central part of the island takes the form of an elongate sigmoid in plan view. During most of the Neogene Jamaica has been part of an active zone of left-lateral transform motion between the Caribbean and North American plates and is a region of anomalous uplift. The radar imagery is a sensitive recorder of the deformation undergone by the karst limestones in this tectonic regime. We explain some of our observations with models for a complex, evolving shear zone.
30062454|The logarithm of the distribution coefficient
30056471|This valley, noteworthy for its horseshoe shape in plan, has been variously interpreted as the result of glacial erosion or glacial modification of drainage. It can be shown, however, that neither process was competent. Nor was faulting involved in its formation. The valley is the product of stream erosion and is here explained as the modified meander of a Tertiary river. The stages in its evolution consisted in (a) the incision of the meander by lateral and downward erosion, (b) further incision by downward erosion alone, (c) the isolation of the feature, and (d) Pleistocene fluvial and minor glacial modifications. The first three events indicate three relative uplifts of the Sierra Nevada block, which took place during the Pliocene epoch.
30058027|Faults near Santa Barbara, trending in two distinct directions, are characterized by steep dips, horizontal displacement parallel to the fault trace, and restricted length. The difference in direction of horizontal relief in different parts of the area establishes two fault systems. Rotational stress acting in N.NW. = S.SE. couples and enduring from late-Pliocene or post-Pliocene time to the present is inferred to be the direct cause of both systems of deformation. The faults are found to differ in essential respects from those previously described. Limitations are placed, (1) on the projection of faults horizontally or at depth, (2) on the use of the physiographic method of fault mapping, and (3) on the reference of seismic epicenters to particular faults.
30084813|A study has been made of samples cut from borings drilled by the Corps of Engineers between New Orleans and the Chandeleur Islands and extending to depths of 60 to 180 feet in the now-abandoned St. Bernard subdelta of the Mississippi River. Interpretations of depositional fades are based on criteria obtained in the study of modern deltaic sediments in and around the presently forming birdfoot delta. The Foraminifera were particularly useful as environmental indicators, but grain-size and coarse-fraction analyses also were diagnostic in many places. It was possible to correlate many of the facies between borings. The resulting section shows the transgression of Holocene (Recent) marine sediments over an eroded Pleistocene delta. During this initial marine encroachment there was deposition of relatively thin shelf sands containing abundant shells and Foraminifera. Later the Mississippi River shifted its locus of deposition, and the St. Bernard subdelta prograded across the shallow shelf. During this stage the rate of deltaic sedimentation was greater than the rate of rise of post-Pleistocene sea level, resulting in an apparent regressive facies formed during a eustatic transgression. Subsidence of the subdelta andits abandonment by the Mississippi River have permitted the sea to attack and rework the seaward portions with the attendant formation of discontinuous barrier islands and shallow- water sound deposits.
30067386|Ground-penetrating-radar (GPR) profiles calibrated with core data allow accurate assessments of coastal barrier volumes. We applied this procedure successfully to the barrier system along Saco Bay, Maine (USA), as part of a sediment-budget study that focused on present-day sand volumes in various coastal, shoreface, and inner-shelf lithosomes, and on sand fluxes that have affected the volume or distribution of sand in these sediment bodies through time. On GPR profiles, the components of the barrier lithosome are readily differentiated from other facies, except where the radar signal is attenuated by brackish or salty groundwater. Significant differences between dielectric properties of the barrier lithosome and other units commonly result in strong boundary reflectors. The mostly sandy barrier sediments allow deep penetration of GPR waves, in contrast to finer-grained strata and till-covered bedrock. Within the Saco Bay barrier system,
30065775|Granites classified into four categories based solely on tectonics of occurrence and associated rock types also have compositional characteristics that are consistent within groups and different among groups. Orogenically related granites include late-orogenic varieties (LO) associated with calc-alkaline batholiths, and post-orogenic varieties (PO), which occur in broad zones of isolated diapiric plutons in recently deformed orogenic belts. Inclined REE patterns, moderate Sr contents, and
30059150|Crystalline brown-hornblende mylonite, with a composition similar to some basanites and nephelin-ites, was crushed and reacted with excess water and with no water added (about 2% water present) in sealed platinum capsules in a piston-cylinder apparatus from 10-30 kb. The solidus with excess water, and liquidus curves for excess water and for 2% water, are presented, together with stability limits (within 50C brackets) in the melting intervals for amphibole, plagioclase, clinopyroxene, garnet, olivine, rutile, nepheline, and zoisite. With increasing water content and consequent decreasing liquidus temperature on the water-undersaturated liquidus surface, the number of liquidus and near-liquidus minerals increases, the field of olivine extends to higher pressures, and garnet becomes stabilized at pressures above 20 kb. Orthopyroxene was not found. Amphibole is stable at the liquidus between 10 and 21 kb with excess water at 1,075C, and between 10 and 16 kb with 2% water at 1,175C. These results combined with previous interpretations are consistent with the following tentative petrogenetic history for St. Paul's Rocks. A water-undersaturated olivine-basanite magma rose from a depth of about 100 km at a temperature of 1,200-1,300C, and differentiated until it reached a depth somewhere between 45-70 km, where the magma had reached the composition of brown-hornblende mylonite. At a temperature between 1,050C and 1,000C amphibole was the dominant mineral being precipitated. Exsolution of water from the magma became fixed in the mantle peridotite as amphibole, and locally may have caused incipient melting of the peridotite. This process may have initiated upward movement of the heterogeneous assemblage of peridotite and largely crystallized basanite magma, which rose as a near-solid diapiric intrusion with temperature possibly remaining as high as 1,000C up to 7 km deep, where intense mylonitization began during the final ascent and shallow emplacement.
30063785|Pollen and spores have been recovered from the topmost 10-35 feet of the Flowerpot formation (lower Guadalupian) over most of its outcrop in Oklahoma. Of seventy-one species of palynomorphs recognized, forty-six are pollenites and twenty-five are sporites (sensu Potoni and Kremp 1954). The distribution of these taxa gives an indication both of the distribution of the contributing floras and their composition. Two distinct assemblages are found. One is the normal upper Permian assemblage dominated by Lueckisporites virkkiae; it is found at several levels and in most samples. The other assemblage is rich in cryptogamic spores, both trilete and monolete, and is found in a single dark horizon which can be followed over a great distance in both the north central and southwest portions of the state. The former is probably derived from the flora inhabiting the uplands; the latter seems to represent a salt-marsh or swamp flora which developed as the result of a widespread but rather minor regression. A cluster analysis (ramifying linkage) was performed on the generic counts to determine the probable composition of the plant communities. The upland flora consisted of conifers producing bisaccate pollen, and existed continuously over the broad upland surface. The lowland flora, on the other hand, was dominated by gymnosperms of several types but also included a significant proportion of cryptogams. It was restricted to sea margin, floodplain, and other local wet environments during periods of transgression but expanded during periods of regression to contribute a significant portion of the total spore assemblage.
30079984|A strong coupling between hillslope and valley systems is often inferred for mountain landscapes dominated by bedrock landsliding. We reveal the nature of this link using data sets on landsliding and sediment transport from two montane catchments draining the eastern Central Range of Taiwan. Here, the magnitudefrequency distribution of landslides can be modeled by a robust power law, but this scale invariance is not mirrored in the sediment discharge at the mountain front. Instead, downstream sediment loads reflect a complex response to both sediment supply and ambient hydraulic conditions. The rivers do not transport significant amounts of sediment unless it is provided by hillslope mass wasting in the catchment. Removal of landslide debris is a function of the transport capacity of the stream at the site of entry; thus, there is a dual supply and transport control on sediment loads in bedrockfloored streams. Over a monitoring period of >25 yr, the bulk of the sediment leaving the mountain belt was supplied by climatetriggered mass wasting. Peaks in water discharge were always closely followed by sediment load maxima, and the rapid decay of the latter indicates an effective removal of most supply. Where an important part of a catchment's sediment yield is derived from interfluves, sediment transport cannot simply be estimated from known water discharge time series, using a sediment rating curve, but requires instead a detailed knowledge of the spatial and temporal patterns of hillslope mass wasting and sediment transfer into the fluvial system.
10.1086/667956|Mantle xenoliths from the Western Qinling, central China, are dominated by lherzolites, which can be divided into four subgroupsnamely, garnet-facies, coexisting spinel-garnet, spinel-facies, and carbonate-bearing ones. All these rocks display light rare earth element enrichment, positive Sr and Ba anomalies, carbonatite-like trace element patterns, and Sr-Nd-Pb isotopic mixing between depleted mantle and enriched mantle type II end members, consistent with the geochemical features resulting from carbonatite metasomatism. The garnet-facies lherzolites show high trace element concentrations but low La
30079729|Analyses of paleocurrents are based on averaging or summing techniques of directional data and are aimed at finding the primary directions of sediment transport, the directions of source areas, or the outlines of basins of deposition. It is suggested that the resolution achievable by these techniques can be increased by using the optimum or ideal summation limits. The outlines of basins or dispersal patterns can be located from differences between vector averages or sums of adjacent sections or submatrices of the total array of data. These differences are at their maximum when the span of the submatrix over which summing is carried out happens to coincide with the extent of the paleoccurrent basin. The technique proposed here is applied to fluvial patterns on topographic maps, where drainage basins and subbasins are reconstructed from stream flow directions.
30068871|Investigations into Permian sedimentation and reconstruction of paleogeography in SW China are aimed at characterizing sedimentary responses to the Emeishan mantle plume. In addition to erosional features on the sediments underlying the uplifted Emeishan basalts, unusual depositions of Permian age are also present in the Emeishan large igneous province (LIP). Specifically, carbonate gravity flows and submarine incised canyon fillings were developed in the western margin of the postulated uplifted area, and rifting trenches were developed along the eastern margin; alluvial fan deposits occur at the boundary between the inner and intermediate zones. These depositions all rest on the Maokou Formation and are in turn covered by the Emeishan basalts, implying synchronism between crustal uplift and depositional events. These deposits and the associated extension and normal faulting along the margin of and within the LIP represent sedimentary features resulting from dynamic behavior of mantle plume. Comparison of lithofacies paleogeography before and after the Emeishan flood volcanism highlights the determinant role of mantle plume activity in the geological evolution in SW China. The rapid, differential erosion of the Maokou Formation was likely related to plumeinduced dynamic uplift. This uplift was apparently followed by subsidence, given deposition of the marine clastic rocks sandwiched between basalts and the Maokou Formation in the east and submarine basalts along the margins of the province. A secondphase uplift, attributed to underplating of plumederived melts at the crustmantle boundary, was characterized by prolonged (45 m.yr.), plateautype uplift and was responsible for the appearance of the Chuandian old land. Integration of these erosional and depositional characteristics allows us to depict how the surface geology responds to mantle plume, which explains some complex sedimentological problems in SW China.
30070757|Several recent studies have demonstrated that high volatile contents are characteristic of many lavas erupted in modern back-arc basins. The Josephine ophiolite is believed to have formed in a back-arc basin in the Late Jurassic, and high primary volatile contents are inferred for pillow lavas of the ophiolite based on the presence of pillows with very vesicular margins. Although the vesicular pillows could be the result of eruption in shallow water, geologic evidence suggests eruption in very deep water. This evidence includes the following: (1) a near absence of vesicles in some pillow lavas; (2) depths of modern back-arc basins are generally greater than 2200 m; (3) siliceous pelagic rocks overlie the ophiolite, suggesting deposition below the CCD; and (4) trace fossils in the flysch sequence overlying the pelagic rocks suggest deposition in abyssal or perhaps lower bathyal depths. The occurrence of isolated- and broken-pillow breccias in the ophiolite suggests that they may form in deep water, and their formation in deep water may depend on a high volatile content in the lava.
30068063|The basement-Lamotte Formation unconformity in southeastern Missouri shows evidence of several distinctive alteration events, some of which may be related to migration of ore-forming fluids or K-rich basinal brines. The alterations are spatially related to the unconformity, suggesting that the unconformity was a preferred pathway for fluid migration. Unconformity-related rocks in five cores penetrating both the Lamotte Formation and the basement have been characterized by bulk chemistry, mineralogy, textures, and paleotopographic position. The alteration history along the unconformity includes: (1) Pre-Lamotte hydrothermal alteration affecting basement, (2) Pre-Lamotte weathering, and (3) Post-Lamotte hydrothermal and diagenetic events. The third group is particularly complex, including early diagenetic hematite and calcite cementation, later quartz cementation, secondary biotite growth, K-metasomatism that generated adulaira, and K-leaching that left a narrow dickite-rich zone along the unconformity. Several of the third group of alterations appear spatially related to the unconformity, suggesting weathered material along the unconformity permitted and recorded fluid flow events more readily than rocks farther from the unconformity. K-leaching is the last discernible event and may be related to either Paleozoic hydrothermal activity or recent meteoric flow. A hydrothermal origin, however, for the K-leached zone is supported by concentration spikes in some trace elements, notably Zn, as well as the presence of dickite. The least altered core intersects the basement on a broad paleoplateau, whereas the most complexly altered core intersects a paleovalley. The other cores penetrate basement along paleoslopes. This apparent relationship between paleotopography and alteration suggests paleotopography influenced fluid flow along the unconformity and hence alteration history.
30067916|Three single crystal cores of synthetic quartz were experimentally loaded normal to r(1011) under creep conditions at temperatures of 600C and 800C, differential stresses between 0.8 kb and 5.1 kb, and at a confining pressure of 3 kb. Study of surface slip bands by refection optical microscopy suggests slip on the following systems, where the braces indicate the slip plane, and the associated square or angular brackets indicate the several slip directions in each slip plane: {m}[c], c  a; {z}a, c  a; {}a, {} c + a  {}c - a. No basal slip occurs. Universal stage transmission optical microscopy and transmission electron microscopy reveal two planar deformation features. Subbasal laminas comprise tangles and pile-ups of dislocations on active slip planes but do not indicate major basal slip. Lamellas form subparallel to m (1010), z (0111) and z (1101). They comprise groups of subparallel dislocations having a large edge component to their Burgers vectors and they indicate active slip. This is consistent with the Christie, Griggs, and Carter (1964) model. Optical properties of laminas and lamellas are consistent with the plane phase object theory. The theory of strain induced changes in birefringence could not be tested.
10.1086/668680|Sediment generation and transport through terrestrial catchments influence soil distribution, geochemical cycling of particulate and dissolved loads, and the character of the stratigraphic record of Earth history. To assess the spatiotemporal variation in landscape evolution, we compare global compilations of stream gaugederived (
30065781|U-Pb ages determined from zircon, sphene, and apatite in conjunction with Pb isotopic analyses of alkali feldspar establish a regional geochronological framework and constrain the location of a major north-trending Proterozoic crustal boundary in northwestern Arizona. Two regions west of the boundary (Hualapai Mountains and Lost Basin Range-Garnet Mountain) are characterized by complex U-Pb zircon systematics, evidence for inheritance of an older zircon component (1.8-2.3 Ga), and elevated
30060822|The geochemistry and petrography of the rocks of the Imiter Complex of the High Atlas Mountains, Morocco, indicate that the volcanic rocks of the complex are spilitic basalts of continental tholeiitic parentage whereas the associated plutonic rocks are cumulates formed from an alkali gabbro melt which was intruded into the Jurassic limestones. K/Ar ages determined on biotite and hornblende separated from the gabbros range from 144-165 m.y. It is suggested that the Central Atlas Intrusives, of which the gabbros of the Imiter Complex are part, represent the trace of the passage of a hot spot beneath the continental crust and are equivalent to the plutons of the White Mountain Magma Series of New England.
10.1086/597365|Unraveling structural features related to different orogenic cycles is fundamental for a better understanding of collisional orogens, particularly concerning the role of structural inheritance and extent of crustal reworking. In the Internal Domains of the Betic Cordillera, the geometry and kinematics of preAlpine contractional deformation in the Paleozoic basements are rather poorly known. At Ardales, a strongly deformed area corresponding to part of the Alpine suture zone of the Betic Cordillera, the Malaguide Complex consists of two distinct, superposed Alpine tectonic units, including both Paleozoic basement and MesozoicTertiary cover rocks. Within the Alpine footwall unit, stratigraphic data document a tectonic superposition of two subunits made of different Paleozoic successions, which was later fossilized by Triassic redbeds. Structural analysis indicates that the contact between these subunits is an eastdirected overthrust and that the internal structure of the lower subunit is consistent with bulk noncoaxial strain dominated by toptotheE shearing. These features show a marked contrast with the wellknown Alpine nappe transport direction to the NNW, with tectonic features developed along the InternalExternal Domain boundary and with the structural trends obtained from the analysis of MesozoicTertiary Malaguide rocks of the area. This study demonstrates that eastdirected thrusting and shearing within Paleozoic Malaguide rocks resulted from Variscan tectonics and that careful, detailed, and integrated stratigraphic and structural analysis is necessary to avoid confusion between older and newer orogenic cycles in the Internal Domain Units of the Betic Cordillera.
30066290|Cherts studied from the southern Barberton greenstone belt are identified as replacement products of various pillow lavas, pyroclastic deposits, and sedimentary deposits. Silica-filled fracture systems within the cherts have been found to be associated with this silicification process. These systems include: (1) silica-filled fractures; (2) silica vein stockworks; (3) silica-cemented breccias; and (4) pseudoconglomerate bodies. Some of the silica-filled fracture systems can be shown to have formed soon after sedimentation. Silica vein stockworks can be seen to develop laterally into silica-cemented breccias, the fragments of which have sometimes become rounded within the fracture systems to form pseudoconglomerate. The cherts are interpreted as silicified hemi-pelagic sediments that overlie pillow lavas, some of which are now also cherts. Cells of convective sea water interacted with oceanic crust to produce silica-rich fluids. These fluids silicified lava and sediments on re-entering the near surface environment and produced silica veins and breccias. Silica deposition was mainly confined to the subsurface, as in Phanerozoic exhalative systems. The relatively large volumes and widespread occurrence of replacement cherts in some greenstone belts might result from differing Archean tectonic conditions or crustal compositions. Features used previously to identify shallow water conditions in some cherts of both Phanerozoic and Precambrian age may be products of convective systems of the type described here. The features described in this paper also have implications for greenstone belt mineralization and for the oxygen isotopic composition of Archean cherts.
JG80183|Cumulates are igneous rocks that reflect relative concentration of crystals and/or loss of melt and that therefore did not crystallize entirely from a magma of their current whole-rock composition. However, this definition does not help to identify cumulates, and so the problem is to determine whether the current whole-rock composition reflects cumulate processes, which is where structural criteria can be useful. Identification of cumulates in granitoids can be difficult, especially in the absence of major whole-rock compositional differences between cumulate and host. Structural and structural/mineralogical criteria diagnostic of, or at least consistent with, granitic cumulates include (1) locally high concentrations of particular minerals relative to concentrations in the bulk of the intrusion; (2) abundant euhedral crystals in contact, at least with regard to cores that touched before any overgrowths and consequent molding of minerals about each other occurred; (3) abundant antecrysts or mantled xenocrysts; (4) adjacent crystals of plagioclase with different zoning patterns; (5) crystal contact melting; (6) concentration of a wide variety of microgranitoid enclaves (mafic inclusions) in a megacryst-rich granitoid; (7) interpenetration of microgranitoid enclaves between abundant feldspar crystals; (8) intricate penetration of fine-grained mafic aggregates between feldspar crystals; (9) granitoid devoid of or extremely poor in quartz, especially with a strong magmatic foliation, occurring beneath or between major enclaves; (10) mobilized crystal aggregates with interstitial liquid, forming local, intrapluton intrusions; (11) graded layering, channel fills, and cross-lamination involving concentrations (schlieren) of mafic minerals, in some instances with K-feldspar megacrysts and/or microgranitoid enclaves; (12) continuous and partly disintegrated sheets of more mafic magma in mafic and silicic layered intrusions (MASLI plutons); (13) layered, magmatically foliated pluton margins from which leucogranitic lenses have been squeezed, forming projections into the pluton; (14) marked, patchy, or streaky modal variation; (15) glomeroporphyritic aggregates, implying local concentration of crystals by either heterogeneous nucleation or synneusis; and (16) compositional similarity of minerals in the most and least mafic rocks of the pluton. The proportion of interstitial mineral conveys no information as to the amount of trapped liquid in orthocumulates. Reliable application of these structural criteria requires ascertaining that magmatic structures have not been obliterated during slow cooling, as is often asserted. The common presence in granitoids of primary magmatic features indicates that magmatic structural evidence is not removed during cooling in the absence of external deformation or metamorphism and so that structural evidence is potentially useful for identifying granitic cumulates.
30061240|Talus aprons at two places in interior ranges of Antarctica have a distinct lower rim, 5 to 10 m. wide, composed of size-sorted finer rock particles. The sorted materials lie on ice beyond the limit where debris falling from the mountain scarp initially comes to rest. The sorting results from selective transportation by a hitherto unreported mechanism that apparently operates only in high polar latitudes. Particles lying on ice in higher parts of the aprons are rolled or tossed a short distance laterally, a centimeter or two at most, by sudden tensional rupture of the ice along surficial cracks that generally parallel the slope direction. Before coming to rest, the particles move downslope under the influence of gravity. Over long periods of time, the ice floor thus acts like a gigantic shaking table whose vibrations move finer debris at a greater rate than coarser debris and thereby concentrate it at the apron base. The cracking of the ice is consequent on tensional stresses produced by rapid temperature drops that accompany the passage of shadows over sun-warmed, debris-mantled ice slopes. At such times, ice-surface temperatures commonly fall from about 10 C. to about -15 C.
30056502|Cuba is approximately 700 miles long and 50 miles wide. It is divided into eight physiographic provinces which roughly correspond to geological features. The geological column ranges from Middle Jurassic to Pleistocene. Much of the Middle and Lower Cretaceous is missing or has not been identified. There was extensive Cretaceous volcanism. The Upper Cretaceous and Tertiary have an abundant, well-preserved fauna. The Eocene and Oligocene faunas are Old World in contrast to the Miocene fauna, which is New World in relationships. The Tertiary is well represented from the Paleocene through the Miocene. The Upper Cretaceous and the Paleocene are land-derived sediments of unknown geographical origin. The remaining are largely marls and limestones. There are both extrusive and intrusive rocks. Basic and acid rocks occur in both types. There are various structures of diverse ages. In the west is a large overthrust followed by two large anticlines to the east. A large overthrust area including the Trinidad Mountains and intrusions occupy the central part of the island. A broad syncline with extensive intrusions forms the eastern end, with a mass of meta-morphics lying at the extreme east. Cuba in its present form dates from late Miocene. Previously the area was occupied by scattered islands or was completely submerged. During late Cretaceous and the Paleocene, portions of what is now Cuba were part of a large land mass that extended as far south as Jamaica. Since assuming its present form, Cuba was submerged in the Pleistocene or Recent. This accounts for the paucity of land fauna on the island.
30070564|A complex of basic rocks in the Waswanipi District of northwestern Quebec is described, and the interpretation is advanced that it is a deformed lopolith of the same general character as the Stillwater complex of Montana and the Bushveld complex of the Transvaal. The rocks of the complex are severely altered, and the alterations-serpentinization, hornblendization, and chloritization-are described. The serpentinization is thought to have been caused by deuteric processes within the basic mass, and the other changes are believed to have been brought about by hydrothermal solutions derived from intrusive quartz-diorite.
30056073|The region is composed mainly of sediments of the Belt series and of gneisses and schists in the immediate vicinity of the Idaho batholith. The structures become more complex as one approaches the batholith, and evidence is given for two periods of folding and faulting of which the later deformation occurred near the time of the batho-lithic emplacement. Important is the fact that a series of thrust faults parallels the northeastern portion of the batholith; it is believed that these thrusts have been produced by batholithic forces pushing outward. Assimilation seems to have been of little importance in the emplacement of the batholith, but stoping has played an important part. The Bitterroot Valley, previously considered due to normal faulting, is found to have experienced a complex history consisting of thrust faulting, intrusions, underthrusting, and later normal faulting.
30079455|Most contact lines on geologic maps are surface traces of inclined planes. If the map is viewed down the slope of these planes, it becomes, in effect, a section, and the map patterns are seen as structures. The "down-structure" method of looking into maps rather than at them can be introduced into the most elementary exercise in geologic map interpretation; it helps the student to grasp quickly the structural significance of patterns on maps made by others and increases his sensitivity in laying down lines on his own maps in the field. Used with proper caution and an understanding of its limitations, the method is applicable to a wide range of map patterns, from those of simple monoclinal structures to those of recumbent folds.
30069101|Trace quantities of strontium in forty-four pairs of coexisting natural potassium and plagioclase feldspars extracted from metamorphic rocks were analyzed using an X-ray spectrographic technique. The main objective of this work has been to evaluate the usefulness of strontium distribution coefficients as indicators of metamorphic grade. Rocks from six different areas were studied in detail, most areas including two zones of metamorphism; in this way a range of metamorphic grade from middle amphibolite facies to various grades of granulite facies was investigated. Strontium partitioning between coexisting feldspar phases in isofacial rocks can be described by the Nernst distribution law and is of the type (mol per cent Sr-feldspar in K-feldspar)/(mol per cent Sr-feldspar in plagioclase) = constant. Data from most areas show systematic and significant changes in strontium partitioning with gross changes in metamorphic grade. With increasing grade, strontium is preferentially taken into the K-feldspar phase. The values of this distribution ratio show continuous changes from .75 in the middle amphibolite facies rocks to 1.73 in granulite facies assemblages. Theoretical considerations together with results from some hydrothermal exchange experiments indicate that temperature is the sole important variable in strontium partitioning. The temperature of equilibrium crystallization determined from the strontium-feldspar distribution coefficients agrees with the relative temperatures inferred from metamorphic studies within each area. This suggests that the strontium geothermometer may be used as a reliable indicator of relative metamorphic grade.
30065713|A comprehensive analysis of phase relations in the system
30056454|The Soldado Rock section is a valuable stratigraphic key to basal and Upper Eocene of Northern South America. Of the six beds Nos. 2, 6, and 8 are fossiliferous. No. 2 was placed in basal Eocene (Maury, 1912) and correlated with Alabama Midway beds and Marina Farinha beds of Pernambuco. Later thought by Vaughan to be Wilcox, but basal Eocene age corroborated by discovery of same fauna in Marac quarry (Waring, 1926) where it was associated with characteristic basal Eocene species. Age of No. 2 Bed is equivalent to European Montian and Thanetian of England; Bed No. 6, fora-miniferal fauna, referred by Maury and Bagg to Eocene; later by Douvill to Oligocene, and by Tobler and Kugler to Upper Eocene. Douvill later accepted this. Consensus of opinion of foraminiferal experts now is that Bed No. 6 is Bartonian. This permits Bed 8 to be uppermost Eocene, namely Ludian. Bed No. 8 referred by Maury to Wilcox, raised by Douvill, Tobler, and Kugler into Oligocene, now restored to Eocene, but in uppermost member, Ludian. Bed No. 2 is the Soldado formation of Maury, 1925, and is first basal Eocene ever found in entire Antillean and Northern South American areas. Liddle's application of this name to Upper Eocene, 1928, is invalid. A new formational name (Boca de Serpiente) is now proposed for Bed No. 8 and its continuation westward in the Maracaibo basin of Venezuela.
30081146|Experiments with climate models are used to illustrate how earth's climate could be expected to change if surface uplift occurred. The experiments contrast two climate simulations: one with all continents at sea level and one with present-day mountains and plateaus. The simulations in the Eurasia sector show that surface uplift (increased elevation) produces marked increases in the intensity of summer and winter monsoons of Asia, with development of wetter climates to the south and east of the Tibetan plateau and drier climates to the north and west of the plateau; there is a general cooling in northern polar latitudes. Comparison of simulations from two different models shows that the magnitude of the simulated changes depends upon how the models calculate the land surface hydrology and the ocean temperature. The simulated changes produced by surface uplift agree in a general way with many geologic indicators of late Cenozoic climate change. The results suggest that surface uplift of mountains and plateaus has contributed significantly to late Cenozoic climate change but that some other mechanism, perhaps decreasing levels of atmospheric carbon dioxide, is needed to explain the full range of observed trends.
30058048|The action of dilute hydrofluoric acid at about 225C on a potash feldspar powder is shown to result in the formation of a kaolin mineral, probably kaolinite or dickite. Carbonic acid under 1,800 pounds pressure produced no apparent alteration of this feldspar after 156 hours treatment at 60 C.
30070637|Changes in thickness of layers around small-scale folds in lower Paleozoic rocks, Mt. Albert area, indicate that in sandstone and limestone beds modified parallel folds are the most common. The shape of the folds appears to have been the result of buckling accompanied by a component of homogeneous strain (flattening). No simple correlation was observed between the calculated flattening and the interlimb angle. These two fold attributes, which are not distinctive of any fold generation, show local variations greater than regional variations.
30062596|Sand stalagmites composed of shell and quartz sand and having an origin analogous to that of ordinary stalagmites occur in a limestone cave on the southern coast of western Victoria. They have grown beneath dripping, hollow stalactites, where calcareous solutions seeping down through the underlying sand have gradually cemented portions of the sandy floor of the cave into grotesque shapes. Small drip mounds surround drip craters at the summits of most of the sand stalagmites, and ledgelike structures on the forms result from the cementation of different surface levels of the sand on the cave floor. Accretions to the sandy floor result principally from wind-blown sand being periodically carried into the cave.
JG80137|Porphyry-type Cu (Mo, Zn) deposits have been discovered along the late Paleozoic Kokirqin arc in the western Tianshan Mountains of China, part of the Central Asian Orogenic Belt. The deposits include the Lailisigaoer Mo-Cu deposit, the 3571 Cu deposit, and the Lamasu Cu-Zn deposit. The ore-forming porphyries from these three deposits are predominantly intermediate-felsic and belong to calc-alkaline and transitional series. Laser ablationICPMS zircon U-Pb dating on ore-forming porphyries from the Lailisigaoer and 3571 deposits yields ages of
30081200|A lowpressure metamorphic episode in the Colorado Front Range has been identified by the presence of staurolite, andalusite, cordierite, and garnet porphyroblasts overprinting earlier assemblages. The overprinting assemblages and reaction textures are most consistent with porphyroblast growth on a prograde metamorphic path with peak temperatures exceeding 525C. Twentyeight
30058967|In the southern part of Newton County, in the northwestern part of Indiana, strata of Middle Ordovician (St. Peter, Black River, Galena) age are exposed at the surface, surrounded on all sides, so far as is known, at lower elevations by younger strata. The exposed beds have been uplifted vertically about 1,500 feet and now exhibit very high dips, in some cases being vertical or even overturned. The disturbed area, so far as its limits are at present known, covers less than one square mile and exhibits both folding and faulting; the latter phenomenon being the common way in which the rock failed under stress. A Middle Ordovician sequence of about 400 feet of dolomites, limestones, sandstones, and shales, containing a fauna of over seventy-five species, is involved in the deformation and exhibited at the surface. The present structural conditions appear to have resulted from "cryptovolcanic" activity.
30058255|The relative importance in geomorphic processes of extreme or catastrophic events and more frequent events of smaller magnitude can be measured in terms of (1) the relative amounts of "work" done on the landscape and (2) in terms of the formation of specific features of the landscape. For many processes, above the level of competence, the rate of movement of material can be expressed as a power function of some stress, as for example, shear stress. Because the frequency distributions of the magnitudes of many natural events, such as floods, rainfall, and wind speeds, approximate log-normal distributions, the product of frequency and rate, a measure of the work performed by events having different frequencies and magnitudes will attain a maximum. The frequency at which this maximum occurs provides a measure of the level at which the largest portion of the total work is accomplished. Analysis of records of sediment transported by rivers indicates that the largest portion of the total load is carried by flows which occur on the average once or twice each year. As the variability of the flow increases and hence as the size of the drainage basin decreases, a larger percentage of the total load is carried by less frequent flows. In many basins 90 per cent of the sediment is removed by storm discharges which recur at least once every five years. Transport of sand and dust by wind in general follows the same laws. The extreme velocities associated with infrequent events are compensated for by their rarity, and it is found that the greatest bulk of sediment is transported by more moderate events. Many rivers are competent to erode both bed and banks during moderate flows. Observations of natural channels suggest that the channel shape as well as the dimensions of meandering rivers appear to be associated with flows at or near the bankfull stage. The fact that the bankfull stage recurs on the average once every year or two years indicates that these features of many alluvial rivers are controlled by these more frequent flows rather than by the rarer events of catastrophic magnitude. Because the equilibrium form of wind-blown dunes and of wave-formed beaches is quite unstable, the frequency of the events responsible for their form is less clearly definable. However, dune form and orientation are determined by both wind velocity and frequency. Similarly, a hypothetical example suggests that beach slope oscillates about a mean value related in part to wave characteristics generated by winds of moderate speed. Where stresses generated by frequent events are incompetent to transport available materials, less frequent ones of greater magnitude are obviously required. Closer observation of many geomorphic processes is required before the relative importance of different processes and of events of differing magnitude and frequency in the formation of given features of the landscape can be adequately evaluated.
30065776|U-Pb ages of single detrital zircon grains from various stratigraphic horizons in the Dominion and Witwatersrand sequences provide constraints on the maximum age of sedimentation as well as indicating the pattern of age distribution in the (granitoid) source area providing detritus into the basin. Zircon ages in the Dominion sediments range from 3191-3105 Ma with a geometric mean (
30057402|The abandoned spillway across Covey Hill has long been accepted as one of the overflow channels of the Great Lakes, occupied when "the ice sheet" had receded to a position north of the Adirondacks but still blocked the St. Lawrence drainage below this level, now a thousand feet above present sea level. Current investigation reveals that the area has been glaciated by two Wisconsin ice invasions. The first one came from the northeast and overrode the whole area, whereas the second one came as a readvance from the northwest and only impinged against the north flank of Covey Hill where it built a terminal moraine. It was this latter ice that dammed the St. Lawrence and caused its drainage to overflow at Covey Hill. Radiocarbon dates on peat and on Champlain Sea shells, which overlie this latter till, show it to be pre-Two Creeks, i.e., Port Huron in age. Covey Hill gap is therefore also dated as Port Huron (Mankato) in age. Along the north slope of Covey Hill is a well-developed marine shore line at 525 feet above present sea level, whereas in the lowlands to the north the base of the marine Champlain clays is now at 200 feet above present sea level. These clays lie here on varved lake clays, the top of which show mud cracks, dessica-tion breccia, oxidation, and fluvial erosion, and they demonstrate an episode of dry land which was later flooded by eustatic rise of sea level to make the Champlain Sea. These relations demonstrate that sea level had been lowered at least 325 feet during this part of the Pleistocene.
30081107|High resolution seismic profiles show two prominent late Quaternary sediment wedges on the outer and middle New Jersey continental shelf. An extensive wedge along the outermost shelf and upper slope, up to 50 m thick, appears to have been deposited on the Hudson Apron during an early melting of the late-Wisconsin Laurentide ice sheet; subsequent southward transport of this sediment occurred during sea level regression, still-stand, and transgression. A mid-shelf sediment wedge, which forms the Fortune shore, probably was deposited during a second melt event, 11 to 12 ka, as sea level was transgressing over the shelf.
30059251|Simple statistical mechanical models are applied to calculate thermodynamic properties of liquid silicate-
30061964|To determine the nature of the Mg-Fe distribution in the four different metal positions in ferromagnesian amphiboles, the crystal structure of a grunerite, with about 30 mole per cent of the Mg component, has been determined and refined by the least-squares method. It is found that Mg and Fe are randomly distributed in three metal positions, while the fourth metal position is mainly occupied by Fe atoms.
JG116504|Abundant kaersutite and alkali feldspar megacrysts occur together with mantle-derived and lower crustal xenoliths, including kaersutite hornblendite and syenite, in the Early Cretaceous alkaline basalts of the Tuoyun basin in the westernmost Chinese Tian Shan. Particularly, several kaersutite hornblendite cumulate xenoliths have the assemblage of
30081164|In 1965 a debris flow from Warm Springs Draw, Colorado, deposited approximately 15,000 metric tons of sediment in the channel of the Yampa River, constricting the river against the opposite cliff and forming Warm Springs Rapid. Radiocarbon ages associated with several older debris-flow deposits bisected by the 1965 flow indicate a time interval of approximately 1000 years between large, channel-constricting debris flows from Warm Springs Draw. The older debris-flow deposits probably constricted the Yampa River in a manner analogous to that of the 1965 flow. The configuration of these tributary debris-fan rapids, which occur along canyon rivers throughout the western U.S., is a function of the sediment characteristics of the debris flow and subsequent hydraulic conditions within the channel constriction. Erosion of the debris-flow deposits and transport of the boulders through the rapid during different discharges was estimated with step-backwater modeling. Shear stress and critical flow best indicate the hydraulic conditions needed for entrainment and transport of the large boulders in Warm Springs Rapid. Results show that the present configuration of Warm Springs Rapid was formed during several high flows since 1965, principally the high flow of
30078288|Strongly peraluminous plutons of the Old Woman-Piute Range, southeastern California, display the differentiation sequence: muscovite-biotite granite
30060254|The estimated initial plagioclase compositions and plagioclase/liquid partitions for
30081201|The northsouthtrending Ramagiri Schist Belt is trident shaped, with three prongs separating three granitic terranes. Whereas the western and eastern prongs contain metatholeiites and banded ferruginous quartzite, the central prong includes felsic metavolcanics and volcanogenic metasediments. The UPb zircon age for the pyroclastics in the central prong of the Ramagiri Schist Belt is
30071563|Horizontal laminae have been examined from the fluvial (?) Whirlpool Sandstone (Silurian), modern intertidal sand bars, and a flume. Textural variations which define laminae were determined by averaging all grain long axes lengths in contiguous rectangular areas, 2 mm wide by 0.2 mm high, up through thin sections cut normal to bedding. "Textural laminae" were identified as fining-upward (FU) and coarsening-upward (CU) from trends seen in plots of average grain long axes versus height above an arbitrary datum. FU and CU laminae occur in random sequence and have an average thickness of less than 1 mm, with CU laminae being slightly thinner than FU laminae. Heavy mineral "sheets," which appeared as continuous layers in outcrop and in trenches, consistently occurred in CU laminae. Lateral correlation diagrams constructed across thin sections showed that some textural laminae were continuous for the 15 mm over which measurements were made while others pinched out laterally across the measured distance. Heavy mineral sheets were continuous across thin sections, maintaining approximately horizontal positions with respect to associated textural laminae. The probable mechanism for the deposition of FU and CU laminae is the burst\ sweep process: (1) FU laminae form by fallout of progressively finer sand which had been temporarily carried upward by a burst, and (2) CU laminae form because of sorting by dispersive pressure in a layer of high grain concentration close to the bed. This layer is produced by locally high shear stress developed beneath a sweep of high speed fluid approaching the bed: deposition of a CU lamina takes place from the layer as the sweep dissipates. Heavy mineral grains in sheets represent relatively coarse lags left behind by migrating patches of heavy minerals that moved in response to high average shear stress associated with large eddies in the flow. The burst/sweep cycle also operates above heavy mineral patches, but the heavy minerals are resistant to uplift by bursts so FU laminae are not generally formed in lag regions. Heavies, and some of the lights underlying the lag, may however be temporarily entrained by sweeps in lag regions, so they are found predominantly in CU laminae.
30068716|The northeast part of the composite Pioneer batholith of southwest Montana consists of Late Cretaceous calc-alkaline plutons that vary in composition as a function of age, changing from minor hornblende-biotite quartz diorite at about 76 m.y., to a small pluton of hornblende-biotite tonalite at about 74 m.y., to abundant biotite-hornblende granodiorite and biotite granite at about 72 m.y., to some biotite granodiorite and 2-mica granite at 67 to 65 m.y. Initial
30071591|A study of the mica peridotite in Blue Ball, Scott County, Arkansas reveals that, on the basis of mineralogy and whole-rock chemistry including the rare earth elements, this occurrence is a micaceous kimberlite. Micas occur as groundmass and phenocryst phases; both are compositionally similar and characterized by reversely pleochroic rims and patches on cores with "intermediate" pleochroism. Reverse pleochroism is associated with sharp increases in FeO (total Fe) and
30068822|Temporary storage of sediment within alluvial valley floors modulates the longterm transport of sediment through landscapes. The fate of weathering minerals or sedimentbound constituents in fluvial environments depends on the relative time scales of constituent degradation and particle residence time within valleys. Particles follow a set of trajectories through valley floors: some particles pass directly through the channel, reaching the basin outlet rapidly after being introduced to the fluvial system; others remain for long periods in deposits such as flood plains. Traditional sediment routing theory, based on the principle of sediment mass conservation along reaches of channel, does not account for exchanges of sediment with temporary sediment storage reservoirs outside the channel, such as flood plains, deltas, and alluvial fans. This article formalizes a theory that incorporates the role of such exchanges in the migration of sediment through river systems, by computing the probabilistic structure of particle trajectories through alluvial valley floors. Equations are developed for computing these trajectories from the sediment budget of a valley floor in steady state. Mathematical strategies for using such relationships to model transient storage conditions are proposed, and other potential model enhancements are discussed. The approach is illustrated using a hypothetical valley floor as an example. The theory can be used to examine rates of sediment overturn in valleys, map particle residence times, and account for the redistribution and decomposition of weathering minerals and particlebound constituents. The theory has numerous potential management applications, some of which are discussed herein. The hypothetical example demonstrates that the probability distribution of particle residence times in the valleys of most alluvial rivers should be strongly right skewed.
30055620|The Keewatin volcanics of the upper Harricana River consist of femic flows at the base, grading upward into pillow andesites, rhyolites, and tuffs. The basal femic flow overlies and contains inclusions of various members of an older sedimentary series of carbonaceous slate, cross-bedded sandstone, silicated limestone, a quartzite, and grey-wacke gneiss, having a total thickness of at least 4,000-6,000 feet. The sediments have been intruded by two granites, the earlier of which is cut by the dykes which served as feeders to the Keewatin lavas. The second granite intrudes an outlier of the Cobalt series, found 2 miles south of Amos.
30085498|With reference to the course taken over pre-existing topography by a liquid flood, the behavior of lava flows differs greatly from that of streams of water. Because of great temperature differences in space and time and low conductivity of solid or molten rock, lava only remotely approaches the physical concept of a perfect liquid. Various forms of solidified lava masses which suggest former liquidity are the result of sequential emplacement of small liquid additions and cannot be interpreted as if the whole mass had been capable of acting as a liquid at one time. The rapid congealing of successive parts of the lava flow and increase in the quantity of floating and grounded crust blocks give a lava flow the character of an overloaded and aggrading stream. Like such streams, the lava flow builds up its bed, often breaks out from newly built levees, and may, by repetition of such changes, assume a downslope course that is very difficult to predict and that differs greatly from that which a stream or flood of water might take. In the maintenance of a given channel flow, the lava stream not only must have adequate mechanical energy to overcome friction on the existing slope but must, by its* own flow, convey enough thermal energy to maintain temperatures permitting continued flow. This requirement for dual conservancy of energy has an important bearing on the shapes of channels built by lava flows and on the survival of movement in a given channel. These factors are discussed in relation to the problem of man-made barriers protective against lava-flow damage in critical areas on Hawaii. It is evident that the great volume of lava flows from Mauna Loa vents and the form of the terrane preclude building barriers sufficient to impound prospective lava flows completely. Rather, the placing of barriers at points most promising for unit diversion and the multiplication of such barriers in a calculated and detached en echelon arrangement seem to offer the best prospect of an effective delaying action. This plan is considered superior for any given amount of barrier volume to the alternative of trying at one point to develop a continuous diversion barrier which could so easily fail by being at the wrong place or inadequate to accomplish the desired total diversion.
30058826|Similarities in fossil content and lithology of reef and associated limestone facies from southern Louisiana and Guam indicate that biologically similar reefs existed in these areas during middle Tertiary time. The reefs of southern Louisiana are found in the subsurface Heterostegina zone of late Oligocene or early Miocene age; the outcropping Guam reefs are considered to be of early Miocene age. The geologic settings of the reefs differ greatly. The Louisiana reefs are found localized on piercement salt-dome structures and as an extensive reef complex developed on a shallow-water shelf area in southeastern Louisiana. On Guam the flanks of an intermittently active volcano and a ridge of folded volcanics were the sites of reef growth. Six limestone facies are common to these two reef complexes: (1) reef-wall, (2) reef-breccia, (3) off-reef, (4) fore-reef de-trital, (5) fore-reef transitional, and (6) basinal. Material from Middle East reefs of Eocene and Oligocene age is presented for comparison. Reconstructions of depositional environments of the southern Louisiana and Guam reefs are based on stratigraphic, structural, and facies analyses. Present-day counterparts of the Louisiana fossil reefs are submarine topographic prominences on the Continental Shelf off Louisiana and Texas; the Guam fossil reefs are considered analogous to the reef around Borabora in the Society Islands. The authors conclude that Tertiary reefs contain diagnostic limestone facies in predictable spatial relationships and that the nature of the substratum and the local geologic settings do not appear to be controlling factors, provided that ecological conditions are favorable.
30057999|Petrographic features of the altered tuff forming a 1 to 10-inch layer near the base of the Decorah formation in Iowa, Wisconsin, Minnesota, and Missouri are much alike. The chemical composition of this meta-bentonite is similar, being composed of a clay mineral high in potash. The Missouri occurrence supports Weller's assignment of the upper shales and limestones, originally included in the Plattin, to the Decorah formation; the meta-bentonite serves as a key horizon, marking the elusive boundary between the Plattin and the Decorah formation.
30079814|The potassic alkaline igneous rocks along the Ailao ShanRed River (ASRR) shear zone range in composition from ultramafic to felsic and are characterized by similar trace element patterns and radiogenic isotope ratios. Their distribution, and in some cases their structure and outcrop outline, suggest a genetic relationship to the ASRR shear zone. Zircons separated from 12 potassic alkaline bodies along the ASRR zone have been dated by an in situ UPb method to temporally constrain the leftlateral movements along the shear zone. The ages of the alkaline bodies range from 34.0 to 36.3 Ma. These new zircon ages, together with previous data, suggest that the onset age of the leftlateral movements along the ASRR shear zone began at or slightly before 36 Ma and that the movements lasted from 36 to 17 Ma. When uncertainties are taken into account, the duration of motion on the ASRR shear zone coincides with the opening of the South China Sea, implying a genetic relationship between these two events.
30069387|Intersecting minor ridges on the plain of glacial Lake Agassiz were probably pushed up by floating lake ice and apparently are not primarily the result of permafrost, wave action and running water, or a fracture pattern in the underlying bedrock, as previously suggested. Associated intersecting minor grooves were also formed by dragging lake ice. They are essentially identical to grooves forming in Great Slave Lake in recent times.
30061238|The Five Islands Formation is a late Pleistocene outwash deposit. It forms a discontinuous raised terrace between the Cobequid Hills and the north shore of the Minas Basin, Nova Scotia. Three lithosomes may be distinguished. At Advocate Harbor, sea bluffs and numerous sand pits expose well-stratified sandy gravels and openwork gravels of the glaciolittoral lithosome. These were deposited in a wave-agitated environment similar to tie modern Advocate Bay. Here the surface of the terrace is molded into a lagoon enclosed by spits and backed by a wave-cut bluff, closely resembling the modern Advocate Harbor. Between Cape Spencer and Five Islands, river valleys are rilled with a glaciodeltaic lithosome. Bottomset clay deposits and sand and gravel foreset and topset deposits contain ice-contact features and, rarely, casts and molds of Portlandia glacialis. The glaciodeltaic lithosome is disconformably overlain by a sheet of kettled glaciofluvial gravels exhibiting a relict braided pattern on its surface. The marine lithosomes are designated the Advocate Harbor Member; the fluvial lithosome is designated the Saint's Rest Member. The top of the marine member rises from mean sea level at Saint's Rest to over 40 m. at Advocate Harbor. Formation of the terrace started with dissipation of the ice, tentatively placed in Port Huron time of the classical sequence. Outwash deltas replaced ice in the valleys of the north shore as the rising sea level flooded them as far as the Cobequid scarp. When the rate of uplift exceeded eustatic sea-level rise, the deltas emerged and underwent first dissection, then burial under south-spreading alluvial fans based at the foot of the Cobequid scarp. Deposition was complete by Valders time of the classical sequence, since ice-wedge casts correlated with this time penetrate both units.
30059273|A study is made on 105 limestone thin sections to test the feasibility of using time-trend analysis to compare several attributes within a single measured section. Two smoothing equations are applied to the thin-section data, one which retains the prominent maxima and minima of the original data, and another which brings out the underlying trends of sedimentation. Trends in lithology of the limestones are then compared with trends in fossil distribution. Certain parameters including the ratio of broken-to-whole fossils, the ratio of sparite to micrite plus dolomite, and the abundances of certain fossil groups are used to interpret the energy level in the depositional environment.
30062308|A thermodynamic model for grain-boundary diffusion induced by a pressure gradient in deep-seated rock is presented. Two assumptions are made: (1) The dispersed phase may be treated as a separate phase for purposes of phase equilibria. (2) The dispersed phase can support a pressure gradient. The model is developed in terms of "chemical potential." When the compositions of the solid phases are held constant, diffusion takes place in the dispersed phase in response to gradients of chemical potential within the dispersed phase. A gradient of concentration is stabilized parallel to the pressure gradient as the system adjusts to a lower energy state. Disequilibrium between the solid and dispersed phases can be increased, even though the free energy of the system is lowered by migration in the dispersed phase. When the solid phases are allowed to change composition (for example, by stress-induced recrystallization), there may be damping effect on diffusion, but there also may be an enhancement of diffusion. Eventually a compositional gradient will parallel the pressure gradient in both the solid and dispersed phases. Consideration of the effect of the pressure gradient on the chemical potential in a closed system lends insight into the consequences of extending the discussion to an open system. Components in the dispersed phase that develop steep gradients of chemical potential and have a relatively large tendency to lower the free energy of the system by migration should have a tendency to migrate first. However, the activation energy required for migration and the rate of dissolution of the components from the solid phases into the dispersed phase must also be considered. The theoretical model leads to two possibilities, the effects of which may be observable to the geologist: (1) the concentration and nucleation of certain components in preferred structural sites and (2) systematic compositional variations of a given mineral that are related to the structure.
30060111|A fundamental problem in the origin of tektites is the estimation of the composition and nature of the parent material from which they were derived. Of equal importance is the nature and complexity of the system of processes that led to their formation. Some information relevant to these problems is thought to be contained in the estimates of correlation among various chemical constituents in tektite specimens. These correlations, however, are subject to restraints imposed on the data by the fact that the constituents within each specimen sum to 100 per cent. The restraints affect correlations among both major and minor constituents. As an alternative, correlations among the ratios of each constituent to
30057101|The existing analytical treatments of ground-water flow have mostly been founded upon the erroneous conception, borrowed from the theory of the flow of the ideal frictionless fluids of classical hydrodynamics, that ground-water motion is derivable from a velocity potential. This conception is in conformity with the principle of the conservation of matter but not with that of the conservation of energy. In the present paper it is shown that a more exceptionless analytical theory results if a potential whose value at a given point is defined to be equal to the work required to transform a unit mass of fluid from an arbitrary standard state to the state at the point in question is employed. Denoting this function by
30059247|Turbidity-current sediment in the north end of San Diego Trough off southern California has produced a topography resembling that of a subaerial basin in the American southwest. Turbidity currents originating in submarine canyons cross subsea aprons that have accumulated at the foot of the mainland slope, and continue along channels in the trough floor until they spill over into the next basin. A channel and levee system aggraded 25 meters above the surrounding basin plain guides these currents for part of their journey in water 750 meters deep. This elevated system gives way to channels incised into the flat plain. Longitudinal profiles of the channels are smooth, continuous, and generally concave upward. The turbidites consist of gravel, sand, or coarse silt in beds that commonly display crossbedding, grading and shallow-water fossils. They are intercalated with hemipelagic green clayey silt whose rate of accumulation is about 11-21 cm/1,000 years. Sediment distribution is intimately related to the pattern of channels and other submarine topographic features. At least 100 meters of erosion by turbidity currents is indicated by deeply incised channels and terrace remnants on the lower part of Newport apron. Oceanside-Carlsbad apron, in contrast, is traversed only by aggraded channels having prominent levees. Turbidity currents were more frequent during Pleistocene time when sea level was lower and more submarine canyons headed near shore, to intercept coarse sediment moving along shore.
30080906|Oxygen isotopic analyses of pelagic Foraminifera from Atlantic, Caribbean, and Pacific deep-sea cores indicate that the temperature of superficial waters in the equatorial Atlantic and Caribbean underwent periodic oscillations during the Pleistocene with an amplitude of about 6 C. The temperature record of the Pacific cores was much affected by local oceanographic conditions. Seven complete temperature cycles are shown by a Caribbean core. By extrapolating rates of sedimentation based on radiocarbon data, an age of about 280,000 years is obtained for the earliest temperature minimum. Correlation with continental events suggests that the earliest temperature minimum corresponds to the first major glaciation. The chronology of Pacific cores proposed by Arrhenius (1952) must be modified if correspondence with the chronology of Atlantic and Caribbean cores is desired. In one Pacific core which extends to the Pliocene, the 610-cm. level below top is believed to represent the Plio-Pleistocene boundary. About fifteen complete temperature cycles occur above this level, and the length of Pleistocene time is estimated at about 600,000 years. The so-called pre-Gnzian stages appear to span a time interval about as long as the Giinz and post-Giinzian stages. A glacial lowering of sea-level of about 100 m. is indicated. Closely spaced samples from short pilot cores furnish a detailed temperature record for postglacial times. A continuous temperature increase from about 16,500 to about 6,000 years ago is indicated, followed by a small temperature decrease. The temperature maximum at about 6,000 years ago is correlated with the "Climatic Optimum." Isotopic analyses of calcareous benthonic Foraminifera show that the temperature of bottom water in the equatorial Pacific during glacial ages was similar to the present, but in the eastern equatorial Atlantic it was about 2.1 C. lower. This difference resulted from the large amount of marine ice present in the North Atlantic. Interglacial bottom temperature in the equatorial Pacific was not more than about 0.8 C. higher than glacial temperatures; interglacial data for the equatorial Atlantic are inconclusive with respect to temperature but indicate an influx of ice meltwater along the bottom larger than at present. Correspondence in time between temperature variations in the low latitudes, as shown by the cores, and glacial events in the high northern latitudes indicates close correspondence between glacial or interglacial phases and wet or dry phases, respectively. Good correlation exists between times of temperature minima as indicated by extrapolated rates of sedimentation and times of insolation minima in high northern latitudes. Control of world climate during the Pleistocene by insolation in the high northern latitudes is indicated. A retardation of about 5,000 years occurred between temperature and insolation cycles. Complete revision of current correlations between the insolation curve and continental events is necessary. The glacial epoch and its ages may be explained by a theory combining topographical and insolation effects. Conditions may be suitable for the beginning of a new ice age in about 10,000 years.
30068174|A group of large springs, eleven of which rank among the largest springs in the United States, discharge 5,000 cubic feet a second from the north side of the Snake River between Bliss and Twin Falls, Idaho. Most of the water issues from pillow lava at the base of basalt flows that fill ancestral canyons of the Snake River carved in the older lake beds of the region. Six different canyon fills of basalt, indicating six displacements of the Snake River in Pleistocene time, have been mapped in this area by the author. Each of the flows that spilled into the Snake River Canyon caused a temporary lake on the upstream side of the lava dam and an alluvial fan containing huge blocks torn from the dam on the downstream side. Subsequent partial removal of the fans by the river has left concentrates of huge boulders in the form of trains, helpful in locating such displacements of the Snake River. Springs issue from these canyon fills of permeable basalt wherever the river has cut into them below the water table. Some of the springs issue from box-headed canyons or alcoves, which have been made by the springs, probably by solution of the basalt. It is believed that these springs are older than the others.
30070514|The determination of the total age coverage of pelagic bedded chert is particularly important in studies of ancient accretionary complexes because the time span represents the minimum travel time of an oceanic plate before accretion at an island arc or continental margin. The Yolla Bolly terrane of the Franciscan Complex consists of rare metabasalt overlain by bedded radiolarian chert which in turn is overlain by metagraywacke and subordinate slaty mudstone and conglomerate. The bedded chert ranges in age from Aaleian (early Middle Jurassic) to Tithonian (latest Jurassic). A lithologic gradation from pelagic bedded chert through hemipelagic siliceous mudstone occurred during the Tithonian and thus marks the arrival of the oceanic sediments at the continental margin. The Tithonian age also agrees with previously reported Tithonian to Valanginian (Early Cretaceous) fossils in the overlying terrigenous metagraywacke. Both chert and metagraywacke are intruded by gabbroic sills, suggesting off-ridge volcanism, probably in a near-trench environment. Following the intrusive activity, all of the rocks were subducted to depths of 20-30 km, imbricated, and recrystallized to the lower blueschist facies (lawsonite-aragonite  jadeitic pyroxene). Metamorphic ages, using a variety of isotopic methods, range from 90-105 Ma and thus indicate a long interval (ca. 30-40 Ma) between accretion and subduction. Two possible models include: (1) a long period of storage in an accretionary prism prior to subduction, or (2) accretion and subsequent northward transport.
30058425|The thermal-equilibrium relationships in the system
30070692|The unusual course of the South Branch Potomac River through the famous Smoke Hole in eastern West Virginia is explained as stream piracy brought about by underground solution of limestone. Other instances of such stream diversions are cited in support of this interpretation.
30062117|Rigs are sediment bodies that occupy linear, arcuate, and ringed depressions in coal seam roofs and are interpreted as the sites of pools that formed on a peat surface. The form of the rigs indicates that their origin is due to contemporary tilting of the peat surface during movement attributed to activity of a nearby contemporary fault. Subsequent movement ultimately led to the formation of a coal seam split. At a later date the fault was reactivated, but with a different sense of movement.
30060251|Spectral analysis of shoreline rate change data spanning 40 years and 122.6 km between Cape Hatteras and Cape Lookout reveals a hierarchy of longshore periodicities. The periodicities closely match wavelengths of hypothetical standing waves trapped between the offshore shoals of the two large capes. In addition, active and relic inlets and site-level beach characteristics coincide with the periodicities. We conclude that edge waves may play a significant role in determining the intensity of regional-scale processes and geomorphological responses along the Atlantic coast barrier islands.
30065640|The Vyvenka volcanic field records a period of Neogene, subduction-related volcanism in northern Kamchatka. Most models describing the tectonic evolution of the northwest Pacific do not account for this type of Neogene volcanism because the main locus of Pacific/Kula-North American convergence switched to the Aleutian Ridge during Eocene time. The Vyvenka volcanism, as well as oceanic spreading and crust formation within the Komandorsky Basin, demonstrate that this region remained tectonically and volcanically active in Neogene times. We report petrologic, geochemical, and K-Ar age data for the ~15 Ma Golovin and 6-8 Ma Valovayam volcanic rocks, two andsite suites within the Vyvenka volcanic field. The Golovin suite consists of medium- to high-K andesites with strong arc-like trace-element signatures, while the Valovayam suite consists of medium-K andesites with weaker arc-like trace-element signatures. The Valovayam andesites also contain some trace-element ratios indicative of melting of the subducted oceanic crust. These include high Sr/Y (30-50) and Zr/Sm greater than the chondritic value of 28. The Golovin andesites have overlapping Sr/Y (25-45) and lower Zr/Sm. The compositional differences between the Golovin and Valovayam andesites correlate with Neogene tectonic evolution of the Komandorsky region. In northern Kamchatka, subduction waned as spreading stopped in the Komandorsky Basin and newly generated oceanic crust entered the subduction zone. Thus, the trace-element signals of slab melts in the younger Valovayam rocks indicates melting of the young, hot Komandorsky Basin crust that entered the subduction zone and subsequent metasomatism of the mantle wedge. The weaker subduction signature of the Valovayam suite, which distinguishes it from the Golovin suite, records the decreasing vigor of subduction processes with time.
30056595|"Creep" is the name applied to the slow deformation of solids under small loads acting over long periods of time. Two types of apparatus have been developed for the purpose of investigating the creep of rocks in response to stresses below the "elastic limit," as ordinarily defined. The present paper describes results obtained with these instruments during runs of various duration, up to 550 days. It is found that in many cases there is measurable flow at stresses below the "elastic limit." An empirical law has been derived which resolves this deformation into two types of flow, termed "elastic flow" and "pseudoviscous flow." The creep characteristics of several materials at room temperature and atmospheric confining pressure are described. Preliminary experiments on creep at high pressure and on creep by recrystallization are reported.
30059274|Dominant rock of the southern Gerlache Strait region is a composite batholith of intermediate to basic composition. Andesitic volcanic rocks and metasedimentary units, containing clasts evidencing an older metamorphic episode, occur as roof pendants. Igneous phases yield radiometric ages of Cretaceous (94 m.y., potassium-argon) and Eocene (52.5 m.y., potassium-argon; 45 m.y., lead-alpha) and include granodiorite, quartz diorite, diorite, and gabbro. All units are intruded by Tertiary dikes of propylitized andesite and are locally covered by Pleistocene beach gravels and moraines.
30066213|Stream orientation structures are defined by nonuniform distribution of stream flow directions. Such structures may be analyzed in a regional mode, referring the stream vectors to a common regional base azimuth, and in a network mode, relating the stream vector azimuths to the orientation of the network from which the streams were drawn. Over 19,600 stream links were digitized in a factorial design distinguishing two regional environments, two network states of perennial flow and valley indentations, interior and exterior link types, and two network scales. Link vector azimuths are significantly affected by link type and network scale differences. Link length organization may also be related to orientation structure. The significance of network scale controls means that drainage networks defined by a constant Strahler order level cannot be regarded as statistically homogeneous sets for evaluation of stream link properties.
30056348|The cosmic abundance of the rare gases is now known with sufficient accuracy to allow a quantitative comparison with the corresponding data for the earth's atmosphere. It seems safe to assume that the cosmic abundance of neon is closely approximated by Unsld's value for the neon content of the Bo star, t Scorpii. The values for the other rare gases have been determined in a way previously described by the author, viz., by interpolation of the relative values for the different nuclear species in "smoothed" abundance curves. These values, as well as the neon value, may be considered to be correct within a factor of 2. Argon 40 and the two helium isotopes are omitted from consideration because their atmospheric concentration is of radiogenic origin. The comparison of these values with those for the composition of the earth and its atmosphere show that the relative abundance of xenon (the ratio of the number of xenon atoms to the number of silicon atoms) is about 10 7 times smaller on the earth than in the universe, whereas for neon this figure exceeds 1011. A separation of neon from xenon, shifting the ratio of concentrations by a factor of more than 10 4, has obviously taken place during the process of the atmosphere's evolution. Thiscannot be explained by chemica 1 absorption or solution processes but can be understood by assuming selective diffusion from the earth's gravitational field during a limited epoch of evolution. In greater detail, it is found that the ratios of terrestrial and cosmic abundances of Ne, A36 plus A38, Kr, and Xe, plotted against atomic weight, lie close to a curve, which is given by the following equation:
30059123|By analogy with rock-stratigraphic nomenclature the plutonic rocks of the linear Coastal Batholith of Peru can be grouped into units (formations) which can further be grouped into super-units (groups). Such an hierarchical system enables the Coastal Batholith to be divided into three compositionally distinct segments 200, 400, and 900 km in length. Segmentation is thought to reflect discontinuities in a subduebion zone, with magmatism in each segment possessing its own unique episodicity of emplacement and spatial distribution. Within each super-unit differences in the time of arrival of the magmas in the upper crust produce magmatic diachronism. On the basis of an upper mantle/ lower crustal melting hypothesis it seems that within each segment, which takes of the order of 70 m.y. to emplace, the super-units are the product of separate melt cells, each of "which exists spasmodically over a period of ca. 10 m.y. The melt cells provided progressively more acidic magma with time, whilst decreasing in areal extent.
30060181|Experiments indicate that current scouring induced by the presence of shells resting on a movable substrate is an effective mechanism for their burial. Original orientation is the most important shell factor relative to its ultimate disposition. Turbulent action about a shell results in sediment movement at current velocities too low to effect movement on an unobstructed bottom. All combinations of shell type, size, and orientation result in burial if scouring lowers shells sufficiently before the critical burial velocity is attained. The depth of burial is related to the amount of scouring before the shell is subjected to the critical burial velocity. The paleoecological implications of this phenomenon, relative to the formation of fossil assemblages, are discussed.
30067899|Cambrian and Mississipian orthoquartzites, present as fragments in alluvium, experienced shock-wave pressures up to 500+ kb during the Sedan (100 kiloton) nuclear cratering explosion. Ejecta samples display diverse shock-damage effects correlative, in part, with increasing peak pressures that establish a sequence of progressive shock metamorphism having these principal characteristics: (1) Lower pressure effects include cataclasislike shattering of individual quartz grains by irregular microfractures and subparallel fractures cutting across grains. (2) Shock-induced discontinuities (planar features) in quartz show systematic variations with increasing shock_damage. As planar feature sets per grain increase from 1.18 to 4.75, their orientations coincident with
30080962|Slope erosion is subject to a minimal law; that factor, whether the rate of transport or the rate of weathering, which is relatively the least efficient, controls the general course of denudation. On soil-covered slopes the rate of transport is the dominant denudational control, soil creep being the responsible agency. A previously proposed statistical theory of soil creep is outlined so that certain imperfections and errors may be noted. Methods of testing the theory are suggested and discussed briefly. Finally, some general aspects of the development of soil-covered slopes are reviewed from the standpoint of the statistical theory.
30081103|A 3 m traverse across a charnockite lens in a biotite-garnet-graphite gneiss quarry from southern India has provided mineral equilibria that indicate charnockite formation occurred under fluid conditions of
30069355|The reported findings of remains supposedly of Homo primigenius in the Tarija Basin in southern Bolivia and the doubts connected with the stratigraphic position of these remains have moved the writer, at the kind request of Professor Paul Rivet, former director of the Muse de l'Homme of Paris, and the special invitation of the Bolivian government, to undertake a field investigation of the occurrence in question. Thus, it could be clearly established that these human skulls and other skeletal parts in the Tarija Basin have no relation to the Pleistocene mammal fauna and are evidently remains of the much later pre-Colom-bian man.
30056658|A fauna of mammals and reptiles from a fissure in the Plattin limestone near Herculaneum, Missouri, is described in detail. Most of the genera and species still exist in the vicinity; and on the basis of these the fauna is considered to be late Pleistocene in age, although it contains certain extinct forms, including Tapirella, Megalonyx, Tanupolatna, and Canis dirus. The assemblage, which includes both forest- and plains-living types, appears to be the result of the activities of the wood rat.
30063821|This paper critically examines the bases of various models for the chemical evolution of granitoid suites. The proposed mineralogical, textural, and chemical criteria for the recognition of restite components are found to be equivocal and can be plausibly explained by crystal fractionation and accumulation, as well as by magma mixing and assimilation of non-restitic solids. These processes demonstrably account for the bulk of the chemical variation in a variety of granitic suites, although restite-controlled variation may have played a role in some types of metasediment-derived suites. Granitoid magmas with "non-minimum" melt chemistry are probably rather common. The petrographic, geochemical, and isotopic features of individual plutons should be assessed carefully to elucidate the relative importance of various mechanisms for chemical evolution. Conclusions as to the character of magma source materials and magma evolution paths that are based on the restite model should be treated with caution.
30065782|Results of partial melting experiments on basalts and their metamorphic equivalents show that melts with the geochemical characteristics of Icelandic dacitic and rhyolitic lavas can form in water-undersaturated systems at
30058867|The known range of Peratherium is extended to the Lower Harrison Miocene by the discovery of Peratherium youngi, new species. Nanodelphys minutus, new genus and species, is described and placed in the Thlaeodontinae, a subfamily previously known only from the Cretaceous. This newly discovered specimen is from the Brule, Oligocene, and thus greatly extends the known geologic range of the group.
30060923|Nineteen mantle xenoliths from Olmani, Tanzania, have deformation textures and fluid inclusions like those in olivine-rich peridotites from Hawaii. Group A comprises 7 barren harzburgites (spinel,
30080838|In the southeastern portion of Mount Rainier National Park seams of lignitic material occur locally in a thick series of arkosic sandstones and shales which can probably be correlated with the Puget series of the Eocene. Some members of this series, however, have been so altered by low-temperature metasomatic replacement that they resemble portions of the Keechelus andesitic series of the Miocene as described by Smith and Calkins in the Snoqualmie folio. This type of metamorphism is especially well developed in the incompetent carbonaceous material which is replaced locally by a fine-grained, igneous-appearing dacitic groundmass containing porphyroblasts of quartz and plagioclase.
30070467|Several recent short papers on Upper Paleozoic carbonate reefs in the Ural Mountains and North Russian Plains are summarized. Reef migration and relation to tectonic activity, petrographic features and dolomitization of the Ishimbaevo oil-bearing massifs, and lithology of small reefs exposed on the North Russian Plain are described briefly.
30075182|Mytilus edulis shells from the Dutch coastal waters do not show an inverse relation between aragonite content and salinity, as was found by Dodd (1963) in Juan de Fuca Strait and Hood Canal, and was suggested by Lowenstam (1954). Subspecific differences may exist between Mytilus edulis specimens from the Dutch waters, the Baltic, and the Atlantic and Pacific coasts of the United States, but the differences in aragonite content found by Dodd and Lowenstam may also be explained by temperature effects. It is most likely, therefore, that no relation between salinity and the aragonite content of Mytilus edulis shells exists.
30075228|A plot of P
30065697|The direction of net longshore drift along a coastline is generally inferred from sand accumulation along obstructions placed in the nearshore zone or from the morphology of coastal features. Shapes of tidal inlets are occasionally used for this purpose. Tidal inlets are generally tabulated under three shape categories: (1) straight (updrift and downdrift sides of the inlet fall along an average straight line forming the coastline), (2) updrift-offset (updrift side of the inlet is offset seaward), and (3) down-drift-offset (downdrift side of the inlet is offset seaward). Inlets of category (1) give no clue to the direction of longshore drift; those of category (2) indicate that the net drift is from the offset side of the inlet. But the inlets of category (3), if mistakenly identified as those of category (2), may cause a misinterpretation by 180 of the direction of net drift. Inlets acquire a downdrift-offset shape because, during periods of "fair" weather, the downdrift barrier migrates in a direction opposite to that of the regional net longshore drift. This migration has been ascribed to the effects of wave refraction and to the seasonal reversals in drift direction. Studies at Brigantine Inlet, New Jersey, indicate that the downdrift offsets originate because of the characteristic sediment circulation at certain inlets. During fair weather, tidal currents enter the inlet at its downdrift side throughout the tidal cycle and hence the sediment is added continuously at the downdrift barrier beach. In contrast, the tidal currents enter the inlet at its updrift end during flood stages only of the tidal cycle. At ebb (while currents are entering the inlet at the downdrift end), the tide goes out of the inlet mainly at the updrift end. Hence, any significant addition of sediment to the updrift barrier beach is prevented. This asymmetric behavior of the tidal currents causes the downdrift barrier beach to migrate in a direction opposite to that of the regional longshore drift, thus imparting a downdrift-offset shape to the inlet. However, the growth of the downdrift side of the inlet in a direction opposite to the regional drift is only a short-term process (lasting months or years). Storms may suddenly cause a swift migration of the inlet system in a downdrift direction. Hence, although a short-term migration in the opposite direction may take place, the inlet will historically (over periods of tens or hundreds of years) migrate in the direction of regional net longshore drift only.
30063639|Two types of structures represent the results of former intensive frost action in central Montana. Involutions, which consist of local deformation and interpenetration in stratified materials, are common throughout the area and occur in a variety of forms. They are believed to have developed by differential freezing and growth of ground-ice, in a seasonally thawed zone overlying perennially frozen ground. Wedge structures, found at a few localities, consist of wedge-shaped vertical fissures in weathered bedrock. The fissures form polygonal networks and have been filled by slumping of surface materials. They are believed to have been opened by ice veins developed when the ground became perennially frozen. A mean annual temperature at least 8 C. below that of the present would be required for the development of perennially frozen ground. This period of colder climate probably occurred at the time of the last glaciation of adjoining areas, which may belong to the Middle Wisconsin substage.
30081134|Coesite- and kyanite-bearing eclogites are abundant in the southern part of the Dabie Mountains (southern Dabie terrane-SDT). Two types of eclogites from the SDT (Types III and IV) were selected for detailed paragenetic study. Type III eclogites, most abundant in the northern part of the SDT, occur as blocks in gneisses and marble and contain eclogitic assemblages of omphacite + garnet + phengite + epidote + coesite + kyanite + carbonate + rutile + ilmenite. These minerals exhibit weak compositional zoning and contain few mineral inclusions. Type IV eclogites, mostly in the southern part of the SDT, occur as coherent layers interbedded with gneisses and amphibolites and have assemblages of omphacite + garnet + glaucophane + kyanite + epidote + phengite + quartz + rutile + ilmenite. Garnets of Type IV eclogites exhibit a prograde compositional zoning and have mineral inclusions of paragonite, phengite, epidote, quartz, and rutile in the core and omphacite, barroisite, and Mg-katophorite in the rim. Prograde blueschist facies (~400C) assemblages were partially preserved in Type IV eclogites. The eclogitic assemblages of both types of eclogite have been partially or completely retrograded to amphibolite and greenschist facies assemblages. Parageneses and compositions of minerals from eclogites indicate that these rocks have undergone a clockwise P-T evolution path. Within the SDT, the temperatures, estimated according to
30079546|The Ordovician sandstones of Arkansas which have been described are, in descending order, the St. Peter, Calico Rock, and Kings River. The last two are members of the Everton formation which is overlain unconformably by the St. Peter sandstone. The textural features of these sandstones are very similar, making it almost impossible to distinguish them in hand specimens, or microscopically. The textural features of the St. Peter as mapped in current publications describing the geology of northern Arkansas will be considered in detail. The St. Peter sandstone of Arkansas has been significantly altered since its deposition. This alteration has resulted from the deposition of silica upon the surfaces of the originally rounded and frosted grains, forming crusts and crystal faces bounding the original surfaces of the grains and crystals rising normal to the original surfaces. The effect of the secondary enlargement has been to decrease the porosity of the sandstone, to conceal the frosting, to produce pitting, to alter the sizes of the grains, to transform the grains into angular masses of quartz with interlocking boundaries, and to give the sandstone whatever degree of coherence it possesses. The source of the secondary silica was primarily in the zone of weathering, and secondarily from etching of the surfaces of the original grains and secondary quartz previously deposited on the original grains. Consequently, secondary enlargement is greatest near outcrops, in the originally more porous parts of the sandstone, and in the upper parts of the formation under thin cover. The extent of secondary enlargement determines the capacity of the sandstone as a reservoir for oil or water.
30060276|Based upon recent investigations of existing and of Pleistocene ice sheets, revised estimates of late Pleistocene ice volumes and resulting pea-level lowering are made. The thickness of Pleistocene ice sheets has been determined by applying the thickness-area ratio of existing ice sheets to the revised areas of the past ice sheets. Revised values are given for the Classical Wisconsin (less than 30,000 years B.P.), early Wisconsin (greater than 30,000 years B.P.), and the Illinoian (third) glacial stages which are here considered equivalent to the Weichsel, Warthe, and Saale stages, respectively. The Illinoian is shown to be the stage of maximum glaciation with consequent sea-level decrease about 50 per cent greater than that usually given for the Wisconsin. This lower stand of the sea is well shown by recent submarine exploration.
30075117|Part I. Existing sand dunes fall naturally into two groups-complex and simple, the former being much the more common. Variable factors, such as wind direction, depth of sand, irregularity of vegetal growth, etc., are responsible for the rarity of the simple dunes. It is only by first studying simple forms, however, that one can discern the origin and history of surfaces of complex form. Following is a basic classification of simple dunes which is at the same time genetic and naturalistic. It is based on the assumption that the sand-moving wind blows with unvarying direction. Simple Dunes A. Bare Surfaces or Loose Sand I. The barcan dune. An isolated bare-sand hill on a nonsandy base II. The transverse dune series. Formed on bare, loose sand of "unlimited" surface area and "unlimited" depth III. The isolated transverse dune ridge. Formed (frequently with human aid) from bare, loose sand of unlimited surface area, but shallow depth IV. Lee dunes 1. Wind-shadow dunes ("umbracer" dunes). Longitudinal dunes. Formed from a continuing (unlimited) sand supply in the lee of a bedrock obstacle 2. Shrub-coppice dunes (see p. 124) 3. Source-bordering lee dunes ("umbrafon" dunes, lee-source dunes). Formed from a continuing (unlimited) sand supply leeward from a source of sand of limited area (e.g., stream flood plain) B. Formed by Wind in Conflict with Vegetation I. Shrub-coppice dune cluster. Formed in and to leeward from bunch or clump vegetation, such as mesquite bush, on an unlimited and smooth surface of very shallow sand II. (a) Blowout or parabolic dunes; (b) elongate-blowout dunes; and (c) windrift dunes. Formed by gentle, moderate, and strong winds, respectively, on deep sand with shrub- or grass-covered surface Under the heading "Complex Dune Forms" is considered the ideal simple case of two equally effective sand-moving winds blowing at right angles. It is pointed out that even this degree of complexity is much simpler than that of many of the well-known sand-dune areas. PART II. A study of dunes in the southern High Plains by means of vertical aerial photographs reveals: 1. Up to the decade from 1920 to 1930, active sand dunes were insignificant in number and total area, compared to the anchored dunes of Recent or post-Pleistocene age. 2. There has been a systematic shift in the direction of the prevailing sand-moving wind during the last 15,000 years (estimate), such that winds which formerly blew toward S. 70 E. have been replaced gradually by modern winds blowing N. 20 E. in most of the region. For convenience in description these dunes are divided into three series: I, II, and III, from youngest to oldest. 3. An unusual series of large parallel windrift dunes, indicating strong persistent winds, was formed around 15,000 years ago. Sand dunes of this type (Series III) are apparently not forming at present to any noteworthy degree, either in the interior of North America or along the coasts.
30056045|The Okaw division of the Chester (late Mississippian) series of southwestern Illinois which heretofore has been considered middle Chester in age, is shown to be separated into two mapable parts by a disconformity. The lower unit, Lower Okaw, is of middle Chester age and the higher portion, Upper Okaw, is of late Chester age. Each of these units is described and correlated on paleontologic, lithologic, and stratigraphie grounds with a definite portion of the standard Chester section of Hardin County, Illinois, and western Kentucky.
30079570|This paper describes two dolomite dikes in the Clear Fork formation near Truscott, Tex.
10.1086/663873|The age of high-elevation planation surfaces in Corsica is constrained using new apatite (U-Th)/He data, field observations, and published work (zircon fission track, apatite fission track [AFT] data and landform/stratigraphical analysis). Thermal modeling results based on AFT and (U-Th)/He data, and the Eocene sediments uncomformably overlapping the Variscan crystalline basement indicate that present-day elevated planation surfaces in Corsica are the remnants of an erosion surface formed on the basement between 120 and 60 Ma. During the Alpine collision in the Paleocene-Eocene, the Variscan crystalline basement was buried beneath a westward-thinning wedge of flysch, and the eastern portion was overridden by the Alpine nappes. Resetting of the apatite fission track thermochronometer suggests an overburden thickness of >4 km covering Variscan Corsica. Protected by soft sediment, the planation surface was preserved. In the latest Oligocene to Miocene times, the surface was re-exposed and offset by reactivated faults, with individual basement blocks differentially uplifted in several phases to elevations of, in some cases, >2 km. Currently the planation surface remnants occur at different altitudes and with variable tilt. This Corsican example demonstrates that under favorable conditions, paleolandforms typical of tectonically inactive areas can survive in tectonically active settings such as at collisional plate margins. The results of some samples also reveal some discrepancies in thermal histories modeled from combined AFT and (U-Th)/He data. In some cases, models could not find a cooling path that fit both data sets, while in other instances, the modeled cooling paths suggest isothermal holding at temperature levels just below the apatite partial annealing zone followed by final late Neogene cooling. This result appears to be an artifact of the modeling algorithm as it is in conflict with independent geological constraints. Caution should be used when cross-validating the AFT and (U-Th)/He systems both in the case extremely old terrains and in the case of rocks with a relatively simple, young cooling history.
30079940|The Avila batholith of central Spain is composed of upper Carboniferous peraluminous granitoids that were preceded by volumetrically insignificant bodies of maficultramafic hybrid magmas and postdated by several dike swarms of camptonitic lamprophyres. RbSr dating indicates continuous magmatic activity from
30066212|The evolution and morphology of the confluences of model channels in a small flume were documented. Scour holes developed that were similar to features described at the confluences of branch channels in the braided North Saskatchewan River, North Platte River, and Medano Creek. The scour holes were maintained by turbulence and helicoidal flow cells generated by the converging flows; their depths and cross-sectional areas increase as turbulence increases. Scour hole depth increases rapidly as confluence angle increases from 15 to 90, and more slowly up to 180. Depth also increases as the difference between the discharges of the two confluent tributaries declines, and is a maximum when discharges are precisely equal. Depth decreases, other things being equal, as total sediment load increases. Apparently, an increase in sediment load requires an increase in shear stress for it to be transported, and therefore a constriction of flow and commensurate increase in flow velocity. Scour at the confluences of non-braided rivers may contribute to erosion of the bedrock surface during high flows. In one set of runs, in which tributary discharges and sediment loads were equal and held constant, and in which initial confluence angle ranged from 15 to 180, final confluence angle was almost wholly determined by the initial conditions. There was thus no tendency for the confluences to attain an angle determined by the flow conditions, although erosion and deposition occurred at the bed and banks. The angle which each tributary made with the lower channel (equivalent to the angle of exit of the lower channel from the confluence) was related to the relative flow momenta of the tributaries. In a second series of runs, with confluence angle and tributary widths held constant at 60 and 6 cm respectively, a relative increase in discharge in one tributary caused the lower channel to swing into closer alignment with that tributary; at a given relative discharge, an increase in sediment load in one tributary had the same effect. However, computation of multiple regression equations indicated that exit angles were again closely related to the relative flow momenta. A third set of runs, in which tributary widths and discharges were varied, showed that, as discharge per unit width in one tributary increased over that in the other, the lower channel swung into closer alignment with the higher unit discharge tributary. The momentum equation can predict the angle of exit of the lower channel from a confluence if the overall confluence angle and tributary flow momenta are known. However, it is not possible to determine overall confluence angle in terms of hydraulic conditions, because it is an independent variable that itself controls flow processes in a confluence. It is partially determined by factors which cannot be dealt with by the principles of fluid mechanics, such as the characteristics of the surface upon which a drainage network was initiated, structure and lithology, and effectively random factors such as changes in channel orientation upstream of a confluence due to meander migration. To obtain a complete understanding of channel confluences, all such factors must be considered.
30063431|Small structural highs and edges of larger positive areas in the Jurassic Tethys were the site of formation of pelagic "oolites." These rocks contain pelagic organisms, indicating their open-marine character; the "ooliths" are entirely micritic and built of fine concentric layers. Electron microscopy has revealed that these "ooliths" contain nannofossils within their cortex, thus demonstrating that they grew, at least partially, by particle accretion. This does not correspond with current data on Bahamian ooids, which grow by aragonite precipitation. Tethyan pelagic "ooliths" are interpreted as small onkolites; as such their depth of formation is considered to be greater than for true Bahamian-type ooliths. Other microonkolites in the geological record may have been misinterpreted as micritized ooliths.
30066086|The Tijeras Greenstone of mid-Proterozoic age is comprised of basalt flows and sills interlayered with small amounts of potassium-rich felsic volcanic rocks, arkose, and quartzite. The basalts are depleted in light REE (
30063340|Pegmatites genetically related to the Bethlehem gneiss (Mount Clough pluton) are abundant in west-central New Hampshire. Those within the gneiss itself are of three types: (I) segregation pegmatites, (2) shear-zone pegmatites, and (3) filled-fissure pegmatites. Pegmatites within the surrounding rocks are confined principally to a broad belt of schists of the Littleton formation on the east side of the gneiss. These have been controlled by the structure of the schist and occur as large, tabular bodies several hundred feet long. A study of the filled-fissure and shear-zone pegmatites indicates that the foliation of the Bethlehem gneiss is a primary structure. Pegmatites in the Littleton schist indicate that the Bethlehem gneiss was intruded shortly after the main part of the folding and the development of the schistosity. The preponderance of pegmatites in the schist on the east side of the Bethlehem gneiss and the absence of such bodies on the west side favors the interpretation of the Bethlehem gneiss as a huge intrusive sheet dipping moderately to the east.
30055616|The kimberlite of the Premier Mine is cut by a considerable number of dikes, which are essentially composed of calcium carbonate, magnesium hydrate, and magnesium carbonate, the last being in variable, but always small, amount. The dominant carbonate appears to be of direct magmatic origin. At depth, the Premier Mine kimberlite cuts the Great Dolomite, here about 1,000 meters thick. The suggestion is offered that the carbonate magma was generated by the dissociation of the dolomite, which was locally heated through deep burial and the eruption of the kimberlite. Experiments on the existing dike material, by Dr. F. H. Smyth, show its fusion temperature to be below 950 C. The temperature of the carbonate melt was probably well below 900. Dr. Smyth finds that the magnesium hydrate and magnesium carbonate could not have been formed at a temperature which approached 900. Hence it is necessary to assume the late-magmatic or post-magmatic generation of these compounds. On the other hand, the hypothesis that the dominant calcium carbonate was introduced in dilute, low-temperature solution with water does not square with clear facts discovered during the field and laboratory investigation.
30081160|Geochemical evidence suggests the iron- and silica-rich precipitates that compose large Neoarchean and Paleoproterozoic iron formations formed along a chemocline between iron-rich deep water and iron-poor surface water. Sedimento-logical evidence indicates many large iron formations accumulated in marine shelf environments during major transgressions. We suggest this occurred because the chemocline could only impinge on continental shelves during times of sea-level rise or highstand. On the other hand, the stratigraphic record indicates that deposition of iron formations ceased during regressions in some basins and transgressions in others. To explain this, we propose that iron concentrations in the Precambrian ocean were greatest at mid-water depths in a zone on the order of 100 m thick. Radiometric age dates from the Hamersley Basin of Western Australia suggest major iron-formation deposition had a periodicity of ca. 20 to 125 m.y., close to second-order cycles in Phanerozoic sea level driven by long-term tectonic processes such as changes in the rate of crustal production. While the time scale of the deposition of large iron formations appears to be too long-for glacioeustatic or Milankovitch forcing, smaller-scale cycles exist within many iron formations which could reflect the latter.
30065624|Dredge samples collected from the flanks of the frontal-arc platform, from the mid-slope forearc terrace, and from the lower landward slope of the Tonga Trench are dominated by arc-derived volcaniclastic sediment and calcareous ooze. Much of the sediment was delivered by sediment gravity flows. Recycling of older fossils and rocks is very widespread, with evidence for several cycles of erosion and deposition in a single sample. Steep slopes and outcropping rock have prevailed around the frontal-arc platform throughout the late Neogene, probably driven by movement on bounding normal faults. The upper trench slope is dominated by coarse-grained turbidites and debris flows. The mid-slope terrace receives mainly finer-grained turbidites, with fewer coarse turbidites and debris flows. The lower trench slope is dominated by clast-rich debris flows, containing a majority of clasts of volcaniclastic deposits derived from the upper trench slope and mid-slope terrace, mixed with arc-substrate and ocean-plate rocks exposed on the lower trench slope. There are probably several stages of transport involved in delivering volcaniclastic rocks to the deep trench slope. The mid-slope forearc basin has subsided 5 km since the late Eocene (ODP Site 841), in response to subarc tectonic erosion of about
30081272|Heat from combustion of dead gorse (
30066094|Five maps showing spatio-temporal evolution of magmatism along the Tethysides for the following time intervals: Late Carboniferous and Permian (320-248 Ma), Triassic and Early Jurassic (247-188 Ma), Middle Jurassic-Early Late Cretaceous (187-98 Ma), early Late Cretaceous-early Cainozoic (97-25 Ma), and late Cainozoic (24-0 Ma) reveal that convergent plate margin (subduction and collision) magmatism is a reliable guide for mapping suture zones. Where large (-1000 km), temporally persistent (>50 Ma) gaps exist in convergent margin magmatism, they indicate either the absence of a suture or later disruption, mainly by strike-slip faulting. At times of dominant subduction (late Paleozoic and Late Cretaceous-early Cainozoic), convergent magmatism was generally confined to continuous but narrow (-200 km) strips that did not cross sutures, whereas at times of dominant collision and intra-continental convergence (middle Jurassic-Early Cretaceous, late Cainozoic), its distribution was patchy, occurring in wide lumps that crossed sutures. Convergent plate margin magmatism increased in volume from west to east along the Tethysides at all five time intervals. From the late Paleozoic to the present it also migrated southward in discrete episodes and in a leap-frog fashion, following the accretion of new Tethyside blocks to Eurasia. Even the smallest of these blocks have fossil magmatic arcs all around them. Magmatism associated with rifting was much less common along the Tethysides, similar to that along the presently active rift belts and along the margins of the Atlantic ocean. Most of this sporadic distribution is probably an original feature. Ophiolites are more common along the strike of sutures. Magmatic rocks along the Tethysides record a continuous tectonic evolution and provide critical guides to the study of the evolution of the Tethyside orogenic collage, including the detection of large, approximately orogen-parallel, strike-slip fault-systems.
10.1086/665795|Multistage veinlet cataclastic rocks, composed of aphanitic veins typical of pseudotachylyte and unconsolidated fault gouge, and sediment veins composed of alluvial deposits are widely developed within a fault shear zone (<5 m wide) as simple veins, breccias, and complex networks along the active Shimotsuburai fault, central-southern segment of the Itoigawa-Shizuoka Tectonic Line active fault system (ISTL-AFS), central Japan. Early veins are generally fractured and overprinted by younger veins, indicating that vein-forming events occurred repeatedly within the same fault shear zone. Microstructurally, both the pseudotachylyte and fault gouge veins are characterized by a superfine- to fine-grained matrix and angular-subangular fragments ranging in size from submicron scale to several centimeters. Powder X-ray diffraction patterns show that the fault veins and injection veins of fault gouge and pseudotachylyte are characterized by crystalline materials composed mainly of quartz and feldspar, similar to the granitic cataclasite host. Based on the meso- and microstructural features of veinlet cataclastic rocks and the results of powder X-ray diffraction analyses, we conclude that (i) the pseudotachylyte veins were generated mainly by crushing rather than melting, (ii) multistage veinlet fault gouge and pseudotachylyte formed repeatedly within the fault-fracture zone via the rapid fluidization and injection of superfine- to fine-grained materials derived from the host granitic rocks during seismic faulting events, and (iii) veins of alluvial deposit formed by liquefaction associated with strong ground motion during large-magnitude earthquakes that occurred along the active Shimotsuburai fault of the ISTL-AFS. Our results show that the fluidized cataclastic veins and alluvial deposit veins record paleoseismic faulting events that occurred within a seismogenic fault zone; consequently, these features are a type of earthquake fossil, as is melt-origin pseudotachylyte.
30063634|The oriented lakes of northern Alaska occur in an area of more than 25,000 square miles in the Arctic Coastal Plain Province. The topography, drainage, vegetation, climate, geology, and permafrost of the area are briefly described. The average range of orientation of the lakes is 12-from N. 9 W. to N. 21 W. In any locality the deviation from the average is commonly less than 3 and rarely over 5. The lakes range in size from small ponds, a few tens of feet in length, to large lakes more than 9 miles long and 3 miles wide. The shapes may be described as elliptical, cigar-shaped, rectangular, ovoid, triangular, irregular, or compound. One group of lakes has a shallow shelf or underwater bench surrounding a deeper central portion. The rest are shallow throughout, and the underwater profile is commonly concave. The major outline of the lakes is smoothly curved, but in detail it is cuspate or jagged. No lacustrine beach ridges were recognized. Former lake basins, now drained, and extensions of the present lakes are evidenced by shore features, lacustrine deposits, the character of polygonal ground, and vegetation. The effect of wind, vegetation, and permafrost are briefly described. The lakes are compared with the Carolina Bays and with rectangular lakes in eastern U.S.S.R. Many of the lakes are believed to be the result of thawing of permafrost; others may be produced by the segmentation of uplifted lagoons. The origin of some is not known.
10.1086/648399|One of the great continental rifts in all of Earths history, the ca. 1.1Ga Midcontinent Rift of the Lake Superior region, was closed and inverted less than 100 m.yr. after its initiation, when riftbounding normal faults were reactivated as reverse faults. This was a major crustal event involving thickskinned deformation, but its tectonic importance has not been fully appreciated, owing in part to the lack of good outcrop along the traces of the riftclosing faults. A rare exposure of one of these faults occurs near the falls of the Marengo River in southeastern Bayfield County, Wisconsin. The Atkins LakeMarenisco fault is a crustalscale structure that juxtaposes Archean granitic gneisses with Paleoproterozoic and Neoproterozoic metasedimentary and metavolcanic rocks. Pseudotachylytes, cataclasites, and microbreccias in the fault zone record large (
30055973|The lenticular outcrop of a fossiliferous channel fill is exposed in the Paleozoic section at Beartooth Butte. It lies unconformably above the Ordovician Bighorn dolomite and below the Devonian Jefferson limestone, and consists chiefly of massive gray limestones and thin red shales. The fossil remains, both faunal and floral, indicate Lower Devonian age. The fauna comprises twenty-nine species of ostracoderms, arthrodires, elasmobranchs, and a dipnoan, in addition to large eurypterid. The flora consists of five species of the most primitive terrestrial plants, the psilophytales. Both paleontologi-cally and stratigraphically the channel deposit is regarded as a new unit in the Paleozoic system of the central Rocky Mountains, so it is named the Beartooth Butte formation. Available evidence shows that it was deposited in relatively quiet water probably in a drowned river valley or estuary.
30081234|New UPb zircon ages and geochemical data for felsic intrusive and extrusive rocks from the Richtersveld Igneous Complex (RIC) and related rocks in the westernmost part of the 1.031.06Ga NamaquaNatal metamorphic belt, South Africa, indicate that this complex is not related to postNamaqua orogenic collapse but is the product of mantlederived alkaline magmatism in an extensional stress field that led to the breakup of a Neoproterozoic supercontinent. The oldest age obtained for the crystallization of granitic to syenitic melts is
30065614|Precise eruptive ages have been determined by the laser-fusion, single-crystal
30068802|The Tinaquillo alpine-type peridotite (Venezuela) contains an unusual abundance of pyroxenite, gabbroic granulite, and homblendite layers (about 15% of the massif). Of the anhydrous mafic layers, the metaclinopyroxenites and spinel websterites have cumulate-type compositions, with high MgO contents (14 to 18%). They originated in the upper mantle, in the spinel lherzolite facies and underwent the same two deformation events as the peridotite. Their petrography, mineralogy, and geochemistry are typical of the Al-augite suite pyroxenite layers in subcontinental lherzolite massifs and alkaline basalt nodules. Orthopyroxenite layers, characterized by low-alumina content, could represent earlier Cr-diopside suite pyroxenites. In contrast, the gabbroic hornblende granulites were only affected by the second deformation-recrystallization episode, at about 7 kb, have lower MgO contents (7-11%), and are enriched in Fe, Ti, and incompatible elements. Their normative compositions are those of tholeiitic and mildly undersaturated basalts. Based on their chemistry, three groups of hornblende granulites have been defined: (1) Group A form a moderate-P (5-7 kb) sequence enriched in iron and silica; (2) Group B is richer in silica, magnesium, and chromium but poorer in iron than group A. Their normative compositions are compatible with an origin as primary melt at about 8-10 kb; (3) Garnet-hornblende granulites are iron-rich, mildly alkaline rocks, that could result from a high P (>7-8 kb) evolution of a tholeiitic magma. Trace element concentrations in the gabbroic granulites suggest that they intruded the massif during the early stage of the formation of a back-arc basin.
30080139|Fifty-four offshore profiles are studied for indications of previous coastal erosion below present sea level. The sites are in the Mediterranean at Gibraltar, San Feliu, Banyuls, Marseilles, Ischia, and Palinuro. The profiles were measured by echo sounding and direct observation and measurements by scuba divers; deductions of former sea levels were made using a special set of criteria depending on local lithology, mean land slope, and exposure to marine erosion and subaerial weathering. The conclusions indicate that in the Mediterranean there are four major low sea-level Stillstands between present sea level and -100 m, at - 5 to -10 m, -27 m, -55 m, and -96 m. Terraces corresponding to these Stillstands appear to have been formed in descending order. Superimposed on the major terraces is a sequence of minor terraces and solution notches at -4 m, -10 m, -15 m, -20 m, -25 m, -35 m, -46 m, -52 m, -67 m, -72/79 m, and -91 m. The majority of these features are probably due to oscillations during the Flandrian rise in sea level, although the features at -46 m, -52 m, and -67 m may belong to the previous major cycle of sea-level change.
30056902|Planes of liquid inclusions are common in the quartz of igneous and metamorphic rocks. The planes have a high degree of preferred orientation, and it is believed that they represent fractures in the quartz grains that have been filled with intergranular liquid, which subsequently changed to individual inclusions by differential solution and deposition of silica. The planes of inclusions commonly extend through several quartz grains of different orientation with no deflection at the grain boundaries, indicating that there is little or no crystallographic control of their orientation. They have been found to have a remarkably uniform orientation over an area of 15 X 20 miles. Detailed work on drag folds indicates that the planes of inclusions may develop in the shear directions of the deforming stress pattern and that one set tends to predominate. The poles to the planes tend to lie in a partial girdle about the fold axis. Some evidence was found indicating that the planes may develop in the tensional direction. Quartz, then, may fail by shear or tensional rupture and in certain cases by deformation, which produces lamellae that may be a type of translation-gliding. Failure by rupture along crystallographic directions has been described by one investigator and has been produced experimentally in the laboratory. These different phenomena are believed to represent failure under varying environmental conditions, and the optimum development of any type of failure depends on such factors as confining pressure, temperature, composition, and the presence (and character) of solutions. If several sets of planes of liquid inclusions develop at different times, the relative ages of the planes can be discerned from the character of the planes. Planes of inclusions that are very "young" appear as extremely thin sheets of liquid, whereas "old" planes are made up of inclusions that are nearly equant, with some of the inclusions having crystal planes as boundaries (negative crystals).
30084810|Various dating techniques have yielded an approximately synchronous absolute chronology for fluted points characteristic of one phase of the Early Man or Paleo-Indian horizon in southern New England, the Upper Great Lakes, the high plains, and the southwestern United States. On the basis of these chronologies and on typology, some archeologists believe that closely similar artifacts elsewhere should be of nearly the same age. A recent attempt at geologically dating fluted points in areas formerly occupied by Lake Iroquois and the Champlain Sea has suggested, on the contrary, that this archeological assumption is incorrect and that the northeastern Paleo-Indian artifacts are not nearly as old as their counterparts elsewhere. The following paper examines this thesis and concludes with a reinterpretation of the geologic sequence in the Ontario basin and St. Lawrence Valley that seems to be supported by radiocarbon and by the most recent geological investigations involved and that, if correct, removes the archeological enigma. It is suggested that the available radiocarbon dates for the Champlain Sea are substantially correct, that Lake Iroquois is older than heretofore thought, and that the reinterpretation is more compatible with archeological sequences outside the area discussed.
30079902|The Isparta Angle (IA) is formed along the boundary of the African and Eurasian plates by NE and NWstriking faults north of the Antalya Gulf in SW Turkey. The NEstriking strikeslip Burdur fault bounds the IA to the west and is probably the continuation of the Pliny system of the Hellenic arc; the NWstriking Aksehir fault bounds it to the east. Platformtype, parautochthonous Mesozoic carbonate sequences such as the Beydag and AnamasAkseki occur in the western and eastern parts of the IA, respectively, whereas allochthonous ophiolite nappes include the Antalya, BeysehirHoyran, and Lycian nappes. The IA and adjacent areas are divided into three areasthe Teke, the Antalya, and the Akseki fragmentsby NE, NW, and Nstriking active strikeslip faults with normal components. IA region volcanics are alkaline and hyperkaline in character (potassic, ultrapotassic) and locally occur as subvolcanic stocks and dikes. They can be traced between the Afyon and Isparta regions. These volcanics consist mainly of latitic and trachytic lavas, leucitic and lamproitic dikes, and pyroclastic constituents. Alkaline volcanic centers are located on the west side of and parallel to the NS trend of the EgirdirKovada (EK) graben. The volcanics range in age from 15 to 4 Ma and get younger from north to south; their arrangement along the Ntrending EK depression indicates the development of this volcanic activity contemporaneous with active tectonics during the late Miocene to early Pliocene. The volcanic centers are on the synthetic fault elements of the EK intracontinental rifting (or halfgraben) in connection to the northward movement of the African plate. The work on the relationship between alkaline volcanism and active tectonics of the KukaAfyonIsparta (KAI) region is a novel approach based on the differences between the coeval calcalkaline/alkaline volcanics at the east and west of the KAI structural trend (KAIST).
30079443|South China has been considered as part of the Rodinian supercontinent during Neoproterozoic time, although its paleogeographic position within this supercontinent is still a matter of debate. The Wangjiangshan and Bijigou complexes along the northern margin of South China are among the largest mafic intrusions in China. New SHRIMP zircon UPb results indicate that these two intrusions have crystallization ages of 820 Ma and 780 Ma, respectively. Enrichment of large ion lithophile and light rare earth elements and depletion of high fieldstrength elements in these intrusions suggest derivation from an active arc along a continental margin. This interpretation of these intrusions as part of a continental arc assemblage is in contrast with the previous view that they were products of a Neoproterozoic mantle plume that initiated the breakup of Rodinia. The presence of a Neoproterozoic magmatic arc suggests that Rodinian oceanic lithosphere was subducted beneath the (present) northern margin of South China and therefore that South China flanked the Rodinian ocean.
30066091|Mathematical analysis demonstrates that substantial impact crater deposits should have been produced during the last 2 Gy of Earth's history. Textures of impact deposits are shown to resemble textures of tillites and diamictites of Precambrian and younger ages. The calculated thickness distribution for impact crater deposits produced during 2 Gy is similar to that of tillites and diamictites $\leq 2 Ga$. We suggest, therefore, that some tillites/diamictites could be of impact origin. Extensive tillite/diamictite deposits predated continental flood basalts on the interior of Gondwanaland. Significantly, other investigators have already associated impact cratering with flood basalt volcanism and continental rifting. Thus, it is proposed that the breakup of Gondwanaland could have been initiated by crustal fracturing from impacts.
30062172|Charnockite formation in the Angul district of Orissa took place between 1088 + 26/- 17 Ma, the U-Pb zircon upper intercept crystallization age of a leptynite neosome, and
30063642|Jumbo Dome, a prominent landmark on the north side of the Alaska Range, is a small body of intrusive andesite surrounded by schist and by poorly consolidated sediments of Tertiary age. Frost-moved rubbles, consisting of coarse andesite blocks, almost completely mantle the dome and have advanced outward from it across a gently sloping terrain for distances as much as 11/4 miles. Several different periods of rubble development are recognized, based on the amount of vegetal covering of the deposits, the preservation of their surface forms, and their degree of erosion by fluvial processes. The rubbles are not now moving and are believed to have originated under the influence of an arctic climate in a manner analogous to rock glaciers. The difference in altitude between presently moving rock glaciers in this region and the rubble deposits of Jumbo Dome corresponds to the difference in altitude between present ice-filled cirques and the lowest cirques of the Wisconsin stage of glaciation. Reasons are given for believing that fluvial weathering and destruction of rock glaciers represent climates at least as mild as the present. On this basis five separate glacial episodes, separated by interglacial and interstadial epochs, are recognized.
30055675|Two patches of gravel on the Highland Rim Plateau of Tennessee are interpreted as deposits of the old Cumberland River formed when it meandered on a plain several hundred feet above the bottom of its present incised meandering valley. The pebbles in the gravel bed were probably derived from conglomerates of lower Pennsylvanian age which were eroded from areas to the eastward. Other pebbles are found on rock terraces and in alluvium within the valley of Cumberland River, which may be from re-worked deposits of gravel comparable to those noted, or in part directly from the Pennsylvanian conglomerates.
30070681|The effects of time averaging on the fossil record of softsubstrate marine faunas have been investigated in great detail, but the temporal resolution of epibiont assemblages has been inferred only from limitedduration deployment experiments. Individually dated shells provide insight into the temporal resolution of epibiont assemblages and the taphonomic history of their hosts over decades to centuries. Epibiont abundance and richness were evaluated for 86 dated valves of the rhynchonelliform brachiopod
30079413|Convincing geological data indicate that the oceanic structure of the earth's crust is secondary and is formed as the result of the breakup and "basification" of the continental crust. This process goes on under conditions of tension, associated with formation of deep-seated faults and of basaltic volcanism. Analysis of the structure and the history of the island arcs shows that there are two distinct types. Island arcs of the first type are geanticlinal belts, similar to fold belts on the continents. They were formed in geo-synclines, and in the process of basification the interior massifs subsided, but the arcs themselves are still preserved in the form of curving bands of continental crust amidst the "oceanized" areas (Japan, Indonesia, the Antilles). During the tensional phases of the earth's crust these weakened geosynclinal zones became the loci of long fractures which led to the development of intensive volcanism. The arcs of the second type are not connected with the development of a pre-existing geosyncline. They were formed as the direct result of crustal tension, under the same conditions as the oceans developed. The tension led to the formation of deep faults, the arcuate form of which was caused by the curving path of the tensional stresses in the process of the fault growth. Being younger, the arcs of the second type cross over the arcs of the first type. The Pacific Ocean is asymmetric, bordered on the east by the Cordilleran and the Andean zones, which is a single zone of weakness, while on the western periphery the crust is a mosaic of very heterogeneous structures. The basification of the earth's crust and the formation of the oceans is the latest stage in the development of the earth, so determined by the radioactive warming of the earth's interior and by melting to the surface of the deep material of the mantle.
30063823|The northern Adel Mountains of central Montana provide several excellent examples of laccoliths tangentially attached to feeder dikes that are members of radial swarms. The radial distribution of the dikes appears to be controlled by stresses imposed by the load of an overlying central volcano. Model experiments using colored gelatin to simulate magma injected into a tank of uncolored gelatin duplicate the geometry of the radial dikes and field relations between feeder dikes and laccoliths as observed in the field.
30055874|The steep-walled, blunt-headed box canyons and the imposing cliffs or "palis" of various parts of the Hawaiian Islands have long attracted the attention of travelers, and in some instances faulting or other tectonic factors have been invoked to explain them. It is concluded that these features are mainly the product of the normal erosional processes of the region, of which the conditions differ somewhat markedly from those of most temperate, humid parts of the earth. The principal factors are the high porosity of the rock and its susceptibility to chemical weathering, the high mean annual temperature and the rarity of great ranges of temperature, the absence of frost and the high annual rainfall of certain parts of the group. As a result, chemical weathering at elevations near the low water table dominates the development of the deeper valleys and is a controlling factor in determining their configuration.
30059075|The distribution of Ba, Sr, Fe, and Ti in some natural plagioclases has been studied. The variable contents of these minor elements have been interpreted as being caused mainly by an interaction of temperature and availability. Temperature is advanced as a principal control in increasing the ' 'solubility" of the elements concerned in plagioclases, as explained on crystal chemical grounds. The role of the chemical environment in its two major manifestations-the relative availability of the elements and the nature and amount of the coexisting minerals-has been found to be important. The stability of Fe and Ti in plagioclase structure is discussed in connection with exsolution. An association of K with Fe is briefly considered. A general trend of increase of the minor element contents in plagioclases from amphibolite facies to granulite facies to volcanics has been observed. Within plagioclases from the same groups where the differences of respective minor elements contents are significant, e.g., the granulite facies and the volcanics, the trends of variation are more or less parallel, suggesting a common temperature control. The exceptions to this parallelism are caused by factors of availability and exsolution-migration.
30067321|The quartzites and schists in Pine Mountain, Georgia, are a continuation of a belt of rocks in Alabama which includes quartzites, dolomites, schists, and amorphous graphite. The lineal extent of the belt is 100 miles, 70 miles of which lie in Georgia. The age of the formations is uncertain, but is probably Paleozoic. Their geographic position has an important bearing on the paleogeography of the region. They imply a shore line far to the east of any which have been conjectured for Paleozoic seas in the region.
30059321|The present day cumulative distribution of areas of continental basement age provinces (as defined by radiometric estimates) follows an exponential function. A similar distribution is displayed by the reserves of their associated economic deposits and by the thickness and areal distribution data for the overlying sediments. This exponential pattern, similar to isotope decay systematics, is a result of recycling (s.l.). Each theoretically possible growth model must be complemented by an appropriate average recycling constant in order to generate the observed present day distribution. Computer simulation of the system suggests that: (a) the theoretical recycling (radiometric rejuvenation) constant b for the continental basement is
30060953|Earlier studies of individual fluid inclusions in salt minerals of some Devonian evaporite basins showed that the brines in those basins were of chloride type with a high concentration of Ca
30068548|Patches of young, well-developed desert pavement were found atop bare rock on the Pisgah basalt flow, California. These particular stone mosaics formed directly atop the flow; no soil is present, or ever has been. Therefore, soil expansion and aeolian processes played no significant role in their creation or maintenance. The unusual setting at Pisgah allows sheetflood to be the sole agent responsible for the lateral movement of surface stones into these mosaics. The Pisgah mosaics thus represent an end-member case of desert pavement types, and they may represent a previously unrecognized initial substage of accretionary mantle formation.
30057885|An illustration of Astrocystites (Steganoblastus) ottawaensis showing the results of newer methods in technique, involving gum-mountings and stereo-photomicrographs reproduced in halftone, is compared with a published drawing of the same area made under other conditions. The comparison corrects many current errors concerning the species, and the modern plate reveals new and important details hitherto unnoticed. Astrocystites is seen to be a true blastid and to be a nearer Pentremites than is either Asteroblastus, Asterocystis, or Blastoidocrinus.
30068559|Reef productivity and submarine erosion rates for the Middle Triassic Latemar reef margin are estimated from debris volumes produced over time intervals of 1.5 to 6 Ma. This direct approach is applicable because the buildup geometry is simple, the sediment source area is limited (>95% of talus blocks are reef boundstone), and the platform section provides temporal control. The buildup geometry is simulated as a truncated cone with corrections for toe-of-slope geometry and 40% depositional porosity of slope breccias. Reef productivity per meter of perimeter was 5.0-18.9 m/ m/ka; corresponding erosion rates were 4.4-18.2 m/m/ka. Rate estimates of productivity and erosion demonstrate redeposition of approximately 85% of the reef. Productivity and erosion rates averaged across the 30 m wide preserved reef are 166-629 Bubnoffs and 146-606 Bubnoffs, respectively. Vertical accumulation rates (20-125 Bubnoffs) strongly underestimate reef productivity. Alternative time scales increase calculated rates such that Triassic reef productivity matches Holocene carbonate accumulation rates.
30059153|Metamorphosed sediments of the Moinian Assemblage in Northern Ross-shire, Scotland, have undergone polyphase metamorphism. Moinian metasediments of the Morar Division occupy the area lying between the Moine Thrust and the Sgurr Beag Slide. They include widespread thin calc-silicate units. As a result of later retrogression in this area, in some calc-silicates, biotite, commonly developed in calc-silicates in the greenschist facies, replaces ferrohornblende characteristic of higher meta-morphic grades. Biotite formation is controlled by both the degree of retrogression, and the rock composition. Retrogression is most prevalent at the lower elevations currently exposed, so the metamorphic assemblages preserved in calc-silicates typify higher grades at higher elevations, deceptively suggesting an inverted thermal gradient, although there is no evidence that a thermal gradient existed. The inverted metamorphic pattern results from interference between an early prograde event, and a later, milder event. Isograds have been drawn, denned by the composition of calc-silicates in which biotite has formed during the retrogressive event. Thus they "contour" a continuous reaction marking the migration of the three-phase hornblende-zoisite-plagioclase field as a function of metamorphic grade. Detailed mapping has shown the isograd surfaces are deformed by post-metamorphic folding.
30078397|The Guerrero terrane in western Mexico consists of upper Jurassiclower Cretaceous volcanoplutonic and volcanosedimentary arc sequences developed in an intraoceanic setting and accreted to North America late in the Early Cretaceous. The Playa Azul sequence belongs to the southern Pacific Province of the Guerrero terrane (PPGT), which extends along the Pacific coast from Puerto Vallarta to Acapulco. This sequence is composed of pyroclastic rocks and rare lava flows interlayered with red detrital rocks and coastal calcarenites. The red beds yielded Early Cretaceous dinosaur footprints. The whole sequence is capped by Albian to Cenomanian reefal limestones. The rare basalts are olivinephyric and include altered amphibolebearing cumulates. The most common facies are amphibolebiotitephyric andesites and dacites. The welded, or not, tuffs have Kfeldspar, quartz, and plagioclase phenocrysts, while their groundmass includes biotite and zircon. Amphibole ranges in composition from pargasitic hornblende to edenite similar to volcanic rocks of islands arcs and continental margins. The mafic rocks are Ti, Ta, and Nbdepleted and belong to mild tholeiitic and calcalkaline suites. They show transitional geochemical characteristics between lavas from oceanic island arc and active continental margins. The felsic rocks belong to calcalkaline suites. The Playa Azul rocks exhibit a wide range of Nd ratios, but the basalts have Nd ratios that range from +9 to +2. The predominance of hornblendebiotitephyric felsic rocks in the Playa Azul sequence suggest that it was built on a thick basement. The low Nd ratios of some mafic rocks imply that the sediments played a key role in the genesis of some basalts. A basement formed of continental crust is highly unlikely because the felsic rocks do not show continental contamination. Thus, the Playa Azul sequence was probably built on an oceanic crust thickened by sediments such as the Arteaga complex. Compared to the neighboring arc sequences along the Pacific coast, the Playa Azul sequence differs by its subaerial environment, the predominance of hornblendebiotite felsic rocks, and a wide diversity of the rock facies. However, like all the other igneous rocks of the Guerrero terrane, the Playa Azul lavas derived from a mantle source that was little affected by crustal components. A geodynamic model of the PPGT is proposed based on these differences and similarities.
30068836|Pleistocene basaltic lava dams and outburstflood deposits in the western Grand Canyon, Arizona, have been correlated by means of cosmogenic
30056936|Exposures of both glacial and non-glacial sediments that are correlated with Kansan and Yarmouth stages have been discovered recently in southern Indiana. Distribution of Kansan stage till indicates that the Kansan glacier probably covered about the same amount of the state as did the Illinoian ice. A paleosol on Kansan stage till is leached of carbonates to a depth of 9-11 feet. Fossiliferous proglacial loess conformably underlies the Kansan stage till at one locality and is named the Cagle silt. Assemblages of mollusks recovered from the Cagle silt and from the top of an alluvial silt of Yarmouth age indicate that at both times the climate in south-central Indiana was cool and moist, probably resembling the present-day climate in central Ontario.
30055804|The reports of the Second Pennsylvania Geological Survey covering the region along the Beaver River and its tributaries in Lawrence, Mercer, and Butler counties, show that the average interval between the Vanport limestone of the Allegheny group and the Homewood formation (sandstone), the youngest member of the Pottsville series is 50 feet. In the Foxburg quadrangle along the Allegheny River, the average interval is 120 feet from the Vanport limestone down to what is called the Homewood sandstone in that folio. The present writer, however, concludes that the Upper Connoquenessing and Homewood sandstones of the Beaver River section are equivalent to the Homewood and Clarion sandstones of the Allegheny River section. The Pottsville series of the Foxburg folio should, therefore, be extended to include the Clarion formation of the Allegheny group and the Clarion sandstone should be regarded as the top member of the Pottsville series in the Allegheny River section. A study of the same members between Mayport near the eastern margin of the Clarion quadrangle and Brookville in Jefferson County, suggested that the Craigsville coal of the Foxburg-Clarion folio is the equivalent of the Brookville coal near Brookville.
30068556|A simplified model of the regional metamorphic process demonstrates that the highest grade experienced by a rock is produced at the highest temperature while the maximum pressure generally occurs earlier. Whether isograd reactions are surface reaction- or fluid transport rate-limiting, at mid-crustal conditions, depends on how fluid is channelized while flowing toward the earth's surface. Fluid is generally present locally during prograde metamorphism, being produced by sliding equilibria devolatization reactions. High-grade mineral assemblages produced at mid-crustal conditions do not react to lower-grade assemblages as temperature and pressure decrease during uplift because of the lack of a fluid phase. A fluid phase is required for reaction to transport reactant material to the site of mineral growth. The last fluid-producing reaction occurs at the highest grade, and then the fluid escapes by hydrofracturing with at least some flow velocity component toward the earth's surface. The speciation and composition of a typical aqueous chloride-rich fluid in equilibrium with a potassium-rich quartzo-feldspathic rock at the peak metamorphic conditions of 500C and 2 kbar is calculated, and the implication this has for the textural fabric in a rock is discussed. This fluid is determined to be somewhat acidic to neutral and contains a low concentration of Al. From an energy standpoint, there appears to be coupling of surface reaction rates with transport and nucleation rates to minimize the entropy change associated with these irreversible processes.
10.1086/677901|In marine settings, quantitative bathymetric models can be developed using various water depth proxies, including epibiont distribution, sedimentologic features, and the distribution of benthic taxa in time and space. Here, the late Quaternary bathymetric history of the Po coastal plain (Italy) has been reconstructed using mollusk samples from a network of 16 cores. Multiple analytical approaches have been applied in a comparative fashion. A direct ordination approach was used to estimate sample bathymetry using weighted averaging of genera with known preferred depth. Weighted averaging carries an advantage of analytical simplicity and produces direct ordination models expressed in environmentally meaningful units. Indirect ordination methods, based on depth estimates developed using posteriori-calibrated ordination strategies (correspondence and detrended correspondence analysis calibrated against present-day bathymetric data), yielded results consistent with weighted averaging. Regardless of the choice of analytical methods, mollusk assemblages yielded bathymetric proxies congruent with independent sequence stratigraphic interpretations derived previously for both Late Pleistocene and Holocene transgressive-regressive cycles. The mollusk-derived proxies quantify spatial bathymetric gradients across the basin and local trends in absolute water depth in response to relative changes in sea level. However, for cores located in the most proximal part of the basin, mollusk-based ordinations failed to provide viable estimates due to inclusion of mixed marine and nonmarine mollusk faunas and scarcity of fossiliferous horizons necessary for adequate quantitative sampling. The multiple analytical approaches cross evaluated in this study consistently suggest that high-resolution quantitative bathymetric estimates can be derived for mollusk samples independent of stratigraphy for fully marine settings. When applied simultaneously to both samples and taxa, these approaches provide a viable strategy for quantifying stratigraphic and paleontological patterns and enhancing interpretations of basin-scale depositional systems.
30058219|Hydrothermal experimentation indicates that pure anorthite is stable in the presence of H2O at temperatures down to 350 C. and possibly lower. A hexagonal polymorph of anorthite unknown in nature is consistently synthesized at low temperatures, and the possibility of its being stable below approximately 300 C. is discussed. The hydrous phases zoisite and lawsonite were not encountered.
30057054|Existing mountain ranges, following the borders of the present continents so closely in many parts of the globe as to indicate a genetic relationship to these borders, lead to the belief that the folded ranges of earlier ages also arose along the borders of the continents. A comparison of trend lines of the successive generations of folding from pre-Cambrian to the present shows, in many cases, that the later foldings have developed either on the sites of the earlier foldings, or in belts adjoining and more or less parallel to the earlier mountain chains. The repetition of similar stress conditions has produced a repetition of the results. Also by the transfer of material as sediment, mountains of a younger generation receive a direct inheritance from mountains of an older generation, which inheritance has exerted an influence on the general trend lines. The old trend lines afford one of the best means of delineating ancient continents and ocean basins. The main lines of the continental platforms seem not to have changed very radically, as a rule, throughout known geologic time. Postulated continents, like Gondwanaland, Atlantis, etc., where ocean basins are today, cannot be recognized under this system.
30079652|A "headland-bay" beach is denned as a beach lying in the lee of a headland subjected to a predominant direction of wave attack. Such beaches characteristically have a seaward-concave plan shape resulting from erosion caused by refraction, diffraction, and reflection of waves into the shadow zone behind the headland. Tide-induced currents have no direct effect on the plan shape of headland-bay beaches. Increasing radius of plan curvature with distance from the headland suggested testing the logarithmic spiral,
30081145|Two distinctive molasse deposits within the Indo-Asian collision zone have been investigated to help understand the post-Oligocene evolution of the Himalaya and southern Tibetan plateau. The Siwalik Group (predominantly fluvial sandstones and siltstones), is widespread throughout the foothills of the Himalaya from Pakistan to eastern India. Paleomagnetic analysis of a measured section in the Bakiya Khola, southeastern Nepal, constrains depositional ages (
30059978|The preglacial Teays River, which rose in Tertiary time in the vicinity of the Blue Ridge in North Carolina, flowed across north-central Indiana and turned south through the present lower Wabash Valley to discharge its water into the Gulf Embayment in the vicinity of the southern tip of Illinois. That portion of the valley in northern Indiana, as well as that in western Ohio, was buried beneath the Pleistocene glacial plain. Its route across this area has been traced, by means of well records. Along the west side of Indiana the present Wabash River flows in the deeply alluviated Teays Valley. Well records in the lower Wabash Valley indicate the position of the preglacial valley floor. The Teays Valley in Indiana has a gradient of approximately 8 inches per mile; the buried bedrock floor drops from an altitude of 463 feet in northwestern Jay County to an altitude of 229 feet in southwestern Posey County.
30070496|Dolomitic carbonate rock units from a variety of Phanerozoic localities and depositional environments throughout North America were evaluated with respect to their dolomite content and dolomite composition by X-ray diffraction analysis. Dolomite compositions range from 48 to 57 mole%
30060373|The difficulties experienced in correlating strata near the Ordovician-Silurian boundary in Britain and North America arise partly from imperfect descriptions of the British Llandovery fauna. Many characteristic Llandovery fossils are attributed in lists to the Bala or Wenlock. In Britain, Ordovician and Silurian rocks occur in three fades: (1) pelitic, (2) psammitic, and (3) calcitic facies. The better-known American Ordovician and Silurian rocks belong mainly to the calcitic facies. A comparison is made between the genera of brachiopods and trilobites recorded from the British and American rocks near the Ordovician-Silurian boundary. In Anti-costi, the English Head, Charleton, and Ellis Bay must be referred to the Bala; the Becsie River is probably Lower Llandovery, while the Gun River, Jupiter River, and Chicotte are Upper Llandovery. The Richmond of the interior states is unmistakably Bala; the Clinton (and probably the Medina) is Upper Llandovery. Evidence that Lower Llandovery rocks occur on the American continent is wanting.
30078370|With each lowering of relative sea level, "fan valleys" of coastal alluvial fan systems adjacent to high-gradient submarine slopes become entrenched or resume deepening at sites where the coastal slope is steepest. Tectonic tilting events that changed the maximum slope direction in a fan system should thus be identifiable in the geologic record by noting temporal changes in position and/or trend of fan valley deposits. This method of detecting ancient fan valley trends, and thus tilting events, is illustrated with Quaternary fans on the Pacific coast of central Honshu, Japan.
10.1086/675907|Two competing models exist for the formation of the Pennsylvania salient, a widely studied area of pronounced curvature in the Appalachian mountain belt. The viability of these models can be tested by compiling and analyzing the patterns of structures within the general hinge zone of the Pennsylvania salient. One end-member model suggests a NW-directed maximum shortening direction and no rotation through time in the culmination. An alternative model requires a two-phase development of the culmination involving NNW-directed maximum shortening overprinted by WNW-directed maximum shortening. Structural analysis at 22 locations throughout the Valley and Ridge and southern Appalachian Plateau Provinces of Pennsylvania are used to constrain orientations of the maximum shortening direction and establish whether these orientations have rotated during progressive deformation in the Pennsylvania salients hinge. Outcrops of Paleozoic sedimentary rocks contain several orders of folds, conjugate faults, steeply dipping strike-slip faults, joints, conjugate en echelon gash vein arrays, spaced cleavage, and grain-scale finite strain indicators. This suite of structures records a complex deformation history similar to the Bear Valley sequence of progressive deformation. The available structural data from the Juniata culmination do not show a consistent temporal rotation of shortening directions and generally indicate uniform, parallel shortening directions consistent with the single-phase model for development of the Pennsylvania salient.
30085003|The seven sand cays of Alacrn Reef occur on the leeward side of this nearly filled atoll. They are composed of fine to coarse carbonate sand, finer on the lee side of the cay; and coral-stick gravel ramparts occur on two islands facing heaviest surf. Cays are of five recognizable types, four of which form an evolutionary sequence. The most mature cays have a central vegetated flat with a mildly saucer-shaped profile, a high dune ridge on the lee side next to shore, and steeper and narrower beaches on the windward side. Islands have greatly enlarged in area in the last 60 years, and tend to shift leeward. A review of the literature on carbonate cays reveals their similarity in many respects to other carbonate cays in the tropics.
30081271|Deposits of turbidity currents induced by subaqueous volcanic eruptions are increasingly recognized in settings ranging from lakes to the deep sea. These eruptionfed density currents have high current temperatures and lowdensity particles, which affect current dynamics and deposit features. Field data indicate that deposit thickness and grain size decrease downflow at a changing rate. This trend is similar for deposits of noneruptive turbidity currents, but with volcanic activity, the deposits often exhibit a break in slope of the profile of deposit thickness and grain size distribution. Here we present laboratory results on density currents that address the effects of variations in grain density and water temperature on flow properties and depositional processes. Parallel runs were performed under identical flow conditions using quartz sand and pyroclastic sediment. Each grain type was used in one series of runs in which a hot density current enters a cold environment and one series in which a cold current enters a similarly cold environment. Experiments in which the inflow contained hot water and lowdensity sediment tended to emplace the deposit center of mass proximally; sedimentation also reduced bulk current density below that of the ambient water, giving rise to a buoyant plume from which suspension sedimentation occurred. By contrast, experiments in which the inflow contained cold water and highdensity sediment tended to deposit mass distally, with no accompanying plume. Results of the study have special relevance to submarine volcaniclastic deposits but also illuminate fundamental aspects of how grain properties and water temperature affect the driving force of density currents.
30057073|The problem of the meaning of size-frequency distributions of measurements taken on samples of fossil organisms is considered. The relationships of such distributions to size-frequency distributions of death assemblages of biological populations is explored by the use of a model based on graphic construction. Rates of growth and mortality are the fundamental biological properties that enter into the model. It is concluded that the form of the size-frequency distribution of a measurement taken on a sample of a fossil species is very little dependent upon the size-frequency distribution of this measurement in the death assemblage of the species. Various problems related to the validity of interpretations based on size-frequency distributions of samples of fossils are examined in the light of the conclusion. The need for careful evaluation of the nature of the sample from evidence beyond that supplied by the size-frequency distribution is emphasized. Means of minimizing the difficulties introduced are suggested.
30067031|Metabasite lenses occur within granitic gneiss at Bibong in the southwestern part of the Gyeonggi massif, South Korea. Bibong metabasites experienced an initial eclogite facies metamorphism (17.020.9 kbar, 835860C), which was succeeded by a granulite facies metamorphism (11.514.6 kbar, 830850C) and finally overprinted by an amphibolite facies metamorphism (6.711.0 kbar, 570740C). The metabasites have SmNd internal isochron ages at 225258 Ma, and the major elements of the metabasites display an island arc affinity. The petrochemical and geochronological data suggest the southwestern part of the Gyeonggi massif as an extension of the Triassic DabieSulu collision belt in China.
30061274|Rhyolitic tuff clasts are abundant in Eocene conglomerates of the coastal plain of Baja California and southern California and on four of the Channel Islands. The provenance of the rhyolitic tuff clasts has long been discussed, but no consensus has yet developed. The rhyolitic tuff clasts have figured prominently in various schemes seeking to explain aspects of the tectonics of the southern California borderland. New perspectives are cast upon these problems by a statistical comparison of trace-element compositions (Zr, Y, Cr, Sr, Rb, Zn, Ba, Mn, and
30067402|Paleosols are an important tool in the paleoclimatic and paleoenvironmental interpretation of continental deposits and can provide a highresolution proxy for paleoclimate. Results from geochemical climofunctions applied to Early Miocene strata exposed in the Ebro Basin, Spain, demonstrate that mean annual precipitation was the dominant control on paleosol type and indicate that the paleoclimate was considerably wetter during the Early Miocene, by up to 1150 mm yr
30058035|Bald Butte Ridge is a stock of the Idaho batholith which protrudes through and above the late Tertiary basalts. Its rocks form a petrographic series which has crystallized in the following order: hornblende-biotite-tonalite, biotite-tonalite, aplite dikes, quartz-gabbro dikes, pegmatite dikes, and quartz dikes. Most of the rock in the area is biotite-tonalite. It contains schlieren of the hornblende-biotite-tonalite and is cut by all the dikes named above. The tonalites have a poorly developed gneissic structure which was produced by movement in the mass during the early stages of crystallization.
30064695|The Peorian has always been regarded as the shortest interglacial stage of the glacial epoch. Now it appears from recent new evidence that the Peorian stage was geologically too brief to be regarded as an interglacial stage. Calcareous Peorian loess in the Iowan drift area rests on calcareous Iowan drift, and in Illinois the early Wisconsin ice buried the Peorian loess before it was weathered. Peorian time is recorded primarily by the loess deposit, and the time was so short that we are forced to regard the Iowan ice invasion as the first of the series of invasions of the Wisconsin glacial epoch. This permits, on the one hand, a natural classification of the Wisconsin stage, according to ice centers, and, on the other, a subdivision of Pleistocene time in America that harmonizes with the subdivisions of Europe.
30068024|Peninsular Florida, a region underlain by thick, highly permeable limestone rock honeycombed with cavities, has a highly developed artesian system extending to depths of thousands of feet. The water of this system generally flows through open passages and in certain regions moves up-dip without regard to structure or without confinement between markedly impermeable beds. This system wholly or in part explains the formation of the numerous artesian springs and at least some of the sinks. During the Pleistocene, lowered sea level may have made possible widespread sink formation by vadose and nonartesian ground water, as well as by artesian flow. Caverns of Florida were undoubtedly formed by flow beneath the water table in completely water-filled passages similar to those passages furnishing water to the present deep springs.
10.1086/675665|High-Mg, high-Al metasedimentary gneisses from the Altai Mountains, Mongolia, belonging to a subduction-accretion complex within the Central Asian Orogenic Belt can be divided into five rock types on the basis of mineral assemblages. Most rock types have high MgO and Al
30071514|Studies in a laboratory flume of the behavior of groups of pebbles and of two types of shell (a mussel, Mytilus edulis, and a gastropod, Nucella lapillus) under conditions of unidirectional flow within the tranquil regime have demonstrated that different types of orientation pattern may be developed, depending largely on the grain size of the bed material and the nature of the flow. Bed materials used in this experiment were medium sand and sandy silt. The effects of continuous flow ("wet" state) and initial flow impact ("dry" state) were both investigated. Reorientation of pebbles (studied only on the sand bed) induced a unimodal, current-normal distribution under both "wet" and "dry" conditions, although the rate of reorientation is much higher in the second case. The orientation patterns for mussels are more complex, strongly unimodal current-parallel distributions characterizing "dry"-state runs on both bed types; whereas bimodal, mutually perpendicular patterns (primary mode current-parallel on sand, current-normal on silt) occur under "wet"-state conditions. Nucella lapillus provides less reliable orientation patterns, but the behavior of this shell type is of interest since, under all conditions investigated, most of the reoriented shells lie with their apices pointing downcurrent, opposite in sense to the associated mussel shells. Under given conditions of flow and bed type, the mean angular response of reoriented pebbles and shells is primarily a function of flow velocity, and increases reciprocally with that property although in the sand-bed runs this relationship is interrupted by a narrow, critical regressive zone which probably corresponds to a bed-form phase change from ripples to dunes. Increasing depth produces a progressive diminution in reorientation response, although the relationship does not appear to be an entirely simple one. Investigation of pebble parameters suggests that, while effective weight has little influence on reorientation Zingg shape class, sphericity, and possibly roundness play some part in pebble response. The geological significance of these experimental results is briefly discussed, with particular reference to current vector analysis.
30081119|A belt of deformed Permo-Carboniferous sedimentary rocks in Inner Mongolia represents an orogenic zone between the North China and Siberian blocks. The belt apparently contains accretionary terranes thrust onto the margins of both blocks, with scattered ophiolite/blueschist suites indicating the consumption of oceanic crust at least slightly older than the age of deformation. Upper Carboniferous to Lower Permian strata in central Inner Mongolia show both sedimentological and paleontological differences from Middle and Upper Permian rocks. In comparison with pre-Middle Permian rocks, younger Permian strata: (1) contain less laterally extensive limestone and more lensoidal carbonate in clastic sections; (2) contain a higher percentage of coarse clastic material; (3) grade upward from marine to terrestrial deposits; (4) contain fauna indicating more restricted circulation, particularly toward the western part of the belt; and (5) contain fauna that are consistent with, but do not require, northward movement of the North China block during the Permian. These differences indicate continued compression and progressive shallowing, and ultimate destruction, of the ocean basin between North China and Siberia. The lithologic and paleontologic similarity of Upper Carboniferous strata on both sides of proposed suture zones, however, is consistent with the possibility that virtually all Permo-Carboniferous sediments in central Inner Mongolia were deposited along the margin of the North China block, possibly on continental crust above an older suture zone. Thus, closure of an ocean basin by subduction of oceanic lithosphere in the Permo-Carboniferous may have been north of Inner Mongolia.
30064166|The long standing issue of the dominance of scarp retreat versus summit lowering in the denudation of a highland mass is investigated with supporting evidence provided by Tertiary basalts throughout the Shoalhaven catchment in southeast Australia. Both of these forms of denudation are found to be insignificant compared to the role of fluvial gorge extension over the last 30 m.y. Headward advancement of the Shoalhaven Gorge has been occurring at approximately 15 times the rate of major escarpment retreat, 250 times the average rate of summit lowering, and over 500 times the rate of interfluve consumption. These estimates show that the headward erosion of gorges is the most important process denuding the highlands in the Shoalhaven region and possibly elsewhere in the highlands of eastern Australia. Over the long term, the highlands in this region will become considerably more dissected well before they decrease substantially in height or are narrowed. This conclusion has important implications for models predicting isostatic rebound from assumed character and rates of denudation.
30068713|Kelvin's estimate of about
30060184|Superficial structures attributed to deformation by ice push have developed in Pennsylvanian rocks exposed in Madison County, Iowa. Folds, faults, and joints are found in a lithified limestone and in underlying shale units, with deformation through flowage and fracture expressed in varying degrees in the different lithologic units.
30062188|The existing criteria for verification of the hypothesis of either systematic or random nature of fluctuation of geologic properties depend to a large degree upon the length n of geologic processes. The necessary condition for their successful application is that
30067039|The Kalak Nappe Complex (KNC) within the northernmost Arctic Norwegian Caledonides has traditionally been interpreted as representing the tectonically shortened margin of Baltica, consisting of a Precambrian basement and a late Precambrian to Cambrian cover deposited on the margin of the Iapetus Ocean. However, new geochronology indicates a distinctly different scenario. Detrital zircon UPb dating, together with the magmatic and deformation history, shows that the KNC metasediments, previously considered as a single stratigraphic sequence, belong to at least two distinct successions. Metasediments of the Svaerholt Succession, within the lower (Kolvik and Olderfjord) nappes of the KNC and affected by the late Grenvillian Rigolet deformation phase, were deposited between ca. 980 and 1030 Ma, constrained by intrusive granites and the youngest detrital zircons. The Sry Succession occurs within the SrySeiland Nappe, the Havvatnet Imbricate Stack, and Veines Nappe (the upper nappes of the KNC). It was affected by the Porsanger Orogeny at or before ca. 840 Ma and contains detrital zircons as young as
30058936|The prevalent concept of the baseleveling process does not include the inevitable rise of sea-level which accompanies erosion of the lands in consequence of deposition of the resulting sediments in the oceans. Hence it does not fit the actual phenomenon. It is estimated that complete baseleveling of the present lands in the absence of diastro-phism would result in a rise of sea-level in the neighborhood of 670 feet, due to displacement of sea-water by sediment. Add to this the effect of melting of the present polar ice-caps, and the rise of the sea would amount to about 725 feet. For the higher portions of the present lands, baselevel would come to be at about 725 feet above present sea-level, if diastrophism did not intervene. Present sea-level is far from being the level at which baselevel will theoretically come to be for the greater portion of the land masses. The problem of baseleveling is much more complicated than has been recognized.
30060519|Orientation and shape of clasts can be approximated by an ellipsoid. Such ellipsoids are easily transformed into a fixed geographic coordinate system and provide a 3 x 3 matrix description of the pebble. These matrices can be summed and an average matrix determined. Eigenvector calculations produce the principal axes of the population ellipsoid. Paleocurrent interpretations based on these ellipsoids agree with other geological data. Other potential uses include the calculation of average clast dimension in any direction, the calculation of volume changes associated with erosion, and the characterization of various sedimentary environments. Deformed clasts are analyzed to illustrate the application of the population ellipse to strain studies.
30060099|A method has been developed to describe numerically three-dimensional folded surfaces represented by structure contour maps in rectangular areas. The method uses two-dimensional surface profiles denned along radial lines emanating from the center of the map area; when combined, the two-dimensional representations provide an omnibus numerical description of the three-dimensional folded surface in the map area. Four parameters of shape are used to describe surface profiles: (1) polar slope index 1, (2) polar slope index 2, (3) marginal polar slope, and (4) polar curvature index. The description afforded by the shape parameters is sensitive to orientation as well as to shape of the fold. The shape parameters are simple, easy to compute, and readily interpreted geometrically. Use of the shape parameters allows efficient and systematic analysis of fold geometries by quantitative methods. A graphical device that facilitates study and comparison of folded surfaces by means of the shape parameters is described.
30070772|The location of the boundary between juvenile Neoproterozoic crust of the Arabian-Nubian Shield in the Red Sea Hills and older crust of the Nile craton to the west is defined by the Keraf zone in northern Sudan, but little is known about its deformation history. Shuttle Imaging Radar (SIR-A), Landsat Thematic Mapper (TM), and Large Format Camera (LFC) images, combined with ground investigation, were used to carry out the first detailed study of the Keraf zone. This N-trending zone is ~45 km wide and is defined by multiply deformed carbonate-rich turbidites and volcanogenic sediments. Six deformational phases (D1 to D6) were identified, associated with two tectonic events: (1) D1 and D2 are related to emplacement of SSE-verging ophiolitic nappes due to collision between the Haifa and Bayuda terranes along the ENE-trending Atmur suture at ~800-700 Ma. The Atmur suture marks the site of a former Neoproterozoic oceanic re-entrant that extended WSW from the Mozambique ocean into the interior of the Nile craton. D1 produced SSE-verging tight folds and thrusts, whereas D2 deformed the D1-structures into ENE-trending upright folds. (2) D3 to D6 reflect shortening across the Keraf zone. D3 produced N-trending, upright, isoclinal to open folds. D4 was superimposed on D3 as coaxial W-verging tight folds. D5 refolded older structures about steeply, east- to ENE-plunging fold axes. D6 manifests development of local NE-trending dextral and NW-trending sinistral shear zones. We suggest that this deformation reflects oblique collision between composite arc terranes of the Arabian-Nubian Shield and the Nile craton along the Keraf zone at ~750-650 Ma.
JG80171|The Jehol Biota from lower Cretaceous deposits in northern China provides an important record of terrestrial fauna and flora, including feathered dinosaurs and one of the earliest angiosperms. This biota underwent three development phases, with a relatively limited biodiversity in the early phase that rapidly diversified in the middle phase. This study analyzes the conditions of terrestrial paleoweathering during the lower Cretaceous as inferred from the geochemistry of mudstones, with the aim of assessing the role of paleoclimate change as a background factor that led to the phased evolution of the Jehol Biota. The analysis focuses on the Dabeigou and Dadianzi formations of Hebei Province, northern China, which record the early and middle phases of the Jehol Biota, respectively. These fluviolacustrine sequences can be lithologically divided into lower and upper units. Geochemical weathering indices (e.g.,
30068859|Trace element signatures of mantle xenoliths along an eastwest transect extending from the Sierra Nevada to the Colorado Plateau were investigated in this study. Those beneath the Sierra Nevada are highly enriched in fluidmobile elements (Cs, Pb, U, and Sr) and, in particular, are characterized by low U/Pb and high Sr/Nd. These signatures imply that aqueous fluids derived by dehydration of seawateraltered lithologies have been introduced into the Sierran xenoliths. Peridotite xenoliths from beneath the Colorado Plateau, lying 1000 km inboard, are also enriched in fluidmobile elements, but the extent is lower, the U/Pb ratios are high, the Sr/Nd ratios are low, and there is a strong enrichment in the light rare earth elements but negligible enrichment in the heavy rare earths. These features require the introduction of an aqueous component and a silicate melt component into the plateau xenoliths, with the latter, in particular, derived from a garnetrich source such as an eclogite that has already been stripped of Pb and Sr relative to U and Nd by earlier dehydration. This hypothesized eclogite source may represent subducted Farallon oceanic crust or preexisting Proterozoic oceanic crust. In both cases, a source of aqueous fluids from greater depths is required to explain the enrichment in fluidmobile elements and to sufficiently depress the eclogite solidus for melting to take place. Such fluids are suggested here to come from dehydration of serpentinite, whose most probable origin is the colder core of the shallowly subducting Farallon plate. The distinctive signatures of the Sierran xenoliths, by contrast, probably derive from dehydration of seawateraltered oceanic crust earlier in the subduction sequence. These observations corroborate suggestions that lowangle subduction during the Laramide orogeny may have hydrated a laterally extensive region of western North America. However, the vertical extent of hydration remains an open question.
30055802|In 1921 and 1922 the writer discovered ten separate post-Pleistocene extrusions on a group of coast islands in the vicinity of Milbank Sound, about 340 miles north of Vancouver. Both tuffs and lavas are described in detail. The post-glacial age of the tuffs is shown by the fact that they rest on glaciated surfaces and on deposits of till and contain in their basal members many large glacial bowlders which rest on the underlying granodiorite.
30059289|In 1961 Brace outlined many of the difficulties of the analysis of finite homogeneous strain in deformed rocks, but these difficulties are not generally appreciated in the geological literature. The solution of the general problem depends on the presence of three non-coplanar lines whose initial lengths are known. In most tectonites there will not be enough information present to solve this problem. Identification of the principal planes of strain in the deformed state simplifies the situation, but this identification depends (in the absence of initially spherical markers) on the recognition of three initially orthogonal lines that have remained orthogonal during straining, or on symmetry arguments. Additional difficulties are introduced by the inherent nature of geological markers; the marker may not have the same mechanical properties as the bulk of the rock, and the initial shapes of many geological markers do not lie within a sufficiently small range to give useful results. This last limitation applies particularly to sedimentary structures. Analyses of strain published to date (except for Cloos, 1947) depend on unjustified assumptions regarding the state of strain in the tectonite.
30057894|In 1920 a detailed examination was made by the writer of the so-called "Farm Creek Exposure" near Peoria, Illinois, from personal interest. It developed, however, that the description previously published of this very important Pleistocene exposure was considerably generalized and was made prior to our present conceptions of such materials as loess and gumbotil. The following discussion gives in detail the various elements in the section and offers an interpretation of them.
30063412|Detailed geomorphologic, stratigraphic, and paleontologic investigations on the southern littorals of Mallorca indicate the existence of at least three complex glacio-eustatic regressional intervals, belonging to the last three glacial complexes of the Pleistocene. The incipient regressive oscillations were initiated by climatically induced colluviation and followed by deposition of regressional aeolianites. Deflation of freshly exposed marine deposits necessarily ceases soon after the negative fluctuation stops. A complete stratigraphy of the actual regressional parts of each major glacial low-water stage is locally preserved and discussed in detail for several sites. Three major dunes characterize the last regression, four the penultimate regression and at least two the antepenultimate regression. The transgressive intervals with thermophile marine faunas presumably corresponded to interglacial intervals. They comprise several oscillations, the youngest of which, in the case of the last and penultimate interglacials, was preceded by a negative fluctuation to below modern sea level. These phases were significant for major Rotlehm development, but typical regressional aeolianites are lacking. Consequently the Tyrrhenian III, a final oscillation of this type, is considered as last interglacial. Similarly, a final Tyrrhenian I level of +4-5 m., with faune banale, here recognized and studied for the first time, is considered as the final stage of the penultimate transgressive complex. Weathering is also indicated during the "interstadial" interruptions of the various regressions.
30060394|In a previous paper the chemical composition and the mineralogical properties of the Lake Superior grnerite were dealt with (American Journal of Science, Vol. XIV [1927], pp. 150 ff.). The occurrence and origin of this mineral is the subject of the present publication. In the Marquette district sideritic cherts were metamorphosed into grnerite rocks by dioritic intrusives. They contain, in addition to grnerite, magnetite, garnet, and either quartz or calcite. At the contact of uralite diabase in the eastern portion of the area no grnerite rocks, but mica-magnetite schists, were formed. In the Mesabi range the original rock consisted of chert and the hydro-ferrous silicate greenalite. In the eastern portion of the range, at the gabbro contact, these sediments developed into rocks containing grnerite, fayalite, and magnetite. Ferruginous cherts west of the Mesaba station do not contain any amphibole. The substance regarded as grnerite, cummingtonite, or actinolite is optically micalike, and it is supposed to be the crystallized form of former greenalite. The bearing of these facts on the problem of the metamorphism of the area in question is discussed.
30061141|The offsets of the axis of the Mid-Atlantic Ridge in equatorial fracture zones are characterized by the existence of transverse ridges running adjacent and parallel to the east-west trenches marking each of the fracture zones. These transverse ridges are made essentially of blocks of ultramafic rocks, probably emplaced at the offsets as a result of upward solid protrusion from the upper mantle into the east-west crustal fractures. The ultramafic blocks appear to be older than the adjacent sea floor, and to behave as nonspreading blocks plastered between spreading subplates; they may be coupled with a stagnant zone postulated to exist in the upper mantle beneath the spreading axis. A hypothesis is presented whereby ultramafic transverse protrusions are related to the formation of the offsets of the Mid-Atlantic Ridge and of the trenches associated with the offsets. During the early stages of development of the Atlantic Rift, the ultramafic blocks protruded from the upper mantle where the rift intersected preexisting east-west crustal fractures. Where the linear, north-south pattern of upwelling (pattern corresponding to the axis of the proto-Atlantic Rift) abutted against a transverse ultramafic protrusion, "normal" upwelling and basaltic volcanism were prevented; their "normal" north-south linearity resumed at one edge of the protrusive body. Consequently, separation of Africa and South America took place along an offset pattern. During further spreading, remnants of the transverse ultramafic protrusions may have been left as semistagnant blocks within the offsets of the Mid-Atlantic Ridge. The offsets of the Mid-Indian Ridge have features similar to those of the Mid-Atlantic Ridge, while the offsets of the East Pacific Rise in the equatorial and South Pacific are systematically different from the Atlantic-Indian-type offsets: for instance, they lack deep transverse valleys and ultramafic protrusions. The East Pacific Rift probably initiated along a roughly continuous line; the offsets developed gradually during subsequent crustal spreading. These differences between the equatorial-southern Pacific rift and the Atlantic-Indian rifts are explained by the fact that the former originated in a proto-oceanic region; the latter instead originated within a protocontinent.
30078528|The Neoproterozoic Gamble Brook Formation in the Avalon Terrane of Nova Scotia consists of quartzitic, pelitic, and psammitic metasedimentary rocks. The formation is generally interpreted to have been deposited in an Atlantictype passive margin setting along the Amazonian margin of Rodinia before the main ca. 650550Ma phase of Avalonian subductionrelated magmatism. The geochemical and SmNd isotopic signature of these metasedimentary rocks, however, shows that although the quartzites are predominantly derived from ancient cratonic basement, the pelites and psammites were derived from moderately fractionated mafic to intermediate protoAvalonian crust. The two contrasting sources for the Gamble Brook rocks are incompatible with a passive margin setting and are instead interpreted to reflect deposition along a basin margin within a riftedarc environment. Taken as a whole, the Amazonian margin of Gondwana preserves evidence of episodic subduction in a western Pacificlike setting between 1000 and 650 Ma, followed by terrane accretion and Andeanstyle magmatism between 640 and 550 Ma.
30057139|A petrographic study was made of sedimentary rocks of Permian, Triassic, and Jurassic age on the Colorado Plateau. The source areas of the detrital sediments were positive areas of igneous, metamorphic, sedimentary, and volcanic terranes. Most of the sediments were deposited on a flat, slowly subsiding depositional plain; shallow-water embayments alternated with eolian or alluvial environments. It was found that mean grain size can be translated as average grain size and is related to tectonic uplift, gradient, and energy level. Standard deviation can be translated as average sorting and related to tectonic subsidence, rate of deposition, and amount of reworking. Skewness and kurtosis can be translated as measures of internal sorting contrasts and related to amount of reworking and accumulated energy. Differences in statistical measures of the grain-size distributions of samples from vertical sequences of sediments are interpreted in terms of minor and major tectonic changes in the source areas and areas of deposition.
30059989|The continental margin off Walvis Bay, between 20 and 26 south latitude, is a broad, smooth platform underlain by at least 3 km of sediment. The shelf edge, at 400 m, is unusually deep. A late Pleistocene shoreline at 110 m depth is located near the present coast and forms the approximate seaward limit of recent sedimentation. Beyond this limit, the shelf and upper continental slope are erosional, exhibiting truncated beds and a broad, deep scour trough along most of the outer shelf. Deep currents between 100 and 400 m parallel to the shelf edge rather than Pleistocene transgressions and regressions appear to be responsible for the erosion. The shelf sediment wedge consists of at least five depositional units, each beginning with a trans-gressive onlap over a preexisting, largely erosional surface, followed by depositional outbuilding and a terminal phase of subsidence and deeper-water deposition. The surfaces which separate the units are similar to the present shelf and upper slope and indicate a persistent regime of recurring deep-current scour. The age of the depositional units is unknown; even the youngest is probably older than late Pleistocene and most of them may be of Tertiary age. The cyclic character of the deposits may result from periodic variations in the rate of subsidence, from a fluctuating sediment supply as a function of climatic changes on land, from periodic variations in the transport and erosion capacity of the Benguela Current system, or from a combination of all three. Deep-current observations and drilling on the shelf are needed to solve these problems.
30056346|A selected sample of 277 sandstones (183 from thin sections and 94 from descriptions in the literature) were classified into five general classes on the basis of detrital mineral composition. The relative abundance of each of these classes was determined, as well as the average mineral composition of each class. A comparison of the carbonate-cemented sandstones with the silica-cemented varieties showed an increase in carbonate in later geologic periods. In the carbonate-cemented sandstones, partial replacement of the detrital grains was almost universal.
30065788|Rocks of the Uvalde portion of the Balcones igneous province of south-central Texas include nephelinite, basanite, alkali basalt, and phonolite. The nephelinites and basanite represent primitive, potentially primary, magmas based on high Mg#, high Ni contents, and the presence of mantle xenoliths. Normalized trace-element patterns and diagnostic elemental ratios for these rocks are very similar to those of ocean-island basalts (OIB). Phonolites display OIB-like patterns strongly overprinted by the effects of fractional crystallization. Trace-element variations in the nephelinites, basanite, and alkali basalt result from variable degrees of partial melting of a grossly homogeneous mantle source. Initial
30064104|The mobilities of the elements are discussed in terms of their thermodynamic and kinetic properties. The contributions of lattice diffusion and intergranular vapor transport are compared, and the observational data are interpreted in terms of several simplified models. It is concluded that, while lattice diffusion is ineffective as a means of extensive mass transport, it is of considerable importance in bringing about local equilibrium when it is increasingly favored by differential stresses during recrystallization creep. Existing data seem to indicate that by and large the compositions of individual metamorphic minerals vary continuously with distance but that this variation is far less than the variation in modal phase content which gives rise to gneissic banding. The nature of these variations may be interpreted using a quasi-equilibrium model of diffusion between small volumes of rock which are regarded as being in local equilibrium. According to the model the compositional gradients may be established by the diffusion of certain critical molecular or ionic species. Application is made to the variation of the atomic fraction
30067398|UPb zircon ages of tuffs and sandstones of the Daedong Supergroup (Bansong and Nampo groups) in the Korean Peninsula were determined using a sensitive highresolution ion microprobe (SHRIMP) in order to constrain their age of sedimentation and to unravel discrete geologic events as recorded in detrital zircons. The ages of four tuffaceous samples from the Bansong Group imply that the Daedong Supergroup formed at ca. 187172 Ma in association with the EarlyMiddle Jurassic orogeny. These data are in marked contrast with paleomagnetic arguments suggesting that the Bansong and Nampo groups are precollisional EarlyMiddle Triassic deposits that are correlative with the North and South China blocks, respectively. Detrital zircons of the Daedong Supergroup define seven age components: (1) EarlyMiddle Archean (3.642.97 Ga), (2) Late Archeanmiddle Early Proterozoic (2.632.33 Ga), (3) late Early Proterozoic (1.981.75 Ga), (4) MiddleLate Proterozoic (1.20.6 Ga), (5) Devonian (400355 Ma), (6) Early Permian (280255 Ma), and (7) Middle TriassicEarly Jurassic (240180 Ma). These age distributions, together with available geochronological data, suggest that crustal growth of the Korean Peninsula has continued since ca. 3.6 Ga and culminated at ca. 2.5 and 1.91.8 Ga. Major age populations of detrital zircons of the Bansong and Nampo groups are similar, except for the presence of MiddleLate Proterozoic ages in the latter. Inasmuch as these ages are characteristic for the South China Block, the Gyeonggi massif, or at least the local source of the Nampo Group, is most likely a correlative of the South China Block.
30056641|Packing analysis is performed on the three sedimentary-rock types-the arkose, graywacke, and quartz-ite. It is shown, by means of analysis of variance, that there are no significant differences among packing-proximity and packing-density measurements for the three rock types. By means of covariance and regression analyses, the interdependency of the variables-packing density, packing proximity, and intercept size-is established. An example of the utility of packing as a geologic tool is presented. It is shown that an ore-bearing zone and a barren zone, from the Salt Wash member of the Morrison formation, can be differentiated on the basis of packing proximity. This difference is manifested as a clustering effect. A possible cause of this effect is discussed. Finally, it is suggested that packing analysis be included in future sedimentary-rock analysis.
30079710|In contrast to the turbidity-current hypothesis uniformly proposed in the literature, the structural and textural properties of the sands and silts in the western North Atlantic suggest that ocean-bottom currents may also be of primary volumetric importance in the transportation of sand and silt from the continental shelf through the submarine canyons and down to the deep-sea floor. The sinusoidal trends present on scatter diagrams between mean size and size sorting, and between mean size and skewness, are similar to the trends known for sediments deposited in continental, littoral, and shallow marine environments. There are evidently no unique trends (or the absence of any trends) that could be considered typical of deep-sea sands and slits deposited from turbidity currents. Furthermore, the deep-sea sand and silt layers are commonly current-laminated throughout their thickness. The deep-sea sands and silts consistently contain less than 5 per cent clay (\<0.004 mm.), and none exceeds 12 per cent. The well-documented lack of clay in the sands that were deposited in Pleistocene time on the continental shelf during lowered sea levels suggests that the characteristic deficiency of clay in the deep-sea sands is largely inherited from the source sands, rather than the result of removal of substantial amounts of clay during deposition.
30057596|The limestone caves of this region were made under completely saturated conditions long before the present erosion cycle began and probably before the Pliocene Ogallala formation was deposited.
30058170|Each of nearly one hundred coal seams of Pennsylvanian age has been sampled at several localities in West Virginia and adjacent states. Maceration residues of these coal samples show a differentiation of the microfossil flora between the seams, which may represent evolutionary or/and ecological changes. Preliminary studies have been made on the megaspores which permit some advance conclusions. Sixty species and varieties of the megaspore flora of twenty selected seams are illustrated and discussed. Fifteen types of microspores from three seams are given from among fifty-eight recognized in all the coals studied. The principal floral changes appear to occur above the Lower War Eagle and Buffalo Creek coals and below the Uniontown coal. Less important changes are noted above the Matewan, Cedar Grove, and Lower Kit-tanning coals. Some evidence for interregional correlation based on similar geologic occurrence of certain spores is given. Several problems of the morphology and identification of spores are presented in the illustrated discussion of spore characteristics.
30062128|About 3.4 Ga ago voluminous calc-alkaline magmas represented by the granitoid gneisses of southern India were emplaced into a now poorly preserved non-continental crust. Unstable ensialic basins, initiated at about 3.0 Ga, were filled with volcanic and sedimentary rocks up to about 2.6 Ga. This basement-cover sequence was deformed at the close of the Archaean, first by northward accretion and thickening of several crustal slabs formerly separated by prisms of stable shelf sediments. Structures produced by this episode were refolded and dislocated by large N-S strike-slip shear belts, to impart intense, steep planar fabrics to large volumes of the crust. Fluids rich in CO, possibly derived from sedimentary material driven beneath the crustal slabs by the thickening mechanism, purged the deep crust of HO to form granulites. Upward migration of hot HO-rich fluids encouraged partial melting at intermediate crustal levels. These late-Archaean tectonic and thermal events began soon after the close of basin filling and extended possibly to 2.5 Ga. The close spatial and temporal relationships between immense dyke swarms and 1.7 to 1.2 Ga sedimentary basins are believed to reflect protracted thermal disturbance beneath the Archaean craton in the mid- to late-Proterozoic. Late-Proterozoic tectonism resulted in westward overthrusting and thermal reworking of Archaean crust and transcurrent shear belts which juxtaposed dissimilar Archaean blocks.
30056979|A recent study of the samples from the Stillwater deep well of 1889 shows that the log has been misinterpreted. To further clarify the record, a 20-foot shaft was sunk adjacent to the well and the section carefully studied. The results show a normal Lower Paleozoic section without faulting.
30059246|Precambrian rocks of the Front Range, Colorado, have been studied for mineralogic and geochronologic changes in a zone adjacent to a Tertiary (54 m.y.) intrusive stock. The country rocks are high-grade gneisses schists, amphibolites, and pegmatites. The only mineralogic change attributable to the contact heating takes place at a distance of one-tenth an intrusive width, where microcline changes to orthoclase. This change occurs by conversion of a highly triclinic microcline directly to orthoclase, over a distance of less than 100 feet. Study of the sodium content of the orthoclases reveals no change with distance, despite the strong thermal gradient. The Rb-Sr and K-Ar ages of biotites undergo a complete transition from unaffected Precambrian ages beyond one intrusive width from the contact (10,000 feet) to strongly affected ages near the contact. The K-Ar ages of hornblende are relatively unaffected beyond the first 100 feet. The K-Ar ages of potassium feldspar show variable response, being less affected than the biotite K-Ar age for the first 1,000 feet. The Rb-Sr ages of the potassium feldspar are apparently unaffected beyond about 50 feet. Quantitative interpretation of the biotite K-Ar and Rb-Sr ages in terms of heat flow and kinetic models shows that the data can be fitted to a wide variety of models. This treatment indicates essentially identical activation energies for the argon and strontium in the biotite, with the diffusion coefficients of the strontium being a factor of 5 smaller than that of the argon. Reasonable heat-flow models suggest a maximum value for the activation energy of about 30 kcal/mole.
30084817|Precision echo soundings made across the submarine basins off southern California show that parts of their floors are remarkably smooth and horizontal. Fringing these flat areas are larger areas which have gentle slopes and extend to the basin sides. Where submarine canyons reach from near the shore to the basins, the upper parts of the gently sloping plains take the form of subsea fans. Physiographic and sedimentary evidence indicate that turbidity currents flow from the canyon mouths and deposit most of their loads of sediment on the subsea fans and on the aprons beyond them. Thus the subsea fans are akin to alluvial fans on land. Only a small amount of sediment from turbidity currents reaches the nearly horizontal basin plains and the far sides of the basins. As the basins become filled with sediments from turbidity currents, from suspension in the whole water column, and from marginal mass-movements, the sediments spill from basin to basin in a manner analogous to the prograding of alluvial deposits in the block-faulted desert region of the western United States.
30084955|The rock dbris which lodges on the surface of mountain glaciers may, on the basis of its history after accumulation, be classified under three heads: (1) small fragments which in summer quickly become heated through and melt themselves down beneath the surface; (2) larger boulders which protect the ice beneath them and so give rise to glacial tables; and (3) blocks of intermediate size which may follow either course (1) or (2) depending upon the extent to which they are heated. The largest number of glacial tables is usually found in early summer, when classes (2) and (3) both give rise to tables.
30064652|The most characteristic type of "molar-tooth" structure in the Belt-Purcell succession of western North America is briefly described and illustrated. It is interpreted as a system of originally linear, vertical calcite sheets or ribbons, locally united by horizontal members to form an open framework and attributed to some form of algal or allied organic activity. Subsequent to their formation in water-rich silts and silty clays at depths of less than 1.3 m. below the sedimentary interface, compaction crinkled the vertical sheets and, in some cases, produced structures resembling the ptygmatic veins in metamorphic rocks. The geometry and mechanism of deformation of isolated vertical sheets approximate to theoretical models used to investigate folding in rocks. Although these models can in principle be used to determine various properties of the calcite sheets, the available data permit an estimate of the "viscosity" only-of the order of 400-40,000 poise at the time of their formation. Further investigation of these structures is needed to establish their organic origin with certainty; to determine the environmental conditions controlling their formation; to explain their restriction to later Precambrian sequences; to investigate their possible use as a Precambrian form-fossil; and to compare their deformation more fully with theoretical models.
30065645|Many types of landslide movement are induced by large rainstorms, and empirical rainfall intensity/duration thresholds for initiating movement have been determined for various parts of the world. In this paper, I present a simple pressure diffusion model that provides a physically based hydrologic link between rainfall intensity/duration at the ground surface and destabilizing pore-water pressures at depth. The model approximates rainfall infiltration as a sinusoidally varying flux over time and uses physical parameters that can be determined independently. If destabilizing pore pressures can be estimated, then the model enables the development of a stability criterion defining destabilizing rainfall intensity/duration conditions. Using a comprehensive data set from an intensively monitored landslide, I demonstrate that the model is capable of distinguishing movement-inducing rainstorms.
30056642|A specialized type of hollow formed on slopes where snow persists into the summer is common in the highlands of the Labrador lake plateau in the vicinity of Knob Lake, Quebec. The hollows originated primarily by nivation, that is, the sapping and erosive action of freeze-thaw processes acting on saturated ground under or along the edge of snow patches. Particularly large, well-developed examples in the shape of deep, semicircular basins with backwalls at the angle of repose for coarse materials and gently sloping floors are situated in glacial drift on the northern sides of bedrock hills in one part of this highland area. Many of these hollows were enlarged and modified by collapse and sliding of the backwalls. Hence two stages of development are apparent: (1) formation of the simple nivation hollow by nivation erosive processes, whereby the size of the hollow was limited by the depth of drift and the competence of the materials composing the backwall, and (2) complex forms, evolved when collapse of the backwalls modified the slope and outline of the simple hollows. Early disappearance of snow and ice from most of the basins during the first half of the summer and the generally dense cover of vegetation indicate that the hollows are at present stabilized and that they formed during a colder climate or under heavier precipitation, or both, than is established today.
30062135|Measurement of isotropic magnetic susceptibility is becoming a valuable tool for delineating the strati-graphic and areal distribution of Quarternary deposits, determining their provenance, and characterizing their mineralogy. The analytical technique involves selection of a specific range in matrix size, sieving to recover this range, and measurement of magnetic susceptibility in a low-field transformer bridge. In the present study, an accurate and rapid technique is presented and applied to two tills in Minnesota to delineate one from the other and establish their differing provenance.
30070528|A UPb laser ablation inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry and secondary ion mass spectrometry geochronological study has been performed on zircons from a felsic granulite xenolith from the lower crust under the Variscan belt of Iberia. The ages obtained reveal zirconforming events that span from the late Neoproterozoic (CadomianAvalonian orogeny) to the early stages of the opening of the Atlantic Ocean in the Mesozoic, through CambroOrdovician rifting, DevonoCarboniferous VariscanAlleghenian collision, and PermianTriassic extension and uplift. The UPb age groups found in zircons from this single lower crustal xenolith (ca. 220, 250, 280310, 460490, 525, and 550590 Ma) record at least one complete cycle of closing and opening of oceanic basins and collision of continental masses. Zircons from the felsic granulite xenolith contain a synthesis of the geochronological information found on the surface geology and record most but not all major lithospheric events in the region in a ca. 400m.yr. period.
30059265|The equilibrium pressure-temperature curve for the reaction
30056153|The foreland, north and west of the northern Appalachian Mountains, is characterized by gentle folds, trending parallel with the structures of the bordering mountains. Because of regional tilting, the apparent symmetry of these foreland folds is variable and deceptive. Two methods by which the effects of tilting may be eliminated and the true symmetry of the folds estimated are discussed. It has been found that the northern Appalachian foreland folds are basically asymmetrical, the typical anticlines being about 1.2-1.3 times steeper on the south and east flanks facing the intensely deformed belt. It is thought that the deformation of this area was caused by tangential stresses from the southeast. The asymmetry of the folds is considered to be controlled by the wedgelike form of the sedimentary cover upon which these stresses acted. The principles developed in this paper may be applicable to other typical forelands.
30078516|Stratophenetic data document phenotypic changes in a fossil lineage and play a vital role in reconciling contemporary microevolution with longterm paleontological patterns. However, stratophenetic series represent multiscale geological and biological interactions, defying simple analysis and interpretation. A numerical model is presented that simulates stratophenetic series in shallow marine siliciclastic deposits. The model is driven by predictions of water depth, substrate properties, and sedimentation rate from a highresolution sedimentary basin fill model. Species abundance is modeled as a probability density peaked with respect to environmental preferences. The Price equation is used to model phenotypic evolution based on phenotypefitness covariance and drift. Preservation is a Poisson process controlled by population size, preservation probability, and sedimentation. Numerical experiments are used to investigate (1) the effects of sampling and depositional architecture on observed patterns and (2) the performance of various statistical tests in identifying evolutionary mode. As sample sizes decrease, the inaccuracy of sample mean values causes a stratophenetic pattern referred to as analytical stasis. Depositional architecture can cause nonrandom patterns through temporally irregular preservation, with the relative size and distribution of gaps being more important than the absolute size of gaps and overall completeness. For short series, statistical tests based on a randomwalk null hypothesis lose power and should be abandoned in favor of a multidimensional approach. A model of the data is needed that can account for confounding factors, and all available information on time and environment as well as phenotypic data should be incorporated and analyzed jointly, with a greater emphasis on quantifying uncertainty.
30058622|Owing to the surface configuration in this locality, the winds blow alternately from opposite directions, carving sand-blast facets on flat limestone fragments. The arrangement of the facets with regard to wind directions, shape and position of the fragments, and the attitude of the base is discussed, and an account given of the stages in the alteration of the shape of pebbles as the process continues. Two main types are discriminated: those with a broad base relative to the height, which tend to be reduced to flattisli or broadly convex plates; and those with a relatively small base, from which more irregular forms are produced. Wind-faceted stones are classified on this basis and a terminology provided.
30079953|UPb isotopic analyses of monazite and zircon from six granitic plutons in the Meguma Terrane yield nearly concordant ages of
30082324|An equilibrium assemblage of olivine, Ca-free pyroxene, and PtFe alloy can be used to calculate oxygen fugacity at a known temperature and pressure. This oxygen geobarometer has been tested T = 1300-1450C, P = 1 bar and 10 kbar. The calculated log
30071136|The northeastern portion of the Idaho batholith (NIB) intruded Proterozoic rocks of the Belt-Purcell supergroup between 50 and 90 Ma. Whole-rock Sm-Nd isotopic analyses of batholithic rocks yield depleted mantle model ages (
30061401|The tedious and time-consuming graphical construction and calculation of cumulative frequency curves to derive sediment textural parameters can now be eliminated by the use of a flexible FORTRAN IV computer program designed for use on IBM 360 computer systems. This program allows the user to determine: (1) moment measures, (2) Folk and Ward statistical parameters and (3) Inman's statistics by simply submitting the total sample weight and the weight retained on each sieve for a given sample. In addition, this program allows the user to choose any number of sieves and intervals he desires and will print out all information needed to construct the cumulative frequency curve.
10.1086/679305|Sedimentary records in peripheral basins of mountain belts record changes in erosion dynamics and drainage-network reorganization, but it is often difficult to discriminate between these different controls. Geochemical provenance data on paleo-Indus deposits from the western Himalayan foreland provide constraints on the possible variation of the position of the drainage divide between the Indus and Ganges river systems. Here we present geochemical (trace element and Hf-Nd isotopic) and thermochronological (detrital zircon fission-track [DZFT]) analyses of modern Indus and Miocene Siwalik sediments from northern Pakistan and compare these with published data on the Indus Fan. Available bedrock isotopic data are used to define three end-member sediment sources (Himalaya, Karakorum, and the Kohistan-Ladakh arc) and to calculate the contribution of each of these sources to the foreland basin and Indus Fan. Our results indicate that since the Miocene the contribution of the Himalayan rivers reaching the Indus in the foreland remained constant, whereas the contributions of sediment sources of the upper Indus catchment changed: those of the Kohistan-Ladakh arc diminished strongly in favor of Karakorum and Himalayan sources. Analysis of the DZFT data from the Miocene foreland basin and sediments of the modern upper Indus reach suggests that the exhumation pattern changed due to an increase in exhumation rate of the Karakorum and Himalayan units of the syntaxis since Miocene times, whereas that in the Kohistan-Ladakh arc remained relatively stable. These results imply that the Indus sediments record changing relative erosion rates in the different source regions rather than widespread drainage rearrangement, as suggested previously.
30058670|The typical outcrops of the Olentangy shale occur in central Ohio, and the term was originally confined to the formation in that area. Megascopic and microscopic fossils recently found in the Olentangy seem to tie it definitely to other more widely distributed deposits of the same stratigraphic position and to confirm its assigned place in the Middle Devonian.
10.1086/666744|Microscopic trapezoidal micas are reported from the Sutlej section of the Higher Himalayan Shear Zone, India, and are attributed to an up-dip top-to-southwest sense of brittle shear along
30067898|A discussion of the most important petrographic features of kimberlite is presented and a new definition of kimberlite is proposed. The discussion emphasizes those features of kimberlite which are of petrogenetic significance and points out that alnoitic and lamprophyric rocks associated with alkaline rock-carbonatite complexes are not true kimberlites. Consideration of the proposed relation of kimberlites to mica peridotites, carbonatites, basalts, potassic volcanic rocks, and melilitites reveals that kimberlites are not simply or closely related genetically to any of these rocks.
30068570|The literature on potash feldspar (including the modern textbooks) gives one the impression that, within the limits of observation, the several varieties of
30062156|The Franciscan subduction complex of northern California includes several tectonostratigraphic units. We have used the technique of vitrinite reflectance to document levels of thermal maturity for the Central Belt and the Yager, Coastal, and King Range terranes. Spatial variations in thermal maturity help define the thermal structure of each Franciscan terrane, and each terrane displays a different geometry of thermal structure. These differences are controlled by the style of structural deformation, the overprinting effects of deformation following metamorphism, and thermal overprinting caused by hydrothermal circulation. Anomalies along and contrasts across terrane boundaries help establish the relative timing and the structural mechanisms of terrane amalgamation. For example, localized anomalies are evident along the Eel River fault (Central-Yager boundary), and these increases in thermal maturity may be due to shear heating, hydrothermal discharge, or conductive heat transfer across the fault. Cross-cutting relationships also exist between isoreflectance contours and terrane boundaries; these discordant geometries were caused by post-amalgamation hydrothermal overprinting of the King Range terrane and by late-stage fault dislocation along the Yager-Coastal boundary.
10.1086/605995|Apatite fissiontrack (AFT) ages from 56 samples of Paleozoic and Mesozoic crystalline rocks in New Hampshire, northeastern Vermont, and western Maine range from 70 to 140 Ma and reflect widespread Early to Late Cretaceous cooling. The regional AFT age distributions determined in this study suggest that reactivation of preexisting orogenparallel faults and the presence of a longlived thermal anomaly in the lithospheric mantle controlled the late unroofing history of this part of the northern Appalachians. A northeasttrending zone of young, dominantly Late Cretaceous AFT ages (70118 Ma) extends from southwestern New Hampshire through the central White Mountain region and continues into northern New Hampshire, northeastern Vermont, and western Maine, providing evidence for regional NWSE extension and cooling at this time. Significantly older AFT ages (125140 Ma) in the region bounded by the Bill Little, Ammonoosuc, and Northey Hill faults in northwestern New Hampshire suggest a normalsense reactivation associated with NWSE extension at <80 Ma. Previous studies have revealed an area of low shear wave velocities in the upper mantle, suggesting that potential upwelling of the asthenosphere is currently present in the lithospheric mantle under central New Hampshire. This anomaly is believed to be a remnant of heating associated with passage of the North American plate over the Great Meteor hot spot during the Cretaceous. Our regional AFT age patterns suggest that this longlived thermal anomaly was the driving force for postorogenic extension and associated unroofing in northern New England.
10.1086/667805|Weathering-rind thicknesses on pebble- and cobble-size sediment have been used for the past half-century, at least, as an age indicator of postdepositional time following a geologic event. In mountainous terrain, rind thickness is taken as a measurement of weathering over time frames of 0.5 m.yr.; variable thicknesses are used to discriminate relative ages of glacial deposits. The effects of chemical and physical weathering that together produce rinds are only rarely considered, and most research objectives have centered on lichen alteration of clast surfaces. Recent microscopic analyses of weathering rinds on volcanic clasts of 70.0-ka to 2.0-m.yr. age produced new data on weathering products as well as unexpected incorporated biotic materials undergoing diagenesis. The question as to how much physical/mineral/chemical/biotic paleoenvironmental data might be archived in rinds is discussed. The character and classification of organic materials undergoing diagenesis are also discussed.
30065613|Fission-track dates from seven volcaniclastic units allow time constraints to be placed on synorogenic clastic strata exposed along the flanks of Sierra de Famatina, northwest Argentina. Four formations are exposed along the western margin of Sierra de Famatina. The El Abra conglomerate is composed of clasts eroded from the basement exposed just to the west of Cadena de Paiman. The El Buey Formation contains sediments probably derived from the Precordillera fold and thrust belt to the west. Fission-track dates give a maximum age of 6 Ma for the deposition of both of these formations. The El Durazno Formation, deposited between 6 and 4 Ma, contains proximal volcaniclastic and other clastic rocks derived from the core of Sierra de Famatina. The Santa Florentina conglomerate was derived from the rising Sierra de Famatina and deposited in the past 4 m.y. Sierra de Famatina probably become a positive topographic feature approximately 6 Ma. Prior to that time this region was receiving fine-grained sediments from a distal fold and thrust belt and conglomerates from local basement uplifts. Minor extrusive events (Mogote Formation) coincide both spatially and temporally with deformation along the major reverse faults that control the uplift of Sierra de Famatina. Minimum mean uplift rates calculated for Sierra de Famatina are 0.8  0.1 mm/yr over a 6.8 m.y. interval.
30066279|Many authorities have referred to the need for field measurements of hillslopes. The methods commonly adopted do not necessarily provide the kind and quantity of data that would be most useful in slope analysis. A simple instrument has been designed in an attempt to overcome some of the main limitations of existing methods. The advantages of the new device include its suitability for the surveying of slopes of very different relief scales and its prolific yield of data; the slope surveyor using this instrument does not require specialized training or the aid of a field assistant.
30070520|A theoretical model is developed for the relationship between paleoclimate and paleosols for the time interval following the widespread appearance of vascular land plants. The model defines four paleoclimatic zones: (1) a wet equatorial zone primarily characterized by Oxisols and secondarily by Argillisols and Histosols; (2) a subtropical dry zone containing Calcisols and less commonly Gypsisols and Vertisols; (3) a moist mid-latitude zone with Argillisols, Spodosols, Gleysols, and Histosols; and (4) a polar zone featuring Protosols and Gleysols. The model is general in nature and its application to the geologic past will be affected by variability through time in paleogeography and paleoclimatic parameters.
30080791|This paper discusses the action of the glacial anticyclone of Greenland upon the outwash deposit at its front, and the manner of deposition of loess, pebble layers, and stranded boulders etched by drifting sand which is now collected in dunes. Of much significance is the fact that the braided streams on the outwash plain flow only for a few months of the year.
30062296|Recent work in central and northern Madagascar has identified five tectonic units of the East African Orogen (EAO), a large collisional zone fundamental to the amalgamation of Gondwana. These five units are the Antongil block, the Antananarivo block, the Tsaratanana sheet, the Itremo sheet, and the Bemarivo belt. Geochronological, lithological, metamorphic, and geochemical characteristics of these units and their relationships to each other are used as a type area to compare and contrast with surrounding regions of Gondwana. The Antananarivo block of central Madagascar, part of a broad band of pre1000Ma continental crust that stretches from Yemen through Somalia and eastern Ethiopia into Madagascar, is sandwiched between two suture zones we interpret as marking strands of the Neoproterozoic Mozambique Ocean. The eastern suture connects the AlMukalla terrane (Yemen), the Maydh greenstone belt (northern Somalia), the Betsimisaraka suture (east Madagascar), and the PalghatCauvery shear zone system (south India). The western suture projects the AlBayda terrane (Yemen) through a change in crustal age in Ethiopia to the region west of Madagascar. Our new framework for the central EAO links the Mozambique belt with the Arabian/Nubian Shield and highlights the power of tectonic analysis in unraveling the complex tectonic collage of the EAO.
30071588|The lower Trenton Salona Formation in central Pennsylvania contains five widespread K-bentonite beds, distinguishable on the basis of chemical fingerprinting. Thirty-five samples, one from each K-bentonite bed with good stratigraphic control at seven localities, were analyzed for Na, K, Sc, Cr, Mn, Fe, Co, Zn, Ga, As, Rb, Sb, Cs, La, Ce, Sm, Eu, Tb, Dy, Yb, Lu, Hf, Ta, and Th by instrumental neutron activation analysis and for Zr and Ti by X-ray fluorescence. Chemical data were then treated by step-wise discriminant analysis to determine the most powerful grouping of discriminating elements and to create a discriminant model which would maximize the differences between the five beds and used to classify samples whose stratigraphic position is uncertain. Discriminant analysis revealed that differences in chemical composition are significantly greater between K-bentonite beds than within them. Yb, Sc, Ti, Th, Dy, Ta, Ga, Hf, Fe, Tb, Na, Lu, Ce, Sm, Co, Cr, K, Cs, and Eu, listed in order of their relative strength to discriminate among the five beds as a group can account for all but 0.0001% of the variance existing within each bed. Four discriminant functions were computed during the analysis. Eigenvalues and a territorial map indicate that the discriminant model is very effective for characterizing each K-bentonite bed and classifying unknown samples. The results of this study demonstrate the presence of unique and identifiable chemical fingerprints of K-bentonite beds in the Salona Formation, and provide an additional tool for correlating K-bentonite beds in central Pennsylvania and surrounding areas.
30063793|The 1801 Huehue lava flow from Hualalai volcano flowed 4-5 miles to the sea and entered the sea along a front 4 miles wide on the west cape of the Island of Hawaii. The submerged part of the basaltic lava flow was recently explored in nine places to depths of 130 feet by scuba divers. Pillow lava was photographed and sampled on steep submarine slopes about J mile offshore. The pillows are relatively non vesicular and are coated with a few millimeters of calcareous material, beneath which the sideromelane rim is altered to palagonite through a thickness of 20-30 . This figure affords some evidence of the rate at which palagonite is formed from sideromelane.
30060516|The Snow Mountain Volcanic Complex in the Franciscan terrain of northern California is a 1 1/2 to 2 km-thick sequence of altered submarine pillow lavas, pillow breccias, diabase, and interbedded sediments, forming a klippe that structurally overlies nearby rocks of the Franciscan assemblage, the Coast Range ophiolite, and Great Valley sequence. All of the Snow Mountain rocks bear a weak overprint of blue-schist-facies metamorphism. The volcanic rocks were deposited on top of 200-300 m of interbedded turbiditic greywacke, shale, and radiolarian chert, which are interpreted as an interfingering abyssal fan and pelagic sequence. The volcanic pile is therefore supracrustal and is not an ophiolitic fragment formed at a mid-ocean spreading center; rather, it is probably the remnant of a former seamount. The lavas are mostly titanium-rich transitional basalts; minor associated rocks include rhyolite and peralkaline rhyolite. Relict clinopyroxenes in the basaltic rocks are all titanium-aluminum-rich augites. These petrologic characteristics are typical of the rock series on those mid-ocean islands and seamounts formed near the crests of spreading ridges, suggesting that the Snow Mountain Volcano formed at a ridge crest. The presence of pahoehoe-like flows and highly scoriaceous breccias near the top of the volcanic pile indicate that the volcanic vent approached and perhaps even emerged above sea level. Emplacement of the volcanic complex onto the continental margin during Franciscan subduction may have proceeded via decoupling of the volcano from the underlying oceanic crust at the structurally-weak sedimentary horizon that separated them.
30065755|X-ray emission microanalyses for magnesium, aluminum, silicon, calcium, titanium, manganese, and iron in twenty-two chemically analyzed and five unanalyzed garnets were made independently by Knowles (K) and Bence (B) and used to check correction formulae of Smith (S) and Bence and Albee (BA). Lower microprobe estimates of titanium in many specimens suggest the presence of Ti-rich impurities: three of the chemically analyzed specimens with serious deviations contain optically anisotropic grains. Chemical zoning complicates interpretation of all analyses, especially for manganese. The KS analyses for aluminum tend to be proportionately 2 percent higher than the chemical analyses if Heinrich's absorption coefficients are used and 1-2 percent lower if Theisen's data are used instead; the KBA and BBA analyses are unbiased. All microprobe analyses for manganese tend to be higher than the chemical values when account is taken of the zoning; the bias is around 2-3 percent. The microprobe analyses for calcium may be slightly lower (0-2 percent) than the chemical values. For other major elements most microprobe data, whatever the standards and whatever the correction formula, agree within 2 percent with the chemical values, with some deviations up to about 5 percent. It seems certain that microprobe analysis of major elements from magnesium to iron can be carried out even for complex silicates with an error not greater than 5 percent of the amount present and often not greater than 2 percent. Further progress will require refinement of correction procedures based on synthetic standards with complex compositions.
30079712|Four major glaciations are recognized in the area studied. Two are pre-Wisconsin in age and named from oldest to youngest, Hobart and Donner Lake. Difficulties in the correlation of the pre-Wisconsin units with Blackwelder's (1931) type localities led to the introduction of a separate pre-Wisconsin chronology. The two Wisconsin glaciations are correlated with the Tahoe and Tioga glaciations of Blackwelder. The Hobart glaciation followed the Plio-Pleistocene deformation of the Sierra Nevada and subsequent erosion of the valleys to about their present level. Glaciers at this time appear to have been quite extensive. Hobart Till is highly weathered, as shown by depth of oxidation, high clay content, disintegrated granitic boulders, and weathering rinds on volcanic boulders. Soils and the amount of subsequent erosion indicate that the Hobart-Donner Lake interglacial was probably the longest of the interglacials. Dormer Lake glaciers were apparently as extensive as, if not more than, the Hobart, with tributary glaciers joining to form a compound valley glacier which occupied the Upper Truckee Canyon and brought about a rise in the level of Lake Tahoe of approximately 600 feet. The till is recognized by a 4- to 8-foot soil with a distinct A-B-C profile in which boulders are weathered to about the same degree as they are in Hobart Till. A relatively long interglacial separates the Donner Lake glaciation from the Tahoe. Tahoe glaciers were much shorter than those of Donner Lake age; glaciers occupied all tributary valleys and some flowed a short distance down the Upper Truckee Canyon, causing a rise of Lake Tahoe of about 90 feet. Till of this age is characterized by its subdued morainal topography, an A-C soil profile, and spheroidally weathered granitic boulders along with fresh volcanic boulders within the zone of weathering. An interglacial period of relatively short duration separates the Tahoe glaciation from the Tioga. Tioga glaciers were slightly shorter, and possibly thinner, than those of Tahoe age. Till of this advance has well-preserved moraine morphology, the soil bears an A-C profile, and boulders within the soil are fresh. Tioga deglaciation was marked by several standstills and followed shortly by a slight readvance from the cirques, here named the Frog Lake advance. Glaciers disappeared during the Hypsithermal. This was followed by a slightly cooler period during which a protalus rampart formed on one of the higher cirque headwalls. A study of glacial outwash deposits shows that stream aggradation accompanied the glacial advances while degradation took place during the interglacials. This is taken to mean that the ice virtually disappeared or retreated far upvalley during interglacial times.
10.1086/669978|Mobilities and fractionations of high-field-strength elements, especially Nb and Ta within a subducting slab, are important for deciphering the formation of the continental crust (CC). Here we report geochemical results on an epidote garnet amphibolite facies metagabbro body in the Tongbai-Dabie orogenic belt, central China. Our samples were hydrated during prograde metamorphism of the Triassic plate subduction. Major minerals such as amphibole, garnet, rutile, and ilmenite and garnet amphibolite bulk rocks show varied and overall lower Nb/Ta and/or Zr/Hf ratios than the continental crust. Magma differentiation might have contributed to variations of Zr/Hf but not those of Nb/Ta, suggesting major Nb/Ta fractionations during plate subduction. LA-ICPMS in situ trace element analyses of amphibole and especially rutile grains exhibit obvious chemical zonations. Typically, the rutile cores are usually small with higher Nb and Ta concentrations and lower Nb/Ta ratios compared to the thick rims. Chemical and fabric characteristics of the zonations may be explained by diverse external fluid activities: the gabbro first absorbed low Nb/Ta fluids that were released during blueschist to amphibolite transformation in deeper portions of the subducting slab, followed by acquiring external fluids with elevated Nb/Ta released during amphibolite to eclogite transformation. Our results imply that fluids with low Nb/Ta released during blueschist to amphibolite transformation can be transferred to cold regions within a subducted plate and also to the mantle wedge through fluid-rock reaction. Such regions are more easily melted during further subduction, especially in the early history of the earth, providing a plausible explanation for the low Nb/Ta in the CC.
30063864|The thermodynamic theory of equilibrium under non-hydrostatic stress, developed by Gibbs, is applied to linearly elastic crystals under infinitesimal strain and is worked out in detail for several examples of practical importance, mostly situations of uniaxial stress. The conditions for preferred orientation are shown to depend only on the stress deviators and are thus invariant to a change in hydrostatic pressure. For equilibrium across a given interface between crystal and fluid, the preferred crystal orientation under any non-hydrostatic stress is in most cases that for which the elastically weakest direction in the crystal is perpendicular to the interface. When recrystallization takes place by solution and redeposition, the preferred orientation is that which minimizes the chemical potential required for equilibrium across the plane normal to the greatest principal pressure axis. Thus the weakest axis of a crystal (c-axis of calcite) tends to align with the greatest principal pressure axis, or axes, while the strongest axis (c-axis of quartz) tends to align perpendicular thereto. Hexagonal and rhombohedral crystals are classified into four types on the basis of the c-axis preferred orientation expected to develop under uniaxial stress. Quartz is unique among the common hexagonal and rhombohedral minerals in that the theory predicts that under some conditions a small girdle of quartz c-axes should develop about the unique stress axis. The theory accounts for several main features of quartz fabrics observed in tectonites. An isometric crystal in a uniaxial stress field tends to align either [100] or [111] parallel to the unique stress axis (whether tensional or compressional), depending on how the crystal deviates from elastic isotropy. When recrystallization takes place without solution and deposition, that is, by the growth of some crystals directly at the expense of adjacent ones of the same composition, an extension of Gibbs's theory is necessary to predict the preferred orientation that develops. It is found that if the initial grain shapes are equant, the condition for preferred orientation is obtained simply by averaging the conditions given by Gibbs's theory for the three principal stress planes. Rhombohedral or hexagonal crystals in a uniaxial stress field develop preferentially in most cases with their weakest axis perpendicular to the unique stress axis (whether tensional or compressional) or their strongest axis parallel to the unique axis. For recrystallization of glacier ice in situ during glacier flow, the theory predicts, under the likely assumption that
30078379|A geologically driven model for evaporative deposition of marine sulfate and other sulfur fluxes roughly reproduces the observed stratigraphic record of Paleozoic global evaporite depositional rates and the observed
30078452|The Mima Mounds of southwestern Washington are from 10 to 70 feet in diameter and range from barely perceptible forms to 7 feet in height. The mounds are round or oval in plan and in cross-section commonly resemble a segment of a circle. They lie upon glacial outwash gravels and are composed of a structureless dark pebbly-sand and silt; many contain ice-rafted erratics. The mounds are restricted to the outwash valleys of the Vashon glacial stage, and in this region nearly all the outwash valleys bear mounds. The mounds probably were formed from a partially thawed pebbly-silt mantle, possessing a polygonal-fissure ice network, and by running water, which removed the thawed material from around the hemispheroidal frozen cores of each polygon. Afterward, the frozen cores thawed in place and formed the Mima Mounds. A mainly hexagonal pattern of fissure ice in a pebbly-silt mantle determined the mound spacing and is represented by most of the intermound spaces and by the remains of branching trenches in unmounded prairies. The mounds have strong curved alignment, rather regular spacing, and a common maximum height in any one mound field. Evidence for the erosion of a polygonal-fissure ice network in a pebbly-silt mantle consists essentially of low mounds with wide intermound areas, mounds that lie upon pedestals of submound gravel, intermound cobbles that have been uncovered, parallel asymmetrical development of the mound surface with the steep side up-gradient, and parallel elongation of oval mounds. Many of the lowest prairie channels are lacking in mounds but possess, instead, a few widely separated bars of mound material.
30070720|The Pleistocene ice sheets receded by melting, evaporation, and calving in the marginal belt, while the ice surface in the interior was lowered by evaporation and outflowage of ice. The wastage decreased from the edge toward the center. The zone of melting ranged perhaps from 25 to 100 or more miles in width. For the most part the retreating ice sheets had a firm, continuous, gently to steeply rising edge; but especially in transversal valleys, separated by high ridges, there was formed a belt of stagnant ice, rarely, if ever, as much as 10 miles broad. Contrasting of "downwastage" with "recession" has no physical basis.
30075233|Lower (distal) positions on gently sloping shelves (ramps) affected by Pennsylvanian glacialeustatic sealevel fluctuation display classic marine transgressiveregressive cyclothems, which are separated by exposure surfaces or by shallow marine to thin terrestrial beds deposited at lowstand. In contrast, higher shelf (proximal) positions display marginal marine units and coastalplain coal beds deposited at marine highstand and separated by thicker terrestrial units. Both marine and terrestrial strata deposited in highshelf positions underwent significant fluvial incision and valley formation during long stands of lower sea level, resulting in discontinuous erosional remnants and subsequent localized terrestrial deposition on irregular leached and eroded surfaces. Examples from the Appalachian, Illinois, and Sydney basins display features such as erosional disconformities with rotated slumps, buried hilltops preserving erosional remnants of marine units, colluvially reduced landscape relief, and buried paleovalleys filled with stacked channel sands or locally with marginal marine deposits from incursions of lesser extent. The basic cyclothem in highstand nearshore (proximal) detrital regimes consists of a widespread marginal marineassociated coalbearing unit formed during early highstand, overlain by late highstand progradational, largely terrestrial siliciclastics. These grade upward in some places to thick paleosols and are truncated in other places by valleyfill deposits. The lowerstand weathering, erosional, and depositional features in lower areas are overlain by colluvial/alluvial to late transgressive estuarine deposits, and all lowerstand features are capped by the next major highstand coalbearing to marginal marine unit. All features produced by sealevel fall reflect the primacy of global glacialeustatic control over the cyclic nature of Pennsylvanian stratigraphy.
30058689|In the Mistassini Lake area the Timiskaming and the Grenville subprovinces of the Canadian Shield meet along a faulted contact extending northeast. The Grenville gneisses along the faulted contact are crushed and locally mylonitized and are believed to have been thrust northwestward against the rocks of the Timiskaming sub-province. The late pre-Cambrian Mistassini series, northwest of the gneisses and consisting of dolomite overlain by an iron formation, dips gently southeast toward the faulted contact along which the rocks are much disturbed.
30061132|Two cases of alkali metasomatism, one in Norway and the other in New Hampshire, are considered in the light of Orville's (1962) recent experimental work. Near Krager, Norway, granite pegmatites have intruded albitite with evident addition of K to the albitite, converting albite to microcline at the contact. This metasomatism is attributed principally to the effect of the thermal gradient that evidently existed across the contact at the time of intrusion. In northern New Hampshire andalusite has been altered to muscovite over large areas in the vicinity of adamellite plutons that themselves are depleted in K at their borders. This metasomatism was probably not driven primarily by a thermal gradient, but by the chemical potential gradient existing between andalusite and K-feldspar under hydrous conditions.
30057158|A generalized map of buried erosion surfaces in Illinois, compiled from detailed maps of the bedrock topography, provides regional perspective for recognition and correlation of erosion surfaces within the state. A correlation of the Lancaster peneplain of northwestern Illinois, the Calhoun peneplain of western Illinois, and the Ozark peneplain of northern Illinois is suggested; an independent lower surface which developed on the weak rocks of the Illinois basin is described and named the "Central Illinois peneplain"; and possible straths along major preglacial valleys are recognized and named the "Havana strath."
30057183|The primary orientation of sedimentation structures in folded regions is often considerably modified as a result of flexure, shear, and compression during the production of the folds. The effects of these various deformation processes are described and techniques are suggested by which the initial orientation of the structures can be established. Such techniques may be of use in establishing paleocurrent (or paleomagnetic) directions in tilted, folded, and deformed strata.
30081057|The Jonestown volcanic rocks are a minor but important component of the Greenwich slice of the Hamburg klippe of eastern Pennsylvania. Sedimentary rocks of the Greenwich slice are arranged in faultbounded, coarsening-upward sequences of pelagic deposits (Early to Middle Ordovician) overlain by hemipelagic and turbidite deposits (Middle Ordovician). Petrographic and geochemical characteristics of the sedimentary rocks indicate derivation from continental rather than volcanic sources. The coarsening-upward sequences of the Greenwich slice are inferred to record advance of a site on oceanic lithosphere toward, and ultimately into a trench by Middle Ordovician time. Rocks of the Jonestown volcanic suite were extruded onto and intruded into the inferred Middle Ordovician near-trench and trench axis mudstone and sandstone. Immobile element concentrations of the Jonestown suite are typical of mid-oceanic ridge basalts and, along with the lack of associated shallow-water and/or volcaniclastic sedimentary rocks, argue against magmatism related to an ocean island-trench encounter. Normal fault-related magmatism on the subducting plate seaward of the inner trench slope may explain some of the stratigraphic relations between the igneous and sedimentary rocks but raises more questions than it answers (e.g., mechanism of magma generation). The association of the MORB-like Jonestown volcanic rocks and near-trench sedimentary rocks of the Greenwich slice is best explained by either extension of a leaky transform fault into the trench or migration of a mid-oceanic ridge toward the trench. Geochemical and geological differentiation of these scenarios is not possible at the present time.
30059949|Melikaria are chemical deposits of honeycomb form typically found in the Quaternary of Brazos County, Texas. They differ from septaria in several ways. Chief among these is their development directly in the surrounding formation, without the medium of concretion development. The ground-water conditions and the existence of voids for the reception of the deposited silica are favorable to the continuance of their development to the present time. These deposits may serve as valuable guides in the interpretation of past and present ground-water and sedimentary conditions.
30081022|The Cretaceous-Tertiary boundary has always been considered to be exceptional and linked to special events and mechanisms where catastrophes have often been advocated. The boundary stratotype, Stevns Klint in Denmark, has been paleomagnetically analysed. The C/T boundary is now given an absolute age of 66.7 m.y. The boundary is shown to have occurred under "stable" geomagnetic conditions, about 165,000 years before the polarity reversal of the base of Anomaly 29, and about 0.7-1.0 m.y. before the "extinction" of dinosaurs in New Mexico. Significant disturbances in the Earth's rate of rotation and direction of spin axis at the passing from the Cretaceous into the Tertiary are strongly contradicted. The CAT boundary events cannot be explained by a single large catastrophe. A sequence of different events and some gradualism need also to be included in present and future scenarios of the boundary events.
30062090|Within the Silurian rocks of southeast Magery, Norway, there is an unusual psephitic fades containing pebbles of sandstone, limestone, and metamorphic rocks. During late Caledonian orogenic deformation the rocks were folded and cleaved, and in the conglomerate the contrasting ductilities of the constituent pebbles resulted in differing patterns of strain. In the first stage of the deformation, the sedimentary pebbles deformed principally by extension parallel to b while the metamorphic pebbles underwent discrete physical rotation into the lineation direction. In the subsequent stage of irrotational strain, the sedimentary fragments were flattened in the layering while the metamorphic ones yielded by brittle fracturing. The behavior of the metamorphic pebbles provides a key to the deformation history, enabling the other tectonic structures like folds, cleavage, joints, shear zones, boudinage, and deformed fossils, to be assigned to positions in the movement plan. The role of the rigid metamorphic pebbles in the deforming conglomerate is analogous to photoelastic stress meters, and from them one can predict the orientation of the principal stresses in the final flattening phase of deformation. The consistent pattern of fracturing of the rigid pebbles suggests a uniformity of strain throughout the domain studied.
30060479|Sand fulgurites from the vicinity of Indio, Riverside County, California, produced by the incomplete fusion of sand derived from granodiorite, contain fragments of lechatelierite formed by the more or less complete melting of some of the quartz grains. Some cristobalite is also present. The biotite grains have been completely fused to a dark-brown glass: the feldspars were, for the most part, melted to form a pale, almost colorless, glass.
30058441|Five steps in the accumulation and deposition of end moraines are postulated from observations of profiles and ablation features around the south end of Barnes Ice Cap. This end of the icecap is generally more expanded than it was throughout the past century, but a retreat, producing end moraines, has begun on the southern and southwestern sides. Dirt is raised to the surface on shear planes along a narrow fringe of black ice around the edge of the icecap. This is till, exposed in small amounts by 5-7 feet of ablation each summer. This film of debris slips and slides down the 10-30 marginal slope and gathers over the lower ice slope. Where the ice becomes blanketed by 3 feet of ablation moraine and dirt-filmed ice above melts back rapidly, a trough develops parallel to the margin, isolating a steep-sided moraine on an ice core. After many years this material is let down irregularly to solid ground by flow of the till cover, cuts by transecting streams, and lateral undermining of the exposed core ice.
10.1086/668635|We report the ages of detrital zircons (
30057119|Detailed echo-sounder fathograms were obtained in the vicinity of the Hawaiian Islands during the joint Scripps Institution of Oceanography-United States Navy Electronics Laboratory Expedition to the Mid-Pacific, 1950. These fathograms give the first clear picture of the bathymetry in the area. The Hawaiian Ridge is superposed on a broad low rise, the Hawaiian Swell, which is about 600 miles across. Along the base of most of the Hawaiian Ridge is a depressed area, the Hawaiian Deep. Three fathograms demonstrate that the Deep is especially well developed along the northeast side of the southeastern end of the archipelago. Outside the Hawaiian Deep there is a large arcuate arch, the Hawaiian Arch, which is more than 200 miles across and at least 600 miles long. A deep (180-fathom) terrace, which appears to be a drowned shelf, exists along the Mauna Kea and Kohala coasts of Hawaii. Other Hawaiian islands are fringed by terraces to depths as great as 700 fathoms. Three possible origins of the Hawaiian structure are examined: (1) that the structure is related to strike-slip faulting along which there has been great effusion of lava; (2) that the structure is related to crustal buckling and thrust-faulting; and (3) that it is related to vertical forces which have arched up the crust and produced tension fractures out of which lava has poured. It is concluded that the Hawaiian Swell may have been produced by arching of the crust above a zone of divergence between two thermal convection cells in the viscous subcrust. The drowned shelves fringing the Hawaiian Islands are thought to have been produced by isostatic subsidence related to the overloading of the crust. Because of the rigidity and elasticity of the crust, this subsidence has caused depression of the crust beyond the limits of the superposed load to form the Hawaiian Deep. The Hawaiian Arch may be related to an elastic bulge or to the outward displacement of viscous subcrustal rock.
30085066|Sedimentological, micropaleontological and seismic-profiling data elucidate the history of Tertiary sea-level movements around southern Africa. These new data show that landward movement of the sea began in early Paleocene time and continued into the early Eocene. The sea probably reached its maximum Paleocene height during the early Eocene, and is today represented by outcrops up to at least 204 m, and probably as high as 360 m, above modern sea level. A brief regressive pulse occurred during the middle Eocene, with renewed transgression in the late Eocene. A major regression followed, probably spanning all of Oligocene and early Miocene times. This regression exposed much of the continental shelf and is clearly represented on seismic-reflection profiles by a widespread unconformity. The major Neogene transgression began in the middle Miocene and probably reached its greatest extent in the late Miocene or early Pliocene. The overall middle Miocene to early Pliocene transgression was interrupted by a brief regressive pulse near the Miocene-Pliocene boundary. Seas withdrew again in the late Pliocene. Rocks deposited during the Miocene-Pliocene transgression are today found up to 330 m above sea level. This scheme should be viewed as showing only the gross movements of the seas around southern Africa during the Tertiary. Nevertheless, the timing of these southern African transgressions/regressions is closely parallel to the timing recently established for sea-level movements in other parts of the world.
30059103|Cellular structures which form during the cooling of some unusual optical glasses are described. These resemble in several respects ellipsoidal structures in lava. The former are shaped by convection currents present in the cooling liquid and remain visible in the chilled material because of chemical and physical differentiation of the liquid. It is suggested that some of the structures in lava variously called ellipsoidal, pillow, or globular may have formed by convection flow modified by horizontal movement of the lava stream and followed by rather rapid quenching.
30060376|The remains assigned to the questionable cotylosaur Stephanospondylus, Stappenbeck, from the Rotliegende of Germany, are shown to belong partly to a typical diadectid reptile (the true Stephanospondylus) and partly to a rachitomous amphibian (Onchiodon). Some points concerning the Paleozoic reptilian fauna of Europe, especially Solenodonsaurus, are discussed.
30056865|A core sample of the bottom in the southeastern Pacific Ocean contains several layers of red clay and globigerina ooze. The highly calcareous ooze is correlated with warm-water conditions, whereas the red clay, which is low in carbonate, is correlated with cold-water conditions because the carbonate is more soluble in cold water. The core is interpreted as a record of climate. Age determinations made by W. D. Urry, using the "percentage of equilibrium method" for uranium, ionium, and radium give dates for the various layers covering a period of several hundred thousand years. The detailed interpretation of this core gives dates for the end of the Kansan glacial stage (about 700,000 years ago), for three substages of the Illinoian glacial stage (330,000; 310,000; and 274,000 years ago), for six substages of the Wisconsin glacial stage (64,000; 51,000; 37,000; 26,000; 15,000; and 11,000 years ago), and for a postglacial thermal maximum centering at 6,000 years ago. There is good correlation between the Pacific red-clay (cold-water) zones of Wisconsin age and the North Atlantic and Antarctic glacial marine zones of the same age.
30057081|In Fisher's article (1955) unusual beach projections (cuspate spits) in the lagoons of St. Lawrence Island, Alaska, were described. The question of their formation remained unsettled and led to further discussion by Price and Wilson (1956). The present author reports the data obtained while the problem was studied by the scientists of the U.S.S.R. There exist similar projections in the numerous lagoons of the northeastern part of the U.S.S.R., as well as in a number of other narrow gulfs. Their formation reflects peculiarities of shores of elongated water bodies in which the resultant wave regime is oriented at an acute angle toward the shore. Cuspate spits are formed by shore-drifting processes and do not result from seiches, as suggested by Price and Wilson.
30064165|Mesoproterozoic deformation and biomodal magmatism in southwest Colorado offer important insight into the nature and tectonic regime of 1.4 Ga magmatism in the western United States. We document syncontractional emplacement of coeval gabbroic and granitic plutons in the middle crust at ~1435 Ma in the western Needle Mountains. This is incompatible with extension-dominated "anorogenic" models proposed for the generation of 1.4 Ga plutonic rocks in the Southwest but lends further support for synkinematic intracontinental magmatism in response to regional tectonic strains created by transpressive or compressive plate margin interactions between 1500-1300 Ma. Intrustion of the ~1435 Ma Electra Lake Gabbro and Eolus Granite into Paleoproterozoic rocks caused local crustal anatexis and extensive thermal metamorphism in the Needle Mountains. Deformation of Paleoproterozoic country rocks at ~1435 Ma is widespread but is concentrated in pluton aureoles where thermally softened crust accommodated the strain. We interpret the kinematic framework of structural elements in the deformed pluton aureoles to indicate a regional synmagmatic strain field involving subhorizontal N-S contraction and E-W extension. This is reflected by brittle fracture arrays and conjugate ductile shear bands filled with remelted trondhjemitic gneiss, transposed amphibolite layers and ~1435 Ma granite dikes, local solid-state ductile deformation in ~1435 Ma intrusive rocks, broad-scale folding of migmatites, and trends of ~1435 Ma granitic and gabbroic dikes. Aureole metamorphism and kinematics of deformation recorded in the Needle Mountains at ~1435 Ma are similar to those that are documented in other 1.4 Ga plutonic complexes throughout Colorado, Arizona, and New Mexico. This regional record argues for a widespread episode of synorogenic magmatism in the southwestern United States at 1.4 Ga.
30069103|In the rocks of the Moravicum (the Bohemian Massif), quartz lamellae are encountered only rarely. Two types of mutual orientation of lamellae poles and [0001] axes in relation to the c axis of the fabric, that is, rotation of lamellae poles toward and away from the c axis, were studied. The frequency of occurrence of both types is approximately the same. As exceptions, both types of lamellae orientation are found in the same thin section and even in the same grains. The preferred orientation of [0001] axes of quartz in the rocks of the Moravicum is very marked and dates from an earlier stage than the deformation which produced quartz lamellae. Departures from the orientation of lamellae poles in relation to [0001] axes are frequent compared with cases usually encountered in quartz tectonites. They may be due either to action of stress showing more than one orientation with respect to the specimen axes or to an interaction of the internal stress field and a very strong anisotropy of the fabric.
JG80001|Laterites and bauxites and their associated Ultisols and Oxisols are widespread in warm-wet climates today, and their spread to high latitudes has been attributed to episodes of past global warming. Bauxitic paleosols from the Early Eocene Monaro Volcanics of southeastern Australia have been claimed as exceptions formed in a cool-wet climate. Reexamination and chemical analysis of a sequence of intrabasaltic paleosols in the Bega no. 7 core of radiometrically dated Monaro Volcanics now show highly variable paleotemperature and precipitation. The core includes 53 successive paleosols, mostly nonbauxitic, but bauxitic paleosols reveal local spikes in warmth and precipitation coincident with early Eocene (55-, 52-, 51-, and 48-Ma) global spikes of warmth, precipitation, and high atmospheric
30062263|Certain Proterozoic quartzites (including, Baraboo, Barron, and Sioux) and associated metasedimentary rocks in the upper midwest represent a distinct epicontinental depositional environment. New data indicate that argillite, chert, iron formation, micaceous conglomerate, and rhyolite are much more abundant and significant in this sequence than previously reported. The entire group of rocks was deposited during one period in a series of tectonic episodes (magmatism and uplift) related to epeirogeny. None of these episodes included overt rifting. Sedimentation began on subsiding continental crust during the waning stages of anorogenic magmatism 1760 m.y. ago. Following deposition, a regional event 1630 m.y. ago is interpreted as a time of uplift and mild deformation with no magmatic expression in the region. Epeirogenic tectonism was culminated in the widespread intrusion of 1500 m.y.-old alkalic plutonism, which metamorphosed and further deformed the sedimentary rocks and surroundings.
30081296|Borabora, one of the Society Islands, represents the eroded remnants of a once more extensive volcano. Ellipsoidal structures in the lavas extend from sea-level to nearly 2,500 feet elevation. The flows are cut by a series of highly vesicular, vertical dikes, striking radially outward from the old crater. Origin of the structures is interpreted as due to the relatively high gas content of the lavas, their nearness to the central volcanic vent, and the coalescing of gas bubbles to form areas of higher pressures.
30067350|Fragments of rock that fall into geyser tubes and basins may be rounded by the violent movements of the hot water. This rare type of rounded pebble occurs at the Grand and Turban geysers in Yellowstone National Park.
30066169|Discrete and interconnected masses of dark crystalline calcite make up more than one-half of the Wolfcamp bioherms and the lower one-third of the Virgil bioherms in the Sacramento Mountains. The remainder of the rock consists of light calcite mud with stromatolitic algal deposits, platy algae, and pockets of skeletal calcarenite. Large calcite crystals have a fibrous radiate appearance. The dark masses occur in four distinctive shapes: (1) irregular globular elements from 1 to 3 cm., (2) irregularly horizontal or ribbon-like tabular bodies up to 3 cm. thick and 15 cm. long, (3) nearly vertical finger-like elements up to 6 cm. long and 2 cm. wide, and (4) three-dimensional networks extending over large areas of vertical outcrop and locally forming nearly 90 per cent of the rock. The contacts between the dark calcite masses and the surrounding sediments are very sharp, prominently displaying botryoidal upper surfaces and rounded configurations suggesting organic growth. These crystalline masses are the fossil remains of a framework-building colonial organism similar in size and shape to Stromatactis of earlier workers. Detailed fabric studies of oriented thin sections and polished surfaces show that the calcite mosaics consist of fan-shaped arrays of radially oriented elongate crystals. In some arrays closely spaced lineations extend across several crystals parallel to the radial pattern. The larger growth forms are composites of many adjoining and superposed arrays, locally separated by thin concentric layers of calcite mud and pellets. Crystals in a single mosaic are of uniform size and shape. The dark crystal mosaics can be distinguished from void space crystallization and grain-growth fabrics, which are also present. Indigenous organic matter causes the dark coloring of the crystalline calcite, which contains almost two times as much organic carbon as the calcite mud. Terrigenous clay and quartz are at least five times as abundant in the calcite muds as in the crystalline material. The Stromatactis-like organism was a firm-bodied but uncalcified colonial form of unknown biologic affinity. It grew above adjacent sediments in various growth forms in response to local environmental differences. We infer that, after burial, calcite was precipitated as microvoid fillings with the fabric controlled by the cellular tissue of the dead organism. "Stromatactis" functioned as both a sediment-binding and a framework-building organism in the construction of the bioherms and may be quite widespread in other late Paleozoic bioherms of the western United States.
30062159|Middle Proterozoic basement rocks of Grenvillian age form the core of the Green Mountain massif in southern Vermont, and two distinctive cover rock sequences of Late Proterozoic to Middle Ordovician age flank the massif on the west and east. The eastern cover sequence is dominated by metamorphosed graywacke, silt stone, shale, and mafic volcanics and unconformably overlies the basement rocks along the eastern margin and in the northern interior of the massif. The western boundary of the massif, south of Clarendon, Vermont, is an unconformity between Middle Proterozoic basement and western cover sequence rocks composed of metamorphosed conglomerate, quartz-sandstone, dolomite, and limestone. The western boundary, north of Clarendon, however, is a thrust which carried Grenville basement and eastern cover rocks over the western cover sequence. The structural interpretation of these basement-cover contacts and the contrast in lithology and inferred depositional environment of the western and eastern cover sequences indicate that the Green Mountain massif consists of two different tectonic units. A structurally higher, more highly-transported unit is composed of Middle Proterozoic basement rocks unconformably overlain by the eastern cover sequence, and a relatively less transported unit occupying the southwest part of the massif is composed of Middle Proterozoic basement rocks unconformably overlain by the western cover sequence.
30062078|In sediments deposited within about 300 km of shore, downlap is an expected consequence of the lithospheric flexure associated with the edge of sediment and water loads at an epeiric sea's shoreline. For loose carbonate sediments in a typical, slowly transgressing, epeiric sea, the dependence of sediment accumulation rate dS/dt on water depth H tends to magnify the otherwise subtle downlap, making it more practical to determine the dimensions of the water load from the dimensions of the preserved sediment load. Synthetic stratigraphies for a steadily transgressing sea in which
30062145|Geophysical parameters such as MAGSAT, LANDSAT, gravity, deep seismic sounding, seismicity, and heat flow data have identified cratonic and mobile units in the Precambrian continental crust of the South Indian shield. LANDSAT imagery and gravity field data suggest that the shield is divided into four geophysical domains from north to south, namely: (1) the Deccan trap-covered gneissic basement and the gneiss terrain around Hyderabad, (2) the Dharwar craton, subdivided into its eastern and western blocks, (3) the granulite terrains of Kerala, Karnataka, and Tamil Nadu, and (4) the Eastern Ghats granulite belt. The smooth transition in the gravity field from the Dharwar greenstone terrain to the Deccan trap-covered area to the north indicates the northward continuity of the granite-gneiss basement. However, the trap-covered region lacks any significant short-wavelength anomalies of the type associated with the Dharwar greenstone belts, indicating the probable absence of any such large-scale high-density belts underneath the Deccan traps. The Chitradurga schist belt, a 450 km-long linear feature of Archean-Early Proterozoic age, is technically one of the most important features of the shield. Geophysical studies suggest that the eastern margin of the Chitradurga belt (CDB) is the site of crustal shortening during Late Archean-Early Proterozoic times, a result of E-W compressional forces operating at the time of the evolution of the Early Proterozoic mobile belt (EPMB) in the eastern block of the Dharwar craton. The CDB probably represents a paleo-rift on the Archean crust where early tensional forces created a rift opening followed by later closure under compressional forces. In its northern part, the southern granulite terrain is geophysically continuous with the Dharwar craton, but in more southern portions it is segmented by fault-bounded blocks of different degrees of uplift. Gravity and seismic crustal investigations suggest that the Eastern Ghats belt (EGB) is a continental collision zone produced by some kind of plate convergence. Suggestions that the Eastern Ghats trends are geophysically continuous into the southern granulite terrain are disproven by the existence of an elongate gravity high in the southern part of the cratonal eastern block, which truncates gravity-map trends.
10.1086/675663|New U-Pb igneous and detrital zircon ages reveal that despite being separated by younger orogens, three of Alaskas terranes that contain Precambrian rocksFarewell, Kilbuck, and Arctic Alaskaare related. The Farewell and Kilbuck terranes can be linked by felsic magmatism at ca. 850 Ma and by abundant detrital zircons in the Farewell that overlap the ca. 20102085 Ma age range of granitoids in the Kilbuck. The Farewell and Arctic Alaska terranes have already been linked via correlative Neoproterozoic to Devonian carbonate platform deposits that share nearly identical faunas of mixed Siberian and Laurentian affinity. New igneous ages strengthen these ties. Specifically, 988, 979, and 979 Ma metafelsites in the Farewell terrane are close in age to a 971 Ma granitic orthogneiss in the Arctic Alaska terrane. Likewise, 852, 850, 845, and 837 Ma granitic orthogneisses, metafelsite, and rhyolite in the Farewell terrane are similar to the reported 874 to 848 Ma age range of metarhyolites in the Arctic Alaska terrane. The Kilbuck and Arctic Alaska terranes have been previously linked on the basis of provenance: detrital zircons from the Carboniferous Nuka Formation in the Arctic Alaska terrane range from 2013 to 2078 Ma, overlapping the age of Kilbuck granitoids. A new 849 Ma age of a Kilbuck granitoid strengthens the proposed connection. Among the other new results from Kilbuck terrane is a 2085 Ma zircon from a granitoid that now stands as the oldest tightly dated rock in Alaska. We conclude that the Kilbuck, Farewell, and Arctic Alaska terranes were not independent entities with unique geologic histories but instead are related pieces of the circum-Arctic tectonic puzzle.
30079717|Specimens of Yule marble deformed in extension by Dr. H. C. Heard at 400-500 C., 5,000 bars, and strain rates between
30079933|Sri Lanka occupies a unique geologic position in Gondwana. Recent age and isotopic data suggest that the highgrade basement rocks of Sri Lanka are more closely associated with the southeastern part of Madagascar than with the Archean granulites of southern and eastern parts of India. The occurrences of gem minerals and graphite in the centrally located Highland Complex of Sri Lanka can also be correlated with those of the Kerala Khondalite Belt (KKB) at the southern tip of India and of southeast Madagascar south of the Ranotsara Shear Zone. These geological and mineralogical features indicate the juxtaposition of Sri Lanka with Madagascar and also with the LtzowHolm Bay area in Antarctica. The very close juxtaposition of Sri Lanka with Madagascar suggested here, which has hitherto been given only passing reference, implies that there exists a distinct mineralized belt running from Antarctica through the Highland Complex of Sri Lanka into Madagascar, Mozambique, Tanzania, and farther north. This mineral belt is clearly of PanAfrican origin and is now considered to be an important geosuture associated with the main Mozambique Belt. The position of Sri Lanka in Gondwana is of particular significance because Sri Lanka acts as a bridge across the main East African and Antarctica crustal fragments.
30068651|We have examined the composition of the liquids formed by partial melting of an eclogite nodule from the Roberts Victor kimberlite pipe. We show that at high pressures and low degrees of partial melting, a nepheline normative liquid is formed. Hypersthene normative melts are formed with greater degrees of partial melting or partial melting at lower pressures. Nonetheless, the demonstration of the possibility of the formation of nepheline normative magmas by partial melting of an eclogite does not mean that this is the only possible origin. Although alkaline rock may be formed by partial melting at great depths, abundant field data suggest that many alkaline rocks are formed at shallow depths in a volcanic edifice. Volatiles also apparently play an important role in the genesis of the melts. It seems quite possible to one of us (GCK) that a large number of alkaline magmas are formed by access of sea water to basaltic magma chambers at shallow depths.
30056757|The writer, in previous papers, has expressed the belief that a large portion of the folding in the Coast Range of California is the result of drag on faults produced at times of compression. This paper describes a number of experiments with plasteline where folding has been produced as the result of drag. It is believed that these experiments illustrate and duplicate the conditions under which folding has taken place along the faults in the Coast Ranges and in other parts of the world. The latter part of the paper gives a number of illustrations of Coast Range folding which is associated with faulting; the character of the folding is believed to have been the result of drag combined with compression. It is the writer's belief that this type of folding is fairly common all over the world.
30057914|Three members of the Hoh formation have been delimited: lower, a thick series of soft gray organic Oligocene or Lower Miocene shales of unknown thickness; middle, a soft gray sandstone 150 feet thick, and upper, 2,000 feet of blue-gray sandstone with conglomerate lenses equivalent to the Lower Miocene Temblor of California.
30060159|The early and middle stages of crystallization of saturated basaltic magma are normally characterized by three reaction series; the two continuous series of plagioclase and of augi te and the discontinuous series olivine- (orthopyroxene-pigeonite). Under high-temperature laboratory conditions there may be complete solid solution throughout the pyroxene field, as indicated by those portions of the field which have been investigated. At the lower temperatures of crystallization which obtain under magmatic conditions, it seems likely that there is limited solid solution in the pyroxene field. Thus two pyroxene phases, a Ca-poor and a Ca-rich phase, will normally crystallize in equilibrium with each other. These two phases may be considered to be diopside-hedenbergite with subordinate clinoenstatite-ferrosilite, and clinoenstatite-ferrosilite with subordinate diopside-hedenbergite in solid solution. The latter phase will appear as ensta-tite-orthoferrosilite if crystallization is below the inversion temperature. During subsequent slow cooling, the pyroxenes tend to assume more ordered structures by exsolution. Thus augites exsolve orthopyroxene or pigeonite and vice versa. Yet, even in the slowly cooled plutonic rocks, complete separation is never attained, though it is approached by exsolution. In volcanic rocks quenching preserves the initial state of solid solution in both phases. Pyroxenes in volcanic, hypabyssal, and plutonic rocks crystallized from saturated basaltic magmas have the same chemical compositions and same degree of solid solution. This is an indication of the rather small range in temperature at which saturated basaltic magmas crystallize, regardless of their environment. Slowly cooled orthopyroxenes exsolve diopside-hedenbergite as fine lamellae parallel to (100). Pigeonites exsolve augite as coarser lamellae parallel to (001). Upon inversion of pigeonite to the orthorhombic form, the augite lamellae remain on the now relict monoclinic (001) plane, and further exsolution of diopsidic pyroxene may take place on (100). Magnesian augites up to approximately Wo40En45Fs15 exsolve ortho-pyroxene as lamellae parallel to (100), but more iron-rich augites exsolve pigeonite parallel to (001). The latter may later invert to hypersthene. These augites may also show a second stage of exsolution of hyper-sthene parallel to (100). In combinations of the slightly dissimilar structures, hypersthene and either augite or pigeonite, the exsolution lamellae tend to be parallel to (100), which is a plane common to both structures. In similar structures, such as augite and pigeonite, the orientation and width of the lamellae are probably controlled chiefly by the ease of access of the ions to the new surface of separation, and hence the preferred orientation is parallel to (001). The authors disagree with Guimares' (1948) concept of hypersthenization. In the hypabyssal rocks which he studied, the hypersthenization hypothesis may appear to be valid; but the facts can equally well be explained by the exsolution-inversion hypothesis favored by the writers. Pyroxene relations in plutonic and volcanic rocks can be successfully interpreted on the same basis as hypabyssal rocks by the exsolution-inversion hypothesis, but the hypothesis of hypersthenization cannot account for the pyroxenes in these rocks.
30080973|Topographic features produced by prolonged stands of sea level are recognized at elevations of 215-250 and 90-100 feet. Stratigraphic evidence indicates that the 215-250-foot shore line was occupied during the Upper Miocene and the 90-100-foot shore line during the Pliocene. Lesser features probably representing briefer stands of sea level are distinguishable at elevations of 45-55 and 70-80 feet. The terrace associated with the conspicuous 25-30-foot shore line is underlain by deposits containing indubitably Pleistocene marine faunas. The shore lines at 45-55 and 70-80 feet can be interpreted as being either Pliocene or earlier Pleistocene interglacial, more likely the latter. The fluctuations of sea level recorded by the emergent shore lines correspond very well to the theory of glaciation proposed by Ewing and Donn.
30059235|The terms "gumbotil," "gley," and "accretion-gley" are listed in the order in which they appear in geologic literature of the United States. Application of petrographic techniques and other considerations indicate that the term "gley" should be used as a general term to denote a structureless gray clay horizon and to connote origin only in a broad sense. The term "gumbotil" should be restricted to a gray to dark-colored, much weathered, pebbly clay which is chiefly the result of weathering in situ of glacial till on flat uplands. The term "accretion-gley" should be applied to types of clays that were derived from a nearby source and accumulated slowly in shallow, initial depressions where conditions developed and maintained in them a gray color. The term "gumbotil" is exclusive of "accretion-gley," and its origin in situ by extensive weathering following the deposition of the till is supported by priority in use accompanying classic studies. Petrographic studies by the writer contribute evidence that selective chemical decomposition in situ is an essential process in the formation of "gumbotil" and the zones of weathering on the drift sheets of Illinois, and that the stable feldspars microcline, perthite, and albite remain with the clay whereas orthoclase, soda-lime feldspars, and ferromagnesian minerals are altered to clay minerals.
30055875|The purpose of the paper is to formulate a working hypothesis of isostasy that will be acceptable to both geologists and geodesists. Most of the discussion is devoted to the removal of two obstacles that have caused much confusion, the belief that the geodetic calculations can be used to define the degree of crustal balance, and the claim that the theory of isostasy conflicts with the geologic concept that the folding in mountains is due to regional compressive stresses in the earth's crust.
30056935|A description of flow ridges on the surface of a concretionary sandstone observed in its setting of Miocene deltaic sediments, considerations on the origin of these ridges, and descriptions of flute casts and associated structures lead to a more precise statement of the problem of sedimentary flow structures on bedding planes.
30061960|With the use of well-established relations between integrated intensities, integral breadths, and composition, a method is outlined by means of which it appears possible to determine the relative structural states of many perthitic alkali feldspars with powder X-ray diffractometry. The basic relation for this procedure is
30078348|Mapping of carbonate dissolution in nodular chert-bearing strata indicates that nodular chert formation in a diverse suite of Phanerozoic limestones occurred in bulk pore waters that were at calcite saturation. Opal-CT and quartz supersaturation was achieved in most chert-bearing strata by the intraformational dissolution of amorphous silica skeletal material. Chertification occurred by a combination of force of crystallization-controlled replacement of the host carbonate, whereby non-hydrostatic stresses resulting from opal-CT and quartz crystal growth caused calcite dissolution, and the isomineralic heterogenous nucleation of new opal-CT and quartz crystal at nodule peripheries. The restriction of the solution phase at silica-carbonate contacts to thin films permitted the preservation of ghosts of micron-sized features in the chert. Heterogeneities in sediment organic matter content, porosity, and biogenic silica concentrations promote the nucleation of chert nodules in some formations.
30055959|Long, slender carbonized plant impressions formerly regarded as jointed stems are common in the Antrim, New Albany, and Ohio shales. Dawson referred them to Calamites inornatus and White to Pseudobornia, but recent investigations show their identity with Callixylon newberryi. The transverse markings resembling nodes are similar to cracks produced in weathered plant debris along lake shores. It is believed that these fossils simulating jointed stems in the black shales were formed from weathered fragments of stranded logs along the shores of lakes and bays in which the black shales were deposited.
10.1086/680222|To investigate the effects of melt-rock interaction on Li isotope fractionation, we report in situ Li concentrations and 
30063696|Solution has produced significant effects within rocks, especially within limestones, dolomites, and marbles. Formations have been reduced in thickness perhaps as much as 40 per cent or more in some instances. A solution residue has been introduced into the rocks which requires a stratigraphic interpretation quite different from that commonly assigned. Many puzzling claylike layers and films owe their genesis to subsequent alteration of the rock rather than to special conditions of sedimentation. Various odd structures, such as stylolites, originate from differential solution which occurred after the rock had hardened.
30053567|Oxygen isotope compositions have been determined for samples from the South India Archean to Pro-terozoic and northwest Adirondack late-Proterozoic high-grade terrains. $\delta^{18}O$ values of charnockites and related orthogneiss protolith from the prograde amphibolite facies to granulite facies transition zone in South India range from 5.9 to 8.4. Charnockites, khondalites (sillimanite gneisses), and retrogressed gneisses from the interior of the granulite facies terrain average 2 higher than orthogneisses of the transition zone. Individual minerals in incipient charnockitic net veins, as at Kabbaldurga, Karnataka, and Ponmudi, Kerala, have $\delta^{18}O$ identical to minerals of their non-charnockitic host rocks. Quartz $\delta^{18}O$ values of the northwestern Adirondack granites and gneisses average 3-4 higher than those from the Indian rocks. The two terrains are thus isotopically distinct, which may reflect differences in premetamorphic history or different degrees of communication with external oxygen reservoirs during metamorphism. The low $\delta^{18}O$ of the South India terrain, including metasedimentary rocks, suggests the pervasive influence of a deep crustal or upper mantle igneous reservoir, whereas the elevated $\delta^{18}O$ of the Adirondack rocks suggests that the isotopic effects of near-surface, low-temperature processes in the protoliths survived subsequent fluid-deficient granulite-facies metamorphism. The near-identity of $\delta^{18}O$ of individual minerals from charnockitic veins and non-charnockitic host gneiss in the South India terrain indicates either that fluids causing charnockitic alteration were nearly in isotopic equilibrium with the country rocks or that oxygen isotopes were set in premetamorphic processes and little altered by incipient charnockite formation. Therefore we do not have direct isotopic evidence of fluid action in the origin of the much-discussed South Indian charnockitic net-veining. Isotopic temperatures are 100C or more lower than peak metamorphic temperatures in both terrains, as inferred from mineralogic thermometry, indicating extensive postmetamorphic re-equilibration to lower temperatures, even in the fluid-deficient Adirondack terrain. An exception seems to be the quartz-garnet pair, which yields temperatures of 750 to 850C for South India. Diffusion theory calculations show high closure temperatures in garnet, providing an explanation for the refractory behavior of this pair. It is possible that quartz-garnet will provide a useful oxygen isotope thermometer for granulites when favorable circumstances for postmetamorphic preservation are realized.
30061396|Radial point counting provides the most efficient means for modal analysis of structures with concentric spherical banding, and facilitates definition of radial compositional or textural changes. Volume ratios are obtained from the sum of the squares of the radii of all sampled points occupied by a given mineral divided by the sum of the squares of the radii of all points sampled. Point counts may be translated into bulk mode for whole structures, band modes, progressive modes showing step-by-step radial trends, or volume ratios of whole bands. The method of radial point counting is a consistent estimator of volume ratios nb matter what the structure of the count specimen is. In most closed banded structures, bands tend to be laterally homogeneous, and only one thin section through the center of the structure need be counted. Efficiency, however, decreases as the normality of radial traverses with banding decreases so that the number of radial traverses must be increased. Rotation of thin sections for radial counting is facilitated by a circular adapter plate. A transparent radial overlay may be used for hand specimens or outcrop-size structures. Data may be processed by a FORTRAN IV program called RAYCOUNT.
30068749|Proterozoic granitoids in the Laramie Range of southeastern Wyoming crop out on both sides of an inferred suture between the Archean Wyoming craton and Proterozoic terranes to the south. These rocks offer an unusual opportunity to test the various hypotheses for the geometry of the suture. No difference in major or trace element composition is observed across the suture, nor is there a large difference in isotopic composition. Nd and Sr isotopic data indicate that only a small proportion of Archean material has contributed to this granitoid suite, even in two samples that intrude Archean gneiss. The isotopic data therefore require a dominantly Proterozoic lower crust both beneath the Proterozoic rocks and beneath the margin of the Archean block. This observation is inconsistent with models in which the suture between the Archean and Proterozoic blocks dips to the south. This inconsistency can be reconciled by magmatic underplating or mechanical underthrusting of Proterozoic crust beneath the Archean block during terrane accretion or post-accretion strike-slip faulting.
30081187|The 1993 flood on the Upper Mississippi River was a rare, largemagnitude hydrological event. Field and aerial survey analyses and Landsat 5 Thematic Mapper data were used to appraise the thickness of overbank deposits on leveed and unleveed reaches. Results indicate that minimal (<5 mm) overbank sedimentation occurred, except in the immediate vicinity of a levee break. Unleveed sections also lacked overbank sedimentation. Little geomorphological or sedimentological evidence of this extreme event is likely to be preserved. This raises questions about the completeness of the stratigraphic record: in situations where wide floodplains with cohesive soils provide effective resistance and dissipate energy so that erosion is minimized, and/or sediment supply is limited by event timing or sequencing, a large flood may leave little or no substantive evidence of its occurrence.
30081102|Mapping and U-Pb age studies in the Central Mobile Belt in the southern Newfoundland Appalachians provide new insights into the tectonic evolution of this region. An older limit for the main Paleozoic deformation in the northern Hermitage Flexure is provided by the
30063703|The amphibian genus, Trematops Williston, has been represented until recently by a single specimen, a skull and associated skeleton from the Permian of Texas. The skull is unique among vertebrates in the presence of a median, unpaired opening that pierces the skull near its tip. The following description is of a skull from the Permian of Oklahoma that is similar to that from Texas in many details. However, the Oklahoma specimen shows the unpaired opening on the palate surface only. Another point of interest is the remarkably well preserved "turbinated" bone.
30062630|Till collected from surface exposures within the valley of the Hudson River south of the Sanford Hill magnetite-ilmenite ore deposit in the Adirondack Mountains of New York is composed primarily of plagio-clase, pyroxene, garnet, magnetite, and ilmenite. The concentrations of magnetite and ilmenite in bulk till both decrease exponentially with increasing distance south of the ore bodies because of dilution by the entrainment of plagioclase and garnet + pyroxene from the bedrock and from older till deposits in the valley. Evidence for comminution of magnetite and ilmenite is provided by decreasing abundances of these minerals in the coarse fractions (1000-125 m) and corresponding increases in the fine fractions (<125 m). The apparent rate of comminution of ilmenite as a function of transport distance is significantly greater than that of magnetite, which causes ilmenite to be concentrated in the fine fraction of till compared to magnetite. The weight ratios of magnetite and ilmenite in the fine to coarse fractions of basal till increase exponentially with distance from the source and may be useful for estimating transport distances.
10.1086/671397|The Solander Islands are the eroded remnants of a once much larger volcanic complex, the only known subduction-related magmatism on the Pacific-Australia plate boundary south of New Zealand. The largest island, Hautere, preserves an eruptive sequence of subaerial adakitic andesite domes and related block and ash flows, followed by a phase of phreatomagmatic deposits. Ar-Ar plagioclase ages, detrital U-Pb zircon ages, and magnetostratigraphic data from Hautere indicate that magmatism probably occurred in the interval 100350 ka. In contrast, an andesite dome on nearby Little Solander Island gives an age of 2050 ka. Local hydrothermal activity is manifested as orange-colored alteration and tuffisite dikes. There is no evidence, at least in the small preserved remnants of the Solander Islands, for tectonic uplift or subsidence; most of Solander Volcano was eroded away during Late Pleistocene marine planation.
30068647|The Nama Group in South West Africa is subdivided slightly differently and in greater detail than before. The lower shelf deposits were supplied mainly from the easterly Kalahari shield and the more feldspathic and more detrital reddish upper sediments from uplifted regions of the inferred adjacent Damara geosyncline, which probably formed part of the extensive Pan-African Geosyncline to the west and north. There is much evidence of severe climatic conditions and volcanism having existed. This group and the underlying Gariep Group appear to represent a single geotectonic cycle, towards the end of which the Nama Group was deposited. The fauna found in the Nama Group seems to indicate a Vendian (Ediacarian) age for the lower Nama Group but the age for the upper Nama Group is uncertain. The Ediacara fauna in Australia and the related Nama fauna have only one identical fossil thus far. The Nama Group is a good test for the model of Valentine and Moores (1972) and in general confirms it. The Nama Group is considered to be younger than the base of the Mulden Group to the north.
30079972|A set of enechelon reverse faults cut Paleozoic metamorphosed igneous rocks of the Piedmont and overlying late Cenozoic sediments at the Old Hickory Heavy Mineral Deposit in the Fall Zone of southeastern Virginia. Diorite of the eastern Slate Belt was faulted over nearshore to shoreface deposits of the Pliocene Yorktown Formation. These NWSEstriking faults experienced oblique dipslip movement with a maximum displacement of up to 6 m on individual faults. Faults tip out along strike and are overlain by distinct cobble beds, suggesting that sediment deposition and faulting were contemporaneous. Deformation at Old Hickory may have been formed by reactivation of existing Paleozoic structures under a regionally extensive compressional stress field parallel to the modern one.
30055638|Two summers of field work in the Sangre de Cristo Range of Colorado, together with a critical examination of the geologic literature on the more important districts immediately to the north, west, and south of this range, have brought the writer to certain new conclusions regarding the correlation of the Permo-Pennsylvanian red beds of this region. On account of the complexity of the nomenclature, it is necessary to give a short summary of previous correlations. A simplification of the nomenclature is subsequently proposed; and finally, the writer's suggested correlation is presented, together with evidence for the changes.
30070801|"Perhaps if we stratigraphers insisted on a more refined classification of our sediments, instead of being satisfied with conglomerates, sandstones, shales, limestones, and some minor types, we would make more rapid progress; for it is my belief that precision in classification leads to precision in thought, and so is of vast value as a mental discipline. It might not be amiss to insist that a firm foundation in the classification of our rocks is a needful preliminary to the building of a permanent superstructure, and to urge that we get together and follow the lead of the pyro-petrographers."-A. W. Grabau (1917).
30080952|We were unable to use unequivocally the convergence idea of Pettijohn and Barth for a determination of the time of onset of significant continent formation. Analyses of detrital zircon mixtures indicate that some of the oldest zircons have ages of about 3,200 m.y. Chronometric data in peripheral regions of the North American continent suggest that the intensity of continent-forming processes diminished greatly after the Grenville. The continents appear to have been formed mainly during a 2-b.y. interval occurring in the middle of the earth's 4 1/2-b.y. existence. Isotope data were obtained for authigenic orthoclase rims enclosing detrital K-feldspar grains and they require that the rims form in partially or nearly closed systems, thus favoring epigenetic, non-hydrothermal modes of formation.
30068306|The rocks of the Kenogamisis River area consist of sediments, volcanics, and intrusives. The sediments and volcanics have been regionally metamorphosed to rocks of varying metamorphic grade. The sediments grade from a high of garnetiferous and staurolitic types through biotitic types to a low of chloritic types. Hornblendic volcanics are in equilibrium with the biotitic sediments; chloritic volcanics are in equilibrium with the chlorite sediments. Medium to basic oligoclase is the characteristic feldspar of the higher-grade metamorphics; albite is the characteristic feldspar of the chloritic rocks.
30056241|A channel produced by glacial erosion following the outcrop of a dike lies like a groove along the side of a large, deep valley. This grooving resulted from the differential erosion of a band of comparatively weak rock made up of weathered kimberlite from the dike and the contact jointing zones on each side of the intruded rock. Active differential movement within the ice is indicated as permitting and facilitating the erosion processes. Plucking was particularly effective and different phases of this process could be determined. Deductions regarding the depth of glacial erosion are based on the conditions observed.
30069398|Chemical characteristics of Pacific marine sediments were examined for different environments operating since the middle Cretaceous. As a result of the examinations, a procedure for evaluating depositional environments of ancient sediments in orogenic belts is proposed. The concentration of hydrogenous (authigenic) elements such as Mn, Co, and Ni in sediments has a relationship to the bulk sedimentation rate. Similarly, a new indicator which is a measure of the sedimentation rate of terrigenous (lithogenic) materials in sediments is proposed. This indicator is expressed as the weight ratio of a hydrogenous element to
30065787|To understand how grain size and sorting effect trace element distributions in sediments, we compare the compositions of closely associated quartzites, pelites, and glacial diamictites from the 2-Ga Libby Creek Group in SE Wyoming. We found similar REE distributions (LREE enriched, negative Eu anomalies), and that most compositional differences can be explained by variable quartz dilution. Trace element distributions from mineral separates in a fuchsite quartzite show that fuchsite contains most of the Th, U, REE, Sc, Co, and Ni and controls the whole-rock REE distributions. Zircon contains most of the Zr and Hf, but <5% of the HREE in the pelites and <20% in the quartzites. Other than Zr and Hf, most trace elements in Libby Creek sediments are chiefly in micas and were probably in clays in the original sediments. Increased Eu anomalies in upper Libby Creek sediments signal a sudden increase in Eu-depleted granitoids in sediment sources, which reflects late tectonic uplift. Mixing models favor granite, basalt, and TTG (tonalite-trondhjemite-granodiorite) sources with TTG and basalt dominating in lower-sediment sources and granite in upper-sediment sources. The presence of glacial diamictites and Ca, Na, Sr, and CIW paleoweathering indices suggest that climates changed from relatively cold during deposition of lower Libby Creek sediments to mild and finally to humid (hot?) with decreasing age. With a few notable exceptions (Ca, Sr, Ni, and Cr), the matrix composition of the Early Proterozoic Libby Creek and Gowganda glacial diamictites, including REE distributions, agrees well with the average composition of Late Archean upper continental crust. Thus glacial diamictites may provide excellent indices of both relative and absolute major and trace element distributions in average upper crust.
30068530|A one-dimensional conductive thermal model is used to calculate the transient thermal history of the Newark basin, a Triassic-Jurassic continental rift basin in the eastern United States that formed during the separation of North America and Africa. The model accounts for deposition, erosion, igneous activity, lithology-dependent variations in thermal conductivity, depth-dependent radiogenic heat production, and changes in heat flow through time. A burial and erosion history for the Newark basin is constructed for the modeling, including changes in heat flow through time, emplacement of Jurassic lava flows at the surface, and emplacement of the Palisades sill at depth. Vitrinite-reflectance values and apatite and zircon fission-track ages, for units of both Triassic and Jurassic age, are used to constrain the models. Use of two different data sets greatly limits the number and types of models that can reproduce the observed data. Modeling results indicate that initial formation of the Newark basin is not coincident in time with a thermal event. Elevated heat flow (on the order of 130 mW/m in the models) did affect the basin during its evolution, however, and was associated with igneous activity (at approximately 201-199.5 Ma in the models). Results of the modeling also indicate that the original sedimentary package in the Newark basin was approximately 2.5 km thicker than today.
30062577|A roof pendant of the Idaho Springs formation near Aliens Park, Colorado, consists of a granite injection gneiss, a hornblende-plagioclase gneiss, and a thick series of lime-silicate rocks composed of varying amounts of grossularite, diopside, calcite, vesuvianite, wollastonite, and quartz. Erosion has left the roof pendant as an isolated body in a region consisting chiefly of pre-Cambrian granite. Field and petrographic study favors the conclusion that the rocks were formerly calcareous and dolomitic sedimentary rocks of varying impurity that have been subjected first to regional meta-morphism and later to contact metamorphism.
30066381|Recent detailed mapping of the Franciscan Formation in western Marin County, California, which includes three large bodies of spilitic pillow lavas and diabases, resulted in an interpretation of the structure as a northeast-dipping homocline, rather than a syncline as was previously thought. In order to test this interpretation by an independent method, oriented specimens were collected from twenty-five sites in the igneous rocks, and the directions and intensities of their remanent magnetizations were determined in the laboratory. After correction for structural dip of the homocline, the mean direction of magnetization had declination N. 74 E. and inclination 44 downward, with semiangle of the cone of 95 per cent confidence equal to 9.4. Stability and thermoremanent origin of the observed magnetization is indicated by the convergence of magnetization directions after dip correction, by the significant divergence of the mean magnetization direction from that of the present field, and by the results of alternating-field and thermal demagnetization experiments. Removal by means of a.c. fields of secondary components of magnetization from diabase specimens from seven of the sites gave a mean direction having declination N. 78 E. and inclination 47 downward, not significantly different from that obtained using all data. The corresponding virtual magnetic pole is located in the Atlantic Ocean, at longitude 50 W. and latitude 26 N. This pole position is completely at variance with all upper Jurassic and Cretaceous paleomagnetic data from the northern hemisphere and may be due either to an obscure early deformation of the sampling area or to relatively rapid changes in the geomagnetic field. The uniformity of the magnetization directions confirms the homo-clinal-structure interpretation and supports the conventional use of the configuration of pillows in sequences of pillow lavas as stratigraphic indicators.
30067388|In many mountain belts metamorphic sequences occur in an inverted arrangement such that rocks of higher metamorphic grade overlie rocks of lower metamorphic grade. In some locations such as the Main Central Thrust (MCT) zone of the Himalaya, the metamorphic inversion is coincident with the zone of ductile thrust deformation. Although many explanations have been suggested for the metamorphic inversion of the Himalaya, none are consistent with all of the observed features. A new model based on observations from the eastern Nepal Himalaya consists of inversion of the metamorphic sequence due to ductile shearing of a pre-existing zone of right-way-up metamorphism. This simple structural explanation creates an inverted metamorphic sequence consistent with observations of: (1) a zone of distributed deformation; (2) metamorphic textures overprinted by deformation; and (3) metamorphic isograds sub-parallel to shear fabric. These observations are not all well accounted for by previously proposed models. In this structural model crystal-plastic processes are responsible for translating material in a thrust sense, thus re-ordering the metamorphic sequence but without necessarily ever physically inverting any package of rock. Such a structural process is responsible for the overall metamorphic inversion but could also be accompanied by other processes such as advection of heat during deformation or fluid migration, or creation of heat by friction. These other processes could lead to localized post-deformational metamorphism or re-equilibration of existing assemblages.
30059078|Basement rocks penetrated in deep wells in Ohio can be sharply divided by a boundary trending slightly west of north into high-grade metamorphic rocks on the east and unmetamorphosed igneous and sedimentary rocks on the west. Micas from the metamorphic rocks give Rb-Sr ages between 900 and 1,000 million years, indicating that they are part of the Grenville orogenic belt. The sharp lithologie contrast across the boundary suggests that it is truly the Grenville boundary. The unmetamorphosed igneous rocks west of the boundary are similar to those from basement wells in Illinois and Indiana and from outcrops in southern Wisconsin, the St. Francis Mountains, and the Arbuckle Mountains. Micas and feldspars from the outcropping rocks give Rb-Sr ages of 1,350 to 1,450 million years. The writer thinks that all these rocks west of the boundary comprise a non-orogenic igneous province, and therefore the rocks west of the boundary in Ohio will prove to be older than the rocks of the Grenville orogenic belt.
30075238|We present observations of extensive networks of Kfeldspar microveins associated with quartz and plagioclase in granulite facies rocks from the IvreaVerbano Zone, northern Italy. Backscattered electron images of the granulite facies samples show a continuous system of Kfeldspar veins along quartz/plagioclase and plagioclase/plagioclase grain boundaries that can be traced across the entire length of a thin section. Quartz grain rims in contact with these veins show evidence of extensive corrosion. In contrast, contact between the veins and the orthopyroxene and garnet grains is very clean, with no signs of secondary alteration. Kfeldspar + quartz  plagioclase, of the same compositions as the veins, are commonly found as nearrim inclusions within garnet. Microprobe traverses from the interiors of the Kfeldspar veins to their rims show increasing Ba, indicating a metasomatic origin. Some veins display a boudinaged texture, possibly related to the D
30056106|Well-developed cyclothems are characteristic of the Yoredale Series of the Lower Carboniferous in northern England and Scotland. Each cyclothem consists of up to eight members, all impersistent, some especially so. The presence of the top three members is conditional upon the occurrence of sandstone. A maximum of eight major cyclothems is present in the English outcrops; some of the major cyclothems contain minor cyclothems of much more restricted extent, whose appearance is again conditional upon the occurrence of sandstone in the major cyclothem. Individual cyclothems have not yet been traced into the Scottish outcrops. Each major cyclothem is the result of interplay of two environments: a shallow epicontinental sea, whose normal sediment was limestone, and the delta of a large river draining the continent north of the sea. Comparison of the ancient delta with that of the Mississippi River suggests that the ancient delta advanced laterally down the coast of the continent, pushing out southwestward from the mouth of the alluvial valley. Regional subsidence, slower than delta deposition but continuing after the delta built up above sea level, gradually drew the bypassed parts of the delta plain below the sea. Finally, when the active head of the delta lay far to the southwest of the alluvial valley, major crevassing of the trunk river caused abandonment of the old delta and the initiation of the new. In the meantime the old delta sank below sea level, and limestone was deposited upon its surface by the encroaching sea. The mechanism of cyclic advance of the delta is sufficient to account for all the observed features of the Yoredale Series cyclothems without recourse to more fanciful ideas.
30057926|In the pit of the Mogul mine in the Black Hills of South Dakota silicification has been so intense that shale, as well as dolomite, has been greatly changed. Petrographic studies and chemical analyses show that in the shale potash and alumina have been replaced by silica.
30061057|Eclogite-bearing amphibolites from the western marginal metamorphic zone of the Appalachian mobile belt (the orthotectonic zone), northwest Newfoundland, were derived from basaltic dikes metamorphosed in situ under conditions of the upper greenschist to lower amphibolite facies. Where they occur in "dry" basement, the basic dikes have been recrystallized to eclogite, and in the "wet" sedimentary cover to a more typical amphibolite assemblage, thus, reflecting only differing
30066252|A sequence of major and intermediate scale folding episodes within a crustal superstructure of Archaean volcanics and sediments is related to various phases of rise and lateral expansion of large diapiric granitic plutons. As well as producing folds in the superstructure the evolution of these granitic masses imposed structural modifications upon one another. The movement of granitic diapirs occurred after the granites had crystallized. The dominant tectonic influence over the complex structural patterns of greenstones in the Slave Province is therefore suggested to have been vertical movements associated with granitic plutonism, rather than lateral forces. However, the dominant vertical tectonics of such Archaean greenstone/granite terrains may be related to much larger scale lateral deformation of relatively thin Archaean continental lithosphere.
30065804|The Takaka Terrane in New Zealand is one of the best exposed arc fragments of the early Paleozoic AustralianAntarctic convergent margin and constitutes one of the most outboard terranes of this margin in paleogeographic reconstructions. PbNd isotope compositions of clinopyroxenes from the Cambrian Devil River Volcanics of the Takaka Terrane enable identification of the location of the terrane in the PaleoPacific Ocean. The Devil River Volcanics, a suite of primitive arc and backarc rocks, are interbedded with the partly continentderived Haupiri Group sediments. Extremely radiogenic Pb and unradiogenic Nd compositions in the arc rocks cannot be explained by assimilation of the Haupiri Group sediments or a continental basement of such a composition. Pb isotope compositions of the Takaka Terrane sediments are much less radiogenic and overlap with crustal compositions of the Lachlan Fold Belt in Australia, suggesting that both units are derived from one source, the AustralianAntarctic Pacific margin. PbNd isotope compositions in the Devil River Volcanics reflect contamination of their mantle sources by subducted sediments derived from Archean provinces in either Antarctica or Laurentia. Both provinces show characteristically high
30069386|Many igneous plagioclases exhibit irregular zoning consisting of corroded cores embayed and surrounded in crystallographic continuity by more sodic plagioclase. Inclusions of this sodic plagioclase within the corroded cores give the feldspar a mottled appearance and suggest the term patchy zoning for these textures. Textural evidence indicates that patchy zoning is the result of a two-stage replacement process involving partial resorption of early plagioclase crystals followed by crystallization of a more sodic plagioclase. Poikilitic inclusions commonly present within the patches of sodic plagioclase are believed to have crystallized from the melt trapped in the cores after corrosion. Patchy zoning is interpreted here in terms of decrease in confining pressure on water-deficient magma during its rise in the crust. The sequence of development is visualized as follows: (1) crystallization of plagioclase at depth; (2) partial resorption of the plagioclase related to fall in pressure; (3) renewed crystallization at lower pressure, necessitating development of a more sodic plagioclase. Zoning of this type is believed to be a diagnostic igneous textural feature indicating that the magma contained a crystalline phase and was neither superheated nor saturated in its volatile components when upward displacement initiated resorption.
30060183|Two well-exposed sections-one of loess and one of glacial till-are described from north-central Kentucky. The first consists of a distinct stratigraphic sequence of three loess formations: Loveland, Farmdale, and Tazewell. The second is a thick section of deeply weathered till to which a Kansan age is tentatively assigned.
30065145|Examination of the thermobaric structure of jadeite-glaucophane-bearing Franciscan rocks in the Pacheco Pass region of the Diablo Range show that they are subhorizontal, and the structurally intermediate horizon has the highest metamorphic grade. Mineral parageneses of more than 700 metagraywackes, plus 38 metagraywacke samples from up to 1200 vertical feet of drill core were examined. Modal compositions of about 100 metagraywackes were determined, and more than 2600 microprobe analyses were completed to quantify compositions of jadeitic pyroxene from about 80 metagraywackes. The jadeite (Jd) zone is defined by the assemblage jadeitic clinopyroxene + quartz
30084801|Flint's fill hypothesis in explanation of the scabland features of eastern Washington, which bases the deposition-excavation sequence upon the rise and decline of glacial Lake Lewis, has the advantage of reducing the events and conditions to terms of streams of moderate size but, nevertheless, has serious shortcomings which make it unacceptable.
30057165|Study of zircons in pegmatites, gneisses, and quartzites from the Ceylon pre-Cambrian complex showed that different types and varieties of zircons characterize different rock types and their geological history. The pegmatites from the Bambarabotuwa area have characteristically euhedral, elongate zircons. The charnockites and the quartzites carry a mixed assemblage of rounded, stumpy to moderately elongated, zircons. The zircon from the younger Tonigala granite and the microcline granitic gneiss near Kalkudah is euhedral and highly elongated. The Miocene calcareous sandstones from the Jaffna peninsula carry rounded "purple" zircons. It is suggested that these differences in zircon types and varieties may provide valuable data for correlation and differentiation of formations and also be of aid in the study of metamorphosed or granitized rocks.
30081212|The clay minerals, micas, and feldspars of the Pennsylvanianage Purington Shale have been more diagenetically active than generally recognized. They have undergone diagenetic changes comparable to those of Cenozoic and Mesozoic sedimentary rocks buried three to four times as deeply and heated to approximately twice the temperature. The Purington Shale on the Western Shelf of the Illinois Basin has experienced maximum burial of 1.0 km and was never heated to more than 60C, except for a very brief time at about 80C. The illite/smectite (I/S) of the Purington Shale has 90% illite. The chemical compositions of the feldspar assemblage in the 0.090.063mm fraction differ from most modern detrital suites of feldspars but are similar to diagenetic sequences described by others from much greater burial depths and are extensively, but not completely, albitized. The simplest interpretation of the apparently advanced stage of diagenesis is that the diagenetic processes have been operating at less pressure and lower temperature but for a longer time; an example of lowtemperature, timedependent diagenesis. By similar reasoning, the apparently anomalously advanced maturity of all of the sedimentary rocks in the relatively shallow Illinois Basin is explained. This generalization should be considered for all shallow Paleozoic basins and should influence (1) exploration for petroleum, (2) use of modal and chemical analyses for determining provenance, and (3) use of chemical composition of shales as proxy for crustal evolution.
30080998|Several lines of evidence indicate that the Archean upper crust was considerably more mafic than the present-day upper crust. There has been no significant change in REE and Th abundances in post-Archean clastic sedimentary rocks, suggesting that there has been no change in the composition of the upper crust during the post-Archean. This indicates that if there have been any additions to the post-Archean upper crust, they must have had similar composition to the upper crust itself. Geochemical modelling of REE and Th abundances in sedimentary rocks suggests that the minimum ratio of post-Archean to Archean upper crustal composition required to eliminate the Archean upper crustal trace element signature, within analytical uncertainty, is about 4:1. Such a model also is supported by isotopic data. Using plausible assumptions regarding the volume of Archean crust, isostatic relations, and extreme models of the earth's degassing history, it is proposed that approximately 65-75% of the continental crust formed during the period of 3.2-2.5 Ga, and that between 70-85% of the continental crust had formed by 2.5 Ga. Such a model is consistent with relatively constant continental freeboard during the past 2,500 million years. Thus, the constant freeboard model does not provide unique evidence for large-scale recycling of continental material through the mantle.
30079621|Among shore features, beach cusps have been the most difficult to explain. This is because of the quickness with which they grow when the exact adjustment required between waves and beach materials occurs. Beach cusps are here classified and the process of formation of each class described and explained. The fifth class is especially interesting and important as it is the one most commonly observed and the most difficult to explain. Numerous intercusp spaces were measured. These measurements show that the apparent uniformity of spacing of cusps is deceptive. Uniformity of spacing sometimes holds for short distances, but in a series of any considerable length the intercusp spacing commonly shows a wide variation.
30071181|The southwestern Mississippian problems discussed include the relation of Lower Mississippian strata to their subjacent rocks, especially the problems involved in the evaluation of the Ouray limestone and the Percha formation as possible transitional units from the Devonian. Further problems are indicated in the relation of the Escabrosa limestone, with an impoverished brachiopod fauna, to the Redwall limestone, which is rich in brachiopods, and in the interrelation of the fossiliferous Lower Mississippian strata of Nevada, Utah, and Colorado. Although insufficient knowledge of the regional stratigraphic paleontology is a serious handicap for interpretation, the relation between the autochthonous forms of the southwestern Lower Mississippian and the species characteristic of the Mississippi Valley Basin suggest a westward migration from the latter region. However, the nature of the ways of communication is still problematical. For instance, the abundance of typical Mississippi Valley species and the lack of southwestern brachiopods in the Lower Mississippian of New Mexico do not favor a direct connection with the Redwall and the Escabrosa basins. The Upper Mississippian Paradise formation of southeastern Arizona, most readily comparable paleontologically and stratigraphically to the standard Upper Mississippian of the Mississippi Valley, still has no other counterparts in the Southwest and is not easily traceable eastward through New Mexico and Texas or through Chihuahua and Coahuila in Mexico. The southernmost outpost of the comparable western unit, the Brazer limestone, with stratigraphically diffused paleontological indices and without Archimedes facies, is a long distance to the north, which suggests research problems in the intermediate areas, whereas the recent finds of Mississippian faunas in Sonora suggest the possibility of a southwestern orientation of a late Mississippian passageway in agreement with the pre-Mississippian paleogeographical setting and in common with the general direction of other Paleozoic outlets of that region.
30063773|The fabric of coarse particles mantling a debris slope on Bell Mountain, California, is investigated to identify the dominant process moving such particles. This slope is typical of debris slopes in the Mojave Desert underlain by closely jointed and/or mechanically weak rocks. Samples of rods and disks analyzed from five sites ranging in gradient from 11.17 to 33.17 are found to display essentially the same fabric: particles tend to be aligned downslope and to lie flat on the ground surface. There is no evidence of imbrication signifying sliding or creep nor of transverse modes indicating rolling. It is concluded that the fabric is probably produced by hydraulic action, and that this process is mainly responsible for moving coarse particles on gradients up to 33 on debris slopes underlain by closely jointed and/or mechanically weak rocks.
10.1086/664789|The accretionary wedge of the Bay of Biscay is an east-west compressive belt buried under recent sediments of the abyssal plain at the north Iberian margin. This structure formed through the partial closure of the previously extended Biscay basin during the Cenozoic north-south collision between Europe and Iberia, the same collision that produced the Cantabrian-Pyrenean range on land. Three north-south seismic sections have been prestack depth migrated, showing a narrow-tapered wedge (78) whose internal structure corresponds to a set of south-dipping thrusts converging toward a basal decollement. There are differences along strike within the wedge: thrust spacing, the dip of the basal thrust, and the thickness of the sediments at the trough augment toward the east, increasing its overall size. The two-dimensional velocity models obtained through migration analysis reflect values between 2000 km/s at the sea floor (4500 m) and 5000 km/s at 12-km depth. The syntectonic package thickness varies from 1.5 to 3 km, while the posttectonic cover attains 1.52 km. A simple analysis based on critical wedge theory approaches suggests that the Biscay wedge formed in similar conditions to active submarine wedges, the strength of the decollement being lower than the strength of the wedge itself. Further comparison with other examples indicates high basal stress, which could be an added factor in the convergence stopping at this margin. The eastward size increase is attributed to the provision of extra sediments by the coetaneous rising of the cordillera on land. This weight steepens the basal angle without affecting the overall taper. Surprisingly, the eastward change from an oceanic to a transitional basement does not seem to be crucial in its geometry.
30068064|As magma rises through the lithosphere it may entrain wall rock debris. The entrainment process depends on the local hydrodynamic regime of the magma (e.g., velocity, temperature, bulk density), the extent of interaction of magma with groundwater, and the mechanical properties of the wall rocks. Wall rock entrainment results in local flaring of dikes and conduits, which in turn affects the hydrodynamics of magma ascent and eruption. We studied upper-crustal xenoliths erupted from small-volume basaltic volcanoes of the Lucero volcanic field (west-central New Mexico) in order to assess the relative importance of various entrainment mechanisms during a range of eruptive styles, including strongly hydrovolcanic, Strombolian, and effusive processes. Total xenolith volume fractions ranged from 0.3-0.9 in hydrovolcanic facies to
30056210|The work of previous investigators has shown that certain relatively stagnant lake and canal waters and some shallow ground waters are highly charged with hydrogen sulphide as a result of the reduction of soluble sulphates by certain anaerobic bacteria. Recent work by the present writer and his collaborators has shown that waters rich in hydrogen sulphide and carrying sulphate-reducing bacteria are associated with petroleum in several of the largest producing oil fields of Illinois and California. If solutions carrying metals in balance with the sulphate, chloride, or bicarbonate radicles come in contact with such relatively stagnant hydrogen sulphide bearing waters, precipitation of the metals as sulphides must result. Such a mechanism of precipitation is suggested as a hypothesis deserving of critical consideration in future studies of certain types of sulphide ores such as the Kupfer-schiefer, the copper deposits in red beds and other sandstones, and lead and zinc deposits of the Mississippi Valley type. A more complete summary will be found at the end of the paper.
30061310|The results of physiographic and historical studies of recent channeling in previously well-aggraded valleys in the Colorado Plateau Province are here presented. Discussion is given to the unconformities and alluvial terraces in the valley fills, evidences of other epicycles of erosion. Studies were made of naturally barren areas to determine if there had been a change in the gradational processes, which would be expected if climate had changed sufficiently to cause the accelerated erosion in adjacent valleys. Conclusions are that utilization of the region by man and the consequent reduction and modification in the plant cover are major factors in starting the new epicycle of erosion.
30078531|The ca. 400kmlong granitoid belt in the South Qinling is believed to be a synorogenic product of the collision between the North and South China Blocks along the QinlingDabie orogenic belt in central China. Single and multigrain zircon UPb dating of six of these granitoid bodies indicate that the granitoids were formed between
30063374|Altogether, fifteen beds of bentonite have been recognized in the Ordovician from the lower Stones River group to the lower Maysville. Formerly, it was thought that the Ordovician volcanic activity started in Lowville time and ceased in Trenton time, but beds of bentonite in this area have been recognized strati-graphically far below and above these horizons. Two thick beds of bentonite can be recognized with certainty throughout the western half of the Appalachian Valley from northwestern Georgia and northeastern Alabama to southwestern Virginia.
30062186|Various paleosols have been reported from within the Witwatersrand and Ventersdorp Supergroups, South Africa. They were studied in an attempt to constrain the amount of oxygen available in the atmosphere during deposition of the gold- and uranium-bearing Witwatersrand conglomerates. The majority of these horizons do not have any physical characteristics of paleosols, and none of them have a chemistry consistent with weathering, suggesting they have been subjected to modification by later alteration processes. A similar chemistry, indicating overprinting of any original soil chemistry, has been reported from paleosols elsewhere (Elliot Lake region, Canada; Hekpoort basalt, South Africa), but it does not appear that significant cognizance has been taken of this fact when using these paleosols to determine the composition of the Precambrian atmosphere. It is concluded here that characteristics previously attributed to Precambrian weathering in an oxygen-deficient atmosphere are better explained by post-burial, hydrother-mal alteration along lithological contacts.
30065504|Inclusions of bytownitic anorthosite up to a size of 30,000
30068135|Earlier work has indicated that between the Spokane River and Wenatchee the plateau-marginal course of the Columbia River was determined by northerly and northwesterly advancing flows of lava. In entering the Columbia Plateau at Wenatchee, the river is shown to have been influenced by floods of lava from the west.
30066135|Textural analyses were made of 54 samples of gravel beaches from the Pacific coast of southern California and northern Mexico. These samples, plus 1 each from Washington and Japan and 6 others previously reported in the geological literature, are very well sorted and have nearly symmetrical frequency curves. The beach gravels are so much better sorted than fluvial gravels that textural analyses may serve as supplementary evidence in determining the agent of deposition of ancient conglomerates.
30066234|Crenulation cleavages are zones of mineral differentiation coincident with the limbs of microfolds in crenulated rock fabrics. They are subplanar domains of highly oriented micaceous material which constitute preferred sites of parting in the rocks. Their microfabrics group into two classes-either thin sharply defined cleavages or wide diffuse cleavage zones with indistinct boundaries. Existing classifications and terminology for classifying and describing these morphological types of crenulation cleavage are unsuitable because they do not adequately describe the cleavages, have genetic connotations, and have limitations in their application. A morphologic classification based on distinctive features of the cleavage is therefore proposed. This classification, incorporating new terminology (the prefix terms discrete and zonal), essentially sharpens the distinction between the existing classes of crenulation cleavage with the aim of providing a more objective basis for describing their microfabrics.
30081177|Upper Cretaceous igneous rocks in the northern Gulf of Mexico basin are poorly understood due both to the paucity of material recovered from drillholes in the sedimentary basins and lack of geochronological data. Rocks from the alkalic igneous complexes at Magnet Cove and Granite Mountain (Arkansas), the Monroe Uplift, and the Jackson Dome (Louisiana and Mississippi), yielded
30060646|Comparison of a generalized 250-foot contour map of the bedrock surface and the glacial map of central United States shows that the Pleistocene glacial lobes were closely controlled by bedrock lowlands even in areas of relatively thick drift and that positions of ice centers and deflection by adjoining lobes were of secondary importance. The implications of these relations in the study of glacial centers and possible flow units within glacial lobes are considered, and an interpretation of preglacial drainage, based on the bedrock-surface map, is proposed.
30080010|New
30068501|Small, monogenetic cinder cones and shield volcanoes occur in platform cone fields behind the volcanic front of Central America. Their lavas (BVF suite) are distinctly different from typical volcanic front lavas (VF suite). Most VF lavas are nearly aphyric basalts, containing only olivine and plagioclase phenocrysts. They have high
30078367|Various mechanisms have been proposed to explain the salinity variations in vent fluids of seafloor geothermal systems. New experiments reacting diabase and evolved seawater were carried out to reproduce earlier published observations of Cl depletions attributed to formation of an ephemeral Cl-bearing mineral. The absence of any Cl depletions in the present study suggests that the formation of Cl-bearing minerals is not sufficiently widespread to account for the observed salinity variations in the vent fluids. A re-evaluation of both field and laboratory evidence has led to a new model for subseafloor circulation that accounts for salinity variations as well as other chemical and mineralogic observations. In place of a simple single-pass convection system, we propose that the seafloor systems consist of two vertically nested convection cells in which a brine layer at depth heats and drives an overlying seawater cell. Such layering of salinities, a process known in fluid mechanics as double-diffusive convection, is an expected result when convection is induced in saline fluids. The process provides for stable high-temperature heat transfer upward from the cracking front adjacent to the magma, and for limited chemical exchange of the brine with the overlying seawater to explain salinity variations and high metal contents in the vent fluids. The brine also provides an effective medium to produce the secondary mineral assemblages observed in rocks from the mid-ocean ridges and ophiolites unsuccessfully produced in laboratory studies using seawater. The brine originates from the two-phase separation of seawater during magmatic/tectonic events and accumulates and remains relatively stable in the region immediately above the magma chamber.
30057159|Agattu is unique among the volcanic Aleutian Islands in being composed almost entirely of well-bedded sedimentary rocks. These rocks were clearly deposited in water and are composed chiefly of amorphous silica and fine detritus derived from a volcanic terrain. Igneous rocks are sparsely represented by intrusions of porphyry, diabase, and trap. The entire island has been heavily glaciated.
10.1086/675327|Quartz arenites characterize much of the early Paleozoic sedimentary history of the midcontinent region. Despite numerous studies, the century-long debate on how these arenites formed is still unresolved, primarily because of the compositional and textural purity of the deposits. In this study, we present an extensive data set of detrital zircon geochronology from the early Paleozoic supermature arenites of the midcontinent region, and we offer new constraints about their origin. Our results coupled with compiled provenance information from older basins and orogens may indicate that the Cambrian and Ordovician arenites represent sediment reworking primarily of two different older basins. The Cambro-Ordovician sediment was transported to the midcontinent region by two early Paleozoic river systems that sourced from the paleo-east (Huron basin) and paleo-northeast (midcontinent rift region).
30062129|The Sesia Zone, Western Alps, is a slice of Austroalpine continental crust that was once metamorphosed at T = 500-560C and P > 14-16 kbar at ~130-100 Ma B.P. Pervasive blueschist/eclogite facies assemblages record this event, and a later greenschist facies overprint is only well developed in the NW part of the zone. On the basis of thermal calculations, it is difficult to explain the preservation of high pressure assemblages in a simple model of underthrusting and subsequent uplift/erosion. An alternative model is proposed in which the Sesia Zone was emplaced by underthrusting of the Austroalpine continental margin prior to subduction of oceanic lithosphere of the Piemonte basin. Subduction of relatively cool oceanic lithosphere below the underthrust Sesia Zone then continued for a period of time (e.g., 20 Ma), thus suppressing thermal recovery of this latter unit. Exhumation of Sesia Zone rocks began during this subduction episode by uplift on the Insubric Line, erosion, and by underplating of oceanic material (Zermatt-Saas and Combin Zones) onto the base of the thickened continental crust. Pressure-temperature-time (PTt) paths can be calculated for this model which compare well with those estimated from petrological data. Differences in development of early metamorphism and deformation between upper and lower tectonic units are explained by this model on the basis of contrasting PTt paths and reaction kinetics. It is suggested that the regional pattern of greenschist overprinting was the result of differential uplift across the zone combined with the catalytic effect of deformation.
30059002|Atmospheric shear velocity measurements for eolian transport of some common sand sizes were made on beaches, dry tidal flats, and small dune fields in Florida, Texas, the Alaskan Arctic, and Ecuador. The linear relationship between shear and wind velocities was further verified by these field data incorporated with Bagnold's Libyan Desert data. From these measurements, a simple method is given for computing eolian transport of the most common sand particle sizes which occur on coasts and deserts.
30061394|An analysis-of-variance experiment of zircon crystal size and shape measurements shows that variability between operators is not a significant factor in distinguishing between morphology classes of zircon crystals from a single rock.
10.1086/597366|Petrographic and chemical characterization of chromian spinels from the lower and upper Schwarzrand Subgroup and the upper Fish River Subgroup of the latest Ediacaran to early Paleozoic Nama foreland basin in Namibia is used to infer the tectonic setting of source rocks and evaluate the geotectonic evolution of the Damara Orogen. Electron microprobe analysis of detrital chromian spinels from the Nama Group show three groups of chromian spinels: (i) a group with a Cr# (
30055801|In the South African Bushveld the thick Waterberg system of sediments lies uncon-formably on the Transvaal system. The huge Bushveld igneous complex, composed of norite, pyroxenite, anorthosite (etc.), diabase, granophyre, and coarse granite, has long been supposed to be a differentiated laccolith, injected along the interface of unconformity. However, new field evidence shows that the Waterberg system is separated from the igneous complex by an important erosion-unconformity. The originally basic magma formed sills in the strata of the Transvaal system, but a large part of the magma broke through the whole Transvaal system and welled out at the earth's surface. This magma was differentiated and crystallized as norite (with pyro-xenitic and other phases) and granophyre-f elsite, both of which were later cut by dikes, sheets, and stocks of coarse granite, itself a late product of the same igneous invasion. The Bushveld igneous complex illustrates: (I) areal (deroofing) eruption on a grand scale; (2) the floor relations of a lopolith characterized by satellitic intrusive sheets; (3) thoroughgoing differentiation, dominated by gravity. In general, the salic pole of the main differentiation had no roof, and solidified as dense or glassy felsite, passing downward into granophyre. Over much of the area the femic differentiate, norite-pyroxenite, had no roof other than the already solidified, upper, felsite-granophyre phase. The Waterberg sediments were deposited unconformably on the coarse granite, and, a fortiori, long after the solidification of the norite. This erosion interval is significant in the geological history of South Africa. Its recognition enforces the conclusion that the Waterberg system should include no beds older than the "Upper Waterberg" of the Geological Survey of South Africa.
30057884|As a contribution to the study of magmatic differentiation, the author reports a discovery of quartz porphyry outcrops on the north shore of Lake Superior in which there are abundant globules of glass in a main mass consisting chiefly of glass. Evidence is submitted indicating that the globules were liquid at the time the surrounding rock was liquid, and that the two parts were of different composition. In all respects, the field occurrence corresponds to the description of the hypothetical case described by Bowen as being the only kind of phenomenon which would supply indisputable proof of the existence of immiscibility in silicate magmas. The unavoidable conclusion is reached that, if Bowen's criterion is correct, the occurrence of limited liquid miscibility in silicate magmas is a fact.
30064105|The passage of hurricane Donna (September 9-10, 1960) across south Florida caused storm effects in an area where detailed data on prestorm sea-floor conditions existed. The amount of boulder-sized rubble formed by hurricane surf on platform-edged reefs far exceeded the amount produced by day-to-day processes of death and deterioration. Each large storm affecting the reef tract adds a small increment to the building of the rubble accumulations. Large quantities of skeletal sand on the shoals behind the reefs and linear rock patches were transported and redeposited during the hurricane. Cross-bedding dip directions in storm deposits are like those in deposits of normal tidal and surf currents, i.e., platformward on shoals and seaward in lows on the platform edges, because the direction of storm currents was controlled by the same regional and local topography that controls normal currents; but scale of cross-bed sets and maximum size of sediments in storm deposits are larger. The ebb of the storm tides left large amounts of layered lime mud stranded on the supratidal flats (above the normal high-tide line). The large extent of the supratidal flats results from (1) the ability of storm tides to strand sediment over large areas, (2) the inaccessibility of the tidal flat to processes that could rework its sediment into adjacent marine environments, and (3) the supply of the tidal-flat sediments at the expense of adjacent marine fades that compete with tidal-flat sediments for a place in the geologic record. These factors probably explain the large amount of tidal-flat facies in ancient rocks. Mound-type accumulations of muddy sediment were not eroded by storm-wave or tidal currents. The main conclusion of our study is that a bias exists for preservation of effects of higher-energy events. Although such events may be catastrophic in terms of a man's longest period of observation, his lifetime, they are nevertheless only commonplace events in terms of geologic time.
30080247|In situ SHRIMP UPb analysis of monazite grains from pelites within an earlyformed hightemperature shear zone in the southern Broken Hill Block, Australia, has been used to constrain the timing of prograde amphibolite facies and peak granulite facies metamorphism within the terrain. Geochronological analyses from grains inhabiting texturally distinct localities revealed two distinct age populations, ca. 1619 and 1600 Ma. The older age was obtained from grains that occur as inclusions completely enclosed within coarsegrained Kfeldspar and garnet grains, which evidently armored the monazite inclusions against resetting during younger deformation and metamorphic events. The ca. 1619Ma monazite population occurs as part of an amphibolite facies inclusion assemblage hosted within the peak granulite facies mineral assemblage and constrains the timing of prograde amphibolite facies metamorphism within the Broken Hill Block. The younger 1600Ma monazite age population was from grains within the pervasive shear fabric of the pelites or adjacent to fractures or grain boundaries in the matrix. The 1600Ma age population represents either a later stage of monazite growth or isotopic resetting during deformation along the hightemperature shear zone at peak granulite facies conditions.
30061986|The tectonic models which have been previously suggested for the Zagros Mountain Ranges in Iran did not take into account some geological and morphological aspects which are important for the orogenic history of the Zagros. Considering these phenomena, the Zagros region is now interpreted as the result of collision and subduction, using present-day arc models. The Zagros displays an arc system, in different stages of development, and attributed to the converging continental Arabian Shield and its unusual shape. Although the arc elements in the southern Zagros (Fars area) and in the northwestern-most part (the region of the Rezaiyeh Depression) are well preserved, they are almost absent in a middle part which shows an advanced stage of collision. In this part, major flexuring and lateral movements are dominant.
30068529|Archean metasedimentary rocks of the South Snowy Block of the Beartooth Mountains, in the vicinity of Jardine, Montana, consist predominantly of schistose rocks (interpreted as metamorphosed turbidities) with rare iron formation. These rocks are intruded by Precambrian granitic stocks and minor mafic dikes and sills. Evidence for three phases of folding and late-stage kinking is found within the metasedimentary rocks, whereas rocks of the Crevice Mountain stock (2700 Ma) are unaffected by any of these events. The first folding event involved the development of isoclinal, recumbent folds of varying scale. F fold hinges are rare, most commonly observed underground in Mineral Hill. An S schistosity has developed axial planar to these folds. This schistosity, which is subparallel to bedding, is very well developed and ubiquitous in the metasedimentary rocks of the Jardine region. Large scale F folds are inferred from the pattern of occurrence of iron formation within drill cores and because of the ubiquitous nature of the bedding-subparallel S schistosity. Two later phases of folding are also recognized. F folds are nearly upright with gently to moderately plunging fold hinges. An S crenulation cleavage exists, axial planar to the F folds. F folds are also nearly upright, with gently to moderately plunging hinges, and an S crenulation cleavage, though weakly developed, is recognized, axial planar to F folds. The F and F fold axial surfaces are nearly orthogonal. This geometry results in widespread development of dome and basin (Ramsay type 1) fold interference patterns involving F and F folds, and developed on S surfaces. These are observed in outcrop, and are inferred on the larger scale from mine tunnel exposure and drill core data. Rare, late-stage kink bands affect the S schistosity. Temperature and pressure conditions during deformation, as revealed by calculations from microprobe analyses, suggest that the peak of metamorphism occurred at a temperature of about 560C and a pressure of 2.9 kb. Thin section observations indicate that the metamorphic peak accompanied the formation of S schistosity. Structural, metamorphic, and geochemical data are consistent with the hypothesis that the metasedimentary rocks of the Jardine region are allochthonous and constitute one of a number of tectonostratigraphic terranes in the western Beartooth Mountains that were juxtaposed tectonically against the western margin of an Archean continent during a Late Archean colli-sional event. The ductile deformational events in the Jardine region likely predate the terrane emplacement. Uplift of the Beartooth Mountains occurred during late Cretaceous time (Laramide). A number of steeply dipping dip-slip faults and shear zones, probably associated with this uplift, cut the folded metasedimentary rocks.
30059317|Statistical techniques were applied to petrographic and chemical data obtained on 35 samples of coal ranging from lignite to anthracite. Six petrographic variables were involved in the calculation and included contents of vitrinitic components, fusinoids, massive and granular micrinoids, and exinoids plus resinoids. Also included was the mean maximum reflectance determined on the vitrinitic entities. Chemical variables included contents of ultimate carbon, hydrogen, total sulfur, and oxygen which was found by difference. Statistical techniques involved calculation of a correlation matrix and factor analysis with factor rotation. In the former procedure, positive correlations at the 1% significance level were shown to exist between carbon and vitrinite reflectance, between hydrogen and micrinoids and exinoids, between oxygen and micrinoids and exinoids, and between micrinoids and exinoids. A factor analysis by the R mode showed that four factors appeared to be responsible for 94% of the variation. The contents of oxygen, and carbon and the reflectance values are related to factor 1 (Fl), which is provisionally regarded as metamorphism after burial. The content of vitrinitic material plus the content of micrinoids and exinoids appear to be related to factor 2 (F2), which is provisionally regarded as involving the type of source vegetation and the degree of biochemical alteration in the peat swamp. Sulfur appears to be related to a third factor and the fusinoids to yet another. These are special environmental elements critical in the distribution of the two variables in question but not of special significance in connection with the other variables.
30061187|High wind velocities during a windstorm in December of 1977 in the southern San Joaquin Valley, California, created eolian features and effects of a magnitude not previously reported in the literature. Three principal mechanisms of sediment movement by wind were studied by examining the size distribution of deposits in telephone poles (saltation and suspension), feeder pens and abandoned buildings (saltation and suspension), and gravel ripples (surface creep). The maximum grain sizes of rocks lodged in telephone poles at heights of 240, 160, and 80 cm are 7 mm X 11 mm X 6 mm, 10 mm X 15 mm X 6 mm, and 20 mm X 23 mm X 5 mm, respectively. In some areas with rocky soils, lag materials formed gravel ripples.
10.1086/677264|We have examined the Triassic sediments in the west Qinling terrane, northeastern Tibet. These sediments consist mainly of flysch and shallow-sea and fluvial deposits with abundant lithic and heavy mineral detritus, sandwiched between and overlying Late Paleozoic and Early-Middle Triassic ophiolitic mlanges. Volcanic and metamorphic detritus dominates the lithic component of Lower Triassic sandstones accompanied by high Cr-spinel, pyroxene, and magnetite contents, indicating a mixed ophiolite and metamorphic source. Detrital mineral geochemistry further suggests that ophiolitic, high-grade metamorphic, basic, and intermediate-acidic igneous rocks must have been exposed and deeply eroded in their source area. Abundances of zircon, rutile, garnet, tourmaline, and epidote are greater in the Middle Triassic samples, and granitic and volcanic sources are the major contributors of detrital clasts. Considering these new observations on sedimentary petrography and detrital heavy mineral geochemistry, along with published data on paleocurrents, detrital zircon U-Pb ages, sedimentary facies, and regional magmatism, we suggest that these Triassic sediments represent the sedimentary fill of a forearc basin that overlies a late Paleozoic ophiolitic complex. A south-facing Andean-type convergent continental margin system developed along the southern margin of the North China block during the Triassic, in response to northward subduction of the Paleotethyan Ocean.
30060345|The discovery last summer (1923) that the "Laurentian" complex, between the Huronian area and the Bancroft-Haliburton area, contains Huronian sediments metamorphosed into rocks of Grenville type, and that with these paragneisses there are amphibolites due to the metamorphism of Keweenawan diabase, indicates that the Grenville rocks of Southeast Ontario should be correlated with the Huronian sediments, and that the batholiths which intrude the Grenville schists and gneisses are post-Huronian in age rather than pre-Huronian and should be mapped as of Keweenawan age rather than Laurentian.
30080822|Little is known concerning the great submarine troughs, although they must be classed among the major tectonic features of the earth. The Bartlett Trough offers many advantages for purposes of research. The present status of the problem is here briefly outlined and methods are suggested for continuing the investigation of its origin and structure.
30084827|Neutron activation measurements on several Northern California obsidian sources show chemical compositions ranging from extremely homogeneous to extremely variable. The uniformity of a source in Napa County, California was as good as the precision of the measurements even when measuring errors were less than 1%. In contrast, the flow at Borax Lake (Lake County, California) revealed variable composition of the obsidian. However, the elements showed a dramatic linear coherence which also extended through the compositions of an underlying dacite layer. The faithful relationship of the many elements suggests that mag-matic mixing occurred prior to erruption.
30056838|In 1918, Gaillard peninsula, the center of the Goose Creek Oil Field, on Galveston Bay, began to subside. The geology of the field and the nature of the subsidence are discussed. It is concluded that subsidence was caused by the extraction of oil, water, gas, and sand from beneath the surface.
30063432|According to "the new global tectonics," the Caribbean Sea and the marginal lands surrounding it comprise one "lithosphere plate." Its eastern margin includes the Barbados Ridge, Lesser Antilles arc, and Aves Ridge; the western margin is composed of Central America and the Middle America Trench. These two margins are interpreted as subduction zones by "new global tectonics" advocates. The northern and southern margins are the alleged North Caribbean and South Caribbean faults, respectively. According to recent JOIDES drilling data, the Caribbean "plate" may be underlain by Late Cretaceous (75-85 m.y.) basaltic crust, and therefore is younger than both the Americas plate on the north, east, and south and the Cocos plate on the west. From this, some workers have inferred that the Caribbean formed by sea-floor spreading which separated North and South America. However, there is no spreading center in the Caribbean. Moreover, geologic and seismic data prove that the proposed North Caribbean and South Caribbean faults do not exist. La Dsirade is a Jurassic or older island east of the Lesser Antilles. Barbados Ridge is an aseismic, pre-Late Jurassic salient of South America (that is, part of the so-called Americas plate) that parallels and lies just east of the alleged Lesser Antilles subduction zone. The stratigraphic units of Barbados are correlat-able with those of northern South America. Structural trends on Barbados strike east-northeast, are Late Cretaceous-early Eocene, and parallel those of South America. These facts show that the position of Barbados with respect to that of South America has not changed for more than 140 m.y. Yet "the new global tectonics" require that La Desirade and the Barbados Ridge must have been subducted more than 70 m.y. ago. On the basis of the facts presented here, the so-called Caribbean plate and the regions surrounding it have held the same positions relative to one another since pre-Jurassic (probably pre-Paleozoic) time. "The new global tectonics," therefore, are not applicable in the Caribbean area.
10.1086/651503|Study of wholerock geochemical and isotope (SrNd) characteristics of Jurassic plutons from South Korea shows differences in chemical compositions that might reflect the Jurassic tectonic environments of East Asia. These plutons are dominated by granites and granodiorites with subordinate intermediate monzodiorite to diorite phases. All analyzed samples show depletions in TaNb, P, and Ti and enrichment in large ion lithophile elements, characteristic of highK calcalkaline Itype granitoids of the active continental margin. Early Jurassic plutons fall into two groups:
30059351|At least four major Quaternary glaciations, each successively less extensive than the former, are recorded in the McMurdo Sound region of Antarctica. Deposits of the earliest recognized glacial advance occur high on ridges and flat areas. The deposits are 2,000 feet above the valley floor, are badly weathered, and have little or no morainal form. Ice of this glaciation filled all the valleys and must have filled McMurdo Sound to an elevation of 2,000 feet. Deposits of the next two succeeding glaciations are distributed around the sound as well-preserved, but considerably subdued, moraines of both outlet and alpine glaciers. During the earlier of these two glaciations, alpine glaciers reached the expanded Koettlitz and Ferrar outlet glaciers. Outlet glaciers filled the southern part of McMurdo Sound to an elevation of about 1,000 feet. During the latter of these two advances many alpine glaciers did not reach the outlet glaciers. The latest major glaciation is represented by well-preserved ice-cored moraines. Number and position of deltas in drained glacier-ice-blocked lakes suggest the possibility of three Stillstands or minor advances during this glaciation. Radiocarbon dating of algae in drained ponds indicates a minimum age of 6,000 years for this glaciation.
30080965|The Finnmarka complex, one of the younger, shallow Permian intrusive bodies within the Oslo graben, crops out over about 130 square kilometers as a highland area 40 kilometers west of Oslo, Norway. The complex is composed of akerite, granodiorite, and granite. The granitic core forms the bulk of the mass. New petrographic, mineralogical, chemical, and X-ray data have been accumulated in an attempt to understand the environment in which the complex formed and the interrelationships between the rocks units. At all observed localities the three units are in sharp contact with one another and with the sedimentary host rocks. None of the contacts show features suggestive of dislocation or chilling. Attention has been focused on the feldspar phases of the three rock types because they are of unusual complexity and give insight into the development of the complex. The akerite contains two plagioclase phases in reaction relationship, and the granodiorite is rich in early-formed oligoclase. Both of these units contain late alkali feldspar as selvages and interstitial fillings. The one-feldspar granite contains a coarse perthite and approximates a residual albite-orthoclase-quartz liquid in composition. Powder and single-crystal X-ray studies of perthites from the granite and granodiorite show that they are essentially of the low albite-orthoclase variety. Heating experiments reveal unusual compositional trends during perthite homogenization. Indications are that the complex was intruded within a relatively short time interval at temperatures in the range 660-900 C. The total pressure under which crystallization took place was probably no more than 500-1,000 bars.
30063635|Certain lakes and depressions in the Imuruk Lake area, Alaska, are ascribed to subsidence following the thawing of perennially frozen ground. The frozen, silty soils of the region contain large quantities of clear ice, which in volume greatly exceed the natural porosity of the unfrozen material. Melting of the clear ice results in surface subsidence; water accumulates in the resulting depressions. Thaw lakes are described, and mechanisms of enlargement and eventual drainage are discussed. The origins of drained thaw lakes and of thaw sinks are compared. Evidence is presented to show that the present climate in the Imuruk Lake area is sufficiently cold to form a small thickness of perennially frozen ground in previously unfrozen deposits but that the present large thickness of frozen ground probably is unstable under existing climatic conditions.
30068813|The degree of chemical weathering in soils increases with mean annual precipitation (
30080209|A study of the North Anatolian Fault Zone (Turkey) in dicates significant spatial variations of deformation mechanisms and fluid flow along and across a major active strikeslip fault. Brittle deformation and later dissolution are mostly localized within the fault core, whereas crystal plastic deformation and diffusive mass transfer are more widely distributed. The fault underwent a threestage development: (I) Repeated episodes of frictional failure, pressuresolution, fluid migration, and subsequent healing. Cataclasites and veins were formed during this stage. We propose that the episodic events are associated with open and closed fluid systems during seismogenic cycles. The progressive brittle failure led to stage (II), a more open system with increasing dilation connected with dissolution. The dramatic increase of dissolution processes terminated the episodic character of deformation and marked the beginning of a stage (III), mostly characterized by diagenetic processes. The fluid regime is now an open system. in general, our data do not indicate massive fluid redistribution in response to earthquake cycles of shear stress accumulation and release. Trace element distribution, isotopic data, and fluid inclusions suggest that fluids were derived from the adjacent limestones and that hydrostatic fluid pressure was dominant during fault development. We suggest that meteoric water circulates through the fault zone, causing solution transfer and compaction, which allows frictional failure at lowered shear stress.
30080905|The effect of environment and composition of sediments on the weathering of Mankato till in certain regions in Manitoba was studied. Analyses of the major horizons of ten profiles included mechanical analysis, lithology of coarse sediments, mineral analysis of fine sand, composition of clay fractions, pH values, and chemical analysis. The rate of weathering in sediments of similar initial composition increased from grassland to forest environments. Sediments in a similar environment, but with different quantities of lime carbonate, showed a decrease in weathering with increasing amounts of limestone. There was no significant alteration of the clay fractions, since approximately equal percentages of the predominant mineral types were present in all horizons. Weathering of noncalcareous rocks and minerals (except shale) in till soils occurring in Manitoba was comparatively slight.
30062381|Cross-association is a standard correlation technique. It is valid for theoretically complete stratigraphie sequences, but not for stratigraphie sequences as they commonly occur. A major problem is its inability to include correlations across gaps caused by local nondeposition or eroded strata. The methods proposed in this paper do include correlations across gaps and allow for completely general measurements of strata similarity. In addition, they are extended to include correlation of a fragmentary sequence with a longer complete sequence and to include correlations of more than two sequences. Using these techniques, most problems can be handled by hand calculation.
30063811|More than 100 carbonatite dikes and veins intrude a complex Precambrian terrain in the Lemitar Mountains, New Mexico. These Ordovician carbonatites are not associated with any alkalic rocks or kimberlites, but they exhibit textures, mineralogy, chemistry, and alteration characteristic of carbonatites. Despite variations in texture, the Lemitar carbonatites can be grouped on the basis of mineralogy, chemistry, and texture as primary-magmatic and replacement silicocarbonatites and rodbergs. The Lemitar silicocarbonatites consist of more than 50% carbonate minerals and varying amounts of accessory minerals, and they are enriched in LREE. The rodbergs consist of more than 50% carbonate minerals, are stained red by hematite, and exhibit flat REE patterns. Carbonate and barite-fluorite-galena veins of uncertain origin are found in the carbonatites and country rocks. Periodic episodes of alkalic magmatism occurred in New Mexico and southern Colorado during the Proterozoic, late Paleozoic, and Tertiary. The Lemitar carbonatites are part of a regional episode of alkalic and carbonatite magmatism which affected New Mexico and southern Colorado during the late Paleozoic. Continental rifting may have occurred during the Precambrian and late Paleozoic in central New Mexico, although exact geographical limits of paleorifts cannot be determined because overlapping periods of tectonism may have affected the area since Paleozoic times.
30067349|Studies in the Empire Mountains southeast of Tucson, Arizona, show an area of large-scale thrust faulting. Adjacent mountain masses also show this type of structure and accumulating evidence indicates that low-angle overthrusts are characteristic of this part of Arizona. In general, the mountains are blocks of Paleozoic limestone over-thrust upon Cretaceous clastic sediments which form the intermontane basins. The thrusting has been mainly from the south and east. The compressive stresses were followed by tensional stresses which have produced local, high-angle faults. The age of faulting is tentatively established as very late Cretaceous.
30057896|This paper gives a revision of the author's "field" classification of igneous rocks, published in this Journal in 1911.
30078337|Metabasites from Mica Creek, British Columbia, contain hornblende-plagioclase-garnet-clinopyroxene-quartz. Lower-grade amphibolites do not contain coexisting garnet and clinopyroxene. Temperature estimates using garnet-clinopyroxene Fe-Mg exchange thermometry and pressure estimates based upon plagioclase-clinopyroxene-garnet-quartz barometry are consistent with pressures and temperatures estimated from mineral equilibria in nearby pelites. Garnet-hornblende Fe-Mg exchange thermometry (calibration of Graham and Powell) yields temperature estimates that are higher than those based upon garnet-clinopyroxene thermometry for the same rocks. Temperature estimates from lower-grade rocks are in reasonable agreement with estimates based upon garnet-biotite thermometry in adjacent pelitic rocks. Using the concept of activity of
30064693|Some of the outstanding geologic facts which have to be taken into account in a consideration of isostasy are enumerated. Mountain building, peneplanation, geosyn-clines, etc., are considered from the point of view of both geologic deductions and the isostatic theory. It is concluded that no single type of compensation or uniform depth of compensation meets the facts. The real test of the isostatic theory seems to lie in the limited regions of high relief. An attempt is made to show how geologic processes may operate to produce folded mountain ranges exhibiting the observed geologic phenomena and at the same time make it possible to satisfy the requirements of the geodetic determinations. Isostatic forces are in the whole equation of mountain-building forces, and play their appropriate part, but that part is secondary and subordinate.
30062326|Temporal changes in beach and nearshore morphology may be slow and subtle or rapid and quite obvious. In order to measure and assess all of these changes, it is necessary to conduct detailed sequential topographic surveys. Such detailed and closely spaced data can be used to construct a framework for beach and nearshore sedimentation. This framework is constructed from a time sequence of topographic maps and from time-distance diagrams, thus providing a four-dimensional model called an area-time prism. The prism graphically depicts the dynamic nature of the beach and nearshore environment by showing the changes taking place in various key surfaces which are contoured to show their changes through time. These surfaces include the terrace cliff, shoreline, shallow sand bars, and the 4-foot depth contour. The area-time prism makes it possible to show various temporal relationships among these dynamic surfaces. By comparing this four-dimensional model with monitored environmental variables such as barometric pressure, wave height, and longshore current velocity, it is possible to demonstrate how beach and nearshore morphology responds to these variables through time. The result is a comprehensive process-response approach to the study of this dynamic environment; however, it is applicable to any modern sedimentary environment
30079716|Analysis based on a simple differentiation model seems to indicate that the trends for various rock series as shown in Harker diagrams and other percentage diagrams are apt to camouflage rather than to exhibit the possible functional relationships of genetic significance, which may control the trends concerned.
30063640|Ancient ventifacts are abundant on gravel-mantled erosion surfaces along the eastern base of the Big Horn Mountains. Stones of varied lithologic characteristics and from less than 1 inch to 6 feet in diameter have wind-cut surfaces displaying the pitting, fluting, grooving, and luster that is characteristic of ventifacts. Faces making angles greater than 550 with the wind are pitted, and faces at lower angles are grooved and fluted. As many as twenty separate faces have been cut on a single stone. In this area such multiple faces cannot be explained by wind-splitting or by variable winds, so they are attributed to changes in stone position caused largely by congeliturbation (frost action) and wind scour. Ventifacts rest on erosion surfaces at four levels, 25-325 feet above stream grade. On the lower surfaces wind-cut stones are abundant and fresh, but on the higher surfaces they are sparse and deeply weathered. At least four separate periods of wind-cutting are indicated by this evidence. Cutting is attributed to sand picked up from barren flats and hurled against stones lying in the same environment. Conditions most favorable for wind-cutting prevailed during times of glaciation in the mountains, when winds were strong and floods of meltwater inundated parts of the piedmont, producing broad barren flats mantled by sand and gravel. Ventifacts on the lower erosion surfaces are probably Wisconsin, and those on the highest surfaces may be pre-Wisconsin. Pleistocene wind directions have been measured at twenty-nine separate localities by careful reference to wind-cut faces on large, presumably stable, boulders. The mean Pleistocene wind direction so determined is N. 290 W. Modern winds are also consistently from the northwest, and it appears that local orographic control was supreme in the Pleistocene as now. Neither glaciers in the Big Horn Mountains nor the continental ice sheet, 250 miles north, exerted much influence on local wind directions.
30058439|Willard Johnson's bergschrund hypothesis assumes diurnal temperature changes at depth. Direct evidence from continuous temperature records in bergschrunds calls for a modification of this hypothesis. Evidence from northeastern Greenland and Norway shows that air temperatures in an open bergschrund during the summer vary between 30 and 32 F. In Norway diurnal changes of temperature were absent in spite of substantial changes in air temperature outside. New continuous recording instruments have been designed to measure temperatures and the number of times the temperature crosses the freezing point. Further direct evidence is necessary before adopting a thaw-freeze hypothesis.
30059416|Evidence of the existence of Devonian ice is known from New York, the Maritime Provinces, and Alaska. Recent studies of the Devonian in Pennsylvania have revealed similar conditions there. It is believed that ice existed in early Portage time in Pennsylvania and that movements of this ice produced striations which have been preserved.
30061145|A technique has been devised for evaluating the internal consistency of experimental data in any particular chemical system. The sequence of steps is: (1) Each experimental point is expressed as an inequality in terms of the free energy change of the reaction to which it applies. For example, in a solid-solid reaction, the sum
30084826|Textures observed in magnesian ilmenites from kimberlite pipes are attributed to high-temperature deformation and recrystallization of an ilmenite cumulate body during the initial stages of formation of a kimberlite magma. Subsolidus exsolution is rarely observed in such magnesian ilmenites and the general rarity is considered to be due to the quenching of possible exsolution processes during rapid ascent of a fluidized magma. Rutile-ilmenite intergrowths are described; the rutile is considered to be a primary phase. Compositional data reveal wide variations in MgO content within a single pipe (ca. 13%). This variation is attributed to fractional crystallization. The possibility of magnesian ilmenite being either a primary mineral or a xenocryst is discussed; the former is considered more feasible and it is proposed that magnesian ilmenite crystallizes from melts unusually rich in Ti and Mg (protokimberlite) formed by small amounts of partial melting of a five-phase lherzolite mantle. Melting is considered to involve only Ti-rich mica, chrome diopside, and garnet.
30061023|This paper calls atention to the advantages of the use of the stereographic polar net for representation of cross-bed attitudes and describes a mode of analysis for the same based on the consideration of each attitude as a vector quantity. The analysis yields a weighted average direction of dip and a numerically expressed measure of the consistency in direction of the individual dips. The latter is shown to embody the significance of the statistical "standard deviation." To a map-symbol representing the vector resultant direction and the consistency an arc expressing the range in direction of the individual readings is added. The remainder of the paper illustrates the analysis by a study of the Coconino sandstone in northern Arizona. A brief review of its literature and the evidence of its probable Aeolian origin is given. It is concluded that the transporting currents responsible had a southerly direction, except the in district south of the Little Colorado River, where they swung sharply to the east. The evidence from the possibly contemporaneous De Chelly and Cedar Mesa sandstones is noted and discussed.
30064034|Crystal dissolution in high temperature silicate melts is typically controlled by diffusion across a boundary layer in the melt next to the crystal. Experimental studies on basaltic systems show a decreasing rate of dissolution from garnet, clinopyroxene, orthopyroxene, to olivine, with the dissolution rate of garnet about 10 times that of olivine at pressures up to 20 kbars. Preferential dissolution is exhibited by many upper mantle-derived spinel peridotite xenoliths in which embayment of orthopyroxene relative to the juxtaposed olivine grains occurs at the xenolith-host basalt contacts. By combining the data on dissolution rates as a function of pressure, the relationship between the path of adiabatic ascent and the liquidus, and the density and viscosity of basaltic melt, we establish here formulations relating the amount of peridotite dissolution to the ascent times and velocities of alkali basalts in continental and oceanic settings. The results show that alkali basalts may ascend at velocities of up to the order of 10 km/hr. Factors that may influence the present results are discussed briefly. Although derived for alkali basalts, the present results may serve as a reasonable reference for ascent velocities of other types of basalts, because olivine dissolves at about the same rate in all basaltic magmas at the same superheating. A more quantitative evaluation of ascent velocities requires data for the parameters used in the present calculations for other basalts.
30062112|Volcanic hazard studies, combining standard techniques of hazard appraisal and risk assessment (probability X's consequences), are being undertaken with respect to storage of high-level, radioactive waste in southern Nevada. Consequence studies, the emphasis of this work, are evaluated by tracing the steps of ascent of basaltic magma including intersection and disruption of a repository followed by surface eruption. outhern Nevada is cut obliquely by a N-NE trending belt of basaltic volcanism that contains a number of major volcanic fields separated by areas with scattered basalt centers. The basalts of the belt range in age from 8 m.y. to recent. They are primarily of hawaiite composition, and a number of the fields exhibit the straddle-type associations of the alkalic subsuite. The basalts are characterized by high
30060803|In many geological investigations precise metric data may be unnecessary because of the relatively imprecise ways in which they are analyzed and interpreted. Here the hypothesis is tested that many results obtained by numerical analysis of metric data might equally well have come from non-metric (binary) versions of the same data sets. Six multivariate metric data sets representing a diverse suite of potential applications were selected from the literature, and each reduced to binary form by using the mean value of each attribute as its presence threshold. A divisive-omnithetic clustering technique (dissimilarity analysis) was applied to each set to give hierarchical classifications having many theoretically optimal properties. The agreement between the results of this approach and classifications based on the original metric data was reasonable in all cases, both in a qualitative and quantitative sense. Thus for most similar studies it is probably entirely adequate to rely on non-metric data, implying a considerable reduction of effort during data collection.
30079715|Rb-Sr isotopic analysis of six whole-rock samples from the norite-micropegamtite intrusion at Sudbury, Ontario, indicates the micropegmatite age to be
30080848|Terraces were mapped along three streams which flow eastward from the Black Hills of South Dakota. Five erosional surfaces were found which represent major pauses in the downcutting activity of the regional drainage. The presence of knickpoints in the present-day stream profiles offers proof that the more recent terraces of this region are the result of factors controlling downcutting downstream in the Cheyenne and Missouri rivers. These factors are best explained on the basis of Pleistocene glaciation in eastern South Dakota. Twenty-three channel samples were taken from the terraces of Bear Butte, Rapid, and Battle creeks. In addition, sand samples 1-2 mm. in size were collected from the headwaters of Battle Creek near Harney Peak to the lower end of the Cheyenne River where it flows into the Missouri River, a distance of about 200 miles. The samples were analyzed for size, shape, roundness, and lithology. Systematic changes as a function of distance were observed for mean size, skewness, lithology, shape, and roundness. The rate of rounding was found to be directly proportional not only to the difference between the roundness at some point and a limiting roundness but also to some power of the distance transported. An attempt is made to express quantitatively the effects of stream transport on roundness and lithology in respect to "indices of maturity."
30065684|True grain-size measurements are reported for garnet and biotite in schist from a metamorphic aureole and for phlogopite, pyroxene, and sphene in marble from a regional metamorphic terrain. One of the size distributions (garnet 1) is bimodal, while the remainder are unimodal and positively skewed. One of the unimodal distributions (garnet 2) lies between an arithmetic-normal and a log-normal distribution, while the remainder are log normal. The spacial distribution of garnet grains in a specimen of schist is random, and the size attained by any garnet grain is unrelated to the distance to its nearest neighbor. The form of the unimodal size distributions indicates that the nucleation rate for the corresponding minerals increased with time and then declined. Equations are derived for the rate of nucleation of garnet, phlogopite, and sphene on the assumption of a constant rate of linear growth. The form of these equations is: garnet: power law; phlogopite: exponential law; sphene: exponent of exponential law. The size of crystal grains in metamorphic rocks is determined by the rate of nucleation relative to the rate of crystal growth.
30058679|Cavities of sufficient size to be taken for sink holes have been dissolved down along joints in the Joliet limestone. They are filled with Pennsylvanian shale whose deformational structures indicate that it has subsided into them as solution progressed. Accompanying deformation of the limestone walls records a down-drag under stylolite-making conditions. It is concluded that not all buried "sink holes" at the contact of a limestone and an overlying shale formation are relicts of a former karst topography, that some such "sinks" may develop de novo or may become greatly enlarged by solutional removal of limestone after the shale was deposited.
30058214|Three Pleistocene drift sheets exposed along the Oldman River Valley in southern Alberta are correlated tentatively with the Iowan and the Tazewell or Cary substages of the Wisconsin glacial stage. The "inter-glacial" beds of previous writers (here named the "Lenzie silt") are considered to be proglacial lake beds deposited in front of the retreating Tazewell or Cary ice sheet. An important retreat and readvance of the ice to the position of the Lethbridge moraine is evidenced within the area. The Saskatchewan gravels, which underlie the drift sheets, are believed to be nonglacial in origin and probably preglacialin age. As such they cannot represent a pre-Kansas "Albertan" stage of glaciation, as was proposed by Dawson.
30059323|Linear shoals off the Delmarva coast are believed to have evolved on the shoreface of Assateague Island in response to inshore processes. Analyses of shoreline rate-of-change data and the spatial distribution of the linear shoals indicate several spatial periodicities. The shoreline periodicities correspond to hypothetical standing edge waves. The linear shoals, however, do not have wavelengths consistent with either the shoreline periodicities or the edge waves. The strongest periodicity in the shoal field has an orientation parallel to relict beach ridges on Assateague Island dated ca 2,000 BP. Thus, the linear offshore shoals may have formed at a time when Assateague Island was shorter and edge waves of a different wavelength were present. Where sedimentary shorelines are strongly concave, such as the 123 km Arc between Cape Hatteras and Cape Lookout, inshore currents associated with standing edge waves seem to inhibit the development of linear shoals. Where the shoreline is convex, such as along the Delmarva coast, currents associated with standing edge waves are less prevalent and thus less likely to inhibit the development of linear shoals.
30071516|The hydrodynamic sorting processes responsible for the deposition of laminae and cross-laminae in a laboratory stream with ripple bed forms were analyzed quantitatively. The results of the analysis indicate: (a) sorting of the entrained sediment mix into relatively fine and coarse laminae is related primarily to the sorting processes operating within the heavy fluid layer (contact load) flowing along the streambed, and (b) finer and coarser laminae are composed of grains derived respectively from the upper and lower parts of the heavy fluid layer. The finer laminae are formed by the settlement of suspended-load particles in the trough areas, whereas the coarser cross-laminae in the streambed are composed mainly of bed-load particles that were deposited on the ripple foresets. The experimental procedure involved the sampling of the suspended sediment at various levels above the streambed to determine the decrease of median grain size (
30062282|Examination of the usage of certain stratigraphic terms reveals a tangled history of changing concepts, especially with regard to "stage," "group" and "zone." It is not surprising, therefore, that some confusion still exists concerning the relationships among these stratigraphic units. The terms "group" and "stage" as used with reference to Gulf Coast Paleogene strata (the example focused on in this study) have a long history of imprecise usage. Boundaries between Gulf Coast provincial Paleogene stages are based on formational boundaries or unconformities and are not truly synchronous. These provincial stages are valid stratigraphic units, however, when used to include all rocks in the Gulf (and Atlantic) Coastal Province deposited during the time interval represented by deposition of the lithostratigraphic units composing the provincial stage stratotype. A Gulf Coast group with a name similar to a stage name (e.g., Jackson Group, Jacksonian Stage) is equivalent to the similarly named stage in the region of the type locality and as far away from the type locality as the formations making up the group can be identified lithologically. There seems to be little need to retain Gulf Coast provincial stages, since most of the formations composing these stages can be readily correlated to European standard stages by use of planktic microfossils.
30068876|Paleotemperature and paleoprecipitation over the past 40 m.yr. can be inferred from the degree of chemical weathering and depth of carbonate nodules in paleosols of Oregon, Montana, and Nebraska. Paleosol records show that late Eocene (35 Ma), middle Miocene (16 Ma), late Miocene (7 Ma), and early Pliocene (4 Ma) warm climatic episodes were also times of a wet climate in Oregon, Montana, and Nebraska. Oregon and Nebraska were humid during warmwet times, but Montana was no wetter than subhumid within the rain shadow of intermontane basins. Global warmwet paleoclimatic spikes steepened rather than flattened geographic gradients of Rocky Mountain rain shadows. Longlived mountain barriers created dusty dry basins with sedimentation rates high enough to preserve Milankovitchscale (10041 kyr) global paleoclimatic variation in some sequences of paleosols. Greenhouse warmwet climates indicated by paleosols were also peaks of diversity for North American plants and animals and coincided with advances in coevolution of grasses and grazers. Paleosol records differ from global compilations of marine foraminiferal oxygen and carbon isotopic composition, due to competing influences of global ice volume and C
30056198|Stromatolitic sediments and structures resembling Cryptozoon and Collenia are presently forming in the bay-head environment at Shark Bay, Western Australia. Algal-laminated sediments are due to binding of mechanically deposited sediment by an algal-mat coating which covers moist intertidal zone surfaces. The formation of high relief, laminated stromatolitic structures, also in the intertidal zone, is dependent on the interaction of the sediment, the binding algal mat and environmental factors. The structures are composed of detrital carbonate sediment which is laminated. The detrital debris is cemented by aragonite to form hard, lithified and semilithified structures, which may attain a maximum height of 2.5 feet above the intertidal surface. There are three structural groups in the stromatolitic sediments of Shark Bay; these are 1. 1. Flat-lying, algal-laminated sediments underlying a terrain of continuous algal mat. 2. 2. Low, sinuous domes and discs of laminated, detrital sediment underlying relatively continuous algal mat. These forms, which are best equated with Collenia-type stromatolites, are associated with flat, algal-laminated sediment in the intertidal mudflat environment and occur in other locations where mechanical energy of waves is normally slight. 3. Discrete club-shaped and columnar structures ("heads") of laminated detrital sediment with the algal mat limited to the top and sides of the heads and absent in the interareas between structures. The discrete, club-shaped structure is the classical Cryptozoon-type stromatolite. Discrete, club-shaped, and columnar structures are clustered into reef-like aggregations in the intertidal zone of headlands, where the stromatolites are subject to mechanical energy expended by waves and currents. Within the reefs there is a form zonation evident which is related to the low-water and high-water tidal levels. The tops of mature Cryptozoon structures reach a common level at a few inches above high water so that height at maturity is determined by tidal range and the position of the structure in the intertidal zone.
30061984|The western Iberian Peninsula is transected by a northeast-striking dike system into which the Messejana Dolerite, at least 530 km long, was emplaced along the Messejana Fault. This left-lateral wrench fault drags, cuts and offsets (up to 4 km) the Hercynian structures and granites. The Messejana Dolerite magma intruded when dilatational fractures formed both along the fault and locally on either side of it. Deep-reaching fissures permitted the rise of tholeiitic magma. The dolerite dikes are undeformed and have contact-metamorphosed the folded, cleaved and regionally metamorphosed wall rocks. Locally, the fault zone was rejuvenated once or several times from the middle Tertiary onward, with normal faulting. The original wrench fault determined the course of later dislocations under different stress patterns. K-Ar whole-rock dating gives ages of
30065513|Impact ejecta layers in four formations in the Hamersley Basin (Western Australia) and in one formation from the Transvaal Supergroup (South Africa) show striking evidence for impactrelated reworking. Each layer contains sandsized spherules of a former silicate melt that resemble those found in welldocumented impact layers. Given available isotopic age dates of associated strata and uncertainties in stratigraphic correlation, these layers represent a minimum of three and a maximum of five impacts between ca. 2.49 and 2.63 Ga. All of these layers were deposited below wave base in deepshelf environments, yet they show a common suite of sedimentary features indicating deposition and reworking under highenergy conditions. These features occur in a consistent order: (1) extensive erosion, including the transport of meterscale ripup clasts, (2) reworking by waves, (3) synwave to postwave offshoredirected bottom return flow, and (4) later reworking by sediment gravity flows. We interpret the consistent association of erosion, wave reworking, and bottom return flow as a result of tsunami triggered by the impact. The sediment gravity flows may have been triggered by impact or may occur much later. The wave features in these layers indicate they are the result of oceanic impacts, and their sedimentological similarities suggest a consistent set of depositional processes that can be used to recognize the distal ejecta layers of marine impacts, particularly those deposited in deepshelf settings. Given the relatively rapid tectonic recycling of oceanic crust, such layers probably constitute our best source of information on the frequency and effects of large impacts in openocean basins.
30078299|Sediment supplied to the Colorado River within the Grand Canyon has been sorted into distinct deposits of three grain size ranges. The major rapids are formed by boulder deposits from side-canyon tributaries. As a result of a fourfold reduction in peak discharge when Glen Canyon Dam was closed in 1963, new fan debris may increase the gradient through some of the rapids by a factor of 1.8. Cobbles and gravel, transported only during flood stages, are preferentially deposited in the wider sections of the river as bars and riffles and are, for the most part, inactive during post-dam discharges. Fine-grain (largely sandy) terraces occur throughout the canyon, especially along the banks of the large reverse eddies above and below the rapids. The lower terraces are being reworked into beach-like shores by diurnally-varying, post-dam discharges. A slight net lateral erosion of the terraces has resulted. Prior to construction of the dam, sandy bed deposits underwent scour averaging about 1 m during spring floods, balanced by deposition from tributary sources during the summer. Downstream from rapids, decreased turbulence due to lower discharges has resulted in deposition averaging 2.2 m on the bed within the upper portions of the canyon. Differences in rock types along the river determine overall channel morphology. Rocks of low resistance result in a wide valley, a meandering channel, and abundant cobble bars and sand terraces. Narrow channels with rapids and deep pools are most frequent within the sections of the canyon where Precambrian crystalline rocks dominate.
10.1086/676974|Although the late Quaternary history of the Mississippi River, the largest North American river, has been intensely studied, its Pliocene history is largely unknown. We assert that large relict meander bends (oxbows) of the Pliocene Mississippi River are preserved as arcuate valleys of local streams in the northwest area of the state of Mississippi. These arcuate valleys are within the Pliocene Upland Complex stratigraphic unit that occurs as a high-level alluvial terrace along the lower Mississippi River Valley. Outside these arcuate valleys, the Upland Complex is a braided-river gravel deposit that shows southward (downvalley) paleoflow directions. Interiors of the arcuate valleys are occupied by Upland Complex point bar deposits with large-scale cross-bedding showing a range of paleoflow directions, commonly upvalley flow indicative of a meandering regime. We used measurements of the radii of the putative relict meander bends and of their paleochannel widths to estimate paleodischarge of the Pliocene Mississippi River based on equations empirically derived from modern meandering rivers. These discharge estimates, the first for the Pliocene Mississippi River, show it may have had as much as six to eight times the discharge of the modern river. This result suggests that (1) the North American Pliocene climate was much wetter, and/or (2) the Pliocene Mississippi Rivers drainage basin was much larger, extending into southern Canada. Better age constraints and a detrital zircon provenance study of the Upland Complex are needed to test these hypotheses.
30060374|This paper is chiefly (I) an outline of the geology of the territory lying along the southern border of the Canadian pre-Cambrian shield in southeastern Ontario and the adjacent parts of Quebec, and (2) a comparison of the formations of this region with those of the territory extending from Lake Huron and Lake Superior to Lake Timiskaming and Lake Mistassini-the Timiskaming subprovince. The bed-rock formations of the Grenville subprovince, except for a few late pre-Cambrian igneous intrusives, all belong to a basal complex composed of three rock groups: (1) a group of marine sediments with some locally associated volcanics-the Grenville and Hastings series; (2) a related series of igneous intrusives-peridotite, gabbro, diorite, shonkonite, etc.; and (3) batholithic masses of syoenite and granite. A comparison of these formations with those composing the basal complex of the Timiskaming subprovince shows that with the exception of group 3, the formations of the two regions are almost entirely different and for this reason cannot be definitely correlated.
30058426|A statistical study has been made of the analyses of the silicate phases of 107 selected stony meteorites. Frequency-distribution curves have been plotted, and arithmetic means, together with standard deviations and precisions, have been calculated for the major constituents.
30071546|The mineral assemblages of upper Mississippian carbonate rocks of the Cumberland Plateau in Tennessee, with only minor exception, obey the Gibbs Phase Rule, within the choice of chemical components that was made. These mineral assemblages are: dolomite, corrensite; calcite dolomite, corrensite; calcite, corrensite; calcite, chlorite-vermiculite; calcite, chlorite-vermiculite, montmorillonite containing mixed 10  layers. Compositional variation of the expandable chloritic minerals lies between the compositions of vermiculite and corrensite and is consistent with the topologic requirements of the ternary diagram showing
30059149|Crystalline pargasite-rich spinel peridotite mylonite from St. Paul's Rocks containing 5.7% water bound in hydrous minerals was reacted in sealed platinum capsules in a piston-cylinder apparatus from 10 - 30 kb. At 10 kb the subsolidus assemblage is amphibole, olivine, orthopyroxene, clinopyroxene and spinel, an amphibole lherzolite; with increasing pressure garnet appears at 18 kb, spinel and amphibole disappear at about 25 kb; the resulting high pressure assemblage is that of a garnet lherzolite. The solidus was located in the presence of water-rich vapor, but vapor dissolves completely in the liquid at higher temperatures, and the liquid becomes water-undersaturated. Stability limits in the melting interval were determined for amphibole, garnet, spinel, clinopyroxene, orthopyroxene, and olivine (the liquidus mineral). The results are consistent with a published conclusion that St. Paul's Rocks is a diapiric, solid-state mantle intrusion initially mobilized at a depth between 45 km and 70 km near 1,000 - 1,050C. An estimate of the solidus of peridotite with 0.2% water is presented and compared with other studies. At intermediate pressures this solidus is determined by the breakdown of amphibole. Discrepancies among results of the various studies probably arise at least in part from experimental problems involved in the complex systems.
30056094|Flow structures and other features of the later lavas of Mount Mazama (Crater Lake), show that they had a viscosity between that exhibited by plug domes and that of "normal" lava flows. Three distinct flows are described, and evidence of the high gas content of the lava is given. The mechanics of their viscous outflow, as inferred from the structures, offers an explanation of the features of Rugged Crest. The "back-flow," heretofore cited as proof of subsidence of the mountain, is interpreted as the vent-filling for one of the flows.
JG80167|In order to understand the movement of large rock masses or allochthons on low-angle surfaces, we have studied the 3400-km
30070466|An atoll is a composite reef made up of a number of distinctive reef types-windward reefs, leeward reefs, and lagoon reefs. Most of these are zoned relative to prevailing winds and currents. Organic growth, erosion, and deposition of sediment influence each of these zones, but in each the balance of forces operating at the present time may be roughly appraised. Some reef zones appear to be making headway against the sea, others appear to be essentially in a state of equilibrium, while still others are being eroded. Organic growth is the source of all the materials that make up an atoll. Some of the skeletons of the reef-building organisms remain in position of growth after death, but a much larger proportion are broken up by physical and organic agencies to form sediments that are deposited on the seaward slopes or in the lagoon. So long as organisms live on an atoll, it continues to grow, but it grows mainly by the accumulation of clastic sediments.
30075176|Tertiary fossil oysters and clams from sites in southern Victoria, Australia, of about lat. 38 S. have been used to determine paleotemperatures from their
30075236|The large Sept Iles layered mafic intrusion of eastern Canada has been precisely dated by UPb zircon methods at 565  4 Ma. Consideration of other magmatic events at that time in southeastern Canada reveals three different phases of magmatism. The first phase was composed of two tholeiitic dike swarms, at 615 Ma and 590 Ma. The second, including the Sept Iles intrusion, comprised a widespread series of mostly alkaline intrusions, emplaced around 575565 Ma, along the rift faults of the St Lawrence graben. The last phase was composed predominantly of alkali and transitional basalts, now exposed in the Appalachians, erupted during the latest Neoproterozoic and early Cambrian. The second and third phases are best accounted for by the arrival of a major mantle plume near the town of Sept Iles 565 million years ago. The widespread, but volumetrically minor, alkali magmatism that peaked 10 m.y. earlier is typical of other plumes elsewhere. The plume model is reinforced by sedimentological evidence for a crustal dome centered near the town of Sept Iles that persisted for 80 m.y. The positions of the earlier dike swarms are problematical. They may represent vertical and/or lateral transport of magmas into the crust from earlier independent plumes or precursors to the Sept Iles plume.
30062064|The lowermost succession of lavas in the Proterozoic Ventersdorp Supergroup contains light weathering ocelli up to 15 cm in diameter which occur in layers of a darker weathering volcanic material. Some ocelli appear to merge, and discrete light weathering layers may be the ultimate end-stage of this coalescence. Alternatively, coexisting magmas in the neck of the volcano may have been erupted in varying proportions, and turbulence during flow caused spalling of large drops of the lighter weathering material into the other. Several lines of field evidence suggest that two distinct liquids coexisted and were rapidly quenched after eruption. Chemical data for ocelli and matrix are consistent with the hypothesis of liquid immiscibility. The differences in compositions between the coexisting pairs of liquids are small and it is suggested that the original magmas must have been close to the consulute composition.
30068498|Many different deformation textures are observed in submersible-collected gabbros from the Mid-Cayman Rise spreading center, indicating considerable variation in conditions of deformation in this slowly spreading ridge. Features suggesting flow range from mechanical twins and bent crystals (low strain) to complete recrystallization with a well-developed foliation (high strain). Textures suggesting fracture include zones 0.1-10 mm wide of extremely reduced grain size, cracked grains with undulose extinction, and crosscutting fractures. These textures occur separately, next to and overprinting each other. Of the variables controlling the deformation features, temperature and water pressure are most easily estimated. Minimum temperature during deformation is suggested by minimum temperature during deformation of mineral assemblages unaffected by this deformation. This temperature is above 500-550C for the majority of the features observed. Observations suggest enhanced recrystallization where primary mineralogy has been hydrated to a greater extent. Confining pressure for gabbroic rocks from this spreading center varies from about 0.3-1 kb; fluid pressure should be within these limits. Mineralogical evidence suggests that fracture and flow textures developed at both high and moderate temperatures. There is no evidence to suggest that reheating has occurred. These points in turn suggest that strain rates and/or pressure vary considerably within regions where rocks are cooler, and that after high-temperature deformation some rocks cooled quickly enough to prevent significant recrystallization while others cooled more slowly. Heterogeneity of textures indicates complex structural history for the upper-level gabbroic rocks in the Mid-Cayman Rise area over the entire temperature range experienced by these rocks.
30059701|Associated with major faults in the Triassic areas in the eastern United States are some well-known warped structures in the relatively downthrown blocks. Much of the warping appears to be related to deflections of the fault lines. Adjacent to salients- fault-line deflections whose outlines are convex toward the dropped blocks-occur anticlinal warps; adjacent to re-entrants occur synclinal warps. The theory is proposed that, during faulting, irregularities of fault surface have caused differential movement, resulting in warping. The salients are lag points, where movement of the downthrown blocks has been least; the re-entrants are advance points, where movement has been greatest. Tentative explanations are offered for a number of the individual structures. An attempt is made to test the theory by examining part of a Triassic area in which a fault-line boundary has not previously been described. In addition, some data from other areas, outside the Triassic, are included as partially supporting evidence.
30070503|A mathematical formulation for the buoyancy-driven segregation of a light fluid from a deformable matrix is applied to a geometrically simple system to illustrate its dynamical and chemical evolution. A layer with initially uniform fluid content contained above and below by impermeable boundaries, if sufficiently deep, displays three regimes: a compacting boundary layer at its base, a non-compacting interior regime, and a growing pure fluid layer at the top. Various other initial conditions are discussed, including cases with linearly decreasing fluid content and with locally large (in relative terms) fluid content. The chemical evolution of the segregating fluid is also described. Having illustrated some of the properties of fluid segregation by matrix compaction, we use it as a framework for discussing the secular changes in
30065740|Zircon population in granite rocks are most often heterogeneous with respect to uranium concentrations (which can vary from a few hundred ppm to > 1 %) and the typology of the grains (for example, in the type of dominant prism [100] or [110]), making them difficult to date using Fission Track (FT) dating. The Mont Blanc zircons, which vary greatly in both uranium content and zircon type, are typically difficult to date by the Fission Track method. To obtain information about fission track retention characteristics of these minerals, experimental isothermal annealing was performed on grains free of alpha-damage (i.e., annealing of freshly induced tracks). Uranium-poor grains, with a dominant (100) prism, were found to be more stable. A Step Etching Method (SEM) was used to date the zircons. Uranium-poor zircons with a dominant (100) prism yielded higher fission track ages than did uranium-rich ones with a (110) dominant prism. Thus, etching conditions (temperature and etching time) and type of prism chosen ([100] or [110]) must be carefully chosen and accounted for to avoid scattered fission track ages on a zircon population. Fission track and other dates from the Mont Blanc granite show a late thermal history that began after it cooled down to a temperature of 350C at 33 Ma. Its cooling history was rather slow, at 6C/m.y. from 33-11 Ma. The last cooling below 130C occurred at 11 Ma, and the associated uplift phase has been very rapid.
JG80164|Orographic precipitation has a large impact on channel morphology and rock uplift via a positive feedback to erosion. We show that in the Eastern Cordillera of Bolivia, channel concavities reach their highest values where annual precipitation increases in the downstream direction, exceeding 3000 mm. The steepest channels are upstream of this zone of high concavity, where precipitation rates are <1000 mm yr
30062281|Significant petrological differences have been recognized between kimberlites and lamproites. Many of the recently discovered, and in some cases diamondiferous, volcanic pipes in the Kimberley region of Western Australia are not kimberlites, as suggested by other workers, but are lamproites. Similar conclusions have also been reached for the diamondiferous Prairie Creek intrusion in Arkansas, U.S.A. It is concluded that some lamproites may carry significant quantities of diamonds.
30059014|The kinetics of the polymorphic phase transformation clino- to orthoenstatite has been studied by monitoring changes in electrical conductivity with time at several temperatures under controlled oxygen partial pressure at one atmosphere total pressure. The clino- to orthoenstatite transformation involved the re-solution of the Fe- and Ca-enriched (100) clinoenstatite lamellae in orthopyroxenes (identified by x-ray precession and oscillation methods as well as by optical and electron microscopy) in an homogenization process. The apparent activation energy for the transformation is ~16 kcal/mole within the temperature range 800 - 1,000C. These results indicate that clinoenstatite is a metastable phase up to 1,000C under hydrostatic conditions.
30059026|It is not possible to treat both absolute and relative time in the diagenetic equation of Berner, and the equation cannot therefore be particularized to obtain an expression that isolates the diagenetic contribution to a sediment property. This problem can be solved by using a Lagrangian approach in which the depositional contribution to the sediment property becomes a boundary condition. A simplistic steady-state model is used to define the convective velocities of pore fluid and sediment particles in terms of porosity and the rate of accumulation of compacted sediment. The argument is extended to include values of sedimentation rate in nature and diffusion coefficients in sediment pore fluid, and the changing relative importance of convective and diffusive transport during compaction is considered. A continuity equation is developed for the concentration of a component i in multi-component pore fluid. If the equation is used in a reference frame moving at the convective velocity of the sediment particles, it appears to be possible to follow the course of chemical reaction in a compacting system, even though pore fluid and sediment particles are necessarily moving in opposite directions. The formalism of nonequilibrium thermodynamics will be called for in more complex diagenetic models that treat such additional phenomena as heat flow, stress distribution, and the semi-permeable membrane behavior of aggregates of minerals with high surface area and surface charge. The requirement of linearity between thermodynamic forces and fluxes is well obeyed in electrolyte diffusion, but poorly in chemical reactions. The nonequilibrium thermodynamic approach requires detailed knowledge of a considerable variety of parameters of a system, if it is to yield greater understanding than could be obtained from a set of continuity equations.
30062244|Upper Carboniferous palynomorphs define the provenance and trace the southward transport of red Pleistocene sediment from southeastern Canada to the Blake-Bahama Outer Ridge off the coast of Florida. The presence of the palynomorphs in Outer Ridge sediment of pre-Wisconsin age is attributed to the activity of deep contour currents and supports the concept that these were an oceanic phenomenon at least as early as the commencement of the Pleistocene epoch. Major and minor climatic fluctuations have apparently influenced the relative abundance of the supply of red sediment to the northwest Atlantic.
30061042|The Littlewood Nunataks located in Coats Land near Duke Ernst Bay on the eastern edge of the Filchner Ice Shelf were visited in January, 1959, and rock samples were collected. Petrographic and chemical analyses show the rock to be a rhyolite porphyry with a minimum K-Ar age of
30063357|The Kickapoo River, a tributary of the Wisconsin River, is the largest stream entirely within the rugged Driftless Area of the Upper Mississippi Valley. The drainage area is submaturely dissected, with an average relief of about 400 feet. Deforestation, cultivation, and grazing of the sloping ridge crests and valley sides have resulted in greatly accelerated soil erosion, and consequently fluvial sedimentation has also been accelerated. Nearly all the dark-gray or black first-bottom soils have been covered by stratified brownish "modern" sandy silt since about 1850. Numerous test borings indicate that the flood plains of the main Kickapoo River and the lower parts of two main tributaries have been aggraded an average of about 2.5 feet. Re-surveys of river cross sections beneath railroad bridges indicate an average rate of river-channel aggradation of about 1 foot in twenty years, and it is concluded that the river and flood plain are being aggraded at about the same rate. Excessive sedimentation from flood waters aggravates flood damage, and aggradation of the channel and flood plain is causing more frequent, deeper, and more extensive flooding of low alluvial terraces. The increasing frequency of terrace flooding is particularly serious, because these terraces are the sites of most of the towns. It has been estimated that the average annual urban flood damages may be increased about 40 per cent in twenty years as a result of the increasing flood heights in the seven towns. Damage to agricultural lands and crops and to highways will also be increased, but these effects have not yet been evaluated.
30058568|On relatively gentle slopes of the Coast Ranges of central California the debris involved in soil slips frequently breaks up into clods immediately after slipping has started, instead of remaining together and forming a bulging tongue. A group of such slips, here called "disintegrating soil slips," is pictured and described, and their origin is interpreted.
30062342|A mathematical model of slope development based on the combined effects of the subduing and recessional coefficients is reliable when viewed with regard to the characteristics of the graded form that is derived from it. The coefficients express the net effects of wash, creep, and weathering which play an important role in slope development. A series of developmental processes of interfluvial slopes is simulated, on the basis of the model with the boundary condition corresponding to river-bed elevation. The results show that the slope development is separated into the following three phases: (1) an irreversible process, in which an equilibrium state tends to be established, (2) a steady (equilibrium) state, in which a graded (time-independent) form is maintained; and (3) an irreversible process, in which the equilibrium state and the graded form are destroyed and the slope is worn down to a final peneplanation stage.
30068546|Acadian tectonothermal effects in the northern and Newfoundland Appalacians are heterogeneous with respect to distribution, intensity, and timing. This complex orogenic imprint has been difficult to explain with tectonic models involving a single kinematic regime. In north-central Maine a two-phase kinematic scheme can account for the complicated orogenic pattern. Early phase Silurian structures related to an ENE-trending sinistral shear zone are interpreted to reflect ~N-S-directed shortening oblique to the orogen. Later phase Early-Middle Devonian "classical" Acadian NE-trending upright folds with penetrative axial planar cleavage are interpreted to indicate ~NW-SE-directed shortening and thus record a significant Early Devonian rotation of kinematic axes. Early phase, dominantly Silurian, structures related to ~N-S shortening are also documented in many other areas of the northern and Newfoundland Appalachians, and these are consistently overprinted by a later, Devonian NW-SE shortening event; thus a two-phase kinematic pattern is recorded throughout this portion of the orogen. The two Acadian deformation phases can be related to plate-scale interactions between Laurentia and Avalon involving Silurian sinistral convergence followed by Devonian NW-SE convergence. The rotation of Acadian kinematic axes may reflect significant reorganization of mid-Paleozoic plates, involving a triple junction between Laurentia, Baltica, and Avalon.
30061075|Most modern evaporites are accumulating within 50 of latitude of the equator. Within this evaporite belt the distribution pattern is bimodal; evaporite deposition is concentrated in the subtropical high-pressure zones of each hemisphere. Few evaporites accumulate in the low-pressure equatorial zone. This bimodality results from the arrangement of atmospheric circulation and is matched by similar bimodality in the distributions of hot deserts, average marine surface salinity, and the difference between evaporation and precipitation. When ancient evaporites are analyzed in terms of their assumed latitudes of original deposition they are found to follow the present-day distribution model quite closely-at least as far back as the Permian, and possibly as far back as the beginning of the Phanerozoic. This essential constancy of the evaporite regime is taken as an indication that atmospheric circulation and hence the distribution of deserts and of marine salinity have also adhered in general to the modern model. The global evaporite belts in each hemisphere do not seem to have migrated in any consistent direction during the Phanerozoic. Permian to Jurassic time, perhaps approximately the time of existence of Pangaea, seems also to have been the time of peak accumulation of evaporites.
30080979|St. Paul's peridotite with 5.7% HO (considered to be derived from the upper mantle) was partially-melted at 20 kb in
30062095|Twelve petrographic variables observed in duplicate thin sections for each of 44 calcarenites collected from the upper 28 m of the Kope Formation and the entire Fairyiew Formation (28.3 m thick) constitute the basis for a time-trend analysis. Each of these variables is indicative to a varying degree of the relative mechanical-energy level at the depositional site. Resultant trend components show low-energy maxima approximately
30078512|Thick and regionally widespread deepwater carbonate turbidite successions, the Upper Cretaceous Helminthoid Flysch, were deposited during the initial stages of Alpine collision. Despite the dominant intrabasinal origin, bulk composition and heavy minerals of minor terrigenous mode indicate provenance from different crustal levels of the European and Adria plates. These data allow us to place the Helminthoid Flysch units within a Late Cretaceous paleogeographic reconstruction of the Northern Apennine Tethys. The depositional characters of these turbidites indicate the coexistence of an active tectonic setting, a paleogeographic location prone to carbonate ooze production and storage, and limited terrigenous sources outside the basin.
30055939|The discovery of structures comparable to Daemonhelix in the Pleistocene of Rock Creek, Briscoe County, Texas, extends its range geographically and geologically, and supports the burrow theory of the origin of Daemonhelix. Members of the Rock Creek microfauna are reported for the first time: Cynomys leucurus (which may have dug the burrows), the first extant species recorded from Rock Creek; Lepus sp.; and a tooth apparently indicating an otherwise unknown insectivore. This, the first fossil record of Cynomys leucurus, occurs well southeast of its present range. The supposed insectivore, although of problematical affinities, suggests the recent Madagascar Centetidae or the American Oligocene Leptictidae.
30069340|Little North Mountain is a low range extending through northwestern Virginia and West Virginia into Maryland, bounding the Shenandoah Valley on the west. A former investigation of the geology of the range in northwestern Virginia led the writer to interpret its structure as a faulted monocline bounded by overthrusts with southeastward inclination. The major overthrust was considered to present a continuous trace on the west side of the range. The other faults were believed to be distributive from the major overthrust, their traces located generally east of the mountain crest. Butts and Ed-mundson have recently interpreted the structure of Little North Mountain as the northwestern limb of an overturned and faulted anticline from which the opposing and overthrust limb has been removed by erosion. They fail to identify the postulated overthrust on the west side of the range. The range throughout its extent in northwestern Virginia is characterized by irregular distribution of its formations. These features were formerly interpreted as due to faulting, but, according to Butts and Edmundson, they result from unequal sedimentation in a littoral environment. A comparison of the description of the stratigraphic and structural features of Little North Mountain by Butts and Edmundson with the results of earlier studies indicates that their interpretation of the structure of Little North Mountain as a faulted anticline is not inconsistent with available evidence. They fail completely, however, to present adequate and convincing evidence substantiating their interpretation of the stratigraphic peculiarities characteristic of Little North Mountain as due to depositional, rather than structural, causes.
30061079|Piston-cylinder apparatus was used to determine the univariant minimum melting reaction in the dry system Ab-Or-Qz to 30 kb, and to extend the corresponding curve with excess water from 20 kb to 35 kb. At 30 kb, temperatures of the two univariant curves are 1,235C and 680C, respectively. The new data and other published data are combined to produce a complete P-T diagram for univariant reactions in the system
30063961|High-latitude evaporites-late Proterozoic through Early Permian-are widespread in Canada and Eurasia. Their distribution patterns show that they precipitated from marine waters entering the continents from the Eurasian-Arctic basin and from the North Atlantic, but not from the Canadian-Arctic basin, which is separated from the former by the Proterozoic Lomonosov sill and from the North Pacific by the Archean Bering-Chukotsk Shelf. Late Proterozoic through Devonian evaporites which precipitated from Arctic waters do not extend (except locally) west of the present Rocky Mountains or east of the present Chukotsk-Koryak Ranges. Marine connections between the high-latitude evaporite basins and those of Tethys were minimal. After Devonian time, evaporite depocenters shifted systematically Atlanticward with the formation of the Franz Josef and Faeroes-Greenland sills. High-latitude evaporite deposition was scarce after the Faeroes-Greenland sill formed. Thus the requisite temperature and salinity for late Proterozoic-Paleo-zoic evaporite deposition in high latitudes during evaporite-maximum periods can be attributed only to the persistence of the Gulf Stream-North Atlantic Drift system since middle Proterozoic time. The ages and transocean continuity of the sills themselves support this interpretation. No proposed continental-drift or polar-wandering mechanism explains the several trans-Arctic and trans-North Atlantic sills, the high-latitude evaporite-deposition pattern, and the progressive Atlanticward shift of evaporite depocenters through time. Continental drift and polar wandering in the Arctic and North Atlantic Ocean areas, if they ever took place, are pre-late Proterozoic events.
30060852|Recent experimental data presented by Ito and Kennedy on the mineralogical variations in the gabbro to eclogite transformation are shown to be consistent with earlier experiments on a variety of basaltic compositions. The new results support, for a specific composition, two of the major conclusions of our previous work: (1) the gabbro to eclogite transformation takes place through a rather broad transition interval in which mineralogies appropriate to high-pressure granulite assemblages are formed, and (2) the slope of the gabbro to eclogite transition interval is such that eclogite is the stable mineralogy for dry basaltic rocks along normal geothermal gradients in the continental crust (stable or shield regions).
30079417|Chemical and oxygen isotopic analysis of a short pilot core from the equatorial Atlantic shows a proportionality between
30063975|Sediment transport and accumulation were studied over several years to define the sedimentary environment in a fan-terminated, active valley glacier and adjacent fjord at Queen Inlet, Glacier Bay National Monument, Alaska. Recently exposed ice-contact sediment at the glacier snout is entrained during summer and early fall by meltwater streams crossing a subaerial-intertidal outwash fan. Suspended sediment in the meltwater (sediment loads exceed 1 g/liter at the inlet head) subsequently yields a cold, surface sediment plume overlying warmer saline water in the fjord basin. Mixing of these layers produces flocculation and settling occurs in discrete layers; each layer is considered to represent one tidal cycle. No gravel is present in fjord floor sediment, although both colluvium and outwash fan sediments contain gravel. This gravel distribution eliminates sliding, slumping of the outwash fan, and ice rafting as major contributors to fjord basin sediment in Queen Inlet. Piston cores of muddy fjord basin sediment show cyclical, thin, black horizons, thought to be annually produced. Spacing of these marker horizons indicates that sediment accumulation may exceed 1 m/year at the inlet head. The fjord floor is cut by sinuous valleys with natural levees, terraces, and sandy silt axial sediment. These valleys are believed to be the result of sediment-transporting bottom currents.
30068754|A U-Pb zircon age of
30057057|The Osburn fault crosses northern Idaho and presents conclusive evidence of a horizontal component of movement measurable in miles. The plane dips about 65 from the horizontal and, incident to movement along it, sympathetic fractures hundreds of feet long have been opened and reopened as shown by the sequence of mineral deposition in the Cur d'Alene district. The reverse faults of the area have much less gouge than the normal ones, indicating that they were caused by vertical rather than horizontal stresses. These stresses may have arisen from an underlying molten intrusion-a possibility supported by the ore deposits which are genetically related to the granite and by lamprophyre dikes along the fault plane, some of which are crushed by later movements. As the mineralization accompanied both the granite intrusion and the faulting, it is suggested that movement along the Osburn fault involved gliding on a molten subsurface zone. The magnitude of the Osburn fault and its position in the hanging wall of the Lewis and Philipsburg overthrusts normal to their strike suggests that they may be related phenomena. As there is some suggestion that the two thrusts were not synchronous, it is possible that the Osburn plane separates great blocks which at different times moved eastward.
30065815|Almost 100 specimens of Jurassic Belemnoidea were analyzed and their paleotemperature record compiled from mass-spectrometric measurements. They were of world-wide origin, and their -values in parts per mil (%0) are averages of whole specimens and are related to the standard PDB-1. Of this assemblage, 14 specimens were analyzed for -variation during growth, i.e., data were derived from examination of successive increments of powdered carbonate from the rostra. These results are also related to PDB-1. The information so obtained is compared with that given by other fields of investigation. It is demonstrated that in the Jurassic the earth had larger tropical and semitropical belts than at present, with an equatorial region running through the U.S.A. and Europe (which could have been closer together than they are now). The paleotemperatures confirm the Tethyan and Arctic transgressions in the latter area. The positions of the poles remain uncertain, but the north pole probably occupied a position somewhere in east Asia. India lay in the temperate zone much farther from the equator than at present. Alaska and New Guinea were both cool-water areas in the Jurassic. It may be inferred that the poles were much warmer than at present, since the Belemnoid evidence (obtained from nektonic animals that ranged over most of the seas) shows a temperature range much smaller than that existing now, around 20 C. as compared with about 60 C. today. Well-marked seasonal variations are shown by the Belemnoids, but these usually cover small ranges of the order of 2-5 C. Thus, although the Jurassic was an extremely equable period, seasons did exist.
30081121|Immature lithic arenite (55:7:38) of the Guaviare River in the Andean foothills of southern Colombia passes rapidly into sublithic arenite (87:3:10) as it travels eastward and downstream for 800 km across a low tropical savannah of the Colombian Llanos immediately east of the Andes. The sands of its long tributary, the Inirida River, are exceptionally pure (99:0:1) because they are derived from weathered molassic sands that underlie the Llanos. Small, isolated Precambrian crystalline monadnocks that pierce this Andean molasse have little influence on sand composition. This area has a seasonal rainfall of 2 to over 5 m and an average temperature of 26 to 27C. The petrology of these streams has great significance, because it shows how effectively a seasonal tropical climate can alter the provenance and plate tectonic interpretation of ancient sandstones of foreland basins.
30063951|The phase relationships of four analyzed granitic rocks which comprise a late-stage felsic body sequence intruding the Mesozoic granodiorites and tonalites of the Needle Point pluton, Wallowa Batholith, Oregon, have been determined in the presence of 15 wt percent water at pressures to 3 kbar. Pressure-temperature curves were located for the beginning of melting, and for the disappearance of K-feldspar, quartz, plagio-clase, biotite, and hornblende in granodiorite no. 678, quartz monzonites nos. 685 and 774, and granite no. 705. Compositions and structural states of plagioclases from the granitic rocks, basic masses intruding the batholith, and mafic inclusions, as well as the compositions of coexisting feldspars, were determined using the electron microprobe analyzer. Variations in each of these parameters throughout the melting interval of each granitic rock were measured at 2 kbar pressure. Although experimental conditions (excess
30078517|Numerous large, NESW to EWtrending mafic dikes outcrop around Sangamner in the western Deccan Volcanic Province. This area is part of a broader region postulated to be a shieldlike feature and a major eruption center. A combination of field, geochemical, and isotopic (Sr and Nd) characteristics is used here to understand the relationship of this dike swarm with the associated lava flows and their position in the established Deccan stratigraphy. Many dikes are compositionally similar to the Khandala and Poladpur formations belonging to the Lonavala and Wai subgroups, respectively, while one dike is similar to the Ambenali Formation. One dike has a composition distinct from all other dikes in this area as well as from most stratigraphic units, although there are many similarities in composition with the Bushe Formation as well as the Boyhare Member of the Khandala Formation. While several dikes are geochemically similar to specific flows/members within certain formations, their isotopic composition is often different, sometimes significantly so. This implies either that there is a greater range in isotopic composition for those members than previously realized or that magmas with different isotopic compositions underwent broadly similar petrogenetic evolution leading to similarities in elemental composition. NESWtrending Poladpur and/or Khandalalike dikes are concentrated in the central part of the area; these dikes appear to represent a vent system that could have fed southern, western, or eastern exposures of these younger formations. It is also possible, however, that some or many of the dikes along this system were simply latestage intrusions of magmas representing the younger formations.
30068098|The NNEtrending Taihang Mountain belt, North China, is an intracontinental anomalous zone with a significant magmatic and gravity signature. From structural investigations, UPb dating, and
30082302|Ice from the Methow drainage joined with ice of the Okanogan lobe during a glacial maximum, to form an almost continuous blanket covering all but the highest peaks of the northern Okanogan Mountains and the eastern Cascade Range. A true valley-glacier occupied the Methow during a late phase of the glaciation, building moraines as far south as Libby Creek, but it did not join the Okanogan ice at the mouth of the Methow. The evidence does not warrant saying whether the maximum and the valley glaciation represent two separate stages or one stage with very slow retreat. Much of the Methow ice originated outside the Methow drainage area and was contributed southward through the present north-flowing Middle and West forks of the Pasayten River.
30060820|The distribution of metamorphic rocks and their division into continental and oceanic types, the distribution of ophiolites and alpine ultramafic rocks, and the distribution and age of volcanic rocks in the Greater Antilles indicates that a northward-dipping subduction zone may have been the first orogenic event in the northern Caribbean. Buoyant continental crust entering the zone from the south stopped that subduction in Late Jurassic or Early Cretaceous time (120-130 m.y.b.p.), as evidenced by lithologic types and metamorphic rock ages in Cuba, Dominican Republic, and Puerto Rico. Continued compression resulted in a new, "flipped" subduction zone dipping southward on the north side of the old island arc. The second episode of subduction began about 110 m.y. ago and formed most of the exposed island arc. Two alternative models are proposed: 1) continuous subduction on a variably-dipping plane such that the western segment dipped too gently to permit volcanism after 85 m.y.b.p.; 2) subduction converted about 85 m.y.b.p. into strike-slip motion with anatectic volcanism. In both models, intense deformation ended at 45 m.y.b.p., volcanism ended in the west at 85 m.y.b.p. and in the east at 45 m.y.b.p. Still-continued compression of the Caribbean microplate since 45 m.y.b.p. has resolved itself into an eastward transform motion which continues to the present.
JG80172|Zircon trace element, U-Pb age, and Lu-Hf isotope composition were determined for two eclogite samples from the Xinxian ultrahigh-pressure (UHP) unit in the western Dabie orogen to constrain its exhumation processes. Cathodoluminescence imaging reveals that most zircons are metamorphic, while some have inherited magmatic cores in one sample. The magmatic cores have high Th/U and Lu/Hf ratios, high trace element contents, and a clear negative Eu anomaly, consistent with their igneous genesis. They yield an upper intercept age of
30065759|Beach cusps are of widespread occurrence on the West African coast. Those studied on the Liberian and Sierra Leonean coasts are large, regular, and best developed on sand beaches where there is some protection from the full force of the Atlantic Ocean. Apparent subfossil cusps occur in old beach ridges inland in Sierra Leone. These differ from the present-day cusps in being much larger and formed on straight beaches which must formerly have been fully exposed to the ocean. The possibility of the survival of the cusp form in consolidated rocks is considered.
30081235|The modern marine silica cycle is dominated by silicasecreting phytoplankton, principally diatoms, but this cycle has evolved considerably during the Phanerozoic. We analyzed the temporal distribution of silicareplaced fossils and bedded chert to determine the influence of factors such as extinctions and climate change on siliceous facies. Trends in silica replacement of fossils match faunal radiations during the Ordovician and SiluroDevonian, with peaks in silica replacement in the Late Ordovician and Middle Devonian corresponding to peaks in the abundance and diversity of siliceous sponges. Sharp drops in the abundance of silicareplaced fossils and/or bedded cherts coincide with four of the five major mass extinctions. No discernible decrease marks the extinction at the end of the Triassic. We expected peaks in bedded chert deposition during glacial episodes because enhanced ocean circulation should favor more and stronger upwelling. Orogenic episodes, which may trigger continental glaciation, may also increase silica supply and further enhance siliceous deposition during these intervals. The data we have sampled provide mixed results. The Late Ordovician and Late Devonian glaciations do not correspond to peaks in bedded chert abundance, although the increase in bedded cherts relative to silicareplaced fossils during the Carboniferous may reflect a climatic influence. The wellknown Middle Miocene circumPacific chert event does correspond with a glacial interval. Lows in silica deposition should mark intervals when the ocean was stratified and/or ocean circulation was sluggish. Data from the midCretaceous and Early Triassic appear consistent with this expectation. Following the shift to a diatomdominated silica cycle in the Late Jurassic and Cretaceous, patterns of chert abundance through time became more volatile and more responsive to external influences on marine silica burial such as icehouse and greenhouse effects. Prior to the diatom radiation, biogenic silica burial was probably more equitably divided between radiolarians and siliceous sponges. This more cosmopolitan control of silica burial may have dampened the effects of climatic factors on silica accumulation, though better resolved data are needed to test this possibility.
30062092|Microprobe analyses of natural igneous olivines from many rocks confirm that Ni increases and Mn de-decreases with increasing Mg content. A strong crystal-chemical control is apparently not overridden by effects resulting from pressure-temperature variations during crystallization or from variations in bulk composition of the host magma. Calcium ranges from 0 to 1 wt percent and, although commonly increasing with Fe in zoned grains, does not correlate generally with major elements. However, most plutonic olivines have less than 0.10 percent and are separated almost completely from olivines from extrusive and hypabyssal rocks with over 0.10 percent Ca. Depth of crystallization appears to play a major role in determining Ca content, but the data provide no evidence for the correlation of Ca content with crystallization temperature anticipated from experimental work. Diffusion of minor elements in and out of olivine during slow cooling is demonstrated, but its effect on Ca content is uncertain. Some correlation with host-rock chemistry is shown by the olivines from highly undersaturated rocks which, for any given Mg content, are unusually high in Ca and Mn, yet low in Ni.
30068824|ReOs data for chromite separates from 10 massive chromitite seams sampled along the 550km length of the 2.58Ga Great Dyke layered igneous complex, Zimbabwe, record initial
30062324|Discriminant analysis of Ste. Genevieve Limestone samples suggests that carbonate depositional environments may be conceptualized as shifting over an energy surface in response to changing energy conditions. Evolution of carbonate deposition through time, based on elasticity, seems to have followed at least five paths from smallest to greatest energy. Variation of mean values of elasticity and frequency of all measured organic and inorganic parameters define these paths and reflect energy changes which were not recognized initially in the microfacies except for the generation and distribution of oolites. In an earlier petrographic study, the Ste. Genevieve Limestone was found to be characterized by eight major microfacies. The data which defined these microfacies are now classified into 21 energy groups based on depositional textures, microfacies relations, and discriminant analysis. Discriminant analysis shows that elasticity measurements are better predictors of facies and energy criteria than are the combined parameters of elasticity and frequency which intuitively would be expected to be better. Frequency and elasticity values for the rock samples reflect fluctuations in composition through time and space within the limits of five major energy groups. Combined with microfacies categories and discriminant analysis they also define subgroupings within individual major energy groups and therefore more accurately record depositional environments than formerly has been possible. Percentages of sample abundances in the various recognized groups and subgroups are interpreted here as representing the optimum environmental energy paths during the evolution of Ste. Genevieve Limestone deposition.
30079750|The ascent of basaltic melts through the upper mantle results in chemical disequilibrium between the melts and the pyroxene and plagioclase of the wall-rock peridotite. Phase and cryptic variations in ophiolitic peridotites demonstrate that the resulting reactions deplete the mantle in magmatophile components and enrich ascending melts in Ca, Na, Al, and incompatible trace elements while buffering their Mg/Mg + Fe ratios at primitive values (>0.6). A comparative anatomy of the Trinity, Oman, and Darb Zubaydah ophiolites illustrates both the significance of this process in shaping the composition of the shallow lithospheric mantle and how the integrated effects may reflect tectonic setting. A first-order correlation between crustal thickness and degree of mantle depletion exists, but multiple rifting events may remove part of the crustal record so that melt/rock ratios are difficult to quantify. Most impressive in ophiolitic peridotites is the abundance of melt crystallization and reaction products in zones of focused porous flow and(or) conduits indicating that melt segregation occurs at depths >20 km in extensional tectonic settings. Within these zones of melt transport, melt/rock reaction ratios will vary as the composition of the wall rocks evolves with melts becoming chemically insulated from the wall rocks when reaction zones of dunite develop. This may help explain why many MORBs retain trace-element signatures of a deep garnet-bearing source.
10.1086/681588|Although it has been several decades since Sadler (
30065541|Debris distribution and content in Spitsbergen icebergs varies, but basal debris-rich layers (often ~1 m-thick) are the most important sources of iceberg rafted material. Angular iceberg rafted clasts in the glaci-marine record imply the presence of nunataks or valley walls, rather than unbroken ice sheet surfaces, indicating paleo-ice mass configuration. Calculated iceberg melt rates imply that most iceberg rafted debris is released within Spitsbergen fjords. Sedimentation from icebergs is calculated as 1 mm
30062628|The effects of the shape of phenocrysts on their settling velocity and on the rheology of magmas are discussed. Spherical crystals fall at a velocity given by Stokes law and need to be present in large concentrations before they have a marked effect on the viscosity of a suspension. Elongate crystals fall at a much smaller velocity, which may be determined from the formulas and graphs given herein. Such elongate crystals can have a dramatic effect on the viscosity of a suspension even at low volume fractions. Suspended crystals and bubbles will not impart a yield stress to the magma unless they form a touching network across the entire suspension. It is suggested, therefore, that most previous inferences of a yield stress in subliquidus magmas are erroneous. Measurements of the subliquidus rheology of magmas need to be accompanied by careful characterization of the microstructure and distribution of the solid phase, on which such rheologies critically depend.
30065817|The Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution's continuous seismic profiler was used in Cape Cod Bay to make two hundred miles of reflection profiles and eight oblique reflection-refraction stations. From these the areal extent and velocities of the principal seismic layers were determined. The deepest layer found (having a compressional wave velocity of 15,000-16,500 feet per second; 4.6-5.0 kilometers per second) is interpreted as Paleozoic in age. Its top surface forms an open-ended basin which deepens northeastward from the northeast entrance of Cape Cod Canal. Overlying it are patches of material (10,000-13,000 feet per second; 3.0-4.0 kmps) which are interpreted as erosional remnants of Cretaceous sediments. Of still younger age are three horizons with material having a compressional wave velocity in the 6,000-8,000 feet per second (1.8-2.4 kmps) range. The deepest seems likely to be marine Tertiary. The intermediate one is believed to be glacial till, and the shallowest a thin covering of postglacial sediments.
30070659|We estimate erosion rates from suspended sediment records for 11 basins in the eastern Central Range (ECR) of Taiwan using methods based on mean measured sediment discharge, a rating curve of sediment and water discharge, and a rating curve corrected for periods of limited sediment due to the lack of landslidesupplied sediment. The preferred method for any basin depends on record length and sampling frequency, with higher quality records being analyzed by the latter method. Erosion rate estimates range from 2.2 to 8.3 mm/yr for records with varying sampling frequencies and durations between 8 and 27 yr. This variation in erosion rates does not seem to reflect lithology, tectonic environment, or climate. We interpret the variation in terms of natural stochastic variation in water discharge and sediment supply. To assess the quality of the erosion rate estimates and to better understand the dependence of uncertainty on the duration and frequency of sampling, we construct a stochastic model of sediment supply and transport for the Chihpen River of the ECR. The model stochastically predicts the water discharge and sediment supply from landslides and calculates the transport of suspended sediment through application of a deterministic transport law. We determine that with a 27yr hydrograph with 780 suspended sediment load measurements for the Chihpen River, assuming an erosion rate of 5.1 mm/yr, there is a 68.3% probability of determining an erosion rate within
30075200|Nine sediment types are recognized in cores recovered by the Deep Sea Drilling Project from back-arc basins in the western Pacific. These include submarine fan turbidites, debris flows, silty basinal turbidites, biogenic pelagic carbonate sediments, resedimented carbonates, biogenic pelagic silica sediments, pyro-clastics, hemipelagic clays, and pelagic clays. Most of these sediments were deposited independent of basinal rifting (spreading) processes. The transition from biogenic pelagic carbonate sediments into overlying pelagic clays is the only sedimentary sequence dependent on basinal tectonic processes, through post-rifting subsidence associated with heat loss. Hemipelagic clays and silty turbidites are controlled by sediment yield from continental sources and by climatic change, whereas deposition of biogenic pelagic sediments depend on ocean circulation and on latitudinally-defined productivity zones. Coarse pyroclastics are the product of local volcanic periodicity, whereas ash deposition is controlled by seasonal changes in atmospheric circulation. Resedimented carbonates occur in response to slope instability caused by chemical solution or seismicity. Submarine fan turbidites and debris flows are derived from andesitic volcanic arc and obducted land sources. A direct correlation is established between the frequency and periodicity of preserved turbidite deposition on fans and rates of known tectonic uplift and sediment yield in associated sources. Deposition of both fan and debris-flow systems depends on large rates of tectonic uplift in sources, followed by establishment of mature drainage systems that control the sediment yield to fan sites in back-arc basins. Absence of such fan systems in back-arc basins implies that source terrains were characterized by minimal rates of tectonic uplift. The nine sediment types in back-arc basins indicate deep-water deposition. Their association in the basins is governed by their depth-dependent processes of sedimentation rather than tectonic processes per se. The degree of preservation of particular depth zones within other tectonic domains governs the resulting association of preserved sediment types also.
30079711|The Mountain Park Sandstone is a thick lens of non-marine arenaceous strata present locally near the top of the Lower Cretaceous Blairmore Group in the folded foothills region of western Alberta. The sandstone is composed mainly of quartz, plagioclase, and volcanic rock fragments cemented by authigenic chlorite, illite, quartz, and calcite. The cements are distributed in a locally patchy fashion, forming irregularly shaped, interlensing calcite-cemented and silicate-cemented zones up to several centimeters or more in maximum dimension. Variation in calcite content is especially noticeable, with individual samples containing from 0 to 57 per cent calcite distributed irregularly throughout the sampled stratigraphic interval. Calcite is also irregularly distributed within most thin sections as optically continuous poikilitic units or crystal clusters, which contrast with surrounding calcite-deficient portions of the sections. Individual calcite crystals range in size from a few microns to several centimeters, depending on the amount present, forming spherulitic fibrous aggregates in samples especially rich in calcite. Discriminatory analysis of calcite- and silicate-cemented phases on the basis of their compositional and textural properties indicates that grain-packing (pore size) is the only variable associated with the distribution of cements. Calcite-cemented phases are more loosely packed than adjacent silicate-cemented phases, but grain size, grain orientation, and detrital composition show no significant association with cement distribution independent of packing. However, calcite-cemented sandstones tend to be coarser-grained on the average than silicate-cemented ones because of the marked correlation between pore size and grain size. These results are compatible with the observed intergrowth relationships of the cements, which show that chlorite was deposited first, completely cementing the more tightly packed portions of the sandstones. Illite and quartz were then deposited in the remaining parts of the larger pores. The circulation of later carbonate-bearing solutions was determined mainly by the distribution of earlier cements, with calcite being deposited in the more permeable, loosely packed sandstones, replacing some of the earlier detrital and authigenic constituents.
30065629|A new method to evaluate the role of fractional crystallization is presented in this paper, based on the Rayleigh Law for trace elements. A major element "j" (x) and a trace element "i" (y) of a set of samples (with constant bulk distribution coefficient
30066164|Conventional geosynclinal theory is not actualistic-modern examples are said not to exist. This deficiency is obviated if the continental terrace sedimentary wedges are modern miogeosynclines and if the subjacent continental-rise sedimentary prisms are modern eugeosynclines, together forming a couplet. Such equating is reasonable once the wave-built terrace concept of continental terrace development is discarded. Instead, the writer assumes construction of the terrace wedge (a miogeosyncline) by prograded wedges of paralic sediments on an isostatically downwarping continental margin. Most sediment, however, is assumed to be carried off the continental terrace to form the continental rise (a eugeosynclinal prism), an apron of turbidity current deposits of graywacke or flysch facies. The accumulation of the mio-eugeosynclinal couplet requires diastrophic quiescence except for isostatic depression. The orogenic or alpine mountain-building cycle is initiated by thrusting probably related to decoupling of a spreading sea floor so that the sima tends to slip beneath the sialic continental raft. The continental rise is then thrust, folded, and metamorphosed, forming a folded eugeosyncline; ultramafics are intruded and are technically incorporated in the folding. Since it lies inside and upon buoyant sial, the continental terrace wedge, or miogeosyncline, is folded and thrust to a lesser extent. Intrusion of plutons is post primary folding. Some implications of this actualistic concept of geosynclines are discussed. The eugeosyncline, for example, is oceanic and is composed of abyssal hemipelagic continental detritus. Orogeny generates new continental crust and causes continental accretion. The geosynclinal troughs are not formed by crustal compression. Island arcs, borderlands, trenches, and tectogenes play no part in this actualistic version.
30070580|The settlement of buildings and the stability of dams, fills, and cuts are governed by mechanical properties such as compressibility, permeability, and resistance to shear. In this field the impacts of modern clay researches have been mainly explanations for empirically found and mathematically formulated rules. In highway engineering, the soils considered are within the zone of daily and seasonal moisture and temperature changes. Therefore, their properties must be known as functions of these variables. The constants of these functions are determined mainly by the crystal structure, the gross chemical composition, and the type and amount of exchangeable ions of the clay. Base exchange has been employed in construction to alter undesirable soil properties (Treasure Island, San Francisco). The ease with which a roadbed is stabilized by means of bitumen or Portland cement depends upon the
30056046|Fossil markings of doubtful origin were found in strand deposits of the Carmelo series (Upper Cretaceous [?]) at Point Lobos, California. The purpose of this article is to show that some of the markings may have been formed by seaweed, a suggestion borne out by observations on modern strands. Associated fossil casts and tubular pits are described and organic agencies suggested as responsible for their origin.
30055661|During the Laramide revolution compressive stresses acting tangentially from the southwest produced the major structure. Thrust faulting was associated with the folding, but normal faulting was caused by later vertical stresses exerted by the Cotton-wood igneous intrusion. These normal faults occurred along planes of weakness already initiated by the previous folding.
10.1086/669250|To test previously suggested exhumation histories of the Gangdese Batholith in the central part of the Transhimalayan plutonic belt, we conducted paired apatite and zircon (U-Th)/He thermochronological investigations of the Yarlung Zangbo gorge in the central part of the batholith. Age-elevation relationships and multisystem thermochronometers showed three periods of accelerated exhumation (4648, 2218, and 118 Ma). Combining these data with previously published thermochronological ages and synthesizing these ages with regional geological events provides an entire exhumation history. The CretaceousEarly Paleogene exhumation of the Gangdese Batholith was probably caused by both the northward subduction of the Neo-Tethys and the collision between the Lhasa and Qiangtang blocks. The Early Miocene rapid exhumation might be a response to shortening caused by the Gangdese Thrust or erosion driven by dynamic uplift following lithospheric delamination. In contrast, the Late Miocene exhumation is coincident with both the proposed capture of the Yarlung Zangbo gorge by a foreland draining catchment and the intensification of the Asian monsoon, as well as normal faulting. Hence, the latest stage of exhumation might be attributed to the incision of the Yarlung Zangbo gorge, the activity of a north-south fault, or both.
30059302|The amount and distribution of residual thermoluminescence in limestone contact zones is theoretically calculated by numerically integrating the appropriate thermal-decay equations over the time and temperature conditions predicted by heat-conduction theory. The resultant thermoluminescence pattern is best characterized by the relative width of the zone of complete thermoluminescence annealing. Based on this feature, a method of determining magma temperature is developed and analyzed. Effective magma temperatures of 950 C. are inferred from the natural thermoluminescence in limestone wall rock in association with late Pleistocene basaltic flows and dikes in northern Arizona.
30067329|On the west shore of Lake Michigan between Racine, Wisconsin, and Waukegan, Illinois, beach pebbles derived entirely from a cliff of glacial till at Racine travel southward. The pebbles in the till are angular. At a point seven miles south the pebbles are spheroidal. From this point southward the beach pebbles are progressively flatter. This difference in shape is attributed to two processes, namely, wear and selective transportation. It is proved that angular pebbles become round, and round pebbles become flat. By laboratory experiments it is shown that flat pebbles travel more readily by wave action than round pebbles because of differences in behavior due to differences in shape, and to the fact that round pebbles seek deeper water and are consequently more readily buried.
30080790|According to one view, the pebble band on the Iowan till is the result of wind action in a marginal area during the retreat of the Iowan ice. An alternative interpretation is that the pebble band is the result chiefly of the erosion of Iowan till by running water, considerable time having been involved in its formation.
30065756|The fabrics of nineteen ultramafic nodules from seven localities in Auckland province allow recognition of five orientation rules for olivine. These rules are independent of rock type, textural setting, or locality. Enstatite fabrics show no consistent relationship to those of olivine. A gradational series of physical environments, with increasing deformation and recrystallization, can explain the full range of nodule textures and fabrics and may be applicable to some peridotites in the New Zealand ultramafic belt.
JG116602|We report new laser fluorination oxygen isotope analyses of selected samples throughout the Skaergaard intrusion in East Greenland, particularly relying on
30057911|Lasanius, first described by R. H. Traquair in 1898, has since evoked many opinions in regard to both its systematic position and its morphology. On the basis of some new material collected last summer from the Scottish Downtonian, the author has attempted a detailed anatomical reconstruction, and proposed a theory concerning the origin of the visceral skeleton. As the Anaspida are the oldest and most primitive fishlike animals yet discovered, their place in the chain of evolution is exceedingly important In them we appear to approach nearer than ever before to the connecting link between the vertebrates and the invertebrates.
30071176|Mississippian stratigraphic problems of the southern Appalachians pertain to: (1) refinement in stratigraphic subdivision; (2) establishment of lateral relationships from one place to another, especially between disconnected areas and areas of independent previous study; (3) correlation of the southern Appalachian strata with the better-known units of the standard section; (4) establishment of the manner and time of origin of some of the units; and (5) establishment of the Mississippian-Pennsylvanian boundary. Examples of major problems which need further study are discussed. Solution of many of the stratigraphic problems must await careful and detailed field studies and, particularly in several instances, a consideration of the faunas.
30070465|Core drillings on Gotland in 1946 and 1947 led to a re-examination and revision of our conception of the reefs of Gotland, their structure, reef-building organisms, and appearance. A short report on the results of the investigation is submitted below. Of particular interest are the findings that calcareous algae play a considerably greater role as rock-formers than had been previously observed.
30058243|Uncertainty regarding the relations of cyclothems, as recognized in Illinois, and megacyclothems, that are typically developed in eastern Kansas, has obscured the correlation of Pennsylvanian strata east and west of the Mississippi River and the interpretation of physical events that influenced sedimentation during the Pennyslvanian period. Lithologic analysis of the Kansas megacyclothem indicates that it is not equivalent to an Illinois cyclothem, as some have believed, but is composed of three or more incompletely developed simple cyclothems. A large sedimentary cycle recognized in Illinois, consisting of three or more different types of cyclothems, appears to be a differently developed, but otherwise comparable, megacyclothem. The suggestion is made that megacyclothems owe their existence to movements in the Ouachita geosyncline, which superimposed a large cycle on the small one responsible for the development of cyclothems. A still larger cycle, termed a hypercyclothem, is recognizable in eastern Kansas but is not explained.
30063032|A correlation table and distribution map of the Jurassic and Triassic red formations of the Rocky Mountains and adjacent regions furnishes background for discussion of correlation and origin of the "red beds." No worth-while basis for the separation of the upper red beds from the lower was found. Vertebrate fossils occur in several members, but are of little value in correlation. Various characteristics indicate marine origin for the major part of the red beds and subaerial origin for other parts. The discussion is confined to the red formations investigated by the writer, and conclusions concerning origin apply only to those formations.
30055914|The sandstone known in East Africa as the Bugishu is younger than a peneplain of Miocene age and may be early or later Pliocene, according as it lies on the peneplain itself or in valleys of Pliocene age. It appears to be associated with tuffs from Mt. Elgon. That volcano may have had a very long history; the tuffs may be Pliocene; but the mountain in its present aspect is Pleistocene. Thus there is a suggestion that the Bugishu sandstone may be as young as early Pleistocene. The weight of evidence, however, is in favor of a Pliocene age.
30067287|A critical review of literature dealing with the glacial-control theory for the origin of coral reefs shows that Pleistocene low-level abrasion, one of the fundamental postulates of the original theory, has long been abandoned by Daly, the theory's chief advocate. Many others still retain this postulate of the original version, though serious objections have been brought against it. We question the efficiency of mud control and certain other features of Daly's revised versions of the theory. We believe that the theory offers a satisfactory explanation for the widespread occurrence of drowned valleys and that Pleistocene conditions stimulated reef growth, but do not believe that barrier reefs and atolls originated for the first time as a result of the peculiar conditions of glaciation. We support the antecedent-platform theory, which states that any bench or bank situated at a proper depth in the coral seas is a potential reef foundation and that, if ecological conditions permit, a reef can grow to the surface from such a platform without a change in ocean level.
30062148|The major rock type of Peninsular India consists of deformed, sialic rocks broadly termed "Peninsular Gneiss." Suites investigated in the western part of the Dharwar craton have a tonalitic/trondhjemitic composition and have isotopic ages generally in the range of 3,400 to 3,000 m.y. The last event recorded by numerous whole-rock isotopic systems was 3,000 m.y. ago, coincident with the emplacement of diapiric trondhjemite plutons. The gneissic suite appears to consist of a large number of separate magmatic bodies, some of which were equilibrated at very low pressures and may be extrusive. Low initial
30065738|We have determined the lithostratigraphy of three, Early Proterozoic (~2.1 Ga), Birimian greenstone belts in the West African craton and measured the concentrations of major and trace elements in samples of volcanic rocks from those belts. The Nangodi belt largely consists of tholeiitic basalt flows with mg numbers of 37 to 69 and flat to slightly LREE-depleted chondrite-normalized REE patterns, overlain by sodic (
30065630|Previous workers have correlated slope failures during rainstorms with rainfall intensity, rainfall duration, and seasonal antecedent rainfall. This note shows how such relationships can be interpreted using a periodic steady-state solution to the well-known linear pressure diffusion equation. Normalization of the governing equation yields a characteristic response time that is a function of soil thickness, saturated hydraulic conductivity, and pre-storm effective porosity, and which is analogous to the travel time of a piston wetting front. The effects of storm frequency and magnitude are also successfully quantified using dimensionless attenuation factors and lag times.
10.1086/676594|Methane seep carbonates preserve information about the history of methane seepage and of the fauna inhabiting these ecosystems. For this information to be useful, a reliable determination of the carbonates stratigraphic ages is required, but this is not always available. Here we investigate the using strontium isotope stratigraphy to date fossil methane seep carbonates via detailed petrographic and geochemical investigation of the different carbonate phases in biostratigraphically well-dated seep carbonates of Paleozoic, Mesozoic, and Cenozoic age. The best results are obtained from banded, botryoidal rim cements from carbonate phases showing a weak or no cathodoluminescence signal, an oxygen isotope signature close to that of seawater, and the lowest Mn concentrations. We then applied the method to a presumably late Jurassic seep carbonate from the Great Valley Group in California. Strontium isotope ratios of the least diagenetically altered carbonate phases indicate a Tithonian (late Jurassic) age for this seep site, which is in conflict with a recent study that suggested the absence of Jurassic strata from the Great Valley Group.
30059954|A diabase dike containing chert fragments linearly distributed in irregular manner is regarded as a graphic expression of progressive faultirig and pulsational intrusion.
30060925|Dehydrated gels with compositions corresponding to mixtures of pyrope-enstatite, pyrope-quartz, and pyrope-quartz-corundum were sealed in platinum capsules and reacted in half-inch piston-cylinder apparatus at 30 kbar. Samples were pyrope composition with variable
30058650|Interpretation of glacial field data in the vicinity of the Manitoba-Ontario boundary, northwest Patricia, Ontario, leads the writer to postulate the existence of an interlobate moraine and the former existence of two glacial lakes to be known as Ponask and Sachigo.
10.1086/669976|The North Patagonian Andes (384330S) present topographic and geologic characteristics distinct from those of the Central Andes to the north, including a lower altitude, a predominance of plutonic rocks, and the presence of a major N-S-trending, dextral strike-slip, intra-arc discontinuity known as the Liquie-Ofqui Fault Zone (LOFZ). The timing for the uplift of the North Patagonian Andes remains poorly constrained principally because high exhumation rates resulted in the erosion of most of its volcano-sedimentary cover during the late Cenozoic. The strongly deformed Cenozoic marine deposits ascribed to the Ayacara Formation, which crop out on the western flank of this range at 42S, can provide for a better understanding of the recent geologic evolution of this range. To discern this formations age and sedimentary environment, we have integrated sedimentology, ichnology, foraminiferal paleontology, and geochronology. Our results indicate that this unit was deposited in a deep-marine environment during the Early-Middle Miocene. Correlation of the Ayacara Formation with coeval deep-marine deposits in the forearc to the west indicate that deposition was caused by a major regional event of tectonic subsidence probably related to subduction erosion. An Early-Middle Miocene age for the Ayacara Formation is a reliable maximum age for the deformation and uplift of the western flank of the North Patagonian Andes as well as for the commencement of transpressional deformation associated with the LOFZ.
30058619|The force exerted when water freezes in rock is discussed, and the process is shown to be more complex than it is ordinarily considered to be. The pressure may vary from I to 2,045 atmospheres per square inch, depending upon prevailing conditions and upon the manner in which freezing takes place. Perhaps it is closer to the lower figure more often than it is to the higher one. Forces exerted as a result of temperature effects upon the ice, once it has been formed in rock, are not very great.
30058014|This paper presents evidence from recent exposures that the main mass of weathering and decomposition of the famous dike of diabase at Medford, Massachusetts, cocurred prior to the last ice invasion.
30057166|The time since the Valders glacial maximum at Milwaukee is estimated on stages, features, and sediments of the glacial Great Lakes, on the ice-border movements at Lake Simcoe, on the regressions and transgressions of the marine shore line in the Ottawa region, and on other geological events and features. The principal time estimates are as follows: the post-Nipissing age, 3,500 years; the post-North Bay drainage or post-Pembroke age, 14,500; and the post-Valders age, 18,000 or 19,000 years. In appraising radiocarbon dates, it is essential to keep in mind that the
10.1086/671393|Zircon U-Pb age and geochemical data are reported for the Wulong dike swarms from the Liaodong Peninsula, NE China. The studied dikes include diorite, lamprophyre, and dolerite. Together with previous dating, the diverse rocks have a peak age of ca. 120125 Ma. They are marked by inversely zoned phenocrysts with Mg- and Cr-rich rims, and they exhibit mantle-like signatures (i.e., high Mg-Cr-Ni) associated with prominent subduction-type element enrichments. The early diorites have relatively radiogenic Sr (
30056202|Determination of the genetic relationship of Pleistocene alluvial terraces to the advance and retreat of continental glaciers is critical to the interpretation of Pleistocene stratigraphy beyond the glacial borders. This relationship can be accurately determined for the Kansan glacial cylce by using the Pearlette volcanic ash as a precise time marker. Kansan terrace deposits in the valleys of south-central United States were made during the time of glacial retreat and dissipation. The interglacial stages were, in general, intervals of dynamic equilibrium in the valley areas, and soil formation was prevalent both on the uplands and in the valleys.
30056514|Gravelly Range in southwestern Montana has long attracted attention because of the huge amount of loose, water-worn material along its crest. Our studies in that range have demonstrated that the material along the skyline, in large part at least, is a glacial moraine. Some of the finer material may be outwash associated with glaciers. This moraine was deposited by alpine glaciers which descended from mountains that no longer exist and was placed in a valley during Eocene time. There it remained through the long periods of mid-Tertiary erosion when the widespread Rocky Mountain peneplain was developed. Today, owing to the subsequent uplift and erosion of the range, it is the high place or crest of a mountain range.
30058762|The rate of leaching of carbonates in Pleistocene deposits is affected by several factors, each of which is variable. Therefore, it is considered that correlation of two deposits of less-than-stage value stratigraphically, based on comparable mean depth of leaching in the two, is not likely to be reliable.
30075133|Trend surfaces for mean particle size, mineral frequency, and bed thickness, from which inferences regarding sedimentary provenance and environment may be based, are extracted from Top Ashdown Pebble Bed data in the Wealden (Lower Cretaceous) of southeastern England. These systematic trends and the deviations from them show that a series of small-scale cross-trends is superimposed on the systematic trend components. Hence it is possible to set up a "facies model" accounting satisfactorily for the intricately interlocking source areas feeding detritus to the area. A principal purpose of the present "case history" is to demonstrate that trend surface techniques using high-speed computers can establish quickly and firmly what more laborious and subjective methods only suggested over two decades of conventional work. Thus the techniques of twenty years ago are contrasted with those used at present for analyzing and interpreting certain kinds of "noisy" geological data.
30059354|The basis of the experimental determination of mineral stability by synthetic methods is critically discussed. It is considered that synthesis alone does not necessarily give a true picture of equilibrium relations. Some less frequently used methods of determining equilibrium conditions are briefly discussed.
30066231|The historic eruptions of Bogoslof volcano were characterized by hornblende andesite in A.D. 1796, and nepheline-normative, hornblende basalt in A.D. 1883 and 1926-1927. Rare earth element (REE) abundances for the 1796 and 1926-1927 eruptions show enrichment of the light REE relative to the heavy REE, overall higher abundances in the andesite and a slight positive Eu anomaly in the basalt. The
30060495|Wind gaps in the Laramie Mountains, Wyoming, are described. The wind gaps are due to superposition of streams upon the pre-Oligocene topography and later capture by headward eroding tributaries. The tributaries are able to extend their valleys headward more rapidly than the main stream because of the soft Tertiary sediments in which they head.
30067901|An improved sample container for a solution calorimeter is described. The container is an integral part of the stirrer assembly so that the sample can be thermally equilibrated with the solvent before dissolution, and is constructed of polytetrafluoroethylene (Teflon) for use in hydrofluoric acid. This design eliminates the "sensible heat" correction and other sources of systematic error. Because the container permits rapid mechanical mixing of the sample in the solvent, relatively coarse size fractions (<325 mesh) can be used in silicate-solution calorimetry.
30064656|The Tennessee River is regarded as a trans-Appalachian river that formed on a coastal plain of Pennsylvanian sediments, probably early in the Mesozoic. The river may have had an initial consequent course close to its present course, and lateral migration southward off of the Nashville dome is postulated as the mechanism for entrapment of the river in Sequatchie Valley. Paleozoic strata presently exposed were overlapped by Upper Cretaceous deposits, and under the concept of dynamic equilibrium of landscapes it is concluded that precursors of the Highland Rim, Cumberland Escarpment, and Cumberland Plateau were in existence in Late Cretaceous time.
30058009|Pre-Cambrian and early Paleozoic rocks in the Champlain Valley and the adjoining Adirondack Mountains near Ticonderoga are involved in an intricate system of normal faults. The stratigraphic units are described briefly, and the structures are analyzed in some detail.
30060901|Cluster analysis of 458 pyroxenes from kimberlites, associated xenoliths and diamonds has allowed recognition of 5 chemically distinct orthopyroxene groups and 10 distinct clinopyroxene groups from the
30058682|Studies of sediments from the world's deepest drill hole (15,004 ft.) at Wasco, California, have shown that recrystallization of kaolinite is the only metamorphic effect produced by the subjection of the sediments to pressures ranging up to 55,000 pounds per square inch and temperatures up to 145 C. Similar sediments from the Ventura Basin, California, which have been even more deeply buried, have only minor amounts of sericite, chlorite, and epidote as metamorphic products. These data point to the inefficiency of load metamorphism in some of our Cenozoic strata.
30078450|Virgilian reefs of the Sacramento Mountains, New Mexico, are described in terms of their areal distribution, structure, petrography, and paleontology. The reefs parallel the mountain scarp and have an en echelon trend. They range in width from a few hundred feet to possibly 1 mile. The maximum reef thickness is approximately 200 feet. The reef lenses are encompassed in thin-bedded limestones, sandstones, and shales of the off-reef facies. The principal framework builder was the colonial alga Cryptozoon. Colonial corals were not found in the fossil assemblages. Physical and biological data are integrated to reconstruct the depositional environment of an ancient reef.
30080202|Investigations in Wright Valley, adjacent to the Transantarctic Mountains in East Antarctica, shed light on the question of whether highlatitude Pliocene climate was warm enough to cause widespread deglaciation of the East Antarctic craton with a concurrent Magellanic moorlandlike environment. If Plioceneage diatoms, presently in glaciogenic deposits high in the Transantarctic Mountains, had come from seaways on the East Antarctic craton, an expanding Late Pliocene ice sheet must have first eroded them from marine sediments and then deposited the diatoms at their present highaltitude locations. This hypothetical expanding glacier would have had to have come through Wright Valley. Glacial drift sediments from the central Wright Valley were mapped, sampled, analyzed, and
30064961|The authors have made quantitative determination of the finite strain from microfolds in the Precambrian rocks from two localities in eastern India. The strain measurements indicate that the schistosity in one example and the crenulation cleavage in the other are perpendicular to the direction of maximum finite shortening.
30066046|Five carbonate deep-sea sediment cores were fractionated into three phases by a technique involving physical and chemical separations. The distributions of the major elements were determined in each of the phases. The composition of the residue phase, composed predominantly of clay-sized minerals, was remarkably constant within each core. In the carbonate phase, manganese showed signs of postdepositional rearrangement. There was no correlation between oxygen-isotope paleotemperatures and either total carbonate content or fine soluble strontium content.
30055879|This paper is a detailed anatomical study of the Scottish anaspid Birkenia from new material, together with a discussion of the relationships of the families in this class.
30060213|The nature and distribution of sedimentary facies on the Oregon continental shelf are controlled by several factors: (1) river discharge and sediment input, (2) estuarine circulation system, (3) wave dimensions and direction, (4) subsurface and bottom currents, (5) density stratification of the water column, and (6) reworking by benthic organisms. Most of these factors were probably operating during the Holocene transgression of the sea which deposited a basal sand facies over the shelf. As sea level approached its present position, mud (silt and clay) began to accumulate slowly on the mid-and outer-shelf. Through the reworking by benthic organisms, this mud was mixed into the underlying basal sand creating a mixed mud and sand facies. A mud facies developed in the vicinity of the Columbia, Umpqua, and Rogue Rivers where the rate of mud deposition exceeded the reworking activity. The drowned mouths of coastal estuaries produce a sediment trap for fluvial and marine sand and the silts and clays that come in contact with the intruding salt wedge. The grain size modes of the modern shelf sediments suggest that the very fine sand (3-4) and finer material are presently transported in suspension through estuaries with a high fresh-water discharge and a large sediment input. This material diffuses through the turbulent surf zone and emerges as three distinct turbid layers on the continental shelf: (1) a surface layer at the seasonal thermocline, (2) a mid-water layer at the permanent pycnocline, and (3) a bottom turbid layer. During the winter, long-period surface waves from the southwest stir the bottom to water depths of 200 m and, when combined with bottom currents associated with internal and surface tides and northward flowing subsurface currents, provide the mechanism to transport very fine sand across the 45-km wide shelf off the Columbia River. This stirring process resuspends previously deposited bottom sediments which are then carried to the lower continental slope in low-density flows. The bulk of the silt and clay, as well as the biogenic debris in the water column, probably bypasses the shelf in the surface and mid-water layers and is deposited on the lower continental slope. Summer waves have shorter periods and are from the northwest, with bottom stirring occurring only to depths of 90 m on the average. These conditions favor deposition of silts and clays on the mid- and outer-shelf. While the fluvial sediment supply from small, coastal rivers is substantially decreased at this time, the discharge from the Columbia River reaches a maximum during the onset of these moderate wave conditions. The sand facies, particularly on the inner shelf, consists of relict sand and gravel or mixtures of these relict deposits and modern sands. The modern mud facies is a transient feature in some areas of the shelf; its presence is largely controlled by the resuspension processes and sediment input on the continental shelf.
30068698|Random trough cross-strata dip directions may have a mean direction quite different from the trough axis, and therefore may not give an accurate paleocurrent direction. If trough plunge can be measured, a single measurement on a trough side can be corrected to give the trough axial azimuth. On perfectly two dimensional vertical surfaces it is still possible to estimate trough axial azimuths by measuring the face azimuth and two apparent dips on opposite sides of a trough, and applying a correction established by a theoretical geometric analysis of troughs.
30059011|The Waitemata Group formed following major Mid-to Upper Oligocene block faulting in northern New Zealand. It consisted of a central flysch basin 130 km by 60 km, bounded to the north and south by basement horst on which shelf facies accumulated, to the west by an active andesitic/basaltic ridge, and to the east by a high basement ridge/active andesitic arc. Lithic sediment from the north mingled with contemporaneous volcanic debris to give poor-volcanic, rich-volcanic, and mixed flysch facies. Turbidity currents entered the basin from a western shelf, traveled an average distance of 30 km, and built a south-easterly palaeoslope oblique to the basin axis. The flysch is relatively proximal, overstepping eastwards across a steep and uneven basement surface with a thin basal shallow-water facies. Conglomerate moved south along the western shelf, entering the basin via submarine valleys to form thick lenses within a 4 km radius. Turbidity currents carried pebbles a further 20 km. Pebbly mudstones occur. Lahars from the western volcanic arc traveled up to 34 km into the basin and deposited graded beds up to 20 m thick. Slumping was frequent. Trace fossils belong to the Nereites facies. The western volcanic arc built up a thick, largely shallow-marine, fragmental pile, overstepping eastwards across the flysch basin. A basin model based on turbidity currents suggests depths up to 2,000 m, and requires substantial vertical movements.
30081182|The variation of
30075146|The frequency distributions of the mineral constituents derived from the point-count analysis of the Tuscarora, Oriskany, and Homewood Quartzites are compared with the results expected from appropriate theoretical models of constant probability of occurrence from point to point. The resulting degree of fit is used to characterize the textural arrangement of each mineral constituent. The textural arrangement for each detrital component was found to be essentially constant from component to component and from outcrop to outcrop within each formation. The distribution of silica cement, however, is independent of the arrangement of the detritus.
30075111|A structural study of some of the kimberlite dikes near the head of Cayuga Lake, New York, has shown a close relationship between the intrusion of the dikes and the stress at fault planes. In one case, the pattern of a group of dikes crossed by a fault suggests that tension, resulting from fault stresses, tended to open joint fractures and thus facilitate the entrance of dike stringers. Similar tension patterns have been obtained experimentally. In another case, fault stresses caused a constriction in a dike. Above and below the constriction the magma removed the country rock for the entire width of the dike by mechanical stoping. Other structural features tended to show that diastrophic forces were active when the dikes were intruded.
30070690|The Humboldt formation of northeastern Nevada consists of 5,800 feet of continental deposits which range in grain size from coarse fanglomerate to fine shale and in composition from lake deposits of limestone and oil shale to stream-laid conglomerate, sandstone, and mudstone interbedded with fine pyroclastics of water-laid and air-borne types. These beds may be divided into three members: (1) a lower member, mostly lake beds; (2) a middle member characterized by ash and tuff beds; (3) an upper member, mostly stream-laid deposits. Vertebrate and plant remains indicate a late Miocene age and an environment more humid than the present. The formation occupies basins separated by northward-trending fault-block mountains. It was originally deposited in a large irregular depression or a series of connected intermontane basins, which have become basins of sedimentation through warping or faulting. In the area considered, some of the basin and mountain blocks have been outlined by faulting during deposition of the Humboldt beds, and that fault pattern has been perpetuated by movements continuing to the present.
30059169|This paper discusses: (1) an 18-mile section of the Wasatch Front Range east of Salt Lake City, (a) The Wasatch fault is an initial fault-scarp modified by erosion and not a fault-line scarp, (b) The area is complexly folded and faulted, (c) Differences in the pre-Cambrian rocks at the north and south ends of the section are pointed out and the younger rocks are correlated with the rocks in the Cottonwood and Park City districts. (2) Rock Creek Canyon near Provo exposes an overturned anticline which probably has an important bearing on the structure of that section of the Wasatch Mountains. (3) Cache Valley, the depression between the Wasatch Front and Bear River ranges, is a down-faulted block and not a syncline as shown on geologic maps. (4) The folds and probably the thrust faults in the Wasatch Mountains were developed at the close of the Cretaceous or early Tertiary periods. The Wasatch and other major normal faults of the area were probably initiated near the middle of the Miocene, and the later movements have been along the old lines. (5) The conclusions of the writer regarding the east rim of the Great Basin substantially agree with conclusions regarding the western part of the Great Basin presented in a recent paper by Louderback.
30063775|The Tioga ash bed, bed B of the Zeigler pit, Union County, Pennsylvania, lies in the Polygnathus costatus costatus Zone of the Eifelian Stage of the Middle Devonian Series. The 27.5-cm-thick bed contains igneous zircon and monazite crystals that have been dated by precise U-Pb techniques. Zircons are characterized by inherited Pb that occurs as barely perceptible interior regions enriched in inclusions. The zircons are discordant and do not reveal the igneous age of the bed. In contrast, high quality monazite crystals lack any evidence of inheritance or loss of Pb, and multiple analyses have overlapping
10.1086/651273|We propose that a scaledependent topographic signature of erodibility arises due to fluvial and glacial erosion acting on different parts of the landscape at different times. For 14 catchments in western Scotland, we define three levels of substrate erodibility in order of decreasing resistance: quartzite rocks, nonquartzite rocks, and zones of faultrelated fracture. Then, using digital topographic and planimetric data coupled with field measurements, we identify regressionbased scaling relationships between substrate erodibility and morphometric parameters at two spatial scales. Catchmentscale morphometry shows a weak to variable relationship with substrate metrics overall. Erodibility can be inferred from catchment steepness indices (i.e., channel steepness index and relief ratio), but the existence of multiple exceptions could confound a more general application of this approach. Nonetheless, major valley troughs trace fault zones and nonquartzite rocks, leaving much of the higher and steeper ground formed in quartzite. At the reach scale, bedrock channel slope is far more sensitive to substrate erodibility than is channel width. Quartzite outcrops steepen bedrock channels by a factor of 1.56.0, and in terms of unit stream power, channels increase their erosional capacity by a factor of 2.73.5. Yet only 4%13% of this increase is due to channel narrowing. Based on a large data set of bedrock channel width (
30056318|In southwestern Utah widely exposed conglomerates, pyroclastics, and lacustrine and fluvial sediments overlie the Eocene limestones that constitute the bulk of the Wasatch formation. These consolidated and partly consolidated rocks have been grouped as the Brian Head, the Parunuweap, and the Sevier River formations.
30063828|The relationship between heat flow (Q) and heat production (A) in India is quite different for the northern and southern parts of the peninsula. In the north, locations in a variety of tectonic settings (including Gondwana rifts) show a linear relationship between Q and A with a common reduced heat flow (Q*) about
30065799|Apatite fissiontrack ages of 16883 Ma for 39 samples of Proterozoic crystalline rocks, three samples of Cambrian Potsdam sandstone, and one Cretaceous lamprophyre dike from the Adirondack Mountains in New York State indicate that unroofing in this region occurred from Late Jurassic through Early Cretaceous. Samples from the High Peaks section of the Adirondack massif yielded the oldest apatite fissiontrack ages (168135 Ma), indicating that it was exhumed first. Unroofing along the northern, northwestern, and southwestern margins of the Adirondacks began slightly later, as shown by younger apatite fissiontrack ages (146114 Ma) determined for these rocks. This delay in exhumation may have resulted from burial of the peripheral regions by sediment shed from the High Peaks. Apatite fissiontrack ages for samples from the southeastern Adirondacks are distinctly younger (11283 Ma) than those determined for the rest of the Adirondack region. These younger apatite fissiontrack ages are from a section of the Adirondacks dissected by shear zones and postOrdovician northnortheasttrending normal faults. Differential unroofing may have been accommodated by reactivation of the faults in a reverse sense of motion with maximum compressive stress, 
30066397|A morphometric study of 808 lamina profiles of 18 previously published stromatolite taxa was performed using an image analyser. The data were plotted using different shape factors as coordinates and were subjected to multivariate statistical analysis. Visual inspection of the scatter diagrams allows similarities and differences to be readily perceived. Cluster analysis yielded similarity coefficients and dendrograms based thereon, providing quantitative statements of resemblance of lamina profiles. Three major groupings of lamina shape are recognized: (1) those with comparatively uniform, flattened convex profiles, associated with unbranching stromatolites or those with essentially parallel branches, (2) those with variable convex profiles, associated with divergent branches, and (3) those with conical laminae. Subsidiary groupings of more closely related taxa occur in each of the three groupings. The combination of image analysis and multivariate statistical analysis offers a practical and objective adjunct, if not an alternative, to traditional stromatolite systematics.
30080013|The Kerala Khondalite Belt (KKB) of South India is a panAfrican (ca. 600500 Ma) regional granulite terrain that is composed of charnockites, khondalites, and migmatitic leptinitic gneiss. Peak assemblages in the KKB are characterized by orthopyroxene + garnet + Kfeldspar + magnetite + biotite + plagioclase + quartz in felsic to intermediate rocks and by orthopyroxene + cordierite + plagioclase + quartz or garnet + cordierite + sillimanite + feldspars + quartz in semipelites and pelites. Postpeak reaction textures in these assemblages often involve the production of cordierite and are consistent with a predominantly decompressional pressuretemperature history at temperatures in excess of 700C. Pressuretemperature estimates based on garnetorthopyroxene thermobarometry are in the range of 6.57.5 kbar and 860920C for localities close to and within the Achankovil Shear Zone, a prominent highgrade, highstrain zone on the northeastern margin of the KKB. For this northeastern subarea, peak temperatures of
30055915|A flora from the sandstones of the Bugishu series of Uganda is discussed with regard to its physical and distributional indications. The modern aspect of the 12 species designated, together with the physiographic evidence as summarized by Willis, indicate that this flora is not older than Middle Tertiary.
30079901|In the Newfoundland Appalachians, the Betts Cove Complex and cover rocksof the Snooks Arm Group form a composite section of Ordovician marginal oceanic crust that is unconformably overlain by Silurian terrestrial sedimentary rocks and bimodal volcanics of the Cape St. John Group. Tectonic fabrics that characterize both the Ordovician and the Silurian rock sequences are subdivided into pre to synobduction (Taconian) structures, Silurian extensional structures, and Acadian compressional structures. Preobduction structures consist of synoceanic normal faults in the Betts Cove ophiolite. Thrusting fabrics found along parts of the contact between the ophiolite and the Snooks Arm Group are attributed to the obduction of the oceanic crust over the Laurentian margin during the Taconian orogeny. Normal faults and shear zones of inferred Silurian age are preserved in the Snooks Arm Group and along the contact with the Cape St. John Group. These faults are contemporaneous with Silurian sedimentation and magmatism and are attributed to the exhumation of the oceanic crust. Southeastverging reverse faults and folds that characterize the regional deformation in the Baie Verte peninsula postdate the exhumation and are attributed to compressive deformation related to the Devonian Acadian orogeny.
30066391|The induction period for the inorganic precipitation of calcium carbonate was examined over a wide range of supersaturations. Results suggest that inorganic precipitation in average sea water would require about
10.1086/683192|Arabian Shield granitic zircon geochemistry provides insight into the petrogenetic processes involved in generating one of the planets largest tracts of juvenile Neoproterozoic crust. New zircon geochemistry supports previous U-Pb and whole-rock data that defined four magmatic groups: (1) 870675 Ma island arc and synorogenic I-type granitoids (IA+Syn), (2) 640585 Ma I- and A-type granitoids from the Nabitah and Halaban Suture (NHSG), (3) 610600 Ma postorogenic perthitic (hypersolvus) A-type granitoids (POPG), and (4) <600 Ma anorogenic aegirinebearing perthitic (hypersolvus) A-type granitoids (AAPG). The low Nb (1300 ppm) and intrasuite rare earth element variation in IA+Syn and NHSG zircons indicates that these suites are derivatives of contaminated mantle followed by fractionation. AAPG suites, however, have higher Nb content (10400 ppm) and are derived from limited crust-enriched mantle interaction. Each of the IA, Syn, and NHSG suites have discrete granite subsuites distinguished using zircon morphology and geochemistry whose U-Pb ages in each case form three groups. The IA subgroups are 867, 847, and 829 Ma; the Syn subgroups are 730, 716, and 696 Ma; and the NHSG subgroups are 636, 610, and 594 Ma. This apparent subevent repetition suggests some form of magmatic pulsing in the Arabian Shield. It is suggested that IA+Syn suites reflect typical volcanic arc granite settings and incremental subduction/accretion of eastward-migrating oceanic fragments of the East African Orogen. The appearance of 636 Ma A-type magmatism within suture zones (NHSG) is possibly derived from a long-lived (50 m.yr.) melting, assimilation, storage, and homogenization (MASH) zone resulting from an 640 Ma slab tear. These A-types are distinguished from more-enriched anorogenic (<600 Ma) A-types, possibly associated with lithospheric delamination.
30084930|Aerial photographs of a district on the coastal plain of South Carolina reveal hitherto unknown relationships among surface depressions of a peculiar type, the origin of which has long been a subject of speculation. These relationships include (1) a smoothly elliptical shape, (2) parallel alinement in a southeastern direction, (3) a peculiar rim of soil which, with unimportant exceptions, is invariably larger at the southeastern end than elsewhere, and (4) mutual interference of outline. Consideration of all of these facts leads to the conclusion that the origin is not directly attributable to ordinary geologic processes. On the contrary, a hypothesis involving impact by a cluster of meteorites is presented as the most reasonable explanation. The supposed swarm must have been large enough to possess a cross-sectional area at right angles to the direction of movement of the order of magnitude of 50,000 square miles.
30067410|Zircon laser ablation inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry UPb age and geochemical and SrNdHf isotopic data are reported for the Bachu layered intrusive complex (BLIC) in the western Tarim Block and are used to assess the possible presence of a Permian large igneous province (LIP) in the region. The BLIC intrudes the SilurianDevonian sedimentary rocks, and our UPb zircon dating gives a crystallization age of
30079501|Mount Monadnock, Vermont (circa 3,200 feet), is the northernmost stock of alkali-syenite known in New England, and therefore the first in the southerly continuation of the eight similar "Monteregian Hills" of Canada-in all, nineteen such hills or mountains are marked on Figure 1, extending from Montreal, 215 miles, to Mount Agamenticus, Maine. Monadnock is a stock of quartz-nordmarkite, with an interior, older mass of essexite and with associated bostonite and camptonite dikes, intrusive into schists and quartzites of the upper Connecticut Valley, of probably lower Paleozoic age-the igneous rock much later, possibly Carboniferous. Descriptions of the minerals and rocks follow, including analyses of the hornblende, syenite, and essexite; an original topographic and geologic map; and two views of the mountain. Attention is called to the consanguinity shown by the minerals, and their combinations in the rocks, with those of the other hills.
30063363|In the Middle Rio Grande Valley, New Mexico, serious flood damage, drainage impairment, and soil impoverishment are occurring as a result of the accumulation of modern sediment. The relative importance of various sources of the injurious sediment, which is largely sand, has been determined from the heavy-mineral composition of channel deposits of the Rio Grande and its tributaries. It was found that about 48-54 per cent of the Rio Grande channel and floodway sand deposits between San Acacia and San Marcial have come from the Rio Puerco, 19-21 per cent from the Rio Salado, and 25-33 per cent from the rest of the drainage basin. The Rio Puerco drains about 21 per cent of the watershed, and the Rio Salado about 6 per cent. Of the channel and floodway deposits between Albuquerque and Bernardo, about 21-39 per cent have come from the Rio Jemez, 2-6 per cent from the Rio Galisteo, 0.6-2.0 per cent from Santa Fe Creek, 11-37 per cent from the Rio Grande above Cochiti, New Mexico, and the rest from small tributaries for which separate evaluations were not made. Tributary contributions to the main stream apparently did not change greatly during the five-year period of investigation, 1937-41. Since 1880, however, there have been marked changes in contribution from some tributaries and in the mineral composition of the Rio Grande sands between San Acacia and San Marcial. All source evaluations were based on the hydraulic ratios of the heavy minerals. The reasons why other methods of representing mineral compositions are not suitable for source evaluations are outlined.
30055717|A new equilibrium diagram for the system Or: Ab: An has been constructed on the basis of the feldspar content of a large number of rocks. It indicates that an increase in the anorthite content of the plagioclase present corresponds to an increase in the possible maximum of orthoclase in the rocks. Thus the eutectic point between ortho-clase and albite lies at about 45 Or: 55 Ab, whereas the boundary between the orthoclase and plagioclase fields in the vicinity of andesine is near 70 Or: 30 (
30082319|Alaskitic and tonalitic rocks constituting Hyde School Gneiss (HSG) occur in 14 domical bodies in the Adirondack lowlands. Recent models have interpreted these bodies as metamorphosed rhyolitic and dacitic ash-flow deposits forming the basal member of a regional stratigraphic package. In contrast, this paper presents criteria and evidence for an intrusive origin for HSG. Field evidence includes intrusion breccias and complex crosscutting relationships involving mafic layers resembling synplutonic dikes. Petrological constraints supporting an intrusive origin include: (1) the common occurrence of quartz-mesoperthite hypersolvus assemblages; (2) magmatic features in tonalitic, trondhjemitic, and alaskitic facies; (3) local occurrences of orthopyroxene in all facies of HSG; and (4) the development of marginal garnet-sillimanite gneiss with corundum-spinel-garnet-sillimanite assemblages yielding paleotempera-tures of 780-810C and interpreted as restite remaining after anatexis of country rock metapelite by intrusions of hypersolvus granitoids. U-Pb zircon ages reported here suggest that the majority of the HSG was intruded at ca. 1230 Ma, contemporaneous with high-grade metamorphic activity in the Adirondacks and elsewhere in the SW sector of the Grenville Province. Geochronological evidence from a leucogranitic rock crosscutting metasediments on Welles-ley Island suggests that these metasediments are older than
30075179|Catastrophic rock falls differ from normal screes in that they tend to spread as a thin sheet over considerable areas of country, the distribution of the debris bearing little relationship to the topography of the low ground over which it is spread. Consideration of ancient and modern examples suggests that the mechanism must involve fluidization with entrapped air, which permits high speed of movement of the fall as a flood of unsorted rock fragments over irregular ground and obstacles.
30062471|The Willow River Dolomite Member of the Shakopee Formation (Lower Ordovician) in the Upper Mississippi Valley is composed primarily of dolomite and quartzitic dolomite with minor amounts of quartz sandstone, shale, and chert. Locally abundant algal stromatolites are the only common organic remains. Complete dolomitization has not destroyed the textural character or much of the compositional character of the rocks. As a result, environmental interpretations are possible from data gathered by examining thin sections as well as from field observations. Deposition of Willow River sediments took place in a shallow, epeiric sea consisting of three broad environments: (1) a shallow, open marine area in the northwest represented by grain sparite, abundant olite beds, and relatively abundant fossils; (2) an intertidal or near-intertidal, high physical-energy zone where stromatolitic algae flourished in the central area represented by abundant algal biolithite with associated intrasparite; and (3) a locally intertidal and hypersaline, low physical-energy zone in the southeast represented by algal mats, micrite, and abundant desiccation features. Terrigenous materials were derived primarily from Precambrian igneous and metamorphic rocks and Cambrian sandstones to the northeast. General environment of deposition during Willow River time was similar to that in which other Lower Ordovician strata were deposited in the Appalachian, Ozark, and central Texas areas.
30080926|Biram anemometer measurements over a sand dune before and after experimental planting of sandbinding marram grass shows how effectively it reduces wind velocities very near the surface. The effective surface roughness parameter or height of zero mean velocity increased from about 0.03 to 1 cm. Idealized models for biotic and topographic factors influencing wind help explain normal dune development.
10.1086/682008|Geospatial data are a key component of investigating, interpreting, and communicating the geological sciences. Locating geospatial data can be time-consuming, which detracts from time spent on a study because these data are not obviously placed in central locations or are served from many disparate databases. The National Map of the US Geological Survey is a publicly available resource for accessing the geospatial base map data needs of the geological community from a central location. The National Map data are available through a viewer and download platform providing access to eight primary data themes, plus the US Topo and scanned historical topographic maps. The eight themes are elevation, orthoimagery, hydrography, geographic names, boundaries, transportation, structures, and land cover, and they are being offered for download as predefined tiles in formats supported by leading geographic information system software. Data tiles are periodically refreshed to capture the most current content and are an efficient method for disseminating and receiving geospatial information. Elevation data, for example, are offered as a download from the National Map as 1  1 tiles for the 10- and 30- m products and as 15  15 tiles for the higher-resolution 3-m product. Vector data sets with smaller file sizes are offered at several tile sizes and formats. Partial tiles are not a download optionany prestaged data that intersect the requesting bounding box will be, in their entirety, part of the download order. While there are many options for accessing geospatial data via the Web, the National Map represents authoritative sources of data that are documented and can be referenced for citation and inclusion in scientific publications. Therefore, National Map products and services should be part of a geologists first stop for geospatial information and data.
30081236|Mineral inclusions in zircon from gneisses in the ultrahighpressure (UHP) zone of the Dabie Mountains, China, are studied by using laser Raman spectrophotometry. We identified numerous mineral inclusions including coesite, quartz, clinopyroxene, phengite, barite, anhydrite, and feldspar. Coesite is found to occur as zirconhosted inclusions in all types of gneisses, indicating that these gneisses had shared the ultrahighpressure metamorphic history with the UHP eclogite blocks that reside in them. The occurrence of barite and anhydrite probably implies the existence of
30080219|Alkaline (sodic) volcanic rocks, i.e., ankaratritesmelanephelinites, basanitestephrites, and phonolites, dated at 119 Ma and similar in composition to the 60Ma plugs of the Asuncin Province, occur in Eastern Paraguay and belong to the Misiones Province. The age relationships confirm that the youngest volcanic events in Eastern Paraguay, at the central westernmost side of the Paran basin, are represented by alkaline rock types of sodic affinity emplaced in late Early Cretaceous and Paleocene times. This sodic magmatism contrasts with the Early Cretaceous alkaline (potassic) magmatism of the region, and it is associated in space and time with the Paran basin tholeiites. Geological and geophysical results for Eastern Paraguay indicate transtensional tectonics, with a NESW regional extensional stress field. The geochemistry and SrNdPb isotope systematics are consistent with a lithospheric mantle source(s) enriched in incompatible elements by metasomatic processes. Nd model ages suggest that these probably occurred during Meso and/or Neoproterozoic times and may be regarded as precursors of both alkaline and tholeiitic magmas in Eastern Paraguay. Potential parents for the alkaline (sodic) liquids have been modeled in terms of small degrees of mantle partial melting. Multielemental plots of calculated mantle sources for these liquids from Asuncin and Misiones contrast with the analog mantle sources for the Paraguayan alkaline (potassic) suite, confirming the view that popular geodynamic markers of this type remain implausible indicators of subduction. Our results support the view that the magma genesis and the emplacement of the alkaline magmatism in southeastern Paraguay, and even in northwestern Argentina and Bolivia, is related to and probably driven by reactivation of preexisting lithospheric discontinuities in the various South American blocks, which promoted local decompression melting of previously enriched mantle sources.
30060647|It is often useful to measure and analyze the orientations of various geological features-fabric elements, structural features, etc. Such measurements are more easily interpreted if they are summarized by statistics representing: (1) a preferred orientation direction, (2) the degree of preferred orientation, and (3) the probability that the preferred orientation is real and not merely due to chance. Application of conventional linear statistical methods, such as are used for grain-size analyses, presents some difficult problems, because orientation data are in the form of circular frequency distributions. A method of analysis which avoids these difficulties is discussed in this paper. A logical approach to the problem is to treat the distribution directly in its circular form rather than to divide it into a linear frequency distribution. This avoids the difficulty that the mean and standard deviation of such a distribution varies with the choice of origin or dividing point. A resultant vector is obtained for the circular distribution by treating each observation as a vector and summing components. The direction of this vector is the preferred orientation direction, and the vector magnitude is a measure of the dispersion, or degree of orientation. These descriptive statistics have the advantage that they are independent of any a priori reference direction or origin. An excellent correlation exists between vector mganitude and the standard deviation calculated around the vector direction. A test of the significance of the difference between an empirical orientation distribution and randomness is presented. Comparison shows that statistical significance is in many cases more easily attained with this test than with the chi-square and the F tests. Two empirical distributions with rather low vector magnitudes (high standard deviations), taken from sand-grain orientation studies, are tested for goodness of fit against several model distributions. The best fits appear to be the circular normal distribution and a distribution obtained by wrapping an unlimited linear normal curve around the center point of a polar co-ordinate plot.
10.1086/681724|New U-Pb and Sm-Nd data from the Blue Mountains province, eastern Oregon and western Idaho, clarify terrane correlations and regional evolution of the western Laurentian plate margin during Mesozoic time. We report an Early Jurassic age for a red tuff unit at Pittsburg Landing, Idaho, which is 25 m.yr. older than previous Middle Jurassic estimates. In the Coon Hollow Formation at Pittsburg Landing and at the type location on the Snake River, chemical abrasion thermal ionization mass spectrometry U-Pb zircon ages on interbedded tuff and detrital zircon U-Pb maximum depositional ages indicate that deposition spanned ca. 160150 Ma, entirely during Late Jurassic time. Detrital zircon U-Pb ages represent local Wallowa arc basement and regional magmatic sources spanning ca. 290140 Ma. Mudrock Nd isotope compositions of the Coon Hollow Formation record an increase in juvenile magmatism consistent with regional Late Jurassic trends in western North American magmatic systems. These data show that the Coon Hollow Formation is not part of a Middle Jurassic overlap assemblage, as has been historically interpreted. Instead, we propose that the Coon Hollow Formation is part of a belt of suprasubduction-zone extensional back-arc basins that formed in latest Jurassic time due to a well-documented period of trench retreat in the western United States. Our new data require that the underlying Wallowa terrane was accreted to and received detritus from western North America by ca. 160 Ma (early Late Jurassic). This minimum estimate for the age of terrane accretion in western Idaho and eastern Oregon is substantially earlier than previous estimates (135118 Ma). In the Blue Mountains region, westward expansion of Laurentia was accomplished by accretion of arc terranes to the North American craton prior to Late Jurassic time.
30079952|A 1:5000 scale mapping was performed in the Isukasia area of the ca. 3.8Ga Isua supracrustal belt, southern West Greenland. The mapped area is divided into three units bounded by lowangle thrusts: the Northern, Middle, and Southern Units. The Southern Unit, the best exposed, is composed of 14 subunits (horses) with similar lithostratigraphy, bound by layerparallel thrusts. Duplex structures are widespread in the Isua belt and vary in scale from a few meters to kilometers. Duplexing proceeded from south to north and is well documented in the relationship between link and roofthrusts. The reconstructed lithostratigraphy of each horse reveals a simple pattern, in ascending order, of greenstone with lowK tholeiitic composition with or without pillow lava structures, chert/banded ironformation, and turbidites. The cherts and underlying lowK tholeiites do not contain continent or arcderived material. The lithostratigraphy is quite similar to Phanerozoic oceanic plate stratigraphy, except for the abundance of mafic material in the turbidites. The evidence of duplex structures and oceanic plate stratigraphy indicates that the Isua supracrustal belt is the oldest accretionary complex in the world. The dominantly mafic turbidite composition suggests that the accretionary complex was formed in an intraoceanic environment comparable to the presentday western Pacific Ocean. The duplex polarity suggests that an older accretionary complex should occur to the south of the Isua complex. Moreover, the presence of seawater (documented by a thick, pillow, lava unit at the bottom of oceanic plate stratigraphy) indicates that the surface temperature was less than ca. 100C in the Early Archean. The oceanic geotherm for the Early Archean lithosphere as a function of age was calculated based on a model of transient halfspace cooling at given parameters of surface and mantle temperatures of 100 and 1450C, respectively, suggesting that the Archean oceanic lithosphere was rigid. These conclusionsrigidity and lateral plate movementsupport the idea that the modern style of plate tectonics was in operation only 0.70.8 G.yr. after the formation of the Earth.
30070694|The recognition of a Mississippian fossil coral in the crystalline limestones of the Winchester quarry, near Hemet, California, extends the known distribution of the Mississippian rocks in California, definitely indicating the presence of Mississippian seas in the southern California area.
30068679|Principal component analysis is applied to describe the bathymetrie form (profile) and regional variation of the inner continental shelf along the Atlantic and Gulf coasts of the United States. The first two eigenvectors (
30079812|Detailed field mapping combined with a petrologic and geochemical investigation of the Zedong terrane within the Yarlung Tsangpo suture zone provides insights to the evolution of now mostly subducted portions of Tethys during the Late Jurassic. The terrane is dominated by volcanic rocks of shoshonitic affinity, which were erupted in a submarine oceanic island arc setting. The volcanic island arc was built on a basement of oceanic crust, and the shoshonites locally overlie a thin section of pillowed island arc tholeiites and red ribbonbedded radiolarian cherts. Geochemistry of the shoshonites suggests that their development occurred in a setting analogous to that of Late Miocene to Early Pliocene Fiji and was associated with an arc rifting. We speculate that this event may have been a farfield response to developments associated with Gondwana breakup.
30060697|Statistical grain-size characteristics of pyroclastic deposits are displayed commonly in graphic form for descriptive, comparative, discriminative, and genetic purposes. Two common graphic forms are the
30067347|Basaltic lava flows intruded by pre-Cambrian granodiorite and granites comprise the greater part of the Virginia Blue Ridge within the area of the proposed Shenandoah National Park. The flows, extensively altered to epidote greenstone, have been described by Keith in northern Virginia as the Catoctin schist. Greenstone and granodiorite are intruded by the Old Rag granite. All of the preceding rocks are intruded by the Air Point granite, which has been described recently by Jonas in southwestern Virginia. The possibility of the presence of Lower Cambrian flows is discussed. The youngest in-trusives are dikes of Triassic diabase.
30068625|Kaihikuan (upper Middle Triassic) clastics of the Hokonui belt fine from west to east, and hence were derived from the west. Deep erosion of a volcanic terrane and associated shallow intrusives contributed most of the sediment, but reworking of contemporaneous pyroclastic debris was also an important process. In the Alpine belt, the source of Kaihikuan sediments was a deep-seated acidic plutonio terrane. At least some of the deposits formed in nearshore, shallow-marine environments. The Alpine belt sequences do not fit lateral extrapolations of sedimentologic or petrologie trends of the Hokonui belt, and thus cannot be explained as distal facies of the same sedimentary basin. The two belts probably were juxtaposed by faulting.
30060492|High-tide rock basins common in calcareous rocks at La Jolla and elsewhere are described. Rock and water analyses were made in order to determine the origin of the basins. The evidence indicates that biochemical processes cause the sea water in the basins to become unsaturated with calcium carbonate at night, so that calcite cement is dissolved from the rock floor. Waves at high tide and snails living in the basins remove the uncemented rock grains. During the daytime, however, the water deposits calcium carbonate, and for the higher tide pools this deposition results in greater induration of the rock at the edge of the DOOIS, so that resistant elevated rims are formed.
30062220|Where sampled, altitude and drainage pattern in Connecticut are closely related to lithology and structure. Long-continued erosion, without close control by any base level of post-Cretaceous age, is implied. The Fall Zone, a facet-like surface in coastal Connecticut, is identified with the sub-Cretaceous surface beneath Long Island. Whether or not it is considered a peneplane is a matter of definition. Probably it lay buried beneath a Cretaceous cover while the region north of it was deeply eroded. In place of the concept of superposition from a cover, it is more likely that the drainage pattern of the Fall Zone antedates that cover. The geometry of the Fall Zone implies recurrent (or continuous) arching beginning before late Cretaceous time. Except for local deepening of major valleys, glacial erosion appears to have been minor, and little glacial rearrangement of drainage has occurred.
30056952|One of the main points in the classification of the pre-Paleozoic rocks of Canada is the position of the Keewatin series, which is often regarded as comprising the oldest of known rocks. Evidence from Harricana, Porcupine, and other districts suggests that the Keewatin series is either approximately or completely contemporaneous with the Timiskaming series. This position of the Keewatin is also supported by comparison with the Scottish pre-Paleozoic succession.
30065517|The highest aquatic sediments along the shoulders of the Dead Sea depression have been found in the Cave of the Letters, Nahal Hever, Israel. The cave has acted as a sediment trap, preserving autogenic dolomite and detritic deposits. The dolomitic sediment may correlate with late Miocene dolomites within the rift valley. The morphostratigraphic setting of the sediment implies deposition within an early topographic low that existed in the Dead Sea region since 10 to 7 Ma.
30059328|Pleistocene basalt flows and related vent fades in the Pinacate volcanic field, Sonora, Mexico, record a four-stage eruptive cycle that is largely or wholly repeated at each of many cinder cones. Basal lava flows (stage 1) commonly preceded initiation of Strombolian cone-building activity. Such basal flows rarely have been reported elsewhere. Occurrence of basal flows at Pinacate cinder cones may reflect sufficiently rapid initial rise of magma as to preclude an incubation period for bubble growth and coalescence to yield large bubbles and explosive activity. Flows accompanied Strombolian eruptions at some localities, but many Pinacate cones were unbreached at the close of the cone-building pyroclastic phase (stage 2) of their eruptive cycles. Continued delivery of magma produced deep lava lakes within unbreached cones; radial dikes and sills emanated from these lakes. Lake level rose until it overtopped cone rims or until one side of weak cone structures gave way and the cone was breached (stage 3). Finally, renewed pyroclastic eruptions (stage 4) yielded small volumes of tephra especially rich in skeletal phenocrysts. These terminal eruptions evidently resulted from resurgent boiling consequent upon rapid growth of phenocrysts in pockets of melt remaining at very shallow depth.
30057143|Mugearite as a petrographic and petrogenetic unit is reviewed in the light of new analyses of the type and new data on the composition and optical properties of its feldspar solid solutions and clinopyroxene phases. The feldspar studies reveal lime anorthoclase as a prominent modal mineral. The place of mugearite in igneous rock series is discussed especially in relation to its development in Hebridean and Hawaiian volcanic successions.
30070731|It is generally agreed that no essential differences exist between the normal coal types and constituents of American and British Carboniferous coals. The brilliant bands of vitrain (anthraxylon) have been derived from fragments of cellular tissue, particularly the tissue of Bothrodendron, Lepidodendron, and Sigillarla, and also of wood tissues of gymnosperms and cycadophytes. Isolation of the various coal constituents and their examination petrologically and chemically is vital to investigations of rank and type variation. The importance of petrographic analysis to the economic and efficient utilization of coal is becoming increasingly apparent, as is also the petrographic examination of the mineral matter in coal seams in solving problems of preparation and treatment.
30064167|Petrographic and transmission electron microscopy (TEM) study reveals that planar fractures, pseudotachylite (PST) veinlets, and planar deformation features (PDF) in quartz and K-feldspar grains are developed only within ~2 mm of the surface of shatter cones in Proterozoic arkosic sandstones from the Beaverhead (Montana) impact structure. This unique association reinforces the impact-shock origin attibuted to all these shock-metamorphic features. No high-pressure
30081257|Detrital zircon UPb ages constrain the age and provenance of the Skelton Group in southern Victoria Land, one of several ProterozoicCambrian metasedimentary units that form basement to the Ross Orogen in East Antarctica. The age of the youngest detrital zircons combined with previous dating of crosscutting intrusive rocks indicates deposition of the northern and southern parts of the Skelton Group between ca. 1050535 and ca. 950551 Ma, respectively. Many zircons in the northern part of the Skelton Group crystallized after partial melting during upper amphibolite facies metamorphism at ca. 505480 Ma, although older ca. 550Ma metamorphic zircon rims indicate an earlier episode of highgrade metamorphism. Detrital zircon ages from the Skelton Group are dominated by ca. 1300950Ma ages similar to those in the Beardmore Group in East Antarctica and the Adelaidean succession of South Australia, suggesting that these rocks are generally correlative. Zircons that crystallized at ca. 1050 Ma form the major age population of the northern Skelton Group, while a broader range of Neoproterozoic zircons form significant components in other sediments deposited on the margin of East AntarcticaAustralia at this time, indicating a close proximity to exposed Grenville age crust. Inferred basement rocks of Grenville age beneath the Ross Orogen in East Antarctica (represented by a potential
10.1086/606036|The geochemical behavior of detrital zircon and monazite during granulite facies anatexis in metapelites from the Eastern Ghats Belt (EGB), India, is explored using UPb geochronology, Hf isotopes, and trace elements. In a metapelite from the Ongole Domain, detrital zircon reequilibrated by coupled dissolutionreprecipitation and diffusion reaction during ultrahightemperature metamorphism at 1.63 Ga. The event completely reset the UPb systems, but Hf isotopes and trace elements were only partially reequilibrated. Overgrowths on the altered cores date migmatization at 1.61 Ga. Monazite yields metamorphic ages similar to those of zircon. In metapelites from the Eastern Ghats Province (EGP), detrital zircon grains give 2.441.40Ga ages and metamorphic ones 1.20.5Ga ages. Metamorphic components include detrital grains reequilibrated by coupled dissolutionreprecipitation in the presence of anatectic melt and newly crystallized overgrowths and grains. In reequilibrated domains, the UPb system was completely reset, but Hf isotope compositions of precursors were often retained. The
JG117103|Neoproterozoic magmatism in the Hannan region at the northwestern margin of the Yangtze Block is characterized by numerous felsic plutons associated with minor mafic-ultramafic intrusions. The felsic plutons are either adakitic or normal-arc granitic in composition. The adakitic plutons are
30056242|A piece of apparatus was designed with which it was hoped to determine the relative rates at which glacier ice would respond by flow to the same head at varying depth pressures. The primary object of the experiments was frustrated, but measurements were secured which permitted the plotting of a curve showing the approximate relation of rate of flow and temperature in ice. A temperature zoning was then introduced in blocks of ice to simulate that supposed to exist in glaciers. On subjecting these blocks or model glaciers to pressure, it was found that warm bottom ice moves out laterally from beneath colder ice and that transverse crevasses are developed by this differential movement. Applications of the results of the experiments to glacial dynamics and to the temperature zoning in glaciers are then briefly discussed.
30080786|This study was conducted primarily to establish petrographic criteria for distinguishing between the basal Cotter sandstone and the Jefferson City sandstones with which it is associated in the Rolla Quadrangle, Missouri. Texture is found to be a reliable criterion, especially when used in conjunction with field relationships, and texture analyses are applied in working out several local stratigraphic problems. Shape of grain and quantitative heavy mineral analyses are of no value in correlation but are made the basis of an interpretation of the geologic history of the sandstones. These rocks, originally composed of well-sorted and well-rounded grains, were derived largely from preexisting sediments and were deposited in a shallow sea. They subsequently were modified by ground water which brought about secondary enlargement of the quartz grains and introduced a group of sulphides similar to those which comprise the lead and zinc deposits of the state.
30057925|A granite-porphyry mass, one of a number of porphyries with complex relationships occurring in the pre-Cambrian of Great Bear Lake, is defined. A description is given of the various phases of the formation, its contact phenomena, its apophyses, its form and possible origin, and post-intrusive alterations of a pneumatolytic character. Associated formations are briefly described, and some of the interesting physical features of the region discussed.
30059101|The frequency distribution of the major rock-forming minerals in the Oslo petrographic province and in the intra-Pacific province has been determined. In a concluding section several ways to arrive at the average mineral composition of igneous rocks are presented for consideration.
30060683|In the Cambridge Gulf-Ord River region of Australia, an area that experiences a dry monsoonal climate and a high tidal range (5.9 m), a variety of tidal-plain and fluvial depositional environments were recognized. Near the coast, prograding shorelines are characterized by extensive mangrove successional sequences and scattered thin beach-ridge deposits. In the interfluve regions and farther inland along the coast, tidal-plain sedimentation has given rise to extensive flats that are bare of vegetation at approximately the high spring tide level. Evaporites, algal-layered silts and clays, and massive sandy deposits form the bulk of these tidal-flat sediments. Sinuous tidal channels, displaying low width/depth ratios and characterized by a progressive tide wave, are found throughout the coastal tidal-flat region. These channels migrate laterally, leaving preserved channel sand bodies isolated in tidal deposits. In the funnel-shaped channel of the Ord River, the major river in the region receiving freshwater runoff, the tide wave is symmetrical at the mouth but becomes deformed upstream owing to a high amplitude/depth ratio; thus the velocity of flood currents increasingly exceeds ebb velocities upstream and ebb flow increases in duration. In the upper portions of the tide-dominated river channel, the largest bedforms within the channel migrate upstream under the influence of dominant flood currents, choking the channel with sand deposits. Extensive channel migration and meandering are characteristic of this region of the channel. In addition, extensive overbank crevassing occurs, a process that forms the bulk of the fluvial deposition. In the lower Ord River, linear, elongate tidal ridges within and seaward of the channel form the major sand deposits of the delta. These environments and their distribution and geometrical relationships characterize arid, high-tidal-dominated river systems.
30063637|Partially cemented slopes composed of coarse angular limestone fragments and exhibiting a loose "openwork" texture are described from a portion of the valley of the Ain River in the southern Jura Mountains of France. These slopes are no longer forming but are undergoing erosion by slope wash, creep, and minor sliding. Intense frost action during one or more substages of the last or Wrm glaciation is considered to have been the dominant process in their development.
30068061|In North Chile, Jurassic-Cretaceous arc magmatism is represented by several narrow belts of plutons and two separate volcanic sequences. New
30064716|In general, magnetostratigraphic studies tend to concentrate on the analysis of the intensity and direction of the remanent magnetization of the samples while placing less importance on the sampling procedure used. The sampling procedure, however, may be critical where sedimentary rocks from shallow-water marine and terrestrial depositional environments are involved. Such environments are characterized by non-uniform, discontinuous sedimentation, and consequently the sampling plan chosen must take into account changes in deposition rate and breaks in the sedimentation. In attempting to expand our knowledge of the polarity history of the geomagnetic field, such rocks are being used increasingly in magnetostratigraphic studies. To obtain the maximum benefit from these studies, it is essential that the sample collection scheme takes into account the various processes involved in sediment accumulation in such settings. To study the influence of these processes on the success of magnetostratigraphic studies, a simple stochastic model is developed that facilitates experimentation with: (1) pauses in deposition; (2) variations in sedimentation rates; (3) variations in bed thickness within a section; (4) sampling strategy; and (5) the criterion adopted for the recognition of a polarity reversal. Particular attention is given to assessing the probability of detecting time intervals of 50,000 years, since these short intervals may serve as the basis for positioning a given section within a "master" reversal sequence. Results indicate that the choice of appropriate sampling interval is linked intimately to the mean bed thickness and the rate of sediment accumulation. The probability of detecting specific short time intervals (~ 50,000 yr) varies significantly with the amount of time recorded by the rock material but is not high (< 50%) even for the optimum conditions where typical sampling intervals (1-2 m) are used. Detection of short reversal intervals therefore seems to be unlikely in many of the studies of the magnetic stratigraphy of shallow marine and terrestrial deposits.
30061242|Calcarenite grains on the Bahama sea floor are bound together by a gelatinous substance to form a coherent mat. The sand is thus immobilized, despite tidal currents strong enough to erode loose grains. The mat contains many and various micro-organisms and is an important source of food for the macrobenthos.
JG80209|A complex microstructural feature has been discovered within centimeter-scale pseudotachylyte veins and is here termed bubble collapse structure (BCS). Three first-order features of BCSs are (1) a central quartzdominated monocrystal or polycrystal, (2) a light-colored reaction halo, and (3) a generally radial but commonly curving pattern of opaque seams and/or elliptical quartz amygdules. Two populations of bubbles were principally responsible for forming BCSs. One was a population of millimeter-scale bubbles, and the second involved much more numerous small bubbles (mean diameter,
30066379|Alluvial deposits in southern Arizona are conveniently grouped into four major classes for purposes of geomorphic-climatic interpretation. The oldest group consists of (1) great thicknesses of highly deformed, varied, continental sediments and volcanic rocks deposited under conditions of crustal instability and a subhumid climate prior to the major events of the Basin and Range orogeny; (2) moderately tilted and faulted, coarse, postorogenic fanglomerates deposited during rapid erosion of uplifted mountain blocks with steep slopes, under a hot, semiarid climate. A second group consists of locally deformed, fine-grained lake beds and correlative deposits, deposited from lower Pliocene to middle Pleistocene under generally mild climates in response to damming of the ancestral drainage. A third group consists of very coarse, unde-formed fan deposits that were the product of rapid mechanical weathering during the cold Illinoian and Wisconsin glaciopluvial stages. The fourth group consists of fine-grained, denega beds, deposited from 500 B.C. to about A.D 1800 in almost every watercourse under a climate very much like today's. The change from fine-grained deposition of the lake episode to fan deposition indicates that the early Pleistocene pluvial stages were more humid than today, but not particularly cold; mechanical weathering was subordinate to chemical weathering. During the much colder Illinoian and Wisconsin stages only the low desert ranges escaped intensive frost action. A mature, leached, red-brown soil separates Illinoian from Wisconsin deposits over a wide area of southern Arizona. Fan gradients were determined by the ruggedness of the parent basins. Fans are thicker for basins with higher summit elevations and northeast orientation. The empirical equation
30068715|Gold analyses of whole rock, mineral, and groundmass of seven calc-alkalic volcanic rocks (basalt to rhyolite) show that gold is less abundant in the dominant phenocrystic phases than in the whole rock; groundmass concentrations are also lower than whole rock. Crystal-liquid partition coefficients are <1 for plagioclase and hornblende, and about 1 for olivine, pyroxene, magnetite, and biotite. If only the principal phases are considered, the bulk gold partition coefficient is typically <1, yet gold seems to be depleted rather than enriched in many evolved magmas. A significant proportion of gold in these rocks is in neither the groundmass nor the dominant phenocrysts but instead is contained in tiny sulflde blebs that are found in these rocks. During crystallization the continual separation of a sulflde phase that concentrates gold is consistent with compatible gold behavior and petrography. Further data is needed to evaluate this hypothesis.
30066095|Deformation of metabasalts in the central Appalachians has produced contrasting zones of fabric development within individual flows. More schistose zones reflect metamorphic textures and mineralogies, while more massive zones still retain igneous textures and, locally, relict igneous clinopyroxene. Samples from a single flow show chemical variations that appear to be a function of fabric development. Composition-volume relationships indicate that more massive zones were least affected by greenschist facies metamorphism, and their geochemical signatures are therefore closest to that of the original magmas. More schistose zones may have acted as conduits for metamorphic fluids, most likely NaCl-rich brines, which transported components into and out of the system. These more schistose zones therefore may have lost or gained material during metamorphism. Cation exchange reactions and silica solubility are used to measure reaction progress and to estimate fluid/rock ratios in different zones within a flow. These monitors suggest that in more massive portions of flows, fluid/rock ratios were low, and hydration reactions were incomplete. In more schistose zones, fluid/rock ratios were higher, hydration reactions went to completion, and geochemical signatures generally reflect a marked depletion of $K_{2}O$, Rb, and CaO, with some loss of $SiO_{2}$. In highly schistose zones adjacent to contacts or faults, fluid/rock ratios were probably >100, $SiO_{2}$ was significantly depleted due to dissolution, and geochemical signatures of all oxides appear disrupted.
30070762|Mass flow in lobate rock glaciers is discussed, and an alternative to the rotational flow pattern suggested by Sweet et al. 1980 for lobate rock glaciers in Spitsbergen is proposed. It is suggested that flow trajectories in lobate rock glaciers generally have a downslope component, and that surface lows, "inner depressions," today found on many lobate rock glaciers, develop during a period of relative warmth especially in a part of the rock glacier where much ice is included in the rock glacier body. "Inner depressions," rather than being the result of active, rotational flow, are thought to be a degeneration form and may be used as a criterion for inactivity of lobate rock glaciers.
30061183|Rifted margin's develop through embryonic, youthful, and mature stages, and some diversity is attributable to the along-strike position of the embryonic (rift valley) stage, between the extremes of the crest of a rifted arch and the saddle between arches. In East Africa-Arabia, an embryonic stage of arches and saddles cleft by rift valleys is connected with the youthful 20 m.y. Red Sea-Gulf of Aden. In Australia, the 53 m.y. southern margin represents early maturity, and the 125 to 160 m.y. western margin late maturity. The dominant morp ho tectonic feature of the embryo is the arch, 2000 km long and 1000 km across, cleft by rift valleys, and separated along strike from its neighbour by a saddle. With the emplacement of oceanic litho sphere, the arch splits into half-arches or rims along the newly formed margins. The rims subside about a hinge situated 500 km landward of the continent-ocean boundary; the rim along the saddle becomes submerged soon after breakup, whereas the rim along the crest initially stands higher, and may last for 40 m.y. after breakup, which marks the passage from youth to maturity.
30067040|We examine the Pleistocene tectonic reorganization of the PacificNorth American plate boundary in the Salton Trough of southern California with an integrated approach that includes basin analysis, magnetostratigraphy, and geologic mapping of upper Pliocene to Pleistocene sedimentary rocks in the San Felipe Hills. These deposits preserve the earliest sedimentary record of movement on the San Felipe and San Jacinto fault zones that replaced and deactivated the late Cenozoic West Salton detachment fault. Sandstone and mudstone of the Brawley Formation accumulated between 1.1 and 0.60.5 Ma in a delta on the margin of an arid Pleistocene lake, which received sediment from alluvial fans of the Ocotillo Formation to the westsouthwest. Our analysis indicates that the Ocotillo and Brawley formations prograded abruptly to the eastnortheast across a former muddominated perennial lake (Borrego Formation) at 1.1 Ma in response to initiation of the dextraloblique San Felipe fault zone. The 25kmlong San Felipe anticline initiated at about the same time and produced an intrabasinal basementcored high within the San FelipeBorrego basin that is recorded by progressive unconformities on its north and south limbs. A disconformity at the base of the Brawley Formation in the eastern San Felipe Hills probably records initiation and early blind slip at the southeast tip of the Clark strand of the San Jacinto fault zone. Our data are consistent with abrupt and nearly synchronous inception of the San Jacinto and San Felipe fault zones southwest of the southern San Andreas fault in the early Pleistocene during a pronounced southwestward broadening of the San Andreas fault zone. The current contractional geometry of the San Jacinto fault zone developed after 0.50.6 Ma during a second, less significant change in structural style.
30063059|Quartz grains from Pleistocene nearshore marine beach-dune and lagoonal-estuarine stratigraphic units in southeastern Virginia were studied with the transmission and scanning microscopes to determine if results of electron-microscopic studies correlate with independent field data. Relative ages of stratigraphic units were determined from the degree of etching and obliteration of mechanical features on quartz-grain surfaces. Superposed surface features indicated depositional histories and were used to determine maximum relative sea level along each shoreline. Shorelines with southward longshore drift were distinguished from those with northward longshore drift by the presence or absence of glacial surface features on quartz grains.
10.1086/671394|As a dense metamorphic rock with silica grains that are strongly fused, quartzite exposed on rocky shores is generally resistant to marine erosion. The longevity of quartzite coasts compared to those formed by other rock types is underscored by the preservation of many former islands that retain notable topographic relief as inliers of Archean and Proterozoic quartzite surrounded by Paleozoic marine strata in North America and Western Australia. Among the few places where modern rocky shores composed principally of quartzite may be studied with regard to marine erosion, Hongdo in the Yellow Sea off the southwestern Korean peninsula is a natural laboratory where intersection of structural geology, coastal geomorphology, oceanography, sedimentology, and climate converge to demonstrate how a quartzite island evolves through time. Although small in size (6.87 km
30060887|Erosion by Hortonian overland flow on unvegetated small plots (
30060940|Paired apatite fission track and UTh/He dates provide the first Late Cenozoic cooling ages for the northern Tien Shan. These data clearly argue for pulsed deformation since the Late Miocene, with early (1011 Ma) and late (03 Ma) intervals of rapid exhumation separated by an extended interval of much slower rates. By integrating these bedrock cooling rates with shortening estimates derived from a balanced section, detrital cooling ages, and geomorphological estimates of conditions before deformation, we reconstruct a fourstage history of range growth and exhumation. Following 100 m.yr. of tectonic quiescence, abruptly accelerated rock uplift, exhumation, and cooling in the Kyrgyz Range commenced at 11 Ma with rates exceeding 1 km/m.yr. During the subsequent 7 m.yr., deformation and cooling rates decreased three to sixfold before accelerating by comparable amounts during the past 3 m.yr. Since midMiocene times, the surface elevation of the Kyrgyz Range has increased 2 km, consistent with the reconstructed magnitude of crustal shortening (11 km) and thickening (12 km) across the range. The highly pulsed deformation rates indicate that the locus of deformation probably shifted repeatedly within the Tien Shan from the Miocene to present. Even at their most rapid, Cenozoic shortening rates in the Kyrgyz Range were equivalent to only 10%20% of the modern geodetic convergence rate across the entire Tien Shan. This requires several ranges within the Tien Shan to have deformed simultaneously since the Middle Miocene, a situation analogous to the distributed shortening seen today.
30062584|The dolerites of Tasmania are close kin to those of the Karroo and especially to those of Antarctica. They occur as sills, sometimes more than 1,000 feet thick, and as great dikelike intrusions a mile or more wide in the horizontally bedded Permo-Carbon-iferous and Trias-Jura sediments of the island. Their outcrops cover an area of more than 6,000 square miles and may previously have extended over twice that area. The sills, in particular, with their pronounced columnar structure, occupy a prominent place in the Tasmanian landscape. At the time of its intrusion the dolerite magma was completely liquid, and analyses of chilled margins from widely separated localities show that it was homogeneous in composition. It was a saturated or tholeiitic basalt magma but differed from typical tholeiites by being richer in SiO, A1O3, and CaO and poorer in FeO, TiO, NaO, KO, and PO. The only perfect match is provided by the Antarctic dolerites. The dolerites underwent fractional crystallization and gravitative differentiation after emplacement, which led to a progressive enrichment of the later-formed pyroxenes in iron as differentiation progressed. Two immiscible series of pyroxenes crystallized side by side throughout-at first, magnesia-rich augite and orthopyroxenes, later iron-enriched augites and stable iron-magnesia pigeonites ("plutonic" pigeonites). The enrichment of the pigeonites in iron progressed more rapidly than the enrichment of the augites in iron. This behavior and the immiscibility of the two series of pyroxenes can be explained by reference to their atomic structure and the much greater ease with which a small Fe++ ion can replace an Mg++ ion of similar ionic radius as compared with a much larger Ca++ ion. It follows from such an argument that the immiscibility gap found between magnesia-rich augites and magnesia-rich orthopyroxenes and clinoenstatites should extend between the iron-rich varieties as well. Supporting evidence that this is so is found in the behavior of the pyroxenes of the Mount Wellington sill, Tasmania, of the Skaergaard intrusive in East Greenland, of the extrusive rocks of the Huzi Volcanic Zone, Japan, and of the Palisade sill, New Jersey. From these data a new triangular diagram expressive of the courses of crystallization of pyroxenes is drawn. Identical fractional crystallization and gravitative differentiation have given a contrast in trends of differentiation in the dolerite sills compared with the dikelike bodies. This contrast arises from the different forms of the chambers in which differentiation occurred. In the closed chambers of the sills, sinking of early-formed magnesia-rich pyroxene caused a slight absolute enrichment in iron of the residual magma displaced into the upper parts of the sills. The iron-rich pyroxene that formed could not sink past the layer of accumulated early-formed minerals and so was retained in the upper parts of the sills to form peculiar iron-rich rocks. In the dikelike intrusions, which were subjacent bodies (in the sense denned by Daly), there was no layer of accumulated early-formed crystals to prevent the sinking of the later-formed iron-rich pyroxenes. As a result, the concentration of iron in the residual magma was dissipated, and the trend of differentiation in the dikelike masses gave rise to andesitic rocks that resemble in many respects the two-pyroxene andesites of Japan. This dependence of the trend of differentiation on the form of the differentiation chamber is of some significance in petrogenesis and reconciles apparently conflicting views like those held by C. N. Fenner and N. L. Bowen as to the ultimate effects of the enrichment of the residual liquids of basalt in iron-a trend which appears to characterize all basaltic magmas. Fenner's conclusion that this trend should give rise to absolute enrichment of the residual liquid in iron holds true for closed chambers of differentiation, of which the Skaergaard intrusion in East Greenland is the example par excellence. The same trend is found on a lesser scale in the dolerite sills of Tasmania and the Palisade sill of New Jersey. Bowen's conclusion that the enrichment of the residual liquids of basalt in iron leads merely to an enrichment of the later-formed ferromagne-sians in iron relative to magnesium but not to an absolute enrichment in iron holds true for basaltic magmas that differentiated in subjacent chambers. Thus an olivine-basalt magma gives rise to "ferro-gabbro" in a closed chamber, while a tholeiitic magma gives rise to peculiar iron-rich rocks in a closed chamber and to normal calc-alkaline rocks in a subjacent chamber. The relative volume of calc-alkaline rocks produced in this way is, however, no greater than the proportion of trachytic rocks produced from olivine-basalt, so that it seems unlikely that the great bulk of calc-alkaline rocks are derived simply by the differentiation of tholeiitic magma.
30066136|The Rosiwal method of planimetric analysis of thin sections gives the apparent proportion of grains in a series of arbitrarily selected size classes. The true volume-percentage distribution is calculated from the observed thin-section distribution by taking into account the statistical distribution of the thin-section diameters of spherical grains with given true diameters. The method of computation of the true distribution from a set of observed data is purely arithmetical. In the two sands studied, an excellent correlation between the reconstructed and sieving analyses is obtained. A new method of calculation of number-frequency analyses alternative to that of Greenman (1951b) is based on a consideration of the entire distribution function. It is not assumed, as was done by Greenman, that all the grains in any class are of one size. His method is more accurate for very well-sorted sediments.
10.1086/668683|Detrital zircon U-Pb geochronology is widely used in reconstructing sedimentary provenance, sediment dispersal pathways, and tectonic histories. These applications implicitly assume that sample age distributions from sedimentary basins closely match the zircon age populations within the drainage catchments of the eroding source region. However, recent studies question this largely untested assumption. Here we compare detrital zircon data from unconsolidated sand samples from two modern rivers in the Colombian foreland with data from Mesozoic-Cenozoic sedimentary strata exposed in their respective Andean catchments (1500 km
30067308|The sources for the Japanese map showing large modifications of Sagami Bay after the great earthquake have been examined critically. Comparisons of the old and new soundings show that much of the evidence for these changes is of an uncertain character, but that there is good ground for believing that the floors of certain submarine valleys in the bay were decidedly deepened. Other less positive evidence suggests shoaling of one portion of a submarine valley. The explanation of faulting as a cause of these modifications is unsatisfactory, since the large magnitude of the changes is quite out of keeping with those reported from the bordering lands or from earthquake areas in general. The alternative explanation of submarine landslides appears to account for the phenomena more satisfactorily.
30068805|Monomineralic aggregates or glomerocrysts are a distinctive feature of many igneous rocks. Those with crystals joined along prominent euhedral crystal faces form by synneusis while the mineral is crystallizing. Other glomerocrysts, comprised of crystals joined along irregular, embayed margins, arguably formed while the crystals were being resorbed. A model for glomerocryst formation during mineral resorption is described. During resorption, a boundary-layer melt, which envelops the dissolving crystals, is produced. When two or more dissolving crystals come into close proximity, the intervening portion their respective boundary-layer melts becomes isolated from chemical communication with the surrounding granitic liquid. Contributions from both dissolving crystals to this isolated portion of the boundary layer melt creates a melt composition that eventually becomes supersaturated with respect to the dissolving crystals. This results in crystallization of new material from the intervening melt that bonds the partially resorbed crystals together. Any process that causes mineral resorption, such as a change in intensive parameters (e.g., P, T,
30060819|A region of the Cordillera is underlain by a Paleozoic microplate, Sonomia, that accreted to the passive margin of sialic North America in Triassic time. Sonomia consists chiefly of sequential Paleozoic island arc terranes and is coupled in part to a deeper structure. Sonomia migrated in the Permian with left-oblique convergence above a consuming boundary toward the continent and propelled before it an accretionary wedge of ocean floor strata. Undersliding of the wedge by the continental slope and outer shelf created the Golconda allochthon, followed by an arrested subduction below Sonomia. Pre-collision motions on Sonomia's outboard margin may have been kinematically related to the truncation of the sialic continent south of the Sonomia suture. Sonomia may be related to other Paleozoic arc fragments that accreted at various times in the Pacific Northwest.
30060280|Polygonization of aged sea ice is described and is related to internal stress. The subboundaries of the polygonization structure are accounted for by dislocation phenomena and by the freezing of brine in tapering internal fractures. Movement of subboundaries in ice under stress is illustrated. It is suggested that the very much smaller microstructure found in ice frozen from "fresh" water may have the same origin as polygonization in sea ice. Internal fracturing provides avenues for brine migration and is thought to be a significant factor in natural sea-ice purification. Polygonization structures may significantly affect the strength of sea ice.
JG80026|Extrapolation of the age distribution of oceanic lithosphere has played a significant role in assessments of variations in global mean spreading rate, global mean ocean basin depth, and implications for global mean sea level. Subduction has already removed 50% of oceanic lithosphere younger than 55.7 Ma, making some level of extrapolation a necessary part of global plate reconstructions. An area equal in size to the Pacific Basin oceanic lithosphere must be extrapolated for ages older than 29.1 Ma. Three modes of extrapolation are identified. Mode 1 extrapolation uses the preserved history as recorded on one plate to infer the history of the previously adjacent plate. This mode of extrapolation is exemplified by the inferred history of the Farallon, Vancouver, Nazca, and Cocos plates relative to the Pacific Plate, on which this record is preserved. Mode 2 involves extrapolation beyond the preserved age extent of a given ridge system. No observable data exist that directly constrain the motions beyond the youngest magnetic reversaldated oceanic lithosphere along such a boundary. This mode has, for example, been employed to extrapolate the age distribution resulting from spreading along the Izanagi-Pacific ridge system for as much as 60 m.yr. beyond the last directly determined record preserved on the Pacific Plate. Mode 3 is extrapolation of age distributions of entirely subducted ocean basins where no information explicitly constrains the relative-motion history of such basins. The age distributions in various neo-Tethyan basins require mode 3 extrapolation. This article examines extrapolations specifically using modes 2 and 3, employing the known spreading histories of the Pacific-Farallon/Vancouver and Pacific-Phoenix plate systems and the Tasman Sea as case studies. These tests demonstrate that extrapolated distributions of ages do not match preserved ages. Important events recorded in the preserved oceanic lithosphere, including both initiation and extinction of spreading ridges, cannot be inferred from the extrapolations and yet constitute important events that control aspects of the preserved oceanic lithosphere age distribution. Hence, reconstructed age distributions that require significant mode 2 and 3 extrapolations cannot provide a rigorous basis for testing hypotheses related to global histories of ridge production, mean age, mean depth, or other potentially correlated phenomena. This may appear to be an obvious result, and hence not worth publishing, but the persistent use of extrapolated age distributions in the published literature suggests that problems with extrapolation have not been appreciated by all.
30063918|The unconformity beneath the Torridonian (late Precambrian) sediments of northwest Scotland represents one of the most ancient of fossil landform assemblages. Cut across crystalline Lewisian rocks, it is highly irregular in most places, the relief locally reaching 1,000 m. This rugged surface is little weathered. In the extreme north, however, the unconformity generally parallels the major stratification of the sediments above. Before its burial, this planar surface was weathered to depths of several metres then partly stripped of its altered mantle. A solitary hill of gneiss represents the only major relief in the unconformity within this northern district. A piedmont alluvial fan environment is suggested by the overlying arkosic sediments. The planar, weathered surface and the solitary hill thus appear analogous to a pediment and knoll buried beneath alluvial fan deposits. Vertical variations in the sediments are consistent with the planar surface having formed contemporaneously with sedimentation as a pediment at the foot of a retreating elevated source area.
30081079|Manganese micronodules from various environments were analyzed with the electron microprobe. Chemical characteristics of marine manganese nodules were examined in relation with their depositional environments and compared with those of manganese macronodules. The compositional variation has a connection with accumulation rates and chemical features of the associated sediments. Mg and Ti tend to be enriched in micronodules relative to the host sediments; these elements may produce authigenic mineral phases in micronodules. These observations show that manganese micronodules are chemically formed under approximately the same condition as that for macronodules, but coexisting pairs of micronodules and macronodules collected from the same sediments suggest that oxic diagenesis plays a more important role in the formation of micronodules than that of macronodules. The chemical features of manganese micronodules collected from several marine environments such as a marginal sea, hemipelagic regions, and the central Pacific show that their compositions have a close relation to their depositional environments. Micronodules of hydrothermal origin show chemical characteristics different from those of hydrogenous and diagenetic nodules. We propose several criteria for the discrimination of micronodules of various types. Examination of DSDP cores indicates that micronodules disperse abundantly in marine sediments and their chemical composition remains unchanged through a long span of geological time. Furthermore, preliminary assessment of sedimentary rocks on land shows the preservation of ancient micronodules. Thus, manganese micronodules are a useful indicator of the depositional environment of sediments, and ancient micronodules from sedimentary rocks may offer a possible key to the origin of sedimentary rocks and to the history of geological terranes.
30062395|Maps of Middle to Late Carboniferous strike-slip faults in western Europe, northern Africa, and eastern North America have been compiled from geological, gravity, and magnetic onshore and offshore data. A large majority of these faults can be interpreted in terms of a logical syn- to post-collisional pattern superimposed on the initial suture between the African (i.e., Gondwana) and North American/European (Laurussian) continental margins. The pre-collision positions of the major continents are derived from paleomagnetic data, and, when combined with the general distribution of the strike-slip faults, lead to a kinematic model of the complex Middle/Late Carboniferous collision. In this model, the West African Precambrian craton acted as a rigid promontory or "die" with respect to the partially rigid/plastic zones between it and the large North American craton. These partially rigid/plastic zones comprise the external Appalachian and Canadian Maritime margins, the Mauritanide and Hercynian margins of northwest Africa, and Hercynian Europe. In essence, the continuous Carboniferous approach between the African and North American cratons forced part of the intervening zones as well as Hercynian Europe sideways (northeastward), as indicated by predominantly east-west dextral faults north of the African craton and predominantly southwest-northeast sinistral movements east of the North American craton.
30059079|Recent studies on the thermal history of the earth (Jacobs, 1956; MacDonald, 1959) allow the net volume change of the earth due to temperature changes during the last 109 years to be calculated. The circumference changes for four models vary from -13 km. (contraction) to approximately +31 km. (expansion). From this it appears that orogeny cannot be explained as the result of contraction due to heat loss.
30064176|A wellexposed, oceanic hydrothermal rootzone in the Troodos ophiolite, Cyprus, is composed of the basal sheeted dikes, the upper 50100 m of the gabbroic sequence, and a contact aureole, interpreted as a fossil conductive boundary layer. The basal sheeted dikes and upper gabbros were pervasively altered at high temperatures (400775C) and cut by a series of broadly distributed mineralized faults that are oriented parallel to the strike of the sheeted dike complex. Fluid inclusion and mineralogical data for fault breccias show that circulating fluids were 350400C, fairly oxidizing, and relatively H
30062202|Many studies have debated whether beach cusps are erosional or depositional features. The April 12-14, 1988, extratropical storm provided an opportunity to view the direct effects of one of the largest storms of the past decade upon beach sedimentology and morphology on barrier islands near Duck, North Carolina. Prior to the storm, the beach at Duck was characterized by a well-defined pattern of beach cusps with horn-to-horn spacings averaging 35 m. Storm-induced alterations were dominated by an initial period of beach erosion that remobilized the upper 30 to 50 cm of beach sediment, followed by aggradation. Net aggradation was most prominent along the middle beachface and within the pre-storm cusp bays. These morphologic adjustments resulted in the destruction of cusps, which were replaced with a post-storm planar beachface composed of horizontally bedded fine- to coarse-grained sediments. Within 24 hrs of storm subsidence, new beach cusps formed sequentially along the coast in the direction of longshore transport. Initial cusp formation resulted from beach erosion and the creation of bays in the planar storm-beach surface at positions of preferential post-storm runup. The initial cusp horns were composed of truncated horizontal beds of the planar beach accreted during the storm. After their formation, the cusps sequentially migrated downdrift. Migrating horns were composed of a coarse-grained sediment wedge that thickened toward horn crests, suggesting formation by deposition. It is concluded from these observations that beach cusps are both erosional and depositional in nature.
30056074|Trap is exposed at Gwalior, Morar, Barai, Paniar, Chaura, and Mo in the Gwalior State. It occurs in the Morar series as sills, dikes, and lava flows. Two types exist: a porphyritic quartz-dolerite containing some biotite, and a fine-grained basalt. In both the augite has suffered uralitization. Six chemical analyses showed constancy of composition. The values generally agree with Washington's average for the Deccan trap with the exception of the fact that the Gwalior trap is somewhat richer in alkalies. Analysis of the ferromagnesian minerals from three rocks gave ratios of magnesia to ferrous oxide which indicate that the pyroxene is richer than the corresponding rock and support the view that crystallization enriches the magma in iron contents. The helium ratios for these rocks determined by Dr. V. S. Dubey gave an average of 500 million years, which agrees with the late pre-Cambrian age of the Gwalior system.
30056651|Forty-one valleys whose drainage enters the eastern margin of scabland spillways are known to contain deposits made by glacial waters. Thirty-nine of these valleys never have carried drainage from glaciated areas, and the glacial waters in them must have been backed up from the scabland. These deposits possess such extraordinary features and relations that they, like the scabland topographic forms, are considered unique. 1. Each separate area of backwater is recorded by a widespread mantle of silt containing abundant grains of unweathered basalt (the country rock) and pebbles of foreign rock. 2. In each, this mantle extends up to a definite upper limit on the valley slopes and along the valley lengths. 3. These upper limits in each case agree closely with the upper limit of scabland where the valley enters. 4. The altitudes of the upper limits, constant throughout any one backwater area, vary with different pondings, forming a descending series from north to south along the scabland gradient. 5. Remarkable large mounded gravel deposits in the tributary valley debouchures possess foreset strata which dip out of the scabland and up the valleys. The composition, topography, topographical relations, structure, and size of these deposits are in explicable without great reverse currents. 6. In no case could these reverse currents continue through and escape from the valleys they entered. They are simply a record of the rapid backflow into these valleys. It is concluded that these glacio-aqueous deposits cannot be explained by conditions associated with ordinary glacial ablation or by a sequence of several Pleistocene epochs. They require the volume and rapid rise of glacial rivers across the plateau, which the writer has previously read from the scabland itself.
30062132|The total volume percentage of vesicles in submarine pillow basalt rinds can be modelled by the exsolution of HO and CO vapor, using available solubility determinations for these components in basalt. In accordance with observations on natural samples, CO is predicted to be the major vapor component in vesicles at eruption depths > 1-2 km. Only small initial contents of CO (0.1-0.2 wt %) are consistent with the vesicle volumes observed in most deep sea pillow lavas. HO is important only at shallow depths. Crystallization of pillow interiors can lead to more extensive vesiculation inside of pillow lavas than in the vesicle-poor outer rinds.
30059327|Redfield's (1958) hypothesis that tidal range increases with increasing continental shelf width is tested for seven regions. The results show that a definite linear relationship of tidal range and continental shelf width does exist for each individual area, although the relationship varies from area to area.
30067408|The tectonic setting of the widespread Neoproterozoic igneous rocks in South China has long been a matter of debate. Situated in the western margin of the Yangtze Block of South China, the Guandaoshan pluton is composed of diorite in the core and quartz diorite in the margin. Both types contain abundant mafic enclaves and mafic dikes. This pluton is dated at
30056154|Extensive contact metamorphism has been produced by the intrusion of a post-Upper Huronian granite into Huronian formations of northern Michigan. Quartzites. dolomites, iron-bearing formations, slates, and graywackes, all have reacted to the intrusion of the granite. Not only have the usual and characteristic contact metamorphic minerals developed, but also certain metasomatic minerals have been formed and some unusual features of contact metamorphism have resulted.
30078335|The Kentland, Indiana, cryptoexplosion structure consists of a centrally uplifted zone of steeply-dipping fault blocks surrounded by a ring depression and a low-amplitude structural high with a radius of 12 km. The age of the deformation is constrained stratigraphically to the interval between Mississippian and Quaternary. Paleomagnetic samples were collected from seven carbonate formations and one siltstone unit. Of these only the Middle Ordovician Quimby's Mill Limestone contains a stable magnetization with consistent directions. Stepwise thermal and alternating-field demagnetization shows the presence of a northwesterly, moderately steep characteristic remanence with a median destructive field of 10 to 30 mT and maximum unblocking temperatures of 300C. The pole position calculated from the mean direction falls near Late Cretaceous paleomagnetic poles. Dispersion increases when a bedding correction is applied, indicating post-deformational magnetization. Because the magnetization fails the fold test it is not a shock remanence. It seems likely, however, that its origin is related to the deformational event, which can thus be tentatively dated as Late Cretaceous. Acquisition of isothermal remanence indicates that magnetite is the only significant remanence-carrier in these rocks. Magnetic blocking theory suggests that the magnetization was acquired at temperatures of 150C or less, over a timescale of approximately 1000 years. A thousand-year cooling time scale requires either continuous heating or a blanketing overburden of about 300 m, thus providing an estimate of the depth of subsequent erosion of the Kentland structure.
30058257|$A^{40}-K^{40}$ dates, obtained by the use of the isotope dilution method, are reported for a number of occurrences of igneous and metamorphic rocks from western Montana.
30078267|Two differentiated intrusions (diorite to adamellite), located near Ingonish, Nova Scotia, are characterized by cryptic layering, weak igneous lamination, and scarce mineral layering. In their lower portions, layering is further marked by sharply bounded "flows" and "pillows" of hornblende gabbro. Variation in the layered dioritic rocks was controlled largely by gravitative settling and accumulation of plagioclase, hornblende, and magnetite. At higher levels in the intrusion sphene, biotite and quartz became cumulus phases. Plagioclase zoning and the relative abundances of interstitial minerals indicate that the diorites are orthocumulates. End-stage differentiates (quartz-rich tonalite, adamellite, and pegmatite) occur in a lens formed by filter-pressing intercumulus liquid from quartz diorite. Cryptic layering is defined by upward soda-enrichment in plagioclase. A few analyses of hornblende and biotite suggest the possibility of slight iron enrichment. Whole-rock chemical variation in the layered intrusions closely follows a typical and narrowly defined calc-alkaline trend. Largely because of regional dominance of quartz-bearing diorite (chemically equivalent to andesite) the parent magma is considered to be andesite which fractionated to the end-stage adamellite. This magma was understaturated in water for the greatest part of its crystallization.
30069366|The use of snail shells for dating Pleistocene events by the
30066278|Within a 5-year period two violent tropical storms, Hurricanes Donna and Betsy, passed over the Florida Keys. Although these hurricanes were of comparable size and intensity, their geologic effects differed. Both hurricanes caused extensive damage to the outer reefs, although Betsy acted essentially on a fauna from which Donna had removed the weaker elements. Large-scale movement of sand on White Bank which resulted from Hurricane Donna did not occur during Betsy. In Florida Bay, supratidal sedimentation on the islands and mainland was extensive during Donna, but virtually absent during Betsy. An exception to this was the deposition of spillover lobes of skeletal sand landward of the beach on Cape Sable. Unlike Donna, Hurricane Betsy passed over the northwest portion of the Great Bahama Bank. Large spillover lobes of olitic sand were eroded back as much as 140 feet. Sedimentation on the Andros tidal flats was restricted to vegetated highs, even though the entire tidal flat complex was inundated by as much as 9 feet of water.
30062276|Metamorphic pressures estimated from mineral assemblages in Archaean high-grade terrains may be used to constrain geothermal regimes in the Archaean continental crust in two ways. First, they may be combined with temperature estimates to yield bounds on the heat flux during the thickening events that produced the metamorphism; the pressure-temperature data do not require any greater supply of heat to the base of the continental crust in the Archaean than is supplied at the present day. Second, the pressures alone may be used to infer the height of Archaean mountains; these mountains appear to have had elevations comparable with those of present-day mountain belts. It seems probable that the elevation of present-day belts is limited by the creep strength of the lithosphere and, in view of the strong temperature dependence of creep in earth materials, this second observation also implies that Archaean continental thermal regimes were similar to present-day ones. These observations, together with the common interpretation of komatiite melting temperatures as being representative of Archaean upper mantle temperatures, are inconsistent with earth thermal histories based on parameterized convection calculations. The force per unit length of orogenic belt required to maintain the elevation contrasts implied by the pressure estimates is similar in magnitude to present-day driving forces for plate motion.
30062027|Large composite volcanoes can collapse into debris avalanches even if alteration is absent and an eruption is not in progress or imminent. At San Francisco Mountain, Arizona, a large valley that penetrates the core of the volcano is at the apex of a large fan of bouldery volcaniclastic deposits. A 115mthick layer sampled in a borehole that penetrates the fan is composed of dense and unaltered lithic clasts in proportions similar to the bulk composition of the andesitic volcano; pumiceous clasts are absent. Within this layer, a 20mthick deposit consists mostly of clasts from two dacite extrusions that predate the valley: a flank flow and an inferred summit dome. This daciterich deposit may be from a debris avalanche that originated by failure of the summit and northeast flank of the volcano in a repose interval during the last eruptive stage, which was about 0.43 to 0.22 Ma. Preconditions for slope failure include top loaded by massive lava flows and summit dome and cone inflated by intrusions. Only lowerflank and base extrusions followed the initial breach, which was enlarged by mass wasting, erosion, and glaciation.
30057122|The distribution of trace elements during magmatic crystallization is determined by their ionic size and valency and by other factors. A trace element is camouflaged by a major element of similar size; but it is not possible to predict from the radius difference whether a concentration of the trace element will be found in early or late crystal fractions. This is shown by examination of laboratory data and trace-element analyses of mineral series.
30069099|Oxygen-isotope temperatures are reported for living shells from Davis Base (Antarctica), Macquarie Island, and Victoria, and for fossil Australian shells from the Holocene to the Paleozoic. A summary is made of paleotemperatures during the Jurassic, Cretaceous, and Tertiary from which the possibility of a 30 m.y. temperature cycle is suggested. An explanation of this cycle in terms of the atmospheric
30070636|The lacustrine beds of the sedimentary sequence at Hoxne, Suffolk, containing an Acheulian industry, represent the type site of the penultimate interglacial (Hoxnian) of the British Pleistocene. Recently, on the basis of radiocarbon dating, it has been suggested that the interglacial deposits may date to the last glacial (Weichsel). However, the reliability of this dating is questioned here. Specimens obtained under controlled archeological excavation were tested by two laboratories. The results confirm the doubts of a last glacial dating and support the age usually accepted for the Hoxnian interglacial period.
30058853|A brief summary has been given, in five tables, of the main structural and stratigraphic units of the Anatolian orogenic belt and their possible continuation in southern Europe (the Balkans and northern Italy), based on the author's field observations in the Lombardic Alps (1929-31), Egypt (1937-40), Syria and Palestine (1943), and Turkey (1940-42) and on further evidence from the literature. The main clue to this comparative analysis of regional tectonic units in southeastern Europe and Asia Minor was obtained from a study of the boundary between the so-called"Arabian and Anatolian fades" in southern Turkey and the location of a regional fault zone in northern Turkey, the "Izmit-Erzurum line" (comparable with the San Andreas fault in California), containing the epicenters of devastating earthquakes. Stratigraphical and structural evidence indicate the continuation of this fault zone through the Struma and Morava valleys of the Balkans into the "Drauzug" of the Karawanken Mountains and the Insubric fault zone of the Val Tellina (northern Italy).
30059000|The electrical conductivity of three natural orthopyroxene single crystals has been measured up to l,300C and is shown to be dependent on oxygen fugacity. The presence of cleavage cracks and exsolution lamellae also has a large influence on the electrical conductivity. Temperatures calculated for the lunar interior from electrical conductivity data on pyroxenes under controlled oxygen fugacity are up to 700C higher than previous calculations based on conductivity data for olivine.
30061149|Shortite, NaCa(CO), occurs in the groundmass of micaceous kimberlite dikes from the Upper Canada Gold Mine, Ontario. X-ray, optical, and chemical properties of shortite from the Upper Canada Mine are virtually identical to those of shortite from the Green River Formation, Wyoming. The grains poikilitically enclose phlogopite, magnetite, apatite, and perovskite and are closely associated with calcite, olivine, and aggregates of serpentine in the groundmass of the kimberlite. The groundmass assemblage is interpreted to have precipitated from kimberlite magma at low temperature.
30053575|In the Kerala region of the south Indian shield alkali-granite plutons ranging in age from 550 to 740 Ma intrude Precambrian charnockites and migmatites. All of them are spatially related to regional fault-lineaments. Their geochemistry is similar to Pan-African post-kinematic plutons from the Afro-Arabian shield. They are of granitic to adamellitic composition, with high $SiO_{2}, K_{2}O$ (up to 12%), and $Na_{2}O$, and low CaO, FeO, and MgO. Their major element composition, together with a low $^{87}Sr/^{86}Sr_{I}$ (0.703) from one pluton, denote A-type affinities. However, local charnockites have such low Rb and radiogenic $^{87}Sr$ that the granites could have formed by crustal melting. Their overall trace element characteristics are typical of alkaline granites in general, but the details show that most resemble more recent volcanic-arc granites, and one pluton is typical of a within-plate setting. The presence of $CO_{2}$-rich fluid inclusions supports the notion that the enrichment of rare-earth and high field strength elements is related to high fluxes of carbonic fluids during the magma evolution. The situation of the plutons along rift-related faults suggests that the magma-tism manifests an extensional phase associated with the pre-rift tectonics of the Indian continent and the supercontinent of which it was a part during the Pan-African.
30070578|Clay materials are composed essentially of minute crystalline particles of any one or more members of a few groups of minerals known as the "clay minerals." Using this clay-mineral concept as a point of departure, researches starting from the many fields in which clay materials are important-from agriculture, engineering, geology, and the ceramic, rubber, paper, petroleum, and many other industries-have in the last fifteen years made outstanding progress toward a more satisfactory and complete understanding of the precise composition of clay materials, their structure, and the factors that determine their properties. The occurrence of the various clay minerals in soils, contemporaneous sediments, and ancient clays and shales is summarized briefly, and general conclusions are drawn that seem warranted. Pertinent information on the composition, structure, and certain properties of the individual clay minerals is assembled. Finally, the structural relationships of clay-mineral particles and water are analyzed for clay materials in the plastic state, and some new interpretations are suggested.
30080977|The Cenozoic volcanic rocks of Ross Island and vicinity, Antarctica, are surface flows, tuffs, breccias, and small intrusives. The prominent rock is basanitoid. Alkali-basalt magma reached the surface over an appreciable length of time and was differentiated to produce a rock series : basanitoid  trachybasalt  phonolite. The alkalic, silica-undersaturated rocks are part of a larger petrologic province composed of volcanic centers in a belt nearly 2,000 km long roughly parallel to the Trans-antarctic Mountains. Two trends of magmatic differentiation are apparent. At depth the fractional crystallization of olivine, clinopyroxene, and opaque oxide minerals, all of which are abundant as phenocrysts in the basanitoid flows, produced trachybasalt magma. At crustal levels, fractional crystallization of clinopyroxene, apatite, opaque oxides, kaersutite, plagioclase, and anorthoclase developed the phonolitic rocks. Alkali enrichment is marked, and the end-member phonolites contain 11% NaO, 5.6% KO, and 57% SiO. The basanitoids contain relatively large amounts of Ba (~400 ppm), Sr (~1,000 ppm), and Rb (~30 ppm). The concentrations of these and other trace elements in the various rock types support the model of small degrees of partial melting of peridotitic mantle for the derivation of the basanitoid magma, and of magmatic differentiation for the subsequent development of the rock series.
30058218|Arroyos are the vertical-walled, flat-floored channels of ephemeral streams of the semiarid Southwest formed both since 1880 and during some past ages. Arroyo-cutting takes place because the plant and soil mantle is poor or destroyed and permits the water of violent showers to run off too fast and form torrents in trails, ruts, ditches, and stream beds. Filling occurs when the runoff is slowed by vegetation so that it drops its load. Thus both cutting and filling are controlled mainly by the condition of the plant cover, whose natural control, in turn, was moisture. Vegetation was poor, and channeling took place during droughts, filling occurred during climatic transitions, and soil formation during relatively moist ages. The modern impairment of the vegetation coincided with a great increase in livestock and is a consequence of overgrazing and human activities. It is not a result of drought, for the primeval vegetation still remains or has recovered in areas protected from livestock. Arroyo-cutting was caused mainly by drought in the past and by overgrazing since 1875. Past arroyo-filling was caused by a moderate moisture increase.
30057140|The method of elimination of distortion in correlation coefficient values between percentages is considered. This method has been applied in studying the correlation between major elements of ferromagnesium micas. It has been found that some elements in the six-co-ordination group are correlated. In addition, separate elements in the four-co-ordination ion group are correlated with elements of the six-co-ordination ion group.
30078285|Secondary dolomitization of Holocene calcium carbonate sediments occurs beneath the coastal sabkhas of Abu Dhabi, U.A.E. A stable isotope study of the sabhka sediments and brines indicates that the calcium-rich dolomite precipitates in isotopic equilibrium with brines at temperatures between 34 and 49C. These calculated temperatures correspond to measured temperatures in the sediments where the dolomite is forming. Aragonite and perhaps high Mg-calcite serve as intermediates in the formation of the dolomite, which proceeds via a dissolution-reprecipitation process. With time, the dolomite appears to "age"; there is increased ordering in the crystal lattice, an increase in the crystal size, and continued isotopic equilibration with brines at the lower temperatures found deeper under the sabkha surface. A process of diagenesis and isotopic reequilibration also occurs in the coexisting calcium-carbonate phases. The final product of the "aging" is a calcite and dolomite mixture in which the carbonate phases are in isotopic equilibrium with each other and their environment at approximately 35C (36 and 34C calculated for calcite and dolomite, respectively, and 32.4C measured in late summer). The oxygen-18 fractionation between the two end-products (
30059067|Organic materials across the palynologically defined PermianTriassic (PT) boundary from five major terrestrial basins in the interior of the former Gondwana Supercontinent show large to very large (515) multiple negative spikes of 
30085014|Lead isotope ratios in zircons from acid rocks of the Abitibi greenstone terrain have been measured on a 20 m scale by use of an ion microprobe mass spectrometer. A discussion of this relatively new technique is presented, along with results from a well characterized suite of zircons from Enderby Land, Antarctica. Variations of
10.1086/681600|Late Mesozoic lithospheric extension in NE Asia resulted in the development of a large extensional province and widespread formation of volcanosedimentary basins. Songliao basin is the biggest in that region, situated between the Siberian and Sino-Korean (North China) cratons. The Songliao basin contains voluminous volcanic rocks as a major part of the basin fill. Volcanic successions form a significant but unexposed part of the late Mesozoic magmatic province in NE China. Here we report zircon U-Pb ages and geochemical data for felsic volcanic rocks from the Songliao basin. Zircon populations of two types of rhyolites with distinct I- and A-type affinities, analyzed by laser ablation inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry, yielded similar U-Pb ages of 114  2 and 113  2 Ma, respectively. Whole-rock Nd and zircon Hf isotope data of the felsic rocks indicate an origin from newly formed crustal protoliths. The I-type dacites and rhyolites show geochemical signatures with subduction-related affinity, indicating generation by partial melting of juvenile crust that originated from melting of subduction-modified mantle sources, whereas the A-type rhyolites have higher heavy rare earth element and high field strength element concentrations and lower Ba/Nd ratios that are interpreted as evidence for melting of I-type felsic lower crustal sources in an intraplate tectonic environment. Typical geochemical compositions of A-type rhyolites indicate anorthite-rich plagioclase as a residual magmatic phase and imply melting at shallow crustal levels. The A-type felsic rocks were generated during a period of maximum lithospheric extension below eastern China around 110 Ma, and this thinning process was probably related to the retreat of the Paleo-Pacific trench.
30085054|A mechanism is examined which allows an intrusive body to melt its way upward in the earth's crust. Due to the increase in melting temperature with depth the melt temperature at the base of an intrusion may be considerably greater than the melt temperature at the top. This temperature difference can drive rapid convection in the intrusion; as a result heat is rapidly transferred to the top of the intrusion. This heat transport can cause melting of the country rock above the intrusion as solidification occurs at the base; the magma zone migrates upwards. Calculations show that this effect can become important in intrusions with a height greater than about 1 km; the effect is also more important when the temperature difference between the country rock and the intrusion is small and if the magma viscosity is low.
30080980|Faunal data used in a qualitative analysis of the Upper Devonian Sonyea Group (New York), have been reanalyzed using recurrent group and cluster analysis techniques. The Sonyea's qualitatively defined communities most closely parallel recurrent groups of taxa developed from presence-absence data. Q-mode cluster analysis grouped Sonyea outcrops into mutually exclusive biotopes on the basis of a generalized measure of their overall faunal similarity. Separation of these biotopes was only partly explained by the distribution of R-mode clusters. Of several clustering methods tested, unweighted clustering of Jaccard coefficients developed from presence-absence data proved the best for defining both biotopes (Q-mode) and biofacies (R-mode); "discrete clusters" are best defined by phenon lines. The faunal distribution patterns reflected by interrelated recurrent species groups, several of which may occur at a single locality, are more complex than the non-overlapping biotopes suggested by Q-mode cluster analysis. Both quantitative techniques offer explicit, repeatable and readily understood methods for defining faunal associations; results can be readily summarized graphically. No assumptions about the data are necessary for recurrent group analysis ; cluster analysis assumes hierarchical data and cophenetic correlation coefficients should be calculated to assess the significance of the resulting dendrograms. Cluster analysis is best suited for the generalized faunal analyses typical of regional paleoenvironmental reconstructions. Recurrent group analysis is more appropriate for paleocommunity studies for it identifies specific taxa that co-occur at predetermined frequency levels and thus have the potential for continuing community interactions.
30069353|A nearly complete sequence of Ordovician strata along Fox River, southwest of Aurora, indicates the presence of the Kankakee arch-a major structure trending northwest-southeast across northeastern Illinois -and the probable location of the Sandwich fault, which parallels the arch for many miles and had been found previously by studies of well records. Outcrops of sandstone and dolomite which have long been correlated with the St. Peter and Galena-Platteville formations have been found to belong to the New Richmond sandstone and the Shakopee dolomite. Study of the outcrops and well records shows that the anticlinal structure underwent major movements both before and after deposition of the St. Peter sandstone.
30078570|At San Acacia the Rio Grande passes through a narrow canyon which separates the southern end of the broad Albuquerque-Belen Valley from the northern end of the Socorro Valley. Los Pinos Mountains lie to the east and the Sierra Ladron to the west. The Socorro Mountains separate the Socorro Valley from the higher Snake Ranch Flats and Magdalena Mountains to the west. Deformation in post-Santa Fe (post-Pliocene?) time produced the present basins and determined the location of the principal highlands and main drainage lines. In general, the mountain blocks are composed of relatively resistant pre-Tertiary rocks and Tertiary volcanic rocks, the lowlands of unconsolidated Tertiary basin deposits. The four pediment remnants present in the area and their projected grades above the present flood plains are: Feet Ortiz (?) pediment..................... 370-400 Tio Bartolo pediment.................. 250 Valle de Parida pediment............... 150 Canada Mariana pediment.............. 50-75 Their origin is discussed briefly. A cut-and-fill terrace at about 100 feet above the present flood plains is found in some places. The probable development by piracy in post-Ortiz time of the Rio Puerco and of the present course of the Rio Salado is discussed. Ancient and modern sand dunes and ventifacts, recent channel incision (arroyo cutting), and caliche on pediment surfaces are briefly mentioned.
30057862|This paper is a summary of the petrography and petrology of the largest granite batholith in Minnesota. The granite is of Algomian age and reached its position partly by crowding out its walls and largely by stoping upward into mica schists. Its main phase is a fresh biotite granite of no great peculiarity. Its minor phases, modified by metamorphism or assimilation, are of little importance. A series of satellitic stocks are notably alkalic. Along the edges of the granite there are considerable masses and an interrupted belt of darker, usually hopblendic rock. In places this has differentiated into banded rocks of considerable variety, syenites, shonkinites, pyroxenites, and even magnetite rock. This series is not common in granite batholiths. It probably indicates the general course of evolution in the pre-Cambrian batholiths of the Canadian shield, few of which have been studied in detail. Several new analyses of special phases are given, and it is suggested that they separated by crystallization during convection. A convection circulation past the cooling walls of a batholith might account for the almost vertical position of the banded differentiates.
30063974|New data from a region at 4 S on the Mid-Atlantic Ridge, in association with our studies of four other transform faults at 43 N, 9 N, 01 N, and 00 N, and with other workers' reported results, indicate exposure of a wide variety of rock types in fracture zones in the Atlantic Ocean. Rock types include extrusive and intrusive basic rocks as well as plutonic ultrabasic intrusions. Our findings suggest that new oceanic crust, both eruptive and plutonic, is being injected into transform faults. This new crust appears to have different petrologic and chemical characteristics from that formed during sea-floor spreading at normal ridge crests, and forms in response to sea-floor spreading in a direction normal to that which occurs at the ridge crest.
30060192|Modern active island arcs and their surroundings consist of two main physiographic zones-a volcanic ridge or arc and a submarine trench. Rocks in island arcs fall into three groups, the origin of which can be interpreted in terms of plate tectonics and of geological processes in the two zones and surrounding ocean floor. The groups are (1) volcanic arc deposits, consisting of undeformed subaerially erupted volcanic rocks, block-faulted volcanic and volcaniclastic rocks, diorites, granites, and low-pressure/high-temperature meta-morphic rocks; (2) submarine trench deposits, consisting of trench-fill sediments, represented by thick successions of quartz-deficient turbidites and pelagic sediments, and high-pressure/low-temperature meta-morphic rocks and melange deposits indicating a Benioff zone, (3) ocean-floor oceanic crustal rocks consisting of tholeiitic lavas, spilites, gabbros, ultrabasic rocks, and pelagic sediments, and including fine-grained turbidites rich in tholeiitic detritus. Most island arcs originated on oceanic crust and have resulted from intermittent descent of lithosphere along older Benioff zones. Since the Permian, some lithospheric plate margins have remained near present island arcs. Ancient island arcs from the Ordovician of the Lake District, Wales, and Newfoundland are discussed; oceanic crust and an ancient Benioff zone are described from the Ordovician of southern Scotland; a trench is postulated as the depositional environment of the Manx-Skid-daw slates; Wales is considered to have been a small ocean basin in Lower Paleozoic times.
30060682|Atomic absorption analyses of upper-amphibolite-facies minerals from a portion of the Grenville province have shown that the distribution of Mg, Fe, and Mn between calcic pyroxene (C) and hornblende (H) can be expressed by use of the following distribution equations and distribution coefficients
10.1086/676459|The Great Proterozoic Fold Belt of India (GIPFOB) is the inferred accretion zone between the North India Block (NIB) and the South India Block (SIB). Mesoscopic structures, phase petrology, and U-Th-Pb (total) monazite ages in the Bangriposi Shear Zone (BSZ) located in the eastern syntaxis of the GIPFOB along the fringe of the Paleo/Mesoarchean Singhbhum Craton (SC) are examined to constrain the time of NIB-SIB assembly. The BSZ at the eastern fringe of the Archean Singhbhum Craton is a NNE-trending west-vergent 0.951.0 Ga greenschist-facies (<0.6 GPa at 500  30C) sinistral-reverse shear zone. The BSZ is dominated by Meso/Neoarchean (2.63.1 Ga) cratonic lithologies and an overlying suite of intensely to weakly deformed cobble/granule quartz conglomerates interbanded with quartzite, low-grade phyllites and mafic schist, and gabbro-wehrlite complexes. The precursors to the low-grade conglomerate-phyllite-quartzite sequence and the obducted ultrahigh-pressure (5.35.9 GPa at 12001230C) wehrlite body constitute a 0.951.0 Ga tectonic mlange interleaved with cratonic (Archean) lithologies of higher metamorphic grade. The lack of Mesoproterozoic (1.51.7 Ga) metamorphism in the BSZ and neighboring areas, which are common along the NW/N margin of the Singhbhum Craton and the accreted southern meta-flysch belt of the North Singhbhum Mobile Belt (NSMB) is significant. It is suggested that the northern meta-flysch belt of the NSMB and the Singhbhum Craton were not juxtaposed until 1.0 Ga. These crustal domains were finally accreted during the final stages (0.951.0 Ga) of Rodinia supercontinent assembly forming a
30061041|Several Waulsortian-type carbonate banks nearly 200 feet thick and about 1/4 mile long occur in the Mississippian Lodgepole formation in the Big Snowy Mountains of central Montana. Compositional layering extends through all parts of the banks, with depositional attitudes up to about 35. The layering results from variations in the amount of skeletal material and sparry calcite diluting the calcilutite matrix. Although depositional relief was as much as 150 feet on steep slopes of lime mud and silt, no biotic constituent yet found was responsible for growth and development of the banks. Fenestrate bryozoans and crinoids are the most abundant faunal constituents, and there are minor quanities of brachiopods, mollusks, and Stromatactis. Development of the banks may have begun from separate growth centers, and in one bank unit an early bank generation was subsequently engulfed by a later stage. Major postdepositional events included the formation and filling of large dilatational fissures and of irregular cavelike openings.
30080888|Petrographic data on the "State College" siliceous olites of Upper Cambrian age indicate that these sediments were originally calcareous olites. Postdepositional silicification, probably before tectonic uplift(?), resulted in nearly complete replacement of original carbonate. Evidence for this hypothesis includes: (1) Irregular, minute and probably detrital carbonate particles scattered through granoblastic quartz cementing the olites; (2) similar carbonate particles, contained in authigenic quartz overgrowths, which concentrically jacket detrital quartz nuclei of olites, and which exhibit both spherulitic extinction and "reconstructed" hexagonal outlines; (3) concentric rings of carbonate particles which cross boundaries of granoblastic quartz in the outer portions of olites, without deflection or interruption, and which conform to the concentric arrangements of minute iron oxide particles; (4) lack of any such marked concentric (or radial) pattern in quartz and "chert" within the olites; and (5) the occurrence of asymmetrical or "bipartite" olites, whose peculiar structure is ascribed to solution of original carbonate and settling of insoluble residues in each olite, either early in, or before, the process of silicification.
30070774|The syn-extensional Miocene Mt. Perkins pluton, northwestern Arizona, cooled rapidly due to its small size (
30063990|Because shallow marine sediments generally underlie waters which are saturated with respect to arago-nite and calcite, physical-chemical dissolution of carbonate in these environments is sometimes discounted. The present investigation, as well as others before it, show such an assumption to be unwarranted. In this case, study of terrigenous mud deposits from Long Island Sound, U.S.A. demonstrates extensive dissolution of molluscan shell debris near the sediment-water interface. Net buildup of carbonate varies significantly between different regions of the Sound despite fairly uniform production of shell debris and similar total sedimentation rates. Aside from this apparent discrepancy between rate of supply and net carbonate sedimentation, evidence for carbonate dissolution comes from the pitting of shells, elevated
10.1086/675666|Narrow (tens of meters) vertical bodies of dolomite replace a nonporous Upper Ordovician (lower Chatfieldian) limestone along the leading limb of an asymmetric faulted anticline well inboard (300 km) of the northern Appalachian orogen, central-east Canada. Patterns of geometry, texture, and geochemistry suggest that dolomitizing fluids were focused (possibly along microfractures) within a paleosinistral transpressive stress field generated with reactivation of an underlying Neoproterozoic fault system. Strike-slip failure of the developing anticline resulted in fracture- and fault-controlled fluid flow from which precipitated saddle dolomite. A paragenetic succession of Fe-poor planar-e to ferroan planar-s dolostone marks the peak phase of replacement dolomitization. A subsequent increase (20%30%) in porosity created through local dissolution of relict limestone was partially occluded by ferroan planar dolomite that, geochemically, is similar to later fracture-fill saddle dolomite. Replacement dolomitization is associated with a slight rise in Sr-isotope ratios (to 0.71085) from Late Ordovicianearly Silurian marine signatures. Isotope (C, O, Sr) signatures support influx and mixing of burial fluids that had interacted with local Mg-rich (gabbro, anorthosite, syenite) crystalline basement with a background fluid similar to Late Ordovician seawater or dissolved marine limestone. Dolomitization predated maximum burial in the Late Paleozoic. Fluid inclusion and isotope paleothermometry suggest that dolomitizing temperatures (100120C) were 2030C warmer than associated with prior limestone diagenesis. The dolomitized limestone is an archival record of structure, hydrology, and heat flux that best fits with Taconic tectonism in the latest Ordovician through earliest Silurian.
30081100|Stratiform quartz-phyllosilicate-carbonate alteration zones are a common feature of Archean greenstone terranes, and determining their origin is an important aspect of understanding the nature of shallow crustal alteration during the early history of the earth. Komatiites and komatiitic basalts of the uppermost Onverwacht Group (ca. 3.4-3.5 Ga), Barberton greenstone belt, South Africa, were regionally metasomatized prior to major tectonic deformation to the assemblage: quartz + dioctahedral mica + chlorite
30068566|In the presence of water vapor under pressure, soda feldspar and potash feldspar crystallize readily from their glasses. At high temperatures they appear to form a complete series of solid solutions showing continuous variation of lattice-spacing as measured by X-rays. Studies of the dry melts had indicated that the solid solutions are of the type having a minimum-melting mixture. This conclusion is reinforced upon investigation in the presence of water. At a pressure of
30058174|The Mg/(Mg + Fe) ratios of coexisting olivines and orthopyroxenes from different types of rocks have been determined by means of indices-of-refraction measurements. Some data from literature have also been added. The distribution function of Mg and Fe in olivine-pyroxene pairs is discussed. It is shown that this function may be used as a geologic thermometer when some additional thermochemical data are obtained. The distribution function also indicates that orthopyroxene is a nonideal mixed crystal, the intermediate members of the series being more stable than one would expect. This nonideal character of the orthopyroxene series is indicated by deviation from linearity of the indices of refraction and the unit-cell dimensions when these quantities are plotted against the mol fraction of enstatite in the pyroxenes. The a and b parameters of the unit cell of different orthopyroxenes are measured. The aluminum content in orthopyroxenes is discussed briefly.
30058646|Small irregular granodioritic blocks entirely surrounded by quartz-biotite hornfels are well exposed in a mine tunnel in the Cornucopia district of northeastern Oregon. These occur in certain zones in which the hornfels exhibits marked cataclastic structures, but none of the granodioritic blocks were sheared even though they show sharp outlines. Instead some of them have gradational contacts with the hornfels and contain inclusions of that rock. Apophyses extend into the hornfels from the margins of some of these granodioritic blocks. The relationship cannot be adequately explained by the usual interpretations of a cataclastic breccia, or of magmatic injection, or of the faulting of small granodiorite intrusions. Field relations and the study of many thin sections point to the conclusion that these granodioritic blocks are the result of recrystallization replacement of highly crushed portions of the hornfels, and that their shape is, in part, controlled by the angularity of the crushed hornfels.
30065730|The completeness of a stratigraphic section is difficult to estimate in practice because stratigraphic completeness is a measure that is based entirely in time. The suggestion that the stratigraphic completeness of a section of known timespan might be estimated by comparing that section's thickness against the global average thickness of sediment accumulated in that timespan would thus be of immense practical value if only that relationship between completeness and thickness could be demonstrated. Regrettably, there appears to be insufficient data to warrant this assertion.
30065786|Strata of the Neoproterozoic Shaler Group on Victoria Island in NW Canada reveal stratigraphic and sedimentological features that are interpreted to be a response to differential crustal uplift immediately preceding emplacement of the 723 Ma Franklin gabbro sills and their extrusive equivalents, the Natkusiak Formation flood basalts. Volcanism was coeval with sedimentation, as indicated by loading features developed on the Kuujjua Formation, a fluvial braidplain quartzarenite that underlies the lowermost basalt flow of the Natkusiak Formation in the SW part of Minto Inlier. The Kuujjua Formation represents the top of an emergent cycle that began with deposition of intertidal carbonates followed by supratidal sabkha carbonates and sulphate evaporites of the underlying Kilian Formation. The Kuujjua Formation thins and pinches out toward the northeast, and there is erosional beveling of the upper Kilian beneath it. In the NE part of Minto Inlier, the Kuujjua and upper Kilian are absent and the Natkusiak Formation unconformably overlies block-faulted carbonates of the middle Kilian. These relationships imply that uplift, which was progressively greater toward the NE, began in upper Kilian time, estimated to be no more than 20 Ma before the voluminous magmatic events. Uplift may have been initiated by mantle plume-generated asthenospheric upwelling, which ultimately resulted in basaltic magma generation. Block faults beneath the Natkusiak in the NE are consistent with pre-eruptive crustal doming. Diabase dikes that crosscut the basalts are more common in the NE than in the SW, implying that crustal attenuation was greatest in the northeast and that it postdated the main phase of volcanism. These data support the plume initiation model for generation of flood basalts.
30055677|The numerous small sand holes occurring along the strand-line are not mollusk or crustacean burrows, but are air vents from shallow channels formed in stratified beach material by the action of waves passing over the strand.
30058499|The energy of waves of oscillation entering shallow water is transferred to lesser and lesser numbers of water particles, causing them to revolve in larger and larger orbits. But the number of waves which pass a point in a given time is observed to remain constant. The water particles, therefore, must complete the circuit of their larger orbits in the same length of time that was occupied in describing their smaller ones, and so must acquire greater orbital velocity. Decrease of wave-length in shallow water retards the forward propagation of the wave. When the increasing orbital velocity of the upper water particles becomes greater than the forward motion of the wave, the wave breaks.
30067311|This paper presents two new chemical analyses of metabasalt from Southern Quebec and shows that the extensive mineralogic changes involved in uralitization and later ankeritization of basalt are accompanied mainly by addition of HO and CO. This is characteristic of uralitization, but to the writer's knowledge has not before been described in the case of ankeritization. There is very little loss or gain of bases during the alteration, and the process is endomorphic, probably taking place in a temperature range between that required for uralitization and calcite-chloritization.
30068768|Japanese rivers where a large amount of sediment accumulates along the middle reaches are today not at grade. Nevertheless, most of their longitudinal profiles can be described by one of the mathematical functions proposed for graded rivers. For these rivers, the mathematical function should show an aspect of fluvial processes different from the explanations of grade theories. The geomorphological significance of differences in the mathematical functions describing the longitudinal profiles of rivers is discussed here. A dynamic change in the shape of longitudinal profile of a river accompanying the change in mathematical function type is proposed in relation to changes in fluvial processes and stage of evolution of a river. Most Japanese rivers can be described by either exponential or power functions. The fluvial processes of the rivers described by exponential functions are in the depositional state. The front of depositional area of gravels increases in altitude and migrates downstream. The rivers expressed by power functions are in the transportational state. The front of depositional area of gravels decreases in altitude and migrates downstream. The rivers matched by linear functions, indicating that their longitudinal profiles are almost straight lines, are in mass equilibrium: the sediment load is balanced between inflow and outflow. Through aggradational processes, the shape of longitudinal profile of a river changes with the change in mathematical function type, from exponential, to power, and finally to linear functions. The difference in the type of function best fitting the longitudinal profile of a river reflects variations in fluvial processes and the evolutionary stage of the river.
30062587|Density currents are defined, and their origin discussed. Their driving mechanism is identified, and their characteristic behavior explained. "Black blizzards," underflows of turbid water, and nues ardentes are shown to have much in common. Attention is called to a marked difference in the coarseness of sediments transported by atmospheric and aqueous density currents, and some reasons for this difference are suggested. The effect of flocculation upon density currents is discussed briefly. Estimates are given as to the quantity of fine sediment transported by turbid density flows at Lake Mead, by major dust storms, and by the atmosphere following great volcanic eruptions.
30059314|This paper collates some problems of the continental drift hypothesis as formulated in its present aspect of plate tectonics. Many of the objections are long standing but apparently unknown to many geophysicists, while some are peculiar to the new global tectonics. The conclusions drawn, in order of probability, are (1) the continents have almost certainly not moved with respect to each other; (2) convection is not active throughout the whole mantle; (3) even if convection is active in the upper mantle it cannot account for drift; (4) pole positions derived from paleomagnetism, and results of this method of investigation in its global form generally, are afflicted with an unknown cause of error and are in any case too inexact for drift reconstructions. It is emphasized that this paper considers objections to drift only, except where prodrift data directly affect the antiargument; in these cases both sides of the matter are dealt with to avoid giving a wholly one-sided approach.
30062442|In the early Archaean Isua supracrustal rocks in West Greenland, tourmaline is found either as stratabound occurrences in conglomerates and impure dolomites or as a tourmaline-rich inclusion. This inclusion, which is approximately 60% tourmaline, occurs as a fragment in metapelite and was presumably derived from pre-Isua rocks. An evaporitic sabkha origin is suggested for the stratabound tourmaline, whereas the tourmaline-rich inclusion is believed to be of submarine exhalative origin.
30068101|Abundance of antimony in bulk samples has been determined in five selected coals, three coals from Huaibei Coalfield, Anhui, China, and two from the Illinois Basin in the United States. The Sb abundance in these samples is in the range of 0.110.43 g/g. The forms of Sb in coals were studied by sequential solvent extraction. The six forms of Sb are water soluble, ion changeable, organic matter bound, carbonate bound, silicate bound, and sulfide bound. Results of sequential extraction show that silicatebound Sb is the most abundant form in these coals. Silicate plus sulfidebound Sb accounts for more than half of the total Sb in all coals. Bituminous coals are higher in organic matterbound Sb than anthracite and natural coke, indicating that the Sb in the organic matter may be incorporated into silicate and sulfide minerals during metamorphism.
30062578|The results of a field and petrologic study of a structurally complicated granophyre-diabase multiple dike from Cape Neddick, Maine, are presented. Although this occurrence shows many attributes of a typical composite dike, detailed evidence indicates that it is multiple in character. Reaction between granophyre magma and brecciated diabase has modified the form of the mass and produced reciprocal changes in the mineralogy. It is shown that, where such reaction has taken place, the absence of chill margins between dike components can be used as a criterion of composite intrusion only with the greatest caution.
30056639|In part I we compare vector (
30067346|The Loon Lake batholith, which is supposed to be part of larger granitic masses underlying the Canadian Shield, was found to be a small, funnel-shaped intrusion. Its structure and shape is in complete accordance with the structure of the surrounding sediments and metamorphics.
30058933|The Pennsylvanian strata of western Illinois exhibit a cyclical repetition of beds as follows: (i) sandstone and sandy shales, (2) underclay, (3) coal, and (4) marine limestones and shales. Each cycle was initiated by uplift which was reflected first by erosion and later by continental deposition of clastic materials. This was followed by a long period of stability during which weathering developed a typical poorly drained profile of weathering, now represented by underclay. Then peat, later transformed to coal, accumulated in more or less extensive swamps. These conditions were terminated by subsidence so that the area was inundated by a shallow sea in which marine strata were deposited until uplift brought the cycle to a close. The cyclical repetition of beds is regional rather than local, and analysis of the conditions necessary for the formation and preservation of such strata over broad areas furnishes the basis for a reconstruction of the, physiography of the Pennsylvanian period. The conception of widespread sedimentary cycles provides new criteria for correlation in Pennsylvanian areas, as a definite succession of strata not dependent upon certain key horizons is established. It also furnishes a new basis for paleontologic studies, since faunules restricted to different habitats may be grouped with regard to definite marine invasions and an approximation of the total marine fauna of each invasion may be obtained.
30061241|Suspension of air-dried sediments in distilled water resulted in the removal of magnesium and calcium in amounts differing from those originally present in the interstitial water. Excess calcium was put into solution, while a large proportion of the magnesium originally present in the interstitial water was not re-dissolved. It cannot be assumed that washing with distilled water renders sedimentary material "salt-free."
30080821|The rocks of the Sierra Maestra near Santiago de Cuba are chiefly well-stratified, volcanic breccias and tuffs, with interbedded limestones and andesitic intrusives. The mountains are simple block mountains, uplifted along normal east-west faults and tilted toward the north. The uplift and tilting have accompanied the subsidence of the great Bartlett Trough that lies between Cuba and Jamaica. The fault blocks are of different age. The oldest, and highest, forms the coastal ridge west of Santiago Bay. It possibly received part of its present elevation during the Pleistocene, but the uplift has continued intermittently down to the present time. The Sierra de Boniato, farther inland and northwest of Santiago, has been uplifted in post-Pleistocene time. Immediately in front of it on the south is a lower ridge, known as the Puerto Pelado, with scarp so fresh that its age must be measured in hundreds of years rather than tens of thousands. The region is unstable, and the displacements may be expected to continue at any time.
30079655|Formations of the "original Huronian" occur in a 200-km.-long belt along the north shore of Lake Huron. The Huronian formations lie unconformably upon an Archean basement complex of granite, gneiss, and metasedimentary and metavolcanic rocks. Previous age determinations on this basement complex indicate that it is about 2,500 m.y. old. Several igneous formations are intrusive into the Huronian formations. The oldest of these is the Nipissing diabase, which forms a complex of sills and dikes throughout the area studied; granophyric differentiates occur at several localities. In the southeastern part of the area two granitic intrusive bodies occur, the Cutler granite, previously dated at 1,750 m.y. by Wetherill, Davis, and Tilton, and the Eagle granite. An olivine diabase dike which cross-cuts the Cutler granite and adjacent Huronian formations is the youngest intrusive rock in the area. Age determinations were carried out by the Rb-Sr method on mineral and whole-rock samples from the crystalline rocks of the area. A plot of whole-rock analyses from granophyre and diabase of the Nipissing diabase on an isochron diagram yields an age of
30060195|Results are reported for sixty-nine triaxial compression tests run on a marble, a lithographic limestone, a very fine-grained sandstone, and a siltstone at room temperature, dry, confining pressures of 1,000 and 2,000 bars, and at strain rates of
30068774|One of the most spectacular fossil molluscan faunas known to paleontologists is exposed in a large shell pit near Sarasota, Florida, where on the order of 1,000 well-preserved, shallow marine species are found. Sandwiched between extensive shell beds is a unit containing a rich vertebrate fauna (ca. 100 species) with a distinctive mammalian component indicative of the late Blancan Land Mammal Age (2.5-2.0 Ma). In contrast, the surrounding shell beds have traditionally been assigned an older (early to mid-Pliocene) age based upon biocorrelation of the benthic invertebrate (molluscan) fauna. Precise dating is difficult, however, as preservation of planktonic micro- and nannofossils was not favored in the nearshore paleoenviron-mental setting. In a multi-faceted approach, we integrated invertebrate biochronology (ostracodes), vertebrate biochronology (Land Mammal Age), paleomagnetism (a unique application in such coarse shell beds), and strontium isotope chronostratigraphy with existing age data from the literature in an attempt to resolve this chronologic dichotomy and link the marine and terrestrial records. All sites yielded reversed magnetic polarities. Based upon the vertebrate biochronology, as well as ostracode correlations and the
10.1086/675664|Granitoids are the predominant geological constituents of South China and important for the understanding of the formation and evolution of continental crust. We describe field structural features of four small-scale granitic plutons and their country rocks in southern Jiangxi Province and present new zircon U-Pb and mica
10.1086/669229|The Western Gneiss Region, western Norway, consists of Paleoproterozoic crust of Baltica ancestry (Baltican Basement), partly subducted to high- and ultrahigh-pressure (HP-UHP) conditions during the Scandian Orogeny between 415 and 395 Ma. The dominant felsic gneisses carry little evidence for the HP-UHP history but were affected by amphibolite-facies reworking during exhumation. Laser ablationICP-MS and secondary ion mass spectrometry (SIMS) zircon U-Pb data collected in augen gneiss samples constrain the magmatic and metamorphic geochronology in this crust. Five samples from the eclogite-bearing HP-UHP basement near Molde yield intrusion ages ranging from
30058274|Well-developed layering is expressed in size-sorting and orientation of elongate particles in four diatremes near Sydney, New South Wales. The layering was produced by flow of a very viscous aggregate during emplacement of intrusive breccia rather than by air-sorting at an open vent which does not satisfactorily explain observed field relations. The size of particles in any particular layer depends on the distance between flow planes and only subordinately on relative velocities of flow in each layer. Some banded structures in non-brecciated igneous intrusions are also briefly considered; the conclusion is that a similar process can cause mineralogical banding which may be further modified by dilatant effects.
30067307|A cursory survey of the geology along the Peren and Tambo rivers in Eastern Peru discloses interesting facts concerning the stratigraphy, lithology, and structure of the little-known eastern slopes of the Andean Cordillera. Two conspicuous breaks parallel the mountain structure, the first occurring near San Ramon, where the mountains drop from a general elevation of 10,000 feet, to an elevation of 5,000 feet; the second occurring at the front range of the Cordillera, where the mountains end very abruptly along a north-south scarp and descend from 5,000-foot elevations. Evidence indicates that the first of these breaks is due to a normal fault having a vertical displacement of 3,000-5,000 feet; the second is due to difference in resistance to erosion betweeen the Tambo limestone and the Cascada red shales. This means that the younger sedimentary beds extend essentially unbroken and with only the gentlest folding from the San Ramon fault to and under the Amazon lowlands. The geologic column includes formations of volcanic breccias and conglomerates, sandstones, limestones, and red shales, ranging in age from Carboniferous (?) to Quaternary. Intrusions of coarse-grained granite occur along the line of structural weakness marked by the San Ramon fault. The formations have been correlated with those of. the Central Peruvian Andes and with those of parts of Eastern Peru. Striking similarity is noted in the lithology and stratigraphy of these regions, suggesting that the Andean geosyncline extended as far east as the Ucayali River and as far north as the Maraon.
30079453|Quartz crystals with fluid and red-clay inclusions, characterized by a stout habit, double terminations, a more or less smoky or amethystine color, and high transparency, have been found in the upper Piedmont of North Carolina. Skeleton and phantom forms are common, and large groups of crystals show parallel orientation. They are the latest of several generations of quartz and have grown on older quartz which in most cases has determined their orientation. The quartz was probably deposited by ascending hydrothermal solutions, and the clay settled down on the growing crystals from levels nearer the surface. The rare and complex forms shown by the quartz suggest a changing physical environment, and the inclusions of red clay, the large volume of water present in some cavities, and the presence of associated carbonate minerals indicate an origin at moderate depths where temperature and pressure were low. Since crystals with large inclusions of water are shattered by freezing and since they are found close to the surface in areas that have suffered practically no erosion since the Pleistocene, it is concluded that soil in the upper Piedmont of the Carolinas was not subjected to deep freezing during glacial stages.
30078398|A RbSr phlogopite macrocrystwhole rock isochron age of 47.5  0.5 Ma is reported for a kimberlite from the recently discovered Lac de Gras field in the Slave Province, northwestern Canada. This is the youngest reliably dated kimberlite occurrence in the world and correlates closely in time with emplacement of kimberlites in Tanzania and Yakutia, indicating a widespread kimberlite emplacement event on three different cratons in the Eocene.
30057142|Oxygen isotopic analysis of Globigerina-ooze cores from the Atlantic and adjacent seas showed that surface ocean temperatures underwent numerous, apparently periodical, variations during the past few hundred thousand years. C14 dating showed that the last temperature minimum of the deep-sea cores was synchronous with the last major glaciation, the Main Wrm. Previous attempts to date deep-sea cores were based on the decay of uranium-unsupported Th230 (ionium). This method requires, among other conditions, that the supply of uranium-supported Th230 in sea water and the rate of non-carbonate sedimentation remained essentially constant over the time interval to be dated. Attempts to correct for possible variations in the non-carbonate sedimentation rate have been made by using such ratios as Th230/Th232 or Th230/Fe2O3. The validity of these corrections is questionable because Th230 produced in sea water by the decay of U238 and U234 has a geochemical history different from that of Th232 and Fe2O3. The requirements mentioned above need not be met if the ratio
30081070|U-Pb isotopic dating of zircon and titanite from all the major litho-tectonic units of the Batchawana belt, an Archean greenstone belt of the Abitibi Subprovince of the Superior Province in Canada, shows that the belt evolved during a period of about 60 Ma between about 2730 and 2670 Ma ago. The earliest date of 2729 + 3/-2 Ma was found in a predominantly tholeiitic metavolcanic sequence the base of which is intruded by a tonalite dated at 2716  2 Ma. Younger ages of 2720  10 Ma, 2709  2Ma,2711  2Ma,2701  2Ma, and 2698  2 Ma date rocks at increasingly higher stratigraphic levels of a mixed tholeiitic-calc-alkalic metavolcanic sequence which is itself overlain by a thick succession of clastic metasedimentary rocks. Subsequent deformation of the supracrustal sequences produced isoclinal folding and culminated in metamorphism ranging from lower greenschist to amphibolite facies and anatexis related to the intrusion of syn- to late-tectonic plutons, four phases of which have ages of 2678 +4/-2Ma, 2677  2 Ma, 2677  3 Ma, and 2676  2 Ma. Two post-tectonic granitoid plutons in the center of the belt were intruded 2674  3 Ma and 2673  5 Ma ago and were followed by the emplacement of a composite mafic to felsic intrusion; a monzonite and a hornblendite from this intrusion yield identical ages of 2668  2 Ma. Titanite ages are identical or younger than the ages of coexisting zircons and reflect regional metamorphism and post-tectonic plutonism, but in a few cases they are younger and may record increased fluid activity along faults and the intrusion of mafic dikes. U-Pb zircon systematics, together with age and lithological relationships, suggests that the greenstone belt formed in an oceanic environment from material derived initially mainly from the mantle. Subsequent melting at the base of the thickening volcanic succession produced intermediate to felsic volcanic rocks, tonalites, and later granodioritic to granitic plutons leading to the final consolidation of the granite-greenstone terrain.
30056320|Certain modern geology textbooks confuse the power with the force exerted by streams. It is desirable to distinguish clearly between the "capacity" of a stream to transport a load and its "competence" to shift masses of specific size and between Gilbert's definition of "capacity" of a stream and its potential energy. Some writers repeat an ancient mistake in relating capacity of a stream to its velocity. New errors follow the application to stream phenomena of empirical formulas based upon experiments in flumes, contrary to Gilbert's warning.
30078520|In the southern New England Fold Belt, the PeelManning Fault System (PMFS) is a major structural element characterized by tectonic blocks in a serpentinite mlange. We document a large (>1 km), intensely deformed block of noncumulate and cumulate hornblende gabbro from the PMFS. Cumulate layering is preserved in some outcrops, and relicts of magmatic plagioclase, magnesiohornblende, and minor clinopyroxene are recognizable microscopically despite the gabbro having undergone amphibolite facies and subsequently prehnitepumpellyite facies metamorphism. The composition of the magmatic clinopyroxenes and amphiboles indicates lowpressure crystallization, suggesting formation in a shallow crustal reservoir. Zr/TiO
30060216|Sheets of carbonate breccia and unbrecciated calcitic carbonate rocks, called carbonate breccia nappes, occur as tectonic slices in nappe piles dominated by pelitic rocks of Early Mesozoic age in the Carson Sink region of Nevada. The most extensive carbonate breccia nappe, the Muttlebury nappe, crops out over 100
30080244|A dinosaur trackway in the Middle Jurassic eolian Entrada Sandstone of southern Utah, U.S.A., exposes three undertracks that we have modeled as isolated tectonic regimes showing the development of foldthrust ramp systems induced by the dinosaurs feet. The faulted and folded sequence is comparable to crustalscale tectonics associated with plate tectonics and foreland foldthrust belts. A structural analysis of the dinosaur tracks shows the timing and direction of the forces exercised on the substrate by the animals foot during the stride. Based on the structural analysis, we establish a scenario for foot movements and weight distribution in the feet. During the end of the weightbearing phase of the stride, the weight of the animal was transferred to the front of the digits, creating a rotated disk below the foot that was bounded by an extensional fault at the front and a thrust ramp toward the back. As the body accelerated, the foot was forced backward. The rotated disk was forced backward along a detachment fault that was bounded by lateral ramps. The interramp segment matches the width of the dinosaurs foot, which created an imbricate fan thrust system that extended to the far end of the undertrack. The total length of the tectonic disturbance created by the dinosaur is up to three times that of the original footprint. Early, nearsurface cementation gave the substrate the rheological properties necessary for development of the observed structures.
30084928|Sediments of Upper Cretaceous age, unconformable on Lower Cretaceous and older beds, and containing both fresh water and marine invertebrates and dinosaur remains, occur in the Cabullona basin, Sonora, Mexico. No beds of this age have been reported previously in southern Arizona and Sonora and this occurrence not only fills in a wide gap but also throws new light on the Upper Cretaceous shore line. These sediments were deposited on land and on the shallow margin of the Upper Cretaceous sea which probably deepened toward the north and east. The nature of the sediments gives much information regarding climatic and physical conditions in this region during the later part of the Upper Cretaceous. The northeastern boundary of the basin in which they now occur is marked by a strong zone of thrusting along which Lower Cretaceous and older beds were thrust, from the northeast, over the Upper Cretaceous. Pyroclastics occur in the Upper Cretaceous, and there are many Tertiary intrusions in the region.
30062307|Three localities with barchans occur in Imperial Valley, California. One group is present in the intradune hollows at the southern end of the large Algodones dune chain along the southeastern side of the valley. The other two localities are west of Salton Sea and include an isolated dune adjacent to Tule Wash and a related dune cluster about 5 miles east near Salton Sea Base. The relationship is indicated because dunes in these two areas share a common sand source and move in the same direction. The Algodones barchans have developed only in the largest of the intradune hollows in response to post-pluvial climatic changes and currently are found to require about 40 years to move across the intradune hollows. The Tule Wash dune is migrating across extensively gullied topography, and engulfment and destruction by a stream in one of the gullies seem imminent in the next decade. A similar fate probably overtook two companion dunes present in 1904. The Salton dunes appear more permanent, although individual members of the group may be destroyed by migration into the Salton Sea. Rate of advance of the Tule Wash dune correlates well with volume changes only when compared on an annual basis; shorter-period changes seem governed more by seasonal wind variation and by topographic effects. In general, rate of dune advance decreases with an increase in volume. The Tule Wash dune has remained asymmetrical for the 9 years it has been observed, and the persistent elongation of the south horn is due chiefly to the wind regime. The consistent slimness of the dune is not completely understood but may be due in part to topography as well as to the strength and width of the oncoming sand stream.
30071550|The low-order moments of a size frequency distribution do not necessarily characterize its shape. They may yield values which are misleading with respect to the geometrical properties of the distribution.
30068479|Basalt glasses erupted from the transverse spreading center within the Cayman Trough have higher contents of
30066396|The history of sediment and its movement in the Atlantic drainage demonstrate some of the difficulties of modeling sediment on a river-basin scale. Soil erosion was accelerated by a factor of at least 10 when European settlers cleared forests and planted crops. Although increasing soil-conservation practice and decreasing crop farming have since reduced the rates of erosion, large quantities of eroded material are still stored on hillslopes and in stream valleys where they continue to augment the sediment loads of the rivers. The sediment from this episode of erosion that is largely past can be expected to emerge from storage for many decades and perhaps even several centuries to come. The reservoirs that have been built on many of the major rivers trap significant portions of the moving sediment which, in some places, may be remobilized by large floods. Essentially all the river sediment that reaches the Atlantic coastal zone is trapped in estuaries and coastal marshlands. Probably less than 5% is deposited on the floor of the continental shelf or the deep sea.
30068624|West Pacific-type geosynclines are represented by the modern island arc, microcontinent, and marginal sea terranee of the West and Southwest Pacific, the Caribbean and Central America, and the Scotia Sea. Ancient examples include the Tasman Geosyncline, the Paleozoic geosyncline in eastern Kazakhstan and the northern Tien-Shan, and parts of the Archean kratonic nucleii. West Pacific-type geosynclines are particularly productive "machines" that convert oceanic into continental crust by a process termed "kratonization." They produce perhaps an order of magnitude greater lateral growth of continents than do Atlantic-type geosynclines during a comparable time interval. To assist in analyzing the kratonization process, a succession of kratonization stages is recognized on the basis of studies in part of the Tasman Geosyncline. These stages depend for their recognition upon the diverse modes of occurrence of quartz in the geosynclinal rock pile. The stages, each marked by appreciable quantities of quartz in a previously unrepresented mode of occurrence, are: (1) quartz in chert; (2) quartz in veins; (3) detrital quartz in arenites; (4) quartz in granitic rocks; (5) quartz in volcanic and volcaniclastic rocks; (6) detrital quartz in intramontane sediments; (7) quartz in platform sediments; (8) pedogenic quartz in silcrete. The pattern of kratonization thus revealed in the Tasman Geosyncline is depicted by maps and a schematic time-distance diagram. The pattern resembles one derived in a different way for the Paleozoic geosyncline in central Asia. Both show kratonization proceeding outward from the adjoining kraton with time, in contrast to the typical kratonward-directed pattern of Atlantic-type geosynclines.
30063627|Landscapes are thought to be youthful, particularly those of active orogenic belts. Unaweep Canyon in the Colorado Rocky Mountains, a large gorge drained by two oppositeflowing creeks, is an exception. Its origin has long been enigmatic, but new data indicate that it is an exhumed late Paleozoic landform. Its survival within a region of profound late Paleozoic orogenesis demands a reassessment of tectonic models for the Ancestral Rocky Mountains, and its form and genesis have significant implications for understanding late Paleozoic equatorial climate. This discovery highlights the utility of paleogeomorphology as a tectonic and climatic indicator.
30060528|The Rio Puerco, a tributary of the Rio Grande in New Mexico, has deepened and widened its channel, or arroyo, since the settlement of the region. This process of accelerated erosion still continues. Historical evidence, largely the notes and maps of government land surveyors, is cited to show that the cutting began between 1885 and 1890. The deepening of the arroyos has decreased the agricultural and grazing value of the country, resulting in the abandonment of six small towns and numerous ranches. The coincidence between the introduction of large numbers of stock and the cutting of arroyos indicates that overgrazing precipitated this form of destructive erosion. The ultimate cause, not completely discussed in this paper, appears to lie in cyclic fluctuations in climate.
30066291|Investigations of stream history in Appalachian valleys have, for the most part, been confined to deposits within a few meters of the valley floor where radiocarbon dating is possible. Detailed study of New River alluvium in the Radford North and Eggleston 7.5-minute quadrangles of southwest Virginia shows that meaningful information can be extracted from high-level, unpaired terrace deposits, even where solution of carbonate bedrock has obscured terrace form. A statistical analysis of terrace elevations, performed by superimposing a 100-m grid over terrace maps and then determining the elevation of each grid point above modern river level (AMRL), shows that alluvial deposits are more abundant at 0-12 m (0-40 ft) and 30-49 m (100-160 ft), while the 12-30 m (40-100 ft) interval has relatively few deposits. Munsell color, percent sand, silt, and clay, and point counts of the heavy-mineral and light-mineral sand fractions were made in the B horizon at 35 sites ranging in elevation from 1.1 to 85.4 m AMRL. These properties indicate a dramatic increase in weathering intensity between about 20 and 30 m AMRL, corresponding to the break between lower and higher terraces. It is hypothesized that the concentration of alluvial surfaces at 30-49 m AMRL represents a time of relative stability during which broad floodplains and terraces were formed. The gap in terrace-elevation frequency between 12 and 30 m corresponds to a subsequent interval of downcutting during which only a few narrow terraces were formed. The method described can increase understanding of long-term stream history in areas where other methods cannot be used.
30062162|Late Quaternary and Holocene raised coral reefs are well developed in southwestern Erromango Island, which lies in the frontal arc area of the Vanuatuan Island Arc. Eight uranium series ages and one
30080171|In the East Brush Creek area a calcareous siltstone bed contains numerous cylindrical structures normal to the bedding. The bed is 35 feet above the "Shinarump" conglomerate of other workers in the region. The conglomerate is here considered Permian(?) rather than Triassic, because the Shinarump of Arizona and Utah probably pinches out west of the area. The siltstone bed is in the transition from underlying continental conglomerates and sandstones to overlying marine red beds, and a littoral or estuarian environment is indicated. The cylinders occur throughout the total thickness of the bed but are restricted to the immediate locality. Cylinder contacts are sharp but slightly irregular, and the material they contain is identical to the surrounding sediment. A circular section of uniform diameter is commonly maintained throughout the length. The greatest exposed length is 4 feet. Diameters range from 1/2 to 8 inches. The cylinders are interpreted as fossil diagenetic springs. The bedding in pipe channels was destroyed by particle flotation in meteoric water rising under local hydrostatic pressure.
30057071|It is proposed to discuss the suggestion of Strahler (1950, 1952a) that erosional slopes may be regarded as open systems. This generalization enables the equilibrium theory of stream grading to be applied to a wider class of streams than one composed solely of those in which an over-all balance is realized between load supplied and load transported. In particular, it provides for the application of the classical theory of stream grading to the individual segments of multicyclic streams.
30055974|This article presents: (1) A brief description of the rocks together with the early geologic history of this region; (2) a consideration of the two plateau levels which may represent old erosion surfaces; (3) a discussion of the valley forms and their relation to the glacial history; (4) two hypotheses to explain the depth of erosion by glacial agencies and the amount of postglacial stream erosion. The first hypothesis postulates a small amount of ice erosion and a large amount (500
30056719|Coralloidal opal is an epigenetic opaline deposit found in lava tubes. The opal is precipitated by capillary waters on the tips of basalt spines and globules which causes the deposit to look like some forms of organic coral. Some of the opal gives a slight carbonate reaction. The source of material is found in the hydration of minerals in the surrounding basalt.
30061972|An analysis of the Permo-Triassic fauna and paleogeography on a stage-by-stage basis supports previous more general summaries by concluding that the number of families of marine invertebrates was significantly reduced (essentially halved) during the last three Permian stages (32 m.y.), and that the extinctions were not markedly selective. Shallow marine seas were reduced from a coverage of 40% of their possible distribution in the early Permian to less than 15% coverage in latest Permian, and then were expanded to 34% coverage in the lower Triassic. If this apparent reduction in shallow marine seas is due to selective erosion of late Permian sediments, there seems no way to account for it unless there was significant reduction in sea level. Alternatively, late Permian marine seas may never have been widespread, again due to lowering of sea level. The apparent late Permian marine regression is attributed to water withdrawing into a deepening ocean basin. The basaltic ocean bottom continued to sink during an unusually long period of cooling (and decreased buoyancy) of laterally spreading ocean ridges during a time of increased linking together of plates, and corresponding decreased rate of sea-floor spreading. Extinctions during the Recent are likely to result from competition and predation, often aided by habitat alteration. The effects of competition and predation are greatly enhanced if extensive habitat regions are reduced to habitat islands. With significant lowering of sea level, shallow epicontinental seas would become limited to continental margins. Geographic ranges of shallow marine species would correspondingly be reduced, and the probability of extinction therefore increased. Perhaps no extraordinary biologic process, atmospheric change, or astronomical event is necessary to account for "paleontology's outstanding dilemma."
30060230|Systematic profiling and sampling of 11 beach sites along more than 90 miles of Mustang and Padre Islands shows seasonal as well as geographic trends. On the basis of sediment characteristics and beach morphology, three geographic areas can be delineated; the northern, convergence, and southern provinces. Mean grain size and sorting values in both the northern and southern provinces show little seasonal variation; in the convergence province they display great temporal variation. Skewness shows a wide temporal variation throughout the entire study area. Foreshore sediments in the convergence province are generally coarser, less sorted, and less skewed than those of the other two provinces. Beach morphology also varies throughout the area. The northern and southern provinces have rather flat profiles without a pronounced berm and with a gently sloping foreshore. The convergence province contains beaches with a steep foreshore, well developed berm, and a landward sloping backshore. Although there is a general tendency for each beach to retain its own general morphology, there are seasonal modifications and geographic variations. Changes in beach morphology, as shown by monthly surveys, indicate that the 11 sites tend to respond as a single group or that the changes may be associated with a single province. There is a general tendency for beach morphology to conform to seasonal trends. Long after the termination of the systematic study, each of the sites was resurveyed and the profiles obtained were not significantly different than those surveyed in the same month two years previously.
30079930|The Cretaceous Barra do Itapirapu carbonatite in southern Brazil experienced extensive postmagmatic hydrothermal alteration. In this article, Sr and Nd isotope ratios of coexisting samples of hydrothermally overprinted and of preserved, nonoverprinted carbonatite are presented. Hydrothermal alteration caused strong REE enrichment, leading to the formation of minerals of the bastnaesite group. In the overprinted carbonatite, Nd contents reach 4000 ppm, two orders of magnitude higher than in the fresh carbonatite, but 
30068729|Discriminant function analysis (DFA) of Ca-rich clinopyroxene and amphibole from modern arc volcanics allows identification of the parent magma type (basalt, andesite, or dacite + rhyolite). With a view to understanding the provenance of arc-derived sandstones, the DFA approach has been applied to a suite of well studied Cambrian to Devonian volcaniclastic sandstones of the New England Fold Belt of eastern Australia, which contain significant arc-derived detrital clinopyroxene and occasionally amphibole. Previous provenance studies of these rocks have been based on petrography, identifying two cycles of volcanism, but the results of this study show this to be oversimplified. Instead, DFA analysis shows that some units comprise both intermediate and acidic volcanic components with significant along-strike or vertical variations in terms of arc derived detritus. The DFA approach avoids the pitfalls of (a) component mixing that limits the usefulness of whole-rock chemical analysis, and (b) the qualitative aspects of identifying lithic fragment types and problems of diagenetic and metamorphic alteration or destruction of diagnostic features of sediments, inherent in petrographic studies.
30056566|At the double falls of Mill Creek near Cataract, Owen County, Indiana, more than 100 feet of Mississip-pian strata, ranging from the Lower Chester down through the entire Ste Genevieve and into the St. Louis below, are unusually well exhibited. The top of the Ste Genevieve limestone is marked by a thin limestone breccia and followed by a thin representative of the Aux Vases sandstone of the Lower Chester. In the middle of the Ste Genevieve is a fine-grained, calcareous sandstone, 23 feet in thickness, forming the face of the upper falls. This sandstone, described for the first time in Indiana, is correlated with the Rosiclare sandstone of southern Illinois and western Kentucky. Both the Aux Vases and the Rosiclare sandstones are present throughout the outcrop area of the Chester and Ste Genevieve formations in southwestern Indiana, though their recognition has long been delayed.
30064654|A mechanism is discussed in which a statistical alignment of long and short axes might be produced as a result of the encounters occurring between elastic particles during the shearing of a concentrated dispersion of them in a fluid of negligible viscosity and inertia. Predictions are made about the type of orientation to be expected. The flow of sand on the lee faces of dunes is like the motion considered theoretically, and the grain orientation was estimated, using a method based on the measurement of magnetic susceptibility, of material from two sets of dunes. The results agree with prediction. Finally, a suggestion is made about possible differences to be expected in the grain orientation when the inertia and viscosity of the interstitial fluid are not negligible.
30081171|Currents of the equatorial Atlantic and Tethys Sea migrated westward through the Caribbean Sea and Panama seaway from Cretaceous to Oligocene time. At about 25 Ma currents reversed direction, allowing cool Pacific waters (Peruvian current) to enter the Caribbean. Almost coincident with the reversal was a dramatic increase in Central American explosive volcanism, which resulted in development of large volcanic centers, and an abundance of suspended volcanic detritus in Pacific and southern Caribbean waters. The detritus was transported by Pacific currents across the Caribbean to be deposited as pelagic mud in the Venezuelan Basin during 25 to 15 Ma. These cool, turbid Pacific waters led to a dramatic reduction in the diversity of hermatypic corals. At about 15 Ma Venezuelan Basin pelagic sediments record a dramatic change in provenance, with derivation of highly weathered detritus from the South American continent, probably the result of renewed uplift of the northern Andes. Exceptionally abundant kaolinite, reflected in high CIA values of the pelagic mud, indicates that materials of the Andean hinterlands suffered intense chemical weathering from at least 15 Ma to the present, with the most intense weathering occurring during Pliocene time. Weathering was somewhat less intense during the cool Pleistocene Period. These findings bear on Northern Hemisphere glaciation. With the Panama Seaway open, cool Pacific waters entered the Caribbean between 25 and 12 Ma, and probably mixed with warm equatorial Atlantic waters to form the Gulf Stream. Closure of the seaway commenced about 12 Ma and finally closed about 3.5 Ma. This resulted in a warmer Gulf Stream, derived entirely from equatorial Atlantic waters. Dramatically increased pelagic sedimentation rates in the Venezuelan Basin since 4 Ma suggest intensification of the Atlantic equatorial current and strengthening of equatorial Atlantic summer storms (hurricanes), both of which strengthened the Gulf Stream current. Resultant northward heat transport by a warm, intensified Gulf Stream led to increased precipitation and promoted glaciation in the Northern Hemisphere.
30060900|Silicate melt inclusions in quartz phenocrysts from air-fall and ash-flow tuff were studied from a section of Bandolier Tuff in Sandia Canyon, Jemez Mountains, New Mexico. My aim was to estimate the concentration of some major volatile species (
30057185|Evidence is presented to show that deep flutings and cavernous forms, occurring on essentially vertical joint planes of olivine-dolerite sills on Slieve Gullion, resemble the lapids of Hawaii and New Zealand. They have been formed in a similar way, that is, as a result of chemical erosion of basaltic rock by surface waters escaping down the joint planes of essentially impervious layers. Occasionally the lapis intersect vertical sheetlike veins of microgranite, which, on account of their greater resistance to erosion, remain like partitions up the middle of lapis. A hypothesis that the microgranite was intruded while the dolerite was still fluid has been based on the erroneous suppositions (a) that the lapis were originally occupied by microgranite with a pipelike form and (b) that this form is inconsistent with the microgranite having been em-placed in solid dolerite. Structural criteria are therefore established by reference to which it can be discovered whether microgranite, irrespective of whether it occurs as sheetform veins or as pipes, was emplaced (a) in molten or rheid dolerite or (b) in crystalline and rigid dolerite.
30081258|Turbiditic sandstones from the midLate Cretaceous Tianba Flysch sequence are well exposed near Tianba in the north Nieru Valley, southern Tibet, and contain significant amounts of chromerich spinels. Microprobe results show that the spinels have a welldeveloped FeTi trend and have Cr/(
30081117|The Idono Complex of west-central Alaska is a fault-bounded,
30058167|In the past the use of microfossils for long-distance correlations in the American Carboniferous has been somewhat restricted, largely because of the few workers interested in this class of fossils. Previous work has centered chiefly on the fusulines and ostracodes, and papers on these fossils have come mostly from the Mid-Continent region, as have also the relatively few papers on other Foraminifera and conodonts. More recent work on microfaunas from formations in the eastern Interior Basin and the West has shown that microfaunas, particularly some Foraminifera and the ostracodes, can be utilized as valuable tools in stratigraphic work.
30084989|The conclusions of fieldwork by geomorphologists are increasingly being based on statistical methods of interpretation of samples. In this task, it is imperative that the research worker should take the optimum number of items in a sample for his work; a larger sample size than is necessary is a waste of resources, while a sample that is too small will inhibit the derivation of any meaningful conclusions from the sample data. The optimum sample size is a function of three variables: the amount of information wanted about the "population" or "populations" from which the sample(s) came, the amount of confidence desired in the conclusions, and the variability within the individual populations. The last of these is usually an unknown to the research worker in geomorphology. As a consequence, it sometimes results in a prior investigation to determine this or, not uncommonly, in the undertaking of the main research without any real knowledge about the optimum sample sizes. As a preliminary to a main research project, data have been acquired on the variability of a selection of characteristics within individual valley-side slopes. It is felt that this information ought to be of sufficient interest to future workers on valley slopes that it is displayed here for their benefit. An important conclusion stemming from this set of data is the rather obvious, but, nevertheless, often overlooked, one that the optimum sample size will differ for different characteristics of the same population.
30061399|Layers of coarse Pleistocene gravel have been cored in the Cascadia Deep-Sea Channel up to 750 km along its course. Petrographic study indicates that the pebbles are lithologically similar to a number of rock types exposed along the Columbia River and its tributaries in Oregon and eastern Washington. The catastrophic late Pleistocene glacial floods which scoured this area of the Pacific Northwest transported coarse material derived from these outcrops down the river to the ocean. These catastrophic events are believed to have generated high-velocity and high-density turbidity currents which transported the coarse sediment for many hundreds of kilometers along the sea floor.
30061026|Paleontologists have long used the Linnaean binominal system of classification in a dual fashion. They have employed it in the classical sense in the nomenclature of fossils of readily recognizable biological groups; but it has been used with mere utilitarian significance in classifying fossils which are fragments of an undiscovered, and possibly undiscoverable, whole. This latter type of usage is increasing because micro-paleontologic investigations are bringing into prominence more and more fragmentary fossils whose exact zoological relationships may never be determined. Obviously, if such fossils are to receive real scientific study, some strictly nonbiological classification must be employed. Since the Linnaean system cannot be used without ambiguity both for this and for its original purpose, there is here proposed an artificial scheme of classification for fragmentary fossils. This new, or "military system," which is based on the divisions of the Roman army, is binominal; but, since it does not imply zoological relationships, it is utilitarian rather than biological.
30060684|Comparison of the early Ordovician Grampian orogeny in Scotland with Cenozoic collision belts elsewhere suggests that the Grampian event was an island arc-continent collision which followed southeastward subduction of ocean floor, and was succeeded by northwestward subduction of the Caledonian orogeny.
30080141|Crystalline, fine-grained, high-alumina olivine tholeiite with excess water was reacted in sealed platinum capsules in piston-cylinder apparatus between 10 and 35 kbar pressure. Runs were planned to determine the curve for the beginning of melting, but combining these with published results at lower pressures permitted delineation of the major features of the phase diagram through the melting interval. Amphibolite melts below 10 kbar; quartz eclogite melts above 25 kbar; between them is a melting interval dominated by the breakdown of amphibole and formation of garnet and jadeitic pyroxene. The results introduce two features for geological applications. The solidus changes slope at about 13.5 kbar; the amphibole maximum-stability curve changes slope in the interval 12.5-15 kbar to such an extent that the amphibole stability field is more restricted at high pressures than anticipated from previous studies. With free water, eclogite is Stable only at depths greater than about 70 km, and amphibolite is Stable in the deep crust. Amphibolite crust thickened in the depth range 40-60 km with aqueous pore fluid melts, forming a liquid enriched in silica and albitic plagioclase; this is a potential source of water-undersaturated liquids for batholiths. The upper boundary of the mantle low-velocity zone could be the boundary between rocks with interstitial amphibole and those with interstitial hydrous silicate liquid. In oceanic crust forming the upper part of a subducted lithosphere slab, it appears that most hydrous minerals dehydrate or melt before they reach 100 km depth. If so, dehydration of subducted oceanic crust does not supply water for andesitic magmatism beyond the arc-trench gap, nor contribute to the chemical variations recorded in andesites across arc complexes (
30060943|The Moldanubian zone of the Black Forest, Germany, part of the internal zone of the central European Variscan belt, exposes highpressure metamorphic rocks as small eclogite lenses in host gneisses. We report zircon UPb and PbPb ages and garnet SmNd and PbPb ages for five eclogites. The less mobile trace element contents of these eclogites are similar to those of midocean ridge basalts but have moderate to highly fractionated concentrations of the rare earth elements, enrichments in the incompatible elements, and negative anomalies in the highfield strength elements. Initial 
30081243|New
30060365|Two groups of faults are described: one near the Pryor Mountains and having a dominant north-south trend; the other 8-12 miles north of the mountains and having a trend of N. 40 E. Most of the faults of the first group are due to tension developed adjacent to the Pryor Mountains as a result of their bodily uplift during folding. All of the other faults of the area are due to some phase of adjustment of rotational strain during the mountain-building action. The rotational strain in the area resulted from greater eastward movements in the region west of the Pryor Mountains than in that northwest of them. Estimates of the amount of shortening represented in the mountain folding and of the horizontal displacement along the faults to the north indicate that compensation of the rotational strain by faulting was more than half complete.
30060344|Conclusions as to the age and correlation of the black shale in several sections measured in southwestern Virginia are presented by the writer. There are recognized in this area the Genesee shale, Portage shale, and Chemung formation, of Devonian age, and a black shale correlated with the Chattanooga shale but here called the Big Stone Gap shale, of Devonian or Mississippian age, which is overlain by beds of Cuyahoga (Mississippian) age.
30068733|Mesoscopic contractional and extensional faults dominate many external thrust zones. The fault arrays occur in the hanging walls of some thrusts and in the footwalls of others. In a thrust zone from the Little Mountains fold-thrust belt of New York state mesoscopic faults cut and offset a major thrust contact and involved rocks from the thrust's hanging wall and its footwall simultaneously. The Little Mountains exposure indicates that minor faults were active during thrust slip and are not early-formed features which were passively translated with the remainder of a sheet. When both contractional and extensional mesoscopic faults occur in thrust zones, foreland-dipping extensional faults overprint contractional faults. Contractional and extensional microfaults (with
30081018|Geobarometry and geothermometry of garnet-bearing chamockitic and metapelitic assemblages from the high-grade terrain from South India indicate three fields of equilibration. High pressure granulites (
30056840|The Gunnison tillite was first described in a paper presented by the present authors at the 1924 December meeting of the Geological Society of America. Further geologic and physiographic field studies have established a somewhat widespread distribution of this formation and appear to justify a close correlation with the Ridgway tillite of mid-Eocene age.
30056212|A zone 1,000 km. long, of what is now the Pacific Coast of Central America, has probably been the scene of volcanic activity at intervals since the Cretaceous. The lava types extruded during and since the Pleistocene are: basalt; an intermediate type; latite; dacite; rhyolite. The two most important volumetrically are the intermediate type, "andelatite," and the dacite in the form of pumice. Each shows remarkable homogeneity, both mineralogical and chemical, over a distance of 730 km. All the lavas have apparently been derived from a common magma by differentiation under uniform conditions; the horizontal cross-section of the ancestral magma-mass was of the order of 1,000 by 75 km. Active volcanoes, even only a few kilometers apart, are quite independent of one another, and the source of energy in each case would appear to be local.
30078371|In the reassembly of Precambrian Gondwanaland, many now dispersed Precambrian mobile belts appear to be aligned, and this geometrical relationship may be significant. One example is the alignment of the Sri Lanka-Eastern Ghats mobile belt of India, East Antarctica, and the Albany Fraser Province of southwest Australia (SL-EG-EA-AF Belt). Although these terrains differ somewhat in detail, they have gross similarities in lithology, structure, and possibly in their age relationships. Recent dating suggests a common late Proterozoic charnockite event. The structural and tectonic alignment of this proposed SL-EG-EA-AF Belt in the Precambrian Gondwanaland reassembly suggests a once-continuous metamorphic terrain. Geometrically this belt can be fitted to arc swaths of small circles with their center in the middle of Antarctica, which can be interpreted, in a preliminary way, as being controlled by transform-like plate tectonic processes.
30059720|A striking feature of the mountain belt around the Bighorn Basin is the reversal of the direction of overthrusting and the asymmetry of folding in transverse segments of the ranges. Not only do these segments of alternating southwest and northeast thrusting characterize the ranges, but the asymmetry of each continues in minor anticlines well into or completely across the adjoining basins. Five such transverse strips are described. Deformation was that of the Laramide foreland in which the pre-Cambrian rocks and structures, relatively thinly covered, were a more important determining factor than in the geosynclinal folding farther west. The greatest crustal shortening was northeast-southwest. In the basement complex there were two types of yielding: (1) horizontal shearing along two sets of near-vertical fractures, each at about 45 to the shortening, breaking the foreland in places into blocklike units; and (2) vertical movements giving ranges and basins with various individual departures from the general Rocky Mountain alignment. In the adjustment to space requirements under horizontal compression, transverse strips of the ranges and basins moved differently. The minor folds have a regional northwest-southeast trend more or less regardless of the trends of the main ranges and basins which were outlined earlier. This minor folding was relatively shallow; near the surface easiest relief was upward, and the folds were aligned normal to the greatest shortening. Although the basement deformation did not greatly influence the trend of these lesser folds, it did determine the direction of their asymmetry.
10.1086/667811|This study presents sensitive high-resolution ion microprobe (SHRIMP) U-Pb zircon ages, K-Ar ages, and whole-rock chemical and isotopic (Sr-Nd) compositions of the Early Cretaceous igneous activity in western South Korea. The volcanics and plutons yield zircon U-Pb ages of ca. 110 Ma, in the Albian of the late Early Cretaceous. K-Ar biotite and plagioclase ages are slightly younger, ca. 103 Ma. The geochemical signatures of the rocks are characterized by negative Nb, Ta, and Ti anomalies, relatively low 
10.1086/597472|This study integrates UPb zircon geochronology (from LAMICPMS, SHRIMP, and TIMS) with Nd isotopic data from orthogneisses and metasedimentary rocks of the preMesozoic basement of the eastern Peruvian Andes to provide new information on the tectonic evolution and NeoproterozoicPaleozoic paleogeography of this segment of the protoAndean margin. A highgrade orthogneiss unit yields UPb zircon protolith crystallization ages of 613 Ma. It was metamorphosed and intruded by an Early Ordovician granitoid. Subsequently, two different volcanosedimentary sequences were laid down and metamorphosed, probably as a consequence of terrane accretion. The older sequence was deposited and metamorphosed between 450 and 420 Ma, and the younger one was deposited after 320 Ma and metamorphosed at 310 Ma. UPb detrital zircon age patterns from the two sequences are within the age intervals 315480, 480860, 9601400, and >1400 Ma. These data strongly suggest geological and spatial links between the different units, implying the existence of active magmatism contemporaneous with the reworking of previously formed orogenic complexes. Mesoproterozoic and older ages suggest that the detrital sources are on the western margin of Gondwana, near the Amazonian Craton and/or other Grenvilliantype domains, such as those found within the Andean belt. Neoproterozoic to Ordovician zircons suggest that this crustal segment was formed on an active margin along the western side of the Amazonian Craton. Wholerock Nd isotope data from metasedimentary rocks of the two younger units yield 
30079942|Lowsilica basanite, basanite, and alkali basalt lava flows and cinder cones make up the late Quaternary Hurricane volcanic field (HVF) in the Colorado Plateau/Basin and Range transition zone of southwestern Utah. Strombolian and Hawaiianstyle eruptions produced thin (10 m) a'a lava flows and 10 cinder and scoria cones that group geographically into five clusters. The five clusters can be further divided into four isotopic magma types that vary in
30056048|Sporangiies huronensis, a Devonian plant spore, has been redeposited in the present-day bottom sediments of Lake Michigan, having been eroded from an intermediate resting place in glacial till. The occurrence of the spores in certain widely distributed clay deposits as practically the only organic remains illustrates the possibility that re-deposited micro-fossils may lead investigators to an erroneous determination of the age of a deposit.
30080875|Isle Royale in Lake Superior and the Rove area of northeastern Minnesota have valley and ridge topographies controlled by bands of massive, poorly jointed rock, alternating with highly jointed rock units. The ridges are asymmetrical in cross section, with gentle dip slopes on one side and precipitous antidip slopes on the other. The valleys contain glacially quarried bedrock lakes which are asymmetrical in cross section because of the same structural elements that control the ridge shapes. The last Wisconsin ice crossed the Rove area at right angles to the regional strike but invaded Isle Royale, moving parallel to the regional strike. In spite of this one difference in geomorphic history, the resultant terrains are nearly the same in appearance. This leads the writer to conclude that the direction of ice movement with respect to preglacial valleys is of little or no importance in the glacial quarrying process but that the structural and lithologic elements of the preglacial terrain are far more potent in controlling the course of glacial denudation. Factors controlling the process of glacial denudation are divided into two categories: (1) the applied force and (2) the resisting force. Glacial abrasion is controlled primarily by factors of the applied force, such as ice thickness, velocity and direction of flow, and amount and kind of debris in the basal ice. Glacial quarrying is controlled primarily by factors of the resisting force, especially structural and lithologic elements.
30065712|The long-term effectiveness of a geomorphic event of a particular magnitude is the product of the effect of a single event of that magnitude times the frequency with which it recurs (magnitude-frequency analysis). If discharge frequency of a stream is assumed to be log-normally distributed and if sediment transport rate is assumed to be a power function of discharge, then transport effectiveness attains a maximum value at some discharge, termed here the "effective discharge," that moves the most sediment over the long term. The effective discharge and its recurrence interval may be predicted if both assumptions are correct. Analysis of 55 U.S. streams demonstrates that the observed and the predicted recurrence intervals of the effective discharge are in poor agreement. This lack of agreement results from the failure of the power function of discharge to predict adequately the sediment transport rate above some high-discharge threshold or thresholds. The observed recurrence interval of the effective discharge for the studied streams is highly variable, ranging from a week to several decades, calling into question the widely held notion that effective fluvial discharge occurs about once a year.
30068451|A compressible solid may overcome resistance to its bodily movement by a piecemeal operation if the mass involved has dimensions permitting sufficient linear compression. Because resistance, such as friction, may be overcome locally and in successive stages, a small fraction of the force needed for an immediate effect will, given enough time, bring about the same bodily movement. This slow kind of movement against outside resistance, named ''compression creep," suggests the view that the rate of geological deformation is correlated better with small forces operating through long time, than with mighty forces in critical periods. A laboratory demonstration of the principle is made possible by the use of rubber sheets. Since this material has noTable compressibility from forces needed to overcome friction, it serves admirably as a model of a great rock sheet. Application of the principle of compression creep is made to problems involved with the overcoming of friction along the soles of overthrusts, with the rate and periodicity of mountain folding, and with the deformation of the earth by the weight of ice sheets.
30059413|The physiographic history of the Arkansas River Valley between Leadville and Canon City is recorded in a descending series of benches, pediments, and alluvial plains flanking the present river. The highest of these seem to correspond to the Rocky Mountain peneplain which has been regarded as Miocene in age. Remnants of a later "broad-valley" stage lie above the flight of seven inner terraces developed in part on Pliocene sediments. Of these, two are preglacial in age, four correspond to glacial stages, and the lowest is postglacial.
30064999|Migmatites in the Nelaug-Krossvatnet-Ubergsmoen area in the amphibolite facies part of the Bamble Sector were intruded by the Ubergsmoen Augen Gneiss (UAG) and by younger basic dikes. Both are critical time markers and show that the area underwent two phases of deformation and migmatization during the Gothian Orogeny (1600-1500 Ma) before emplacement of the augen gneiss, and four subsequent phases of deformation during the Sveconorwegian Event (1200-950 Ma), accompanied by amphibolite facies metamorphism and a minor third migmatization. Mineral assemblages in the basic dikes and in the migmatites indicate local granulite facies conditions resulting from lowered
30057169|The distribution of major elements between coexisting silicates is described for the following mineral pairs: orthopyroxene with Ca-pyroxene, hornblende with pyroxenes, biotite with pyroxenes, and hornblende with biotite. The details of element distribution suggest a genetic association of the strongly polarizing cations with weakly polarizing cations during crystal growth. The strongly polarizing cation content in the mineral is unnecessary to the composition, to the equilibrium relationships, or to the crystal growth of the mineral but is forced onto the mineral by the strong-weak cation associations. The other major constituents of the mineral adjust to the presence of the strong cations by changing the Mg to
30066383|Considerations of various new finds of reptiles in the Ocher region of Cis-Uralian Russia are advanced as a basis for comparisons with recently discovered North American Permian fauna. Morphological comparisons with reptiles of North American and South African deposits provide a basis for rough correlation of the terrestrial Permian deposits of Russia and these two continents. It is concluded that the early Upper Permian vertebrates from Ocher are essentially contemporary with those from the upper San Angelo and lower Flowerpot vertebrates of North America. The Tapinocephalus zone of South Africa is considered approximately equivalent to the later part of Zone II of Russia, the Endothiodon zone to the missing interval, termed Zone III, and the Cistecephalus zone in part to the Russian Zone IV.
30064038|By failing to conform to the geometrical rules concerning the amounts of negative variables in ternary projection, available silica-saturation "variation diagrams" deform the projection space. Although the resulting areal distortion does not introduce error in the qualitative classification of saturation type, it renders the interpretation of empirical frequency surfaces involving negative variables ambiguous. A distortion-free projection, based upon a redefinition of the silica-deficient component of the Coombs diagram, is presented, and an example of its use is given.
30059306|Near Takachiho Town, Kyushu, Japan, four welded-tuff units, which are interbedded with tuffaceous sediments and closely resemble a sequence of thin, separate ash-flow sheets, actually consist of disrupted parts of a single originally continuous sheet. Separations between the four welded units represent pull-apart structures resulting from tensional fracturing of the cooling upper parts of the ash-flow sheet simultaneous with further compaction and possible flowage of the hotter interior of the sheet over a buried irregular preemption surface. After cooling of the disrupted welded units, the intervening voids were filled by water-transported tuffaceous sediments.
30081315|An ion microprobe study in the western part of the NamaquaNatal Tectonic Province of South Africa provides new insights into ages of sedimentation, magmatism, and metamorphism in the Bushmanland Terrane. Concordant UPb ages and discordia regressions are reported for three samples and, in combination with secondary electron microscope images, Th/U ratios, and rare earth element analyses of different zircon age domains, are used to distinguish several igneous and metamorphic events. Detrital zircon grains from the tectonostratigraphic lowermost part of the Kamiesberg Subgroup (Louisrus Formation) yielded ages between 1200 and 1250 Ma and formed before a first tectonothermal event at 1187 Ma. In contrast, detrital zircon grains from a metapelitic granulite from the top of the subgroup (Bitterfontein Formation) were deposited during a previously unrecognized sedimentation stage after 1157 Ma and after this first tectonothermal event. Therefore, at least parts of the supracrustal rocks in the Bushmanland Terrane are derived from 12501200 Ma crustal material and are not Paleo to Mesoproterozoic, as suggested previously. Two major magmatic episodes have previously been recognized: at 1.2 Ga (Little Namaqualand Suite) and at 1.031.06 Ga (Spektakel and Koperberg Suites). In addition, we have dated another episode of bimodal felsic (Landplaas) and mafic (Oorkraal) plutonism at
30055971|The Shuswap terrane, exhibiting flow cleavage parallel to the sedimentary stratification over a wide area, has been regarded as a classic example of load or static metamor-phism. An examination of the structure of the gneisses reveals a common quaquaversal habit due to the updoming of granite stocks into the flat-lying, deeply buried sediments. The effect of the upward thrust of the magma against a great load differs from the effect of load alone. In the latter case the pressure would be hydrostatic and the deformation resulting would be merely dilatational, and consequently without orientation of the constituent minerals. In the former case, however, the shouldering effect of the magma results in the compression of the strata normal to the bedding, and a complementary elongation of the strata in their long dimension, supplying the lateral relief necessary to cause an orientation of the minerals. This explanation applies both to the gneisses (Shuswap) and to the overlying schists (Beltian). The yielding of the intruded rocks by rock flowage, the result of an active thrust of the subjacent magma, clearly cannot be regarded as static.
30079905|The North Dabie Complex (NDC) comprises a hightemperature metamorphic suite dominated by amphibolitefacies granitoid orthogneiss intruded by voluminous granites. UPb zircon dating on these rocks yields the following new results: (1) Two of the granitoid orthogneiss samples have Early Cretaceous protolith emplacement ages of 133.7  2.3 Ma and 134.0  2.8 Ma. (2) an undeformed granodiorite intrusive into granitoid gneiss yields an emplacement age at 125.6  0.3 Ma. These Early Cretaceous ages entirely postdate Late TriassicEarly Jurassic continental subduction and exhumation evident in the neighboring ultrahigh and highpressure metamorphic terrains to the south in the Dabie Shan; hence they do not support previous tectonic models that infer Paleozoic or Triassic protolith emplacement ages for these granitoid orthogneisses. (3) A mylonitic granite from the northern boundary of the NDC yields a concordant age of 756.6  0.8 Ma, which is interpreted as magma emplacement age. The concordance of this Late Proterozoic age suggests that the UPb systematics have not been disturbed by any significant thermal overprint since emplacement, implying that the northern extent of the deeply subducted Yangtze Block lies south of this locality.
30071592|The importance of storms and their overwash in barrier island transgression is assessed quantitatively by determining net sediment budgets of four representative Assateague Island washover sites for the 1982-83 season. The results show that most of the annual accretion occurred during one large storm which had a return interval of 10 to 15 years. The combined effects of eight subsequent storms with return intervals of less than 2.5 years accounted for less sedimentation. Change due to eolian redistribution was insignificant.
30069401|In many Type B Allende inclusions, melilite is reversely-zoned over restricted portions of each crystal. Textural relationships and the results of dynamic crystallization experiments suggest that the reverselyzoned intervals in these Type melilites result from the co-precipitation of melilite with clinopyroxene from a melt, prior to the onset of anorthite precipitation. When clinopyroxene begins to precipitate, the Al/ Mg ratio of the melt rises, causing the crystallizing melilite to become more gehlenitic, an effect which is negated by crystallization of anorthite. Because the equilibrium crystallization sequence in these liquids is anorthite before pyroxene, melilite reverse zoning can occur only when anorthite nucleation is suppressed relative to pyroxene. This has been achieved in our experiments at cooling rates as low as 0.5C/hour. Our experiments further indicate, however, that reverse zoning does not form at cooling rates
10.1086/684006|The incorporation of rare earth elements (REEs) into the mineral lattices of skeletonized fossils has been used, particularly in vertebrates, to understand diagenesis and other postmortem paleoenvironmental parameters. Little is known about similar processes in invertebrates. Invertebrate and vertebrate fossils were analyzed for REE concentrations and patterns from five Miocene formations in central Panama (206 m.yr. ago). These formations (Culebra, Cucaracha, Gatun, Chucunaque, and Chagres) contain sediments interpreted to range from freshwater to shallow marine environments (depth of <300 m). We also compared different compositional types of fossils, including hydroxylapatite (bone) and aragonite (otoliths) in vertebrates and calcite and aragonite in invertebrates. REEs from modern invertebrates indicate that, as previously reported for vertebrates, invertebrates do not incorporate significant amounts of REEs into their mineral lattices during life; therefore, uptake must primarily occur during diagenesis. Comparisons of REE
30065043|The Saih Hatat tectonic window in NE Oman exposes basement and shelf units that structurally underlie the Semail ophiolite. These units were metamorphosed under high-pressure conditions, as evidenced by the occurrence of lawsonite schists, carpholite-bearing metasediments, blueschists, and eclogites. Conventional K-Ar and
30065803|New UPb geochronology constrains the timing of the Acadian orogeny in the Central Maine Terrane of northern New Hampshire. Sixteen fractions of one to six grains each of zircon or monazite have been analyzed from six samples: (1) an early syntectonic diorite that records the onset of the Acadian; (2) a schist, a migmatite, and two granites that together record the peak of the Acadian; and (3) a postkinematic pluton that records the end of the Acadian. Zircon from the syntectonic Wamsutta Diorite gives a
30080929|The Wisconsin glacial deposits in the classic area of the Upper Mississippi Valley have long been important in the classification of the last glacial stage. A review of these elements, including recent findings, is made to weigh better some views that have arisen during the past few years. Labradorean or Patrician Iowan and Farmdale drifts have been differentiated in northern Illinois west of the border of the Tazewell substage. Northeastern Illinois is classic for the Patrician and Labradorean Tazewell and for the Patrician Cary. The Mankato and Valders drifts of the Patrician field lie to the north and northeast, but their lacustrine equivalents are recognized in the Lake Chicago area, as are the terrace remnants and backwater silts from the Keewatin field along the Mississippi River and its tributaries. Thus there occur in Illinois many of the facies of all the Wisconsin glacial substages. Their correlation and integration into the history of the last glaciation afford the proper basis for their classification. Divisions of the Wisconsin glacial stage were not made until after the duality of the glacial epoch became known. Six glacial substages of the Wisconsin are now recognized, two of which-the first and the last- have been recently added. They now include the Farmdale, Iowan, Tazewell, Cary, Mankato, and Valders. The states of the Midwest have long been the classic area of the world for glacial studies of the Pleistocene by reason of their geographic extent, the striking deployment of the drift sheets, and the abundance of related phenomena that record a complex and varied history. A brief summary of the evolution of the classification is given not only to emphasize the growth of the science but to reveal the misdirection that is sometimes given to stratigraphic studies and interpretations by errors of classification. An attempt is also made to show that advances in glaciological knowledge illumine the observations that one makes today and give impetus to further studies and that, as new techniques are developed, the glacial geologist finds his responsibilities for the older disciplines increased. Thus sound classifications that come from well-directed inquiries give expression to and are in harmony with the natural history of the Pleistocene, our ultimate goal.
30080153|We present U-Pb (titanite, zircon) and
30070743|Tiny chromite grains were found in various facies of a banded iron-formation in the Isua supracrustal belt, West Greenland. The chromites have a peculiar composition with 0.1 % MgO. The Isua chromites resemble in size meteoritic chromite grains found in modern deep-sea sediments. The depositional environment of the Isua iron-formation indicates that the chromites are not likely to be of authigenic, detrital, or volcanic origin. It is suggested that the chromites represent the earliest traces of meteoric material found on Earth.
30056044|Examination of 2783 well records in an area of approximately 4,637 square miles in north-central Ohio reveals that the buried topography is similar to that in the unglaci-ated area of the same state. The writer believes that the preglacial valleys were considerably deepened in interglacial time, during the Deep stage, preceding the Illinoian, and the drainage much disturbed as the result of a glaciation earlier than the Illinoian. Blocking of the northward-flowing streams by this glacier reversed the drainage and caused extensive ponding of the waters in the valleys of the Teays system.
30061186|New whole-rock Rb-Sr isochron dates from the Tanzanian Shield of East Africa fall in the range
30063905|The Annieopsquotch Accretionary Tract (AAT) comprises several ophiolites and arcbackarc igneous complexes that were accreted to the Dashwoods microcontinent during the Ordovician Taconic orogeny. The Lloyds River Fault Zone, which separates the AAT from the Dashwoods microcontinent, yielded
30066184|The distribution, species composition, and zonation of reefs on the island of St. Vincent are described and compared with corresponding characteristics of several other Caribbean and Bahamian reefs. Reef-building organisms are restricted to the leeward coast adjacent to the older volcanic mountains where broad, shallow shelves are present and where the influx of inorganic sediment is at a minimum. Well-developed reef structures are few in number and are somewhat restricted in size. However, those present show distinct zonation and a diverse coral, sponge, and algae assemblage. St. Vincent reefs are generally-smaller than the reefs of Barbados, Jamaica, or the Bahamas. The assemblage of organisms is much less diverse, but the over-all morphology is similar in most cases.
30068138|The nature and suggested modes of origin of the mineralogically unlike bands so frequently observed in bodies of basic plutonic rock are reviewed. A mechanism for the production of some of these bands is suggested, involving simultaneous crystallization and settling of two or more minerals in a magma lighter than any of them. By a process of rhythmic differential settling, rhythmically alternating bands of differing composition may be produced. The same process may account for anorthosite bodies without necessitating the assumption of the crystallization of plagioclase from a liquid heavier than itself, provided only that the plagioclase be lighter than the mean specific gravity of liquid and heavy minerals together. Experimental evidence is adduced in support of the suggested mechanism.
30080891|Studies of contemporary environments of sedimentation involve important properties which cannot be measured in the sedimentary rocks. Other properties of contemporary environments of sedimentation can be measured in the sedimentary rocks also, but change diagenetically with time. A third suite of properties remains relatively stable through time. This paper discusses criteria, based on statistical stability of descriptive parameters through time, for treatment of these three classes of measurements for any given property.
30067902|Hornblende spessartite dikes of the Sandia Mountains, New Mexico, contain small leucocratic dikelets that appear to be differentiated from the spessartite by fractional crystallization. Mineralogically the leucocratic dikelets are hornblende syenite, but chemically they more closely resemble Nockolds's (1954) average monzonite. During differentiation
30068134|Adjacent discordant surfaces of peneplanation in the crystalline rocks of southern California usually have been ascribed to the faulting of one surface. The Perris block is a structural unit on which there are old erosional surfaces at two levels. Field mapping has proved that this discordance is not due to faulting but represents the truncation of the block at two different levels by erosion. This was possible only through two separate periods of partial burial of the block. Now that the block has been exhumed, the high- and low-level erosional surfaces and various instances of superposed drainage remain as evidence of its former burial.
10.1086/661975|We develop a proxy to infer humidity from the geochemistry of paleosols in order to enhance reconstructions of ancient paleoclimate beyond trends in mean annual precipitation. Geochemical transfer functions, developed herein, are used to estimate net primary production and evapotranspiration along three latitudinal transects of modern soils in the coterminous United States. Mean annual precipitation and the degree of chemical weathering are estimated from the major element concentrations in soils. The ratio of evapotranspiration, estimated from our proxy, and mean annual precipitation provides a method of determining the humidity province of ancient climates that is more robust and meaningful than previous methods, and our approach differs from existing methods since both the influx and efflux of moisture are explicitly determined. The required input parameters for application of this proxy are (1) the soil morphology, (2) accurate and complete major element concentration data for the active soil and parent material, and (3) the latitude or mean annual temperature (5C) of the soil or paleosol. The correlation coefficient between the measured climate and the modeled climate regime using only the latitude, morphologic, and major element data of soils is
30068781|In the Lake Superior area, voluminous Middle Proterozoic tholeiitic basalt with minor rhyolite and interflow sediments occupy the Midcontinent Rift and overlie Archean and older Proterozoic basement. The 3000 m-thick section of gently dipping (~10SSE) basalts on the Black Bay Peninsula is divided into three suites based on the relationship between stratigraphy, petrography, and geochemical variations (e.g., Mg-number,
30059231|The present paper (1) gives a historical perspective of the subject of weathered zones of glacial tills, (2) reviews changes in concepts and techniques, geologically and pedologically, (3) notes the neglect of clay microscopy in the study and appraisal of profiles of weathering since the work of Allen on gumbotils thirty years ago, (4) explores the elements of soil profiles and profiles of weathering and their relationships, (5) analyzes recent discussions concerning gumbotil, "leached wash," gley, and accretion gley, (6) criticizes the mineralogical studies recently made of weathering profiles of Kansan and Illinoian tills, and (7) emphasizes the need for a comprehensive study of weathering of the several glacial drift sheets.
30060494|The Lackawanna Basin or Northern Anthracite Field lies in northeastern Pennsylvania between the Allegheny Plateau on the west and the Pocono Plateau on the east. Structurally, it resembles similar long, narrow synclines of the Appalachians, but its trend is different. Data on thicknesses of formations indicate a marked thinning of the Mississippian under the basin. Its presence is attributed to this thinning, because during the Appalachian Revolution here was a region of structural weakness.
30059936|Coal balls and roof-nodules are the most important concretions occurring with coal seams. Coal balls have been known for a long time in Europe, but have been only recently discovered in the United States and in Australia. They are formed in situ and contain plant remains which, because of their excellent preservation, yield much valuable paleobotanical information. The shale beds above the coal carry another type of concretion called roof-nodules which are generally formed in situ by the actipn of ground water. The latter also frequently contain plant remains. This article embodies the major conclusions of a more extensive report to be published elsewhere.
30084816|A sodium-rich altered tuff bed, approximately 5 feet thick, in the Jurassic Twin Creek limestone occurs over an area of more than one thousand square miles in Idaho and Wyoming. Microcrystalline quartz, analcime, albite, and calcite are the major components of the typically hard pale-green or grayish-green aphanite. One chemically analyzed analcime-rich rock contains 6.2 per cent
30081309|Red, supermature quartzites of the Baraboo interval of the Lake Superior region contain detrital zircon that ranges in age from 1782 to 1712 Ma. Deposition clearly occurred after the geon 18 Penokean orogeny. These late Paleoproterozoic sedimentary rocks consist largely of quartz, kaolinite or pyrophyllite, and hematite; detrital feldspar and muscovite are rare or absent. Their Chemical Index of Alteration ranges from 96.8 to 98.6, among the most chemically mature clastic sediments in the geological record. The quartzites are underlain by mature, feldsparfree paleosols, accounting for the absence of feldspar in the overlying sediments and indicating the presence of firstcycle quartzose detritus. Such physical and chemical characteristics imply that late Paleoproterozoic deposition in the Lake Superior region occurred in a stable tectonic setting with subdued topographic relief in a warm, humid climate. Folding and lowgrade metamorphism of the quartzites is thought to reflect 1630 Ma foreland deformation related to the Mazatzal orogeny. Younger hydrothermal alteration is widespread in the Baraboo and Sioux quartzites and, based on
30068569|Adularia traditionally has been described as monoclinic. Sections of adularia crystals from several localities, studied on the universal stage, show optical orientations inconsistent with monoclinic symmetry. The optical deviation from monoclinic symmetry is absent or very small in the cores of the crystals but increases toward the surfaces. The optical orientation and axial angles of triclinic adularia vary from those of monoclinic adularia in the direction of sanidine rather than of microcline. Triclinic adularia occurs as a secondary modification of monoclinic adularia. It has distinctive optical behavior which establishes it as a variety of potash feldspar.
30081246|Along 2500 km of the Western Australian coast, prehistoric ephemeral marine inundations (storm surges or tsunamis) were much larger than those that occurred since European settlement. The evidence is in the form of shell and coral deposits atop 30mhigh headlands, sand deposits containing large boulders, shell and coral several kilometers inland, and fields of large imbricated boulders across shore platforms. The size of transported boulders and the altitude of these deposits suggest that tsunamis were responsible, not large storm waves. The orientation of boulders reveals paleowave directions. Radiocarbon dating of the deposits suggest three very large tsunamis along this coast during the past millennium.
30066048|In order to point out some useful aspects of the facies series in various types of metamorphism, the possible stability fields of the facies described from areas of progressive metamorphism are shown in a hypothetical PT diagram. Examples of nine common types are given. These seem to occur at different pressure levels and are distinguished by different series of mineral assemblages. Division into subfacies in the field of normal regional metamorphism is based on assemblages in aluminum-rich pelitic schists. The invariant points of intersection of the equilibrium boundaries of andalusite, kyanite, and sillimanite with the lower stability boundaries of biotite, garnet, staurolite, orthoclase, and hypersthene can serve as relative geobarometers because a different series of subfacies occurs on the higher and lower pressure side of each such intersection. The stability field of cordierite was placed so as to satisfy the zone of entrance of this mineral in various types of metamorphism. Verification of any of the relations shown in the tentative pressure-temperature diagram, and evaluation of mineralogic zonations as observed in the field must await further field and laboratory studies. Recognition of the metamorphic type through its facies series makes the studies of the equilibrium assemblages and the compositional variation of the coexisting minerals meaningful. If such studies are extended systematically over the whole temperature range in each known metamorphic type, we should have information necessary to determine the physical conditions of metamorphism also in areas where no zones are present.
30057045|Smooth-walled hemitubes branching dendritically upward were observed on a joint surface. Because of the alignment on a joint plane, they are believed to have resulted from secondary, rather than diagenetic, spring action.
30068571|Synthetic albite is found to have X-ray and optical properties different than those of the very pure natural albites from pegmatites, but these natural albites can, by heating, be converted into a form identical with the synthetic product. High- and low-temperature modifications of albite are thus indicated. The inversion temperature is believed to be in the neighborhood of 700 C. Optical and X-ray studies show that the inversion extends into the plagiocla.se series approximately to
30059065|Volumes of carbonate rocks are computed for Mesozoic platforms over several orders of length scales (reservoir to basin scale) for millions of years time intervals. The calculation is based on the restoration of depositional geometries by correlating genetic sequences and on the estimation of carbonate concentrations from core and welllog data. The interpolation yields the total amount of carbonate buried in a closed system and represents the net budget of production/preservation of sedimentary carbonate for a given time interval, over a defined area covering several depositional environments. A threedimensional (3D) accumulation rate is obtained by dividing the total volume of carbonate rocks by the total surface over a time interval derived from biostratigraphic data. Estimates of such a carbonate accumulation rate for various Jurassic and Cretaceous platforms range from 8 to 67 m/m.yr. Errors in computing carbonate volumes are limited, whereas an uncertainty is associated with the calculation of depositional rates because the duration of stratigraphic intervals is moderately controlled. Application to the Middle Jurassic carbonate platform of the Paris Basin reveals that the accumulation rates match the stratal geometry, i.e., progradation, vertical stacking, and retrogradation. The procedure also makes it possible to map the carbonate accumulation, to describe the volumetric partitioning of carbonate products between different depositional environments, and to calculate the inshore/offshore depositional ratio. The accumulation rates obtained are relevant to problems as diverse as change of depositional profile and numerical modeling of carbonate systems, growth and drowning of carbonate platforms, and surface chemical cycles through the inorganic carbon burial in ancient cratonic domains.
30060083|The Sudbury structure is interpreted as a 1.7-billion-year-old asteroid impact structure or "astrobleme" created by a
30058193|Evidence has been found that casts doubt on the long-held view that the Idaho batholith was emplaced essentially as a unit. This evidence indicates that the batholith is composed of discrete masses of granitic rock, some of which came to place under deep-seated conditions, others at much shallower depths. The deeply seated emplacements include two closely related, but separately formed, masses; the earlier evolved while deformative stresses associated with a major orogeny were still quite intense, the other evolved during the later, less intense stages. These masses probably had their roots in the same source. The granitic bodies introduced under less deep-seated conditions came from a younger, probably unrelated source. The older rocks of the batholith resemble and are tentatively correlated with the granitic rocks of Oregon and Washington, which were emplaced at the close of the Sierra Nevadan orogeny, hence near the end of Jurassic time. The younger rocks appear to be associated with Laramide structures and are believed to be a product of the Laramide orogeny of late Cretaceous time.
30080788|Submarine valleys may be classified into three groups. One group resembles youthful river valleys, another fault grabens, and a third glacial troughs. There are many reasons for believing that the valleys of this last group have been shaped by glacial excavation. They are found exclusively off glaciated coasts. They contain the deep-rimmed depressions, trough-shape, and relatively straight walls characteristic of glacially excavated valleys. Evidence of the presence of moraines within these shelf-troughs has been discovered. Finally the continental shelves off glaciated coasts are much deeper on the average than those off unglaciated areas.
30062327|Evidence for at least four late Quaternary glaciations can be recognized on Mount Baldy and Mount Ord in the White Mountains of east-central Arizona. The earliest evidence of glaciation is assigned a pre-Wis-consinan age. Evidence for this glaciation-the Purcell Glaciation-consists primarily of U-shaped valleys and where present, highly subdued moraines. Two substages of the Wisconsinan can be recognized. Evidence for the early Wisconsinan Smith Cienega Glaciation consists of moderately subdued moraines and fluvial and lacustrine deposits. The late Wisconsinan Baldy Peak Glaciation has sharp-crested moraines in the east and northeast-facing valleys. Two advances of the Baldy Peak Glaciation are thought to have occurred. A single well-preserved, very bouldery moraine, represents the least extensive and youngest glaciation-the Mount Ord Glaciation-of Holocene age.
30080132|Regional facies maps based on one or more sets of contour lines (as clastic ratio and sand-shale ratio) may display well-defined trends, but some show irregular, spotty patterns, difficult to interpret. The latter may arise when local geologic variations are great enough to mask regional trends. The problem of applying statistical analysis to facies maps thus requires use of models suitable to the sorting-out of variations produced by geologic factors. Analysis of variance provides basic techniques for this purpose. Single-factor and two-factor analysis of variance designs are useful in testing maps for "facies homogeneity" by comparing variation within areas with variation between areas. In such applications, the statistical designs are used to detect relationships between fixed means. The methods are illustrated on a regional scale by Pennsylvanian data in Kansas, which show a clastic ratio gradient but no sand-shale ratio gradient. On a local scale the method is used to test for significant differences in stratigraphic aspect within a single pool.
30057600|Contours of the Arctic Basin were based on a compilation of all known soundings, largely from recent Russian expeditions. Additional general inferences regarding the bottom topography were derived from indirect considerations, such as distribution of Pleistocene glaciers, character of land topography, positions of earthquake epicenters, and sources and composition of the bottom sediments. It is concluded that the floor of the basin is far more irregular than is indicated by the present sparse soundings. Off Alaska and Canada the basin is deepest and least well sounded.
10.1086/665793|An outstanding problem in understanding the late Proterozoic tectonic assembly of the southwest is identifying the tectonic setting associated with regional metamorphism at 1.4 Ga. Both isobaric heating and cooling, and counterclockwise looping
30063774|The Hardwood Gneiss is an areally small unit of Precambrian granulite-grade rocks exposed in the Archean gneiss terrane of the southern Lake Superior region. The rocks are located in the southwestern portion of the Upper Peninsula of Michigan and consist of a structurally conformable package of quartzitic, metapelitic, amphibolitic, and metabasic units. Three texturally distinct garnet types are present in the metabasites and are interpreted to represent two metamorphic events. Geothermobarometry indicates conditions of ~8.2-11.6 kbar and ~770C for Ml, and conditions of ~6.0-10.1 kbar and ~610-740C for M2. It is proposed that Ml was Archean and contemporaneous with a high-grade metamorphic event recorded in the Minnesota River Valley. The M2 event was probably Early Proterozoic and pre-Penokean, with metamorphic conditions more intense than those generally ascribed to the Penokean Orogeny in Michigan, but similar to the conditions reported for the Kapuskasing zone of Ontario. The high paleopres-sures and temperatures of the Ml event make the Hardwood Gneiss distinct from any rocks previously described in the southern Lake Superior reigon, and suggest intense tectonic activity during the Archean.
30065537|Two groups of migmatites represent the thermal culmination of the classic area of Barrovian metamorphism in the Eastern Highlands of Scotland. Group A are spatially and temporally associated with kyanite-grade metamorphism, while Group B are spatially and temporally associated with sillimanite-grade metamorphism and structurally overprint Group A. Structural, textural, modal, and mineral chemical arguments indicate that Group A migmatites are the products of subsolidus differentiation, whereas Group B migmatites apparently were formed by anatexis. Kyanite metamorphism and Group A migmatites probably result from conductive heating related to regional-scale nappe emplacement locally modified by advection during synmetamorphic folding. Sillimanite metamorphism and Group B migmatites, on the other hand, result from local and transient fluid advection. The relative importance of conductive vs. advective heat transfer has apparently varied in both space and time over a relatively small (
30070517|Microlites in pseudotachylite veins from the Fuyun fault zone, northwest China, can be divided into four morphological groups: simple, skeletal, dendritic, and spherulitic. From the margin to the center of microcrystalline and microlitic pseudotachylite veins, the size of single crystals or crystal fibers becomes progressively larger from a few m to as much as 15 m. The morphologies of microlites vary from simple shapes, such as acicular and globular forms, to more complex forms such as skeletal, dendritic, and coarse spherulitic forms. In glassy pseudotachylites, only simple and fine spherulitic microlites, generally smaller than 5-6 m, occur. These microlites have a varied mineralogy but are mainly made up of plagioclase (An20-70), and alkali feldspar, including sanidine and anorthoclase, as well as clinopyroxene, grossular garnet, biotite, hornblende and some magnetic minerals. The biotite and hornblende microlites have a variable Ti content, generally higher than that of biotite and hornblende fragments from the country rocks. The wide variety of morphologies and textures of microlites within the pseudotachylite, the presence of sanidine, anorthoclase, An-high plagioclase, pyroxene, and Ti-high biotite and hornblende indicate that these microlites are primary crystals formed from rapid cooling or quenching of a melt.
30068481|Using the West Australian craton as a model, but with reference to other shields, a highly generalized planation history of world-wide cratonic regions is traced from Proterozoic to present. Erosional unconformities and associated sedimentary veneers are found to be closely comparable in attitude and altitude, although progressively lower through time. The oldest, still nearly horizontal unconformity is Proterozoic, and subsequent unconformities tend to conform to this original cratonic planation surface. The erosion-sedimentation history has been one of repeated exhumation and reburial, though in places it involved "stacked" veneers. This morphogeodynamic pattern of events we call the cratonic regime. The physiographic regularity of the cratonic regime is interrupted or disturbed in intracratonic basins or upwarps, and along plate margins. Rifted margins involve simple upwarp, deep fluvial dissection, and subsequent relaxation with reburial. Periodic Proterozoic and Phanerozoic glaciations caused further warping and scouring, creating, for example, fjords along the early Gondwana rifts. In the more stable areas the mean rate of lowering of the primary cratonic planation surface has been on the order of 10-20 cm per million years (
30060942|The Archaean Minto Block of the Superior Province is dominated by foliated tonalite, trondhjemite, granite, granodiorite, enderbite, and clinopyroxene or orthopyroxenebearing hornblendetonalite; most partly retain igneous microtextures. Outcropscale structures such as meltfilled shear zones and deformed intraplutonic dikes imply that deformation was synmagmatic. Compositions of epidote (pistachite 2530), garnet, and muscovite (
30075141|The so-called strandflat of the Norwegian coasts has aroused the interest of scientists since an early date. Later other forms, such as banks or grounds and deep channels, were discovered and posed additional problems. But no agreement has ever been reached on these problems in spite of numerous discussions. The formation and processes in the development of the strandflat and adjacent geomorphological forms cannot-according to the author-be separated from the history of the hinterland. Thus, to a major extent, the strandflat forms a part of a polycyclic piedmonttreppe. In the same way the bankflat is stated to be identical with one step of this geomorphological staircase. The banks and grounds off the coasts are explained as galacial-fluviatile-marine deposits of a very complex nature, intersected by longitudinal and transverse channels. These peculiar submarine forms are suggested as having been created by fluvial and glacial erosion and conserved to our day by a system of marine currents. Isostatic and eustatic movements are additional factors to be taken into consideration in the history of the building of the coast forms mentioned.
30081298|The Tom Sauk member of the Bonneterre formation is a pure, fine-grained, sublithographic limestone, which occurs in that formation only in the St. Francois Mountains of Missouri. The limestone is irregular in distribution, thickness, and stratigraphic position, and peculiar in lithology. The writer suggests that it is a chemical deposit precipitated in closed basins among the hills of igneous rock. The waters in these basins were fresh or brackish, and the sediment there escaped the dolomitization by sea water which the Bonneterre dolomite suffered. Thin sections of the limestone show certain textures suggesting that the original sediment was similar to the finely divided lime muds now accumulating in parts of the Bahamas.
30058164|The most useful classification of the Pennsylvania series in northern New Mexico is by the lithologic character of the rocks, supplemented by paleontologic data where available. Few of the boundaries are sharp. The strata represent a single major sedimentary cycle, comprising, in ascending order, a suite of transgressive sediments, a widely distributed marine phase, and an unevenly distributed regressive phase, followed by continental sediments. For the marine part of the sequence the term "Magdalena group" is used, including the Sandia formation and the Madera limestone, the latter containing several named members. The positions of major positive areas and of depositional basins, total thicknesses, and general character of the sediments are indicated on a map of northern New Mexico, and detailed local sections are shown graphically in several charts.
30060577|The eastern flank of the Front Range in north central Colorado shows a remarkable series of potholes related to the early Pleistocene glaciation of the region. The areas concerned are deeply and thickly pitted with thousands of glacially carved potholes. The bearing of these ancient potholes on the condition of the ice during their formation indicates unusual features of crevassing and surface ablation. The potholes are directly linked up with ancient cirques, U-shaped valleys, striae, and perched bowlders in the chain of evidence which indicates that these early Pleistocene glaciers covered 75 to 80 per cent of the region and had many of the characteristics of an ice cap with pendant valley glaciers, fringing well out to the foothills.
30058713|The Stanley and Jackfork formations were recently correlated with the Pennsylvanian but their exact age is still a problem. The flora obtained from these formations is unlike any known flora in North America and is younger than that from the Wedington sandstone member of the Fayetteville shale (Chester) and older than that in Baldwin coal member of the Bloyd shale of the Morrow group (middle Pottsville). White considered the Stanley and Jackfork floras similar to those described from the Ostrau and Waldenburg series of central Europe, which are no younger than lower Namurian (E and possibly H zones).
JG116401|At the heart of interpreting the history of Earth surface evolution preserved in the rock record is distinguishing environmental (allogenic) forcing from internally generated (autogenic) noise. Allogenic deposits classically have been recognized by their cyclic nature, which apparently results from periodic changes in base level, sediment supply, or tectonics. Autogenic deposits, which are quite variable in their origin and scale, are caused by the nonlinearity of sediment transport and might be expected to have a random or scale-free (fractal) signature. Here we describe a robust mechanism that generates cyclic deposits by an autogenic process in experimental fan deltas. Sheet flow over the fan surface induces deposition and an increase in fluvial slope and curvature to a point where the surface geometry is susceptible to a channelization instability, similar to channel initiation on hillslopes. Channelized flow results in incision and degrading of the fan surface to a lower slope, releasing a pulse of sediment that pushes the shoreline forward. Sheet flow resumes once the surface is regraded, and the cycle repeats in a surprisingly periodic fashion to produce cyclic foreset accretions. We use simple scaling and a one-dimensional fan evolution model to (1)demonstrate how time-varying flow width can cause pulses in sediment discharge at the shoreline in agreement with experiments and (2)reinterpret cyclic deposits reported in the field. Alternating sheet and channelized flows are known to operate on noncohesive fans in nature. Our results suggest that rather than reflecting variation in environmental forcing, many observed cyclic sedimentation packages may be a signature of the autogenic pulse of fan deltas under calm environmental conditions.
30063417|An amygdaloidal, ophitic, and slightly porphyritic basalt occurs beneath Cambrian or Precambrian sedimentary rocks in a deep well in Lawrence County, Indiana. The rock has been highly altered and contains more than 35 per cent chlorite. Many of the plagioclase
30056727|The Catoctin formation in central Virginia consists of an undetermined thickness of hydrothermally altered andesite classed as propylite. It is underlain by a variable thickness of both metamorphosed and unmetamorphosed conglomerate, sandstone, tuff, and andesite to which the name "Oronoco formation" is assigned. The Catoctin in northern Virginia is overlain by the Lower Cambrian Loudoun formation. In central Virginia, the Unicoi formation, which is at least partly equivalent to the Loudoun formation, crops out along the western flanks of the Blue Ridge. It is not exposed in the Catoctin outcrop belt because of erosion, faulting, or nondeposition. The Unicoi contains conglomerates, sandstones, tuffs, and an andesite flow lithologically like these rocks in the Oronoco and Catoctin formations. Thus, the andesitic effusives and tuffs in the Oronoco, Catoctin, and Unicoi formations are thought to be genetically related. Furthermore, the Catoctin and Oronoco rest upon a surface of major unconformity. This unconformity underlies the Unicoi. The Catoctin and Oronoco are, consequently, thought, to be Cambrian in age. In the Western part of the Piedmont province, the Catoctin overlies the Lynchburg formation. The Lynchburg may therefore be partly equivalent to the Oronoco and thus of Cambrian age.
10.1086/516018|The collision of India with Asia, one of the most profound tectonic events to have occurred in past 100 m.y., is thought to have had geological, geochemical, and climatological consequences of global extent. Surprisingly the age of initiation of this collision remains poorly constrained. Estimates range from the Late Cretaceous (>65 Ma) to latest Eocene (<40 Ma), with little consensus in between. This paper reviews the stratigraphic section preserved on Zhepure Mountain, on the north flank of Everest (Mount Qomolongma), and its implied subsidence history. Zhepure Mountain lies about 65 km south of the IndusYarlung Zangbo suture and contains the most complete and youngest passive margin shelf sediments in the Tethyan Himalayas. On the basis of the subsidence history of the preserved section there is no evidence of acceleration of the subsidence up to the youngest rocks. Therefore, collisionrelated loading and accelerated subsidence must postdate the youngest sediments preserved, which date from the early Lutetian; hence accelerated subsidence at Zhepure Mountain must postdate about 45.8 Ma. In the Zanskar and Hazara region to the west, the initiation of collision is stratigraphically well constrained as starting in the Late Ypresian (<52 Ma), implying a significant component of diachroneity to the initiation of this collision.
30081056|Southwest Newfoundland's Gander Zone was once considered part of the collided eastern margin of an early Paleozoic Iapetus ocean, distinguished from the rest of the Gander Zone by the extensive exposure of a polydeformed amphibolite to greenschist facies sequence considered Devonian in age, overlying presumed Precambrian basement. It was later found that truly Devonian strata were confined to the Cape Ray Fault system, the local northwestern boundary of the Zone. U-Pb zircon isotopic ages of
30070752|Processes involving melting have been of fundamental importance in the origin and evolution of the Earth and other terrestrial planets, but thermodynamic data and physical properties of liquids necessary to calculate phase relationships are not well known, particularly at high pressures. We present revised fusion curves of the silicate diopside and the aluminosilicate albite to 30 kbars. The fusion curve of diopside is in agreement with that calculated with the Clapeyron equation. Conversely, we were able to calculate the fusion curve of albite only by considering the effects of pressure and temperature in lowering the activity of
30063387|Field work during 1946 and 1947 has produced a moderately extensive fauna of fish, amphibians, and reptiles from the Vale formation of Knox County, Texas. The youngest terrestrial vertebrates previously known from the Texas Permian are of Arroyo age. Aerial photographs were used successfully in exploration and as a basis for accurate indexing of localities. The vertebrates occur exclusively in channel conglomerates laid down in moderately evenly bedded red and green sands and clays. The environment appears to have been one of moderate rainfall, with extended dry periods interrupted by torrential rains. Dimetrodon and Diplocaulus occur with the greatest frequency. Xenacanth sharks, dipnoans, gymnarth-rids, lysorophids, diplocaulids, captorhinids, and various pelycosaurs make up much of the fauna. A preliminary survey indicates that the Vale fauna was derived from the Arroyo fauna, with the addition of a few new elements. A well-developed flora is preserved but is as yet unstudied.
30061142|Earthquakes over 300 km deep are presently limited to 13 belts lying up to 1,300 km from associated ocean trenches. Of these 13 belts, two are completely covered, six are 95% covered by deep water (> 1,000 m), and three more have 75%, 60%, and 30% of their areas covered by similar depths of water. The other 70% of this last belt and the two remaining belts coincide with Tertiary/Quaternary sedimentary basins. There is thus a close relationship between the belts of deep earthquakes and surface subsidence. We believe this relationship to be a result of volume changes in the mantle resulting from inversions to denser phases as the lithospheric slab descends the subduction zone, although quantitative estimates of either the subsidence so caused or how the volume changes are related to the deep earthquakes are not possible. Similar areas of subsidence are likely to have occurred above the deeper parts of subduction zones in the past, so that some Phanerozoic sedimentary basins (between 100 and 1,300 km from plate margins) may have formed in this way.
30063683|Deposits made by glacial streams following a comparatively rapid retreat of the ice from a region of irregular topography buried many isolated ice remnants. When these masses of ice melted, they formed pits in an outwash plain; locally the pits were so abundant that no level surfaces remained. Pitted outwash is compared with other glacio-fluvial deposits that have a somewhat similar topography, with the conclusion that there is danger of confusion with kames. The results of readvances of the ice over outwash before the ice blocks had all melted is discussed. Attention is called to factors that controlled the relative abundance of glacio-fluvial deposits and to the significance of pitted outwash as a criterion of relatively recent glacial retreat before its formation, thus distinguishing recessional from terminal moraines. Examples of the various types of deposits are given.
30068533|Relationships between various Lower Silurian chitinozoan assemblages are established using statistical methods such as calculation of the number of species in common and similarity coefficient. Conclusions clearly indicate that Eastern Canadian chitinozoan fauna are distinct from those of the north Gondwana margin. The proposed relationships are refined by the use of more rigorous analytical techniques such as correspondence analysis and cluster analysis. The results are compared to the paleogeographic reconstructions available for the Ordovician and the Lower Silurian. They show that chitinozoans are useful not only for stratigraphic correlations, but also, as their paleogeographic distribution seems to be linked to paleolatitudes, they can be used to document plate tectonic dynamics.
30056091|The Cascade Mountains of Oregon in the vicinity of the North Santiam River may be divided into two structural units, the Western Cascades and the High Cascades. The Western Cascades consist of Oligocene and Miocene basaltic to rhyolitic volcanics which have been thrown into a series of northeast-southwest-trending folds, and intruded by dioritic masses with attendant mineralization. The High Cascades are composed of several distinct series of basaltic to dacitic volcanics which are Pliocene and Pleistocene in age. The young eruptives retain their initial dips and in part lap over the Western Cascades. The eastern boundary of the Western Cascades is determined by the east-facing Cascade fault scarp which obliquely cuts the folded structures. It is suggested that the High Cascades occupy a zone of weakness between the Western Cascade folding and the essentially east-west structures of eastern Oregon, and that the Cascade fault is the westernmost of a series of buried fractures of the basin range type.
30069332|Earlier work on the abrasion of rock fragments in tumbling barrels is reviewed, and the main principles are summarized. Most earlier work concerned one or another aspect of abrasion without including interrelations among particle characteristics during wear. Experimental data are presented on size, sphericity, and roundness during abrasion, and the relative rates of size reduction, rounding, and shape change are determined. It is found that the coefficient of rounding is largest, the coefficient of shape change is intermediate, and the coefficient of size reduction is smallest. An analytical theory of abrasion is developed on the basis of the experimental data, and it is found that simple exponential functions yield at least first approximations to the size and shape aspects of particle wear. Rounding is a more complex process, controlled in part by the shapes of the particles. Geological applications of tumbling-barrel data are discussed, and it is emphasized that wear of rock fragments is only one aspect of the changes which sediments undergo during transportation. The selective effects of transportation, in terms of size, shape, and density, must be taken into account in any analysis of actual field relations.
30081032|Niue Island is a former atoll whose reef and lagoon floor are now stranded above sea level. Thirty-five samples of limestones and dolostones, taken at 1.5 m intervals down a 52.4 m deep well, were analyzed for Mg, Na, K, Sr, Ba, Fe, Mn, Cu, Zn, and U. The sequence of carbonates down the well is aragonite + low-Mg calcite, dolomite  low-Mg calcite, low Mg calcite > dolomite (=4.5 m thick dedolomitized zone), dolomite < low-Mg calcite. Concentrations of alkali and alkaline earth elements down the well are consistent with a history of progressive lithification and diagenesis of bioclastic limestones under normal saline or brackish water conditions: magnesium (0.5-19.4%) reflects the mineralogy at each stage of diagenesis; strontium, sodium, and potassium show a progressive reduction with increasing diagenesis-the alkali contents of the carbonate rocks can be shown not to be due to non-carbonate, solid impurities; barium has a limited range (10-46 g/g) indicating that no major change has occurred in the barium concentration of the meteoric pore waters in the history of the atoll. No evidence of former hypersalinity was found, and dolomitization is ascribed to a Dorag mechanism, taking place at the base of the freshwater Ghyben-Herzberg lens underlying the elevated atoll. Calculations suggest 2.5 cm depth of rock are dolomitized every thousand years. The levels of Fe, Mn, Cu, Zn, and U are regarded as very high considering the environment and nature of the rocks. The pattern of these elements indicates their having been derived in part from a source external to the limestones and their connate waters, possibly from former, hydrothermal activity.
10.1086/675256|The tsunami induced by the May 21, 2003, Algerian Boumerds-Zemmouri earthquake (moment magnitude
30056377|The trace elements of the chief plutonic rocks (norite, diorite, granodiorite, and adamellite) of the Loch Doon complex, Scotland, have been determined spectrographically. The distribution and relative proportions of the determined elements are discussed. Relationships appear to be consistent with the hypothesis that the investigated rocks developed metasomatically.
30084800|Eight plutonic masses are described. These include (1) parts of three granodiorite batholiths, (2) a granodiorite stock, (3) a quartz-diorite mass probably of batholithic dimensions, (4) two small basic masses, one of metagabbro and one of malignite, and (5) a small but complex intrusion containing several alkaline types. Some of the intrusions have variable compositions, others are nearly homogeneous. Gneissic and protoclastic structures are prominent in two of the batholiths, mylonitization along shear zones in the malignite. Contact metamorphism is intense near some of the intrusions, almost absent near others. Satellitic dikes are scarce near some intrusions, abundant near others. Cross-cutting relationships can be established for only two pairs of the intrusions. The contact between two of the batholiths is exposed but is complicated by numerous dikes, extensive deformation, and the presence of a syenitic border facies. No stratigraphic evidence is available for establishing relative ages of the intrusions. Hence the determination of genetic and temporal relationships among the intrusions must depend largely on comparisons of their chemical, petrographic, and structural characteristics. The general problem of correlating intrusives without evidence from cross-cutting relations and age determinations is discussed in detail. Possible criteria based on (1) chemical composition, (2) petrographic characteristics, (3) structures, (4) metamorphism, and (5) dikes are tested by applying them to the Okanogan intrusives. The criteria are grouped according to their general applicability, and various combinations are used to establish relationships among the Okanogan rocks.
30063436|Measurements have been made of the c axis dimension (thickness, t) and the apparent length (l') of bio-tite crystals seen in thin sections of metamorphic rocks. The mean (apparent) crystal shape factor (w) is defined as the average V/t value, determined for at least 200 crystals within a particular specimen. From examination of rocks selected across regions of (1) thermal and (2) regional metamorphism it was shown that there was a progressive reduction of m with increasing grade of metamorphism. Detailed consideration of the data lead us to conclude that the sizes and shapes of biotite crystals were (1) predominantly controlled by the temperature at which metamorphism occurred and (2) influenced by rates of crystal growth (i.e.) kinetic factors.
30075194|The Pennsylvanian age Purgatory Conglomerate of Rhode Island was deformed under late Paleozoic lower greenschist facies conditions. Two mechanisms are invoked to account for the deformation. Pressure solution resulted in the formation of a highly flattened and elongated pebble fabric. This fabric was enhanced by slip and concurrent pebble rotation on intra-pebble shear fractures. Adjacent quartzite pebbles are molded against each other and usually exhibit distinct pressure shadow overgrowths in the direction of pebble elongation., The matrix between pebbles, exclusive of pressure shadow overgrowths, is predominately micaceous. Where pebbles are indented there is no evidence of adjacent penetrative deformation of the quartz within the pebbles. Internal deformation features in the pebbles exhibit no consistent relation to pebble shape. This supports the contention that there was little if any penetrative strain.
30069361|Cylinders of sand crystals, composed of single crystals of calcite that poikilitically enclose detrital grains, and calcite-cemented sandstones from the Tensleep (Pennsylvanian, Wyoming) and Supai (Permian, Nevada) formations were experimentally deformed dry at confining pressures of 1-5 kilobars and temperatures of 150-300 C. Thin sections of the undeformed and deformed specimens were studied microscopically to gain a better understanding of the behavior of sandstones in simulated tectonic environments. The calcite and the detrital grains (quartz, feldspar, and others), which have radically different physical and mechanical properties, are shown statistically to have deformed with respect to the principal stresses across the boundaries of the whole specimens rather than with regard to local stress concentrations at grain contacts. The deformation mechanisms of calcite and quartz are the same in the sandstones as in monomineralic aggregates, such as marbles and quartz sands. Statistically, twin lamellae are developed in those calcite grains that are favorably oriented for twin gliding with respect to the load axes. The resolved shear-stress coefficient for these twin planes averages 0.27. Compression and extension axes deduced from the best developed set of twin lamellae in each calcite grain yield derived positions for the principal stress axes that are in excellent agreement with those known from the experiments. In addition, the number of lamellae per millimeter increases with increased strain of the specimens. Quartz, feldspar, rock fragments, and garnet grains comprise the bulk of the detrital material. These deform primarily by fracturing. The microfractures in the grains are nearly planar features which, because of their geometric relationship to the known principal stress directions, are recognized as extension and shear fractures. They develop independently of thegrain mineralogy and, in quartz grains, greatly overshadow a slight tendency for fractures to parallel r{
30081080|Zeolites collected from the pile of Jurassic-Cretaceous plateau lavas in southeastern Parana Basin, Brazil are, in order of decreasing abundance: heulandite, scolecite, stilbite, laumontite, mesolite, mordenite, analcime, chabazite, and thomsonite. The lava pile is zeolitized into three zones on a regional scale with laumontite as the index mineral for the basal zone, scolecite for the intermediate zone, and a quartz, siliciczeolites assemblage for the upper zone. Laumontite is restricted to the bottom 100 m of basic lavas at the bottom of the pile where the temperature was sufficiently high (>100C) to produce this mineral. Scolecite without laumontite formed in the basic lavas of the intermediate zone. In the upper zone, the radically different composition of acidic lavas yielded an impoverished assemblage of quartz and silicic low-calcium zeolites like mordenite and heulandite-stilbite. Parana volcanism occurred in an environment of a continental spreading center; a high flow of heat common to such spreading centers may have promoted hydrothermal circulation and zonal, rather than random, zeolitization of the lava pile.
30078316|The 18,500 yr. b.p. Cape Riva (CR) eruption of Santorini vented several km3 or more of magma, generating four eruption units: a basal Plinian fall deposit (CR-A) and three pyroclastic flow deposits (CR-B to CR-D upwards). CR-B and CR-D are welded ignimbrites; CR-C consists predominantly of up to 25 m thick coarse, lithic-rich co-ignimbrite lag breccias resulting from a climactic phase of the eruption. The initial Plinian phase occurred from a localized vent in N Santorini, and subsequent column collapse resulted in emplacement of CR-B. Towards the end of CR-B, new conduits were activated and pyroclastic flows discharged from multiple vents to generate the lag breccias (CR-C). CR-D probably records a return to a localized vent as the eruption waned. The eruption sampled a zoned magma chamber containing rhyodacite overlying andesite, and leaks of these magmas were manifested as the Skaros-Therasia lavas preceding the CR eruption. Plinian and initial ignimbrite stages occurred while the magma chamber was overpressured; subsequent underpressuring, due to magma discharge, caused fracturing of the chamber roof, caldera collapse, and eruption of pyroclastic flows from multiple vents. Activation and widening of new conduits during collapse resulted in the rapid escalation of discharge rate favoring the formation of lag breccias by: (i) promoting erosion of lithic debris at the surface vent; and (ii) raising surface exit pressures, thereby resulting in a dramatic increase in the grain size of the ejecta.
30068532|Basal cumulate zones are common in sills formed of magma-carrying phenocrysts upon emplacement, and the process leading to these cumulates and the corresponding roofward depleted zones are well understood. Many large sills which seem to have been emplaced with phenocryst-free magma, are nearly uniform in composition and show little tendency to differentiate by crystal settling. We examine whether, for an initially crystal-free sill solidifying inwardly from top and bottom, crystals nucleated and grown along the roof can escape incorporation, survive resorption in settling through the hotter central region, and reach the basal solidification front to form a cumulate. We call this process solidification front fractionation and build a relatively simple model to examine the rheologic, dynamic, and crystal growth rate conditions leading to the downward escape of newly grown, single crystals from the roof of a sheet-like body of mafic magma cooling by conduction. Our results suggest that, whereas a thin micro-cumulate may form near the center of the body, it is highly unlikely that solidification front fractionation will lead to significant basal accumulation of crystals. This finding is consistent with findings from various basaltic sills.
30065688|Duncan point bar, Louisiana, can be divided into three subfacies of sedimentation, each characterized by-its unique combination of (1) sediment grade size, (2) assemblage of sedimentary structures, and (3) geographic position on the bar. These subfacies were deposited during one prolonged phase of high water between the levels of the maximum and minimum stands of the Mississippi. The efficacy of the bar's diversified primary sedimentary structures as either general or specific directional indicators of main stream flow is discussed. Interdigitating and erosive relationships between the subfacies indicate that during one phase of deposition the coarser-grained sediments are the last to arrive in the vicinity of the bar.
30070500|Mylonite zones are generally characterized by abrupt and very large strain transitions, which commonly result in excessively anastomosing schistosities on a wide range of scales when compared with non-mylonitic foliations. This geometry is very susceptible to remodification during progressive mylonitization, resulting in unusual and complex fold, lineation, and foliation geometries and interrelationships. Open folds of the mylonitic foliation with axes parallel to the stretching lineation in the surrounding mylonite cannot have formed by the rotation of fold axes through a large angle within their axial planes, as has been usually proposed for isoclinal and sheath folds in mylonitic zones. Open folds initiate with axes parallel or close to the stretching lineation due to the geometric effects of folding a mylonitic foliation, which anastomoses around an ellipsoidal pod of less deformed material. This initial geometry also allows the generation of fold axes curved within their axial plane through 180 about the stretching lineation at the time of nucleation. Successive mylonitic foliations develop during this folding and refolding process with boundaries that truncate and isolate earlier fold hinges and portions of fold limbs. As a consequence, stretching and intersection lineations can vary from plane to plane through the mylonite zone, although careful examination often reveals a weak overprinting stretching lineation parallel to the bulk movement direction for the whole zone. Fold asymmetry in mylonite zones is a potential indicator of shear sense across a zone, if the fold axes lie at an angle to the bulk stretching lineation direction. In such circumstances, however, a single asymmetry projected onto a plane perpendicular to the mylonitic foliation and containing the bulk stretching lineation can indicate either sense-of-shear depending on a variety of factors. These include whether the foliation folded is primary or mylonitic, and in the latter case whether the mylonite zone formed with a steep-dip and horizontal stretching lineation or in some other orientation. The most satisfactory sense-of-shear indicator is the asymmetry of S and C planes.
30060031|The Apuane Alps region of the Northern Apennines provides exceptionally clear exposures of continental margin rocks deformed during collision of the Corsica-Sardinia microplate with Italy. Detailed structural mapping reveals a large scale crustal shear zone in which major isoclinal folds were rotated as much as 90, bringing their axes into parallelism with the direction of nappe transport. A large tectonic window through the allochthonous cover sequences exposes, in ascending structural order, the following sequences: (1) the Apuane metamorphic sequences, which have been repeatedly deformed and metamorphosed to greenschist fades. They consist of continental margin, sedimentary rocks of Permian to Oligocene age deposited on Paleozoic continental basement. (2) The Tuscan nappe, which consists of an essentially unmetamorphosed, and only slightly deformed sequence of similar lithologies and ages. The Tuscan nappe has been thrust over the Apuane metamorphic sequences along an evaporite layer. (3) The Liguride sequences, which consist of deep water pelagic sediments and ophiolites. Structures formed during several phases of compressive deformation followed by a late stage of extension. During the first phase (
30081186|The sequence of thrusting within a regionalscale Alpine thickskinned tectonic wedge has been constrained by RbSr and
30058028|This paper presents a contour map of the restored upper peneplain represented by the even crest-lines of the folded Appalachians in eastern Pennsylvania.
30064006|The origin and erosional history of the eastern end of the coastal highlands of East Antarctica within Mac. Robertson, Kemp and Enderby Lands (50-64E) has been investigated using 13,000 km of ice-thickness-radar traversing. The highlands are interpreted as the residual of widespread 1-km-altitude crust within Gondwanaland, the low altitude of the adjacent coastal lowlands as due to crustal thinning caused by continental breakup, and the low altitude of the areas inland as due to depression caused by the weight of the present ice sheet. The coastal highlands are therefore a normal continental-edge feature of a large ice sheet. The highlands have an important influence on preserving the ice sheet, and on ice-sheet dynamics. The topography and present-day ice-base temperatures of the highland and coastal lowland are consistent with a model containing three zones of glacial erosion proposed by Sugden from exposed rocks in Greenland. In this model there is glacial erosion only on those rock surfaces where the basal ice is at the pressure melting point and so allows basal sliding of the ice sheet. In the region studied, the average denudation and uplift resulting from this glacial erosion is between 0.3 and 0.6 km. The high nunataks are the result of local uplift of up to 1.5 km, in an area with dissection of up to 3 km.
30079980|Apatite fission track thermochronology (AFTT) and paleomagnetic (PM) results have been used to constrain the Late Paleozoic to Cenozoic landscape evolution of the Lachlan Fold Belt (LFB) around the Northparkes coppergold deposit in eastcentral New South Wales. The presentday landscape of this region of the LFB is relatively flat with little expression of the underlying rock and has previously been interpreted to indicate longterm stability of the region since the end of LFB orogenesis in the Early Carboniferous. This was presumably borne out by PM analyses from thick weathered horizons within open pits at the mine, which suggested that significant periods of weathering, and hence relative landscape stability, prevailed during the Early to middle Carboniferous and at some time during the Cenozoic. Results from AFTT analyses, however, indicate that the region must have experienced significant episodes of cooling/denudation during the midPermian to midTriassic and during the early Cenozoic, as well as episodes of heating/burial during the Late Carboniferous to midPermian and during the late Mesozoic. When combined, the AFTT and PM results are in fact consistent and indicate that since the late Paleozoic the landscape of the LFB around the Northparkes deposit has evolved through multiple episodes of denudation and deposition as well as periods of relative stability during which the thick weathering horizons formed. Together these results establish a complementary chronological framework that constrains the Late Palaeozoic to Cenozoic landscape evolution of the Northparkes region and highlights the importance of using dual data sets in elucidating the longterm landscape evolution of similar stable terranes.
30068296|A group of glacial potholes on Outpost Islands, Great Slave Lake, is described, and their bearing on the origin of glacial potholes discussed. It is concluded that such potholes are formed by moulins from which the water impinges on the bedrock at an angle and also by subglacial streams flowing away from such moulins.
30068696|Island arcs have narrow, segmented volcanic fronts which may reflect a similar segmentation in the downgoing plate. Secondary volcanic centers appearing some 3-4 m.y. later than the front and at some distance behind the front are common to most island arcs. Secondary arc volcanism in the Aleutian, Kamchatka, Kurile, Japan, Indonesia, and Scotia arcs is examined to expose correlations between lava chemistry and volcano position relative to the segmented front. Potash is universally higher, as expected, but often so are soda and alumina. The regular spacing of volcanic centers of the front is generally systematically greater than the separation or spacing between the fronts. Often this transverse spacing (d') (i.e. distance to the secondary centers) is proportional to the spacing (d) along the front and inversely so to the dip (
30058748|Nourishment of the Greenland continental glacier has been claimed by some glacialists to be by cyclones which cross it and deposit snow upon it. This claim appears to be on the basis of synoptic weather charts made from a few widely spaced stations established within fjord mouths at which observations of wind force and direction have little value. In but two observational years, 1930-31 and 1932-33, have a sufficient number of good meteorological stations been set up, with one or more in the interior. It has thus been possible to make out the tracks of the cyclones that arrive at the Greenland coast. Co-ordination of these observations has shown that these cyclones are halted at the west coast and pass up Davis Strait. During the summer they invade the glacier in southern Greenland by at most a hundred miles, and in the summer only. They bring rain, not snow, and so they cause liquidation, not nourishment. Nourishment reaches the glacier almost wholly within a cold interior region, the heart of the glacial anticyclone; and this snow is largely swept out to the glacier margins during the long winter, where it is melted in the early summer months together with some of the underlying ice. Today, in a receding hemicycle of glaciation, the Greenland glacier is notably undernourished and is actually shrinking in size.
30067305|The larger part of the pre-Cambrian rocks of northern Michigan known as the Southern Complex, and previously designated Archean, is thought to be composed of a post-Upper Huronian granite which has intruded and extensively metamorphosed the Huronian sediments and which probably extends westward some distance beneath the Upper Huronian rocks in the vicinity of Lake Michigamme. Because of its excellent development in the vicinity of Republic, it is suggested that this granite be designated the "Republic granite." Structural relations of this granite indicate that it originated under a regional tectonic stress directed southwestward.
30078361|We have calculated
30060829|A simulation model of a particular coastal spit is presented to illustrate the value of such models in studying the processes that lead to spit formation. Hurst Castle spit in Hampshire was chosen for the model as it has a distinctive form due to the operation of several easily identified wave types. The processes forming the spit have been discussed by W. V. Lewis. The main ridge, which is composed of shingle, is prolonged by westerly waves, while storm waves build it up. The recurves are formed of material drifted round the end of the main ridge by waves from a southerly point. Waves from the northeast, coming down the Solent, build the lateral recurves. These become longer and more numerous toward the distal end of the spit. The computer program simulates the operation of waves from the west, storm waves, southeasterly waves, and waves from the northeast. In addition, a depth factor simulates the increasing depth of water offshore. This accounts for the increase in number of recurves toward the distal end. A refraction factor allows the curvature of the main ridge to be simulated. The proportion of random numbers allocated to these variables can be adjusted in the data input to elucidate the part they play in the formation of the spit. The close fit of the standard spit to the real spit suggests that the controlling variables are being correctly simulated.
30060670|There are several parallel tilted beds of earthy schistose graphite enclosed in the pre-Cambrian schists and gneisses of Wake County, North Carolina. Two or these beds are large enough to be of commercial interest and therefore were mapped along a io-mile strike. From their structure and mineraliaztion it is evident that the graphite is part of a series of metamorphosed carbonaceous sediments. These beds will prove to be excellent key horizons for later work in the area.
10.1086/666876|The postcollisional tectonic development of northeast Mozambique and subsequent cooling from high-temperature metamorphism is delineated with an extensive new set of U-Pb titanite,
30060218|Tholeiitic (TH) series rocks occur in almost all types of tectonic settings, whereas calc-alkalic (CA) series rocks occur characteristically in island arcs and continental regions. Abyssal tholeiites and associated gabbros in mid-oceanic ridges show much narrower ranges of
30063956|It is suggested that cirques are formed by deepening through glacial erosion on their floors rather than by headward sapping on their walls. This idea is supported by: (1) dovetailing or interfingering of cirques on opposite sides of narrow aretes which are serpentine in plan; (2) crater cirques that occupy the entire top of individual mountains without breaches in their enclosing walls; and (3) the rarity of cols and greater rarity of passes in narrow artes.
30068803|Controversy concerning the age of regional granulite-grade metamorphism in Sri Lanka stems from the fact that different isotopic systems apparently record different events. Published isotopic data show that zircons from igneous and sedimentary protoliths experienced considerable Pb-loss at 550 Ma and that new growth of zircon, monazite, rutile and garnet between
JG80145|The AlbionRaft RiverGrouse Creek metamorphic core complex of southern Idaho and northern Utah exposes 2.56-Ga orthogneisses and Neoproterozoic metasedimentary rocks that were intruded by 3225-Ma granitic plutons. Pluton emplacement was contemporaneous with peak metamorphism, ductile thinning of the country rocks, and top-to-the-west, normal-sense shear along the Middle Mountain shear zone. Monazite and zircon from an attenuated stratigraphic section in the Middle Mountain were dated with U-Pb, using a SHRIMP-RG (reverse geometry) ion microprobe. Zircons from the deformed Archean gneiss preserve a crystallization age of
30055997|Spilite flows and related keratophyric flows with associated pyroclastics of spilitic composition occur in the Caledonia ridge or massif of southeastern New Brunswick. The spilite flows are femic rocks or greenstones containing a sodic plagioclase which is generally albite. The associated tuffs are of similar composition, and the related keratophyric flows are soda-rich salic rocks. It is believed that the primary feldspar of the spilite was an acidic plagioclase containing about 15-30 per cent anorthite. The albite now present in the spilite is of secondary genesis, and there is some evidence that it was formed during the final stages of consolidation of the flow and during the period of extrusion of the volcanic series; that this alteration was due to soda-rich residual solutions in the consolidating flow, rather than to solutions from an outside source; and that the spilite magma was inherently rich in soda and different from the normal basaltic. A comparison with other occurrences of spilite shows a similarity in petrography and in associated rock types. The literature dealing with the spilite problem is briefly reviewed.
30056286|Brecciated zones occur along bedding planes in certain Pennsylvanian limestone cuestas which dip gently southwest off pre-Cambrian formations of the Los Pinos uplift in central New Mexico. The zones are thoroughly silicified and are confined to triangular blocks which are bound on two sides by normal faults of Basin and Range type. Breccias of the bedded zones capping the cuestas are continuous with similar silicified zones along the steeply dipping normal faults. The outcrops of these bedded breccias proved useful in locating the less evident breccias of the normal faults. The fault blocks are domed, and slickensides suggest that the brecciated zones along the bedding were formed by movements of beds upward toward the crest of anticlines during initial folding and by subsequent slipping of beds down dip. Silicification of the breccias was probably accomplished during the Tertiary.
30062242|Five known kimberlites intrude Lower Permian sedimentary rocks in Riley County, Kansas. Structural studies show that these kimberlites were emplaced in Late Cretaceous (post-Dakota sandstone) time. Four K-Ar age determinations on altered phlogopite from two of the kimberlites vary between
30057180|A new instrument, the carbonate saturometer, makes it possible to measure the degree of departure of most aqueous solutions from saturation with respect to solid carbonates. The instrument utilizes the fact that the pH of a solution changes as carbonate is added to or removed from the solution. By use of a pH-sensitive electrode and a reference electrode, the instrument measures the change in potential obtained when the solution around the pH-sensitive electrode is equilibrated with a solid carbonate. A method has been developed to permit the absolute calibration of the instrument for any particular solution. The method utilizes a comparison between an acid-base and a sodium bicarbonate titration and does not require a chemical analysis of the solution. The calibration procedure is not invalidated by the presence of buffers in the solution. The sensitivity of the instrument for artificial sea water in the pH range from 7.5 to 8.3 is about 1 millivolt per part per million calcite.
30056728|The Goodwins Ferry Cave is a linear horizontal cavern having two accessible levels. The linear nature of the cave is due to development on the plane of the Saltville fault, while an earlier control of the drainage by the New River caused the cave to develop horizontally. Enlargement has taken place by solution and caving, and the cave's water is thought to come from overlying sandstones.
30068779|An extensive fault-bounded amphibolite terrane of Late Jurassic (
30071221|We have undertaken a geochemical and Sm-Nd and Rb-Sr isotopic study of banded metabasites in the contact aureole of the 1.43 Ga Laramie Anorthosite Complex, Wyoming, in order to determine the isotopic effects of open-system, high-temperature metamorphism. Samples were collected from two locations along strike, one that experienced peak temperatures of 720C, and one that was subjected to temperatures up to 810C. At the higher temperature location, metabasites adjacent to marble have undergone extreme dehydration, presumably due to fluxing of
30066247|The terminology used for olivine-bearing xenoliths found in kimberlites and basalts is reviewed with attention to those textural varieties showing varying degrees of deformation and recrystallization. A set of consistent textural terms and rock names is presented and correlated with previous terminology. Definitions are presented emphasizing descriptive rather than genetic elements. The principal xenolith textural types defined are: coarse, porphyroclastic, mosaic-porphyroclastic, and granuloblastic. Subtypes of these principal types are recognized on the basis of other textural characteristics defined as: equant, tabular, laminated, fluidal, and disrupted.
30079810|The Cerro Durazno, Brealito, and Cobres granitoid plutons belong to the eastern Ordovician magmatic belt of northwest Argentina and are associated with a network of NW and Nstriking ductile shear zones. A structural analysis of these plutons and their metamorphic host rocks was conducted to elucidate mid to uppercrustal magmatism and tectonism at the western margin of Gondwana. Pluton emplacement took place at 480455 Ma, toward the end of a ca. 75Malong episode of regional deformation and hightemperature metamorphism. The Cerro Durazno and Brealito plutons were probably emplaced as NESWstriking, vertical magma sheets that coalesced into large magma bodies under overall EW shortening that generated SWdipping metamorphic foliations at a later stage of pluton formation. These fabrics were superimposed to the magmatic structures in the granite plutons and to the highgrade metamorphic structures of the host rocks. At the northern pluton margins, ductile highstrain zones, notably the Agua Rosada Shear Zone north of the Cerro Durazno pluton, further localized ascent of granitoid magma. Similarly, emplacement of the Brealito and Cobres plutons is genetically related to prominent shear zones. Geometry and metamorphic character of the shear zone network in the eastern Ordovician magmatic belt point to orogenparallel extension and transverse shortening of the belt under variable metamorphic conditions. The width as well as protracted deformation, hightemperature metamorphism, anatexis, and granitoid magmatism of the magmatic belt are key characteristics of a hot, wide orogen that evolved during the lower Paleozoic at the western margin of Gondwana. Remarkable geotectonic similarities with respect to the modern Andes point to comparable platetectonic conditions at the lower Paleozoic and the Cenozoic convergent plate margins.
30071151|Interpretations of regolith and soil thickness in the context of landscape evolution are typically based on the notion that thickness is controlled by the interaction of weathering rates and erosion and tuned to topography. On sideslopes of the Ouachita Mountains, Arkansas, however, there is a high degree of local spatial variability that is largely unrelated to topography. This indicates nonequilibrium in the sense that there is no evidence of a balance between rates of weathering and removal, as is postulated in some conceptual models in geomorphology and pedology. Johnson's soil thickness model is applied as an alternative to interpret local variations in regolith thickness. At the study sites, regolith thickness is not generally related to slope, curvature, elevation, or pedogenic development in the solum. This indicates that variability in thickness is related chiefly to processes and controls acting in the lower regolith, below the solum. The primary controls of variability are local lithological variation, variable structural resistance associated with fractures and bedding planes in strongly tilted Paleozoic sedimentary parent material, and pointcentered pedological influences of trees. A steady state regolith may be relatively rare. Results of this study suggest that an equilibrium regolith thickness is most likely in uniform lithology with a high degree of lithologic purity, less likely in interbedded sedimentary rocks, and more unlikely still if the latter are titled and fractured. Equilibrium thickness would also be more likely where the effects of bioturbation are more areally uniform (as opposed to the pointcentered effects of individual trees) and where the biomantle is above the weathering front.
30062157|Walker Lake, a terminal desertic lake in Mineral County, Nevada, has fluctuated greatly in lake level throughout its long history due to changes in climate and drainage. In its Late Pleistocene high stand, Walker Lake formed the southernmost embayment of pluvial Lake Lahontan. Calcareous tufa and other shoreline deposits of Pleistocene and Holocene ages provide a valuable record of past lake levels. Studies of tufa morphology and stable isotope character, closely integrated with sedimentologic data, show great promise for elucidating the post-glacial climatic history of the Great Basin. Three prominent shoreline carbonate deposits below 1250 m have been studied in the field and with stable isotope and radiocarbon analyses. The oldest deposit (18,000 radiocarbon yrs B.P.) consists of massive, bowl-shaped tufa heads outcropping from conspicuous wavecut and fan-deltaic terraces. Three "bigheads" are covered by alluvial fan deposits, which in turn are coated by an "encrusting tufa" of 3 cm average thickness. This encrusting tufa, dated at 2150 yrs B.P. and exhumed during the historic drop in lake level, coats virtually every undisturbed boulder around the entire lake. The third deposit, a 2 mm "outer rind," coats the first two deposits and has modern pre A-bomb or A-bomb radiocarbon levels depending on sample elevation. The
30061312|Explorations made during the summers of 1926-31 indicated the existence of at least seven small glaciers in the Teton Range of northwestern Wyoming. These occur on the east slope of the range, within the rugged area now comprising Grand Teton National Park, at altitudes between 10,000 and 11,5000 feet. Herein is given the setting, description, and history of these glaciers.
30065500|Calcite, aragonite, dolomite, hydromagnesite, and huntite are being precipitated or are being formed by alteration from precursor precipitates in Carlsbad Caverns. Vadose seepage in contact with flowstone speleo-thems (stalactites and similar forms) is considerably undersaturated with respect to hydromagnesite and approximately saturated with respect to the other four carbonate minerals. Only calcite and aragonite are being deposited by such water, with precipitation caused both by
30071137|The Volcanic Tableland, brittle surface of the 764,000 yr-old Bishop Tuff, documents extensive faulting in the northern Owens Valley, California, during the late Quaternary. The Tableland surface is cut by at least 226 fault scarps, with a total of 328 km of surface rupture. Scarps are lens-shaped rips in the surface of the Bishop Tuff, with vertical offsets of a few meters to 140 m and lengths up to several kilometers. The scarps have an average trend of N10-20W and dip steeply both to the east and west. The Tableland records at least 290 m of cross-valley extension in the last 764,000 yrs, at an average rate of at least 400 m/m.y., and a cumulative seismic moment of at least
30084986|Geologists should be aware of field applications of photoelastic techniques for measuring in situ stress and strain in rocks. The biaxial strain gage may be the most flexible of techniques now available for field utilization. This device simply entails a flat disk with a centered hole that acts as a stress raiser. It can be attached around its periphery to exposed surfaces of rock or to the back of boreholes. "Overcoring" releases in situ strain; the strain within the gage area is integrated to produce a symmetrical isochromatic figure pattern when viewed under polarized light. The symmetry of the pattern identifies the principal directions of stress and strain. The type of pattern identifies the principal strain ratio. Both kinds of information are obtained with a single measurement, and with repeated measurements the distribution and character of the stress field can be deduced. A specialist's knowledge of the principles of photoelasticity is not required in order to interpret the gages. A uniaxial gage of similar construction with rectangular shape is useful for determining magnitudes of strain, if principal directions are known. Magnitudes of stress can be calculated if the stress-strain relations are known or determined. This type of information can be determined in rocks in the field. Such information can give significant insight into the existing stress fields and pre-existing stress fields responsible for specific geologic structures, and this is almost certain to advance our knowledge of dynamic geologic processes.
30071589|A quantitative model describes the relationship between the average size of biostratigraphic gaps and the size, shape, and number of fossils in a volume of rock: where fossil distribution is random, the mean vertical distance between neighboring fossils exposed in cross-sections (V) should be approximated by the relationship 1/Na(w) where Na is the number of fossils exposed per unit area and w is the width of section observed. Because the number exposed (Na) is itself a function of volumetric fossil abundance (Nv), fossil shape (K), and fossil size (x), we can go further and relate gaps to these factors as well. Thus, V = 1/(Nv)(k)(x)(w). Testing and analysis of this model reveal that: (1) Gap size decreases (and so biostratigraphic resolution increases) as abundance, sphericity, and size of fossils increase; this is because each of these proportionately increases the probability of fossil exposure by a random cross-sectional "slice." (2) The "hollow curve" nature of the function means that where volumetric abundance is low, small increases in abundance can greatly reduce gap size, but as overall abundance increases, gap size is proportionately less and less affected so that after a point even large increases in abundance have almost no effect on biostratigraphic resolution. For smaller fossils, this stabilization occurs at much larger gap sizes than for larger fossils. However, this can be offset by increasing section width observed. (3) Biostratigraphy essentially "collapses" fossils onto a vertical reference axis, eliminating the horizontal component of their position in two-dimensional space. This is a cumulative process so that all fossils in a section are quickly crowded on the axis, creating a very low mean gap size. The combination of random positioning and very low mean causes the gaps to follow the Poisson distribution often noted in field data. A number of practical uses derive from these observations.
30068468|The words "plains," "plateaus," and "mountains" have been used by W. M. Davis, Douglas Johnson, and A. K. Lobeck to mean crustal masses made up of flat-lying strata or deformed and intruded rocks. The writer criticizes this usage and proposes that it be abandoned in favor of the commonly understood topographic meanings of the words. An alternative set of terms, already often used, is suggested for the various land-mass types. It employs only common geologic words, which describe the underlying structures. A geo-morphic classification of areas of intrusive, metamorphic, and complexly deformed rocks is proposed.
30062378|This paper presents evidence that the Elsinore fault, a prominent member of the San Andreas system, has, contrary to most views, undergone little or no strike slip. Field reconnaissance of the Elsinore, Earthquake Valley, and San Felipe faults, guided by orbital photographs, demonstrates that lithology and major steeply-dipping structures in Cretaceous plutonic rocks are continuous across these faults at critical points. This indicates that they are not through-going strike-slip faults with major lateral displacement. Strike slip of a few kilometers along the northern Elsinore fault may be compensated by down-faulting in the Perris basin, Warner Valley, and in other valleys along the fault. It is concluded that the regional Cenozoic fault pattern of California south of the Transverse Ranges is a composite resulting from transection of north-trending Basin and Range faults by strike-slip faults of the San Andreas system, probably during the late Miocene.
30056335|Three well-developed glacial bastions in northern Colorado are described, their age and mode of origin indicated, and their similarity to glacial bastions elsewhere stated. Bastions in other areas in North America are mentioned.
30060087|This study provides quantitative data for evaluating the significance of fluviodetrital glauconite in geochronology samples. Natural occurrences of glauconitic source rocks and stream deposits were collected. Their sorting and mineralogy (per cent of glauconite) are reported. Results of abrading glauconite in the laboratory are also reported. Glauconite eroded from the outcrop decreases rapidly downstream until less than 0.10 per cent is present 50 miles below the outcrop. Fluviodetrital glauconite is insignificant in geo-chronology samples except for samples containing less than 2 per cent glauconite.
30069406|One-hundred fifty-one previously chemically analyzed samples of tonalite from the Lakeview Mountains pluton, southern California batholith, were analyzed for their iron content using near-infrared spectrophotometry. Compared to the earlier analyses of the same sample set by X-ray fluorescence spectrog-raphy, the infrared data have higher analytical variance but clearly define patterns of compositional zonation in the pluton which are closely similar to those patterns obtained from X-ray data; petrogenetic interpretations for the pluton would be the same from either data set. Infrared spectral data can be obtained directly in the field with relatively simple instruments and field measurements can be made to average local heterogeneities that often mask significant plutonic variations.
30060512|New data and new estimates from old data show that rivers with large sediment loads (annual discharges greater than about
30062266|Callianassa californiensis is a deep burrowing deposit-feeding thalassinid shrimp which is abundant in intertidal areas of Mugu Lagoon, California. It occurs in greater densities (
30058254|Gels with $CaO-Al_2O_3-SiO_2$ ratios from 1: 1: 3 to 1: 1: 10 were prepared with $SiO_2$ supplied as the 150 -sol "Ludox" and reacted under hydro thermal conditions in sealed systems. The zeolites-heulandite, wairakite, phillipsite, scolecite, and laumontite-were also used as starting materials. All the calcium zeolites, except laumontite and phillipsite, have been synthesized from the gels. A new zeolite phase, CASH-II, was prepared from the 1: 1: 3 and 1: 1: 4 gels. Remarkable phenomena were encountered by seeding the same composition with different zeolites. Natural phases and synthetic gels often gave entirely different results owing to the marked structural control in framework structures at low temperatures. At 1,000 atm. $H_2O$ pressure, the observed temperature and products of dissociation (many of them metastable) of the zeolites are as follows: $phillipsite \rightarrow wairakite + H_2O at 260^\circ C$. $scolecite \rightarrow anorthite + wairakite + H_2O at 300\circ C$. $laumontite \rightarrow wairakite + H_2O at 410\circ C$. $heulandite \rightarrow wairakite + SiO_2 + H_2O at 320\circ C$. $epistilbite \rightarrow wairakite + SiO_2 + H_2O at 350\circ C$. $wairakite \rightarrow anorthite + quartz + H_2O at 465\circ C$. The results and those from the gels are combined into a possible equilibrium diagram. The p-t curves for the wairakite and heulandite dissociation are presented.
30058239|The Colorado River in its course from central Texas to the Gulf of Mexico carries quartz, chert, and limestone pebbles which can be traced for distances of up to 270 miles from their source. Limestone is so soft that it reaches its limiting roundness in the first few miles and thereafter undergoes no further increase. Harder quartz rounds much more slowly but eventually attains the same high limiting roundness value as limestone. Chert, being brittle, tends to spall and only rounds slightly downstream. A new and more behavioristic measure of equidimensionality, "maximum projection sphericity," is introduced, and a triangular diagram is proposed for analysis of the equant versus disklike versus rodlike aspect of particles, here termed "form." It was hoped that, by limiting the study to pebbles 32-64 mm. in length, the effects of grain size might be eliminated; the data show, however, that, even within this narrow range, particle size has a greater effect on sphericity and form than 200 miles of fluvial transport-larger pebbles tend to have lower sphericity and a rodlike form, while smaller ones are more discoidal. Limestone pebbles remain at constant low sphericity because of their bedding and show no significant change with distance. For quartz, pebbles larger than 54 mm. become more rodlike downstream but show little numerical change in sphericity, hence apparently roll like a rolling pin and wear chiefly on the intermediate axis. Quartz pebbles smaller than 38 mm. show a significant downstream increase in sphericity, chiefly by wear on the long axis, and hence must be carried chiefly in saltation where they bounce randomly along the bottom. Surprisingly, chert pebbles larger than 38 mm. show a striking downstream decrease in sphericity and become more bladed by diminution of the short axis, apparently by preferential splitting parallel with the bedding; but chert pebbles smaller than 38 mm. increase in sphericity in the same manner as do small quartz pebbles. For both quartz and chert, pebbles near the source have similar sphericity and form regardless of size; since large and small sizes wear by opposite mechanisms, there is increasing divergence in sphericity andform between large and small pebbles as they are traced farther from their source. Detailed analysis of the polymodal sphericity frequency distributions reveals the apparent existence of remarkably constant discrete sphericity populations for each rock type. Furthermore, for all rock types the intermediate axis tends to measure very close to halfway between the long and short axes-hence there is a dominance of bladed forms; this is true even for limestone, in which discoidal forms are but slightly more abundant than rodlike forms. Analysis of mean form on the triangular diagram seems to be the most powerful weapon available to attack the problem of particle abrasion. This study shows that sphericity depends most importantly on the inherent abrasional properties of the different rock types, is strongly a function of size as well as distance, and is but little affected by selective sorting.
30068776|Deformation of forearc wedges due to seamount subduction in modern trenches is related to the origin of Mesozoic melanges in central Japan, and a hypothetical model for large-scale melange formation due to seamount subduction is proposed. Recent studies of seamount subduction in modern trenches have revealed that seamounts pass under forearc wedges retaining their approximate original shape, but the forearc wedges themselves are swelled in front of subducting seamounts and indented behind them. This strongly suggests that forearc wedges are widely disrupted and transformed into large-scale melanges that include seamount fragments. The Mesozoic accretionary complex in the Mino terrane of central Japan is comprised of large-scale melanges, including seamount fragments and coherent, tectonically stacked sedimentary successions of chert, siliceous shale, and turbidite in ascending order. Melanges are widespread in a belt 20 to 40 km wide and about 100 km long, and seamount fragments of Permian basalts and reef limestones occur in a continuous zone within the melange belt. Most of the melanges are interpreted to be of sedimentary origin, and the degree of the disruption in the melange belt decreases northward as the complexes become older. Taking into account the fact that the steep inner trench wall formed behind the subducting seamount shifts landward with decreasing inclination as the seamount progresses downward, it is presumed that the highly disrupted melanges in the melange belt were formed by debris flow and avalanche at the toe of the accretionary prism in the early stage of seamount subduction, and that subsequently weakly disrupted melanges formed landward of the more highly disrupted melanges, by means of gravitational sliding and gliding. The subduction of a seamount or a seamount chain, a very short tectonic event of a few million years duration, can trigger large-scale mass wasting on the accretionary prism; this eventually leads to the formation of large-scale melanges containing seamount fragments.
30058953|The Madison-Jordan sandstone unit is a part of the late Cambrian formations of the Upper Mississippi Valley. The sandstones are described in some detail and the results of the studies of composing minerals are given. The minerals are divided into the two groups of "light" and "heavy," using the "heavy" liquid tetrabromoethane to make the separation. The "light" minerals compose the major portion of the sandstones and are mostly quartz with a little feldspar. The "heavy" minerals are more than 75 per cent garnet, usually more than 85 per cent, and small quantities of zircon and tourmaline, the latter in the minority. The "heavy" constituents of the sandstone suggest that sedimentary terranes were the immediate sources from which the materials of the sandstones were derived.
30079928|The stratigraphic record indicates that during the Late Carboniferous to Early Triassic, South Africa experienced an episode of largescale subsidence that resulted in the development of the Karoo Basin. The southern margin of the region was contemporaneously dominated by an episode of compressional tectonics, and there is evidence for subduction of the paleoPacific plate beneath the Karoo Basin. We propose that the longwavelength component of the basin subsidence resulted from the deflection of the lithosphere due to mantle flow coupled to the adjacent subduction. This was followed by a recovery phase during which the entire region was uplifted on cessation of subduction (and subsequent loss of dynamic support for subsidence), contributing to the presentday highelevation topography of South Africa. Numerical models of mantle convection are presented and show that a shallowdipping slab is able to reconcile the observed longwavelength subsidence of the basin. A significant component of the nearfield sedimentation is also explained by the model; however, matching the total stratigraphic record in this region requires the tandem effects of subductioninduced deflection and flexural thrust loading of the lithosphere.
30084991|Harrow marks, patterns of current-aligned, fine-grained ridges, and intervening trough-like strips of coarser sediment are found along the riverbeds of the ephemeral streams of southern Israel. These structures are believed to be caused by patterns of tubular vortices with an alternating sense of rotation and with axes parallel to the direction of main flow. This type of flow structure, in which the individual flow filaments advance helically, results from secondary, transverse instability of flow.
30068735|The Angayucham terrane of north-central Alaska (immediately S of the Brooks Range) is a large (ca. 500 km E-W), allochthonous complex of Devonian to Lower Jurassic pillow basalt, diabase sills, gabbro plutons, and chert. The mafic rocks are transitional normal-to-enriched, mid-ocean-ridge (MORB) type tholeiites (
30078382|The Troodos (Cyprus) and Kizildag (southern Turkey) ophiolites in the eastern Mediterranean region represent remnants of the Neotethyan ocean, which evolved as a result of seafloor spreading north of Afro-Arabia in Mesozoic time. Both ophiolites display numerous planar to listric normal faults and structural grabens in their sheeted dike complexes suggestive of tectonic extension, and complex intrusive relations in their plutonic units indicate recurring and intermittent magmatic activities. Detachment surfaces within the lower crustal sequence (Troodos) or at the boundary between the crustal and mantle sequences (Kizildag) define a brittle-plastic transition zone along which tectonic thinning and extension within the crustal units above was accommodated by mylonitization and denudation in lower crustal units or mantle rocks below. The variation in depth to these accommodation zones is inferred to be a function of the vertical temperature gradient in the oceanic lithosphere, which may in turn point to the presence (or absence) of an active magma chamber during tectonic extension. An asymmetric tectonic extension model is inferred for development of the detachment surfaces and associated structures in these ophiolites. The structural architecture and the interpreted tectonic evolution of both ophiolites are reminiscent of the slow-spreading ridge segments, where episodic magmatism and amagmatic and asymmetric extension occur. In contrast, the modern oceanic lithosphere generated at fast-spreading ridge segments and its ancient analogues have much thicker crustal units and display no evidence of crustal attenuation, extension, or detachment, suggesting a continuous magma supply and the existence of a perennial magma chamber beneath the spreading center. The Moho in fast-spreading oceanic lithosphere is defined by a several hundred meter thick transition zone of interlayered mafic-ultramafic rocks and thus represents an igneous compositional boundary with lateral mutability in character as well as depth; in slow-spreading oceanic lithosphere, however, the Moho is defined by a gently to moderately dipping detachment surface or a fault, and thus represents a sharp tectonic boundary whose location at depth is determined by the thermal budget and the distribution of isotherms.
30057941|The fundamental quality of the Kentucky karst is the underground drainage developed on the Upper Mississippian limestones, a factor which makes for distinctive forms on the surface as well as great caverns beneath it. Since geologic structure controls the distribution of the different phases of the karst, and since the Kentucky karst is located on the outer margin of the Western Coal Basin, the major area in Kentucky is in the form of a rude crescent, with the early phases of the karst on the inner margin of the crescent and the later stages on the outer margin. In the first stage the surface streams, intrenched in the Chester elastics, are captured by underground drainage. The transfer of surface run-off to underground channels is followed by a change in surface forms, closed solution depressions superseding the valleys of surface streams. After the sandstones of the Chester series have been removed the entire surface is formed by solution depressions, with convex or concave slopes depending on the relative intensity of solution. When an impermeable bed is reached the depressions begin to fill with insoluble sediment, the underground channels become blocked, and surface streams begin to appear on the bottoms of the filled depressions, thus marking the end of the karst.
30070519|Field relations in northern Virginia support the interpretation that a significant portion of the finite strain in the basement terrane of the Blue Ridge anticlinorium is a result of continental rifting in the Late Proterozoic. Widespread greenschist-facies disjunctive foliation overprints high-temperature Grenvillian textures in basement orthogneisses. An identical foliation occurs in randomly oriented, basement-derived boulders within Late Proterozoic rift-facies conglomerates of the cover sequence. The disjunctive foliation in the basement is also truncated at the exposed contact with cover rocks, and a greenschist-facies phyllonite zone in the basement is truncated at a Late Proterozoic syn-rift fault. These greenschist-facies tectonic fabrics, which are clearly pre-Paleozoic in age, are similar to fabrics in extensional shear zones in basement rocks that have been shown by others to predate Paleozoic compressional structures.
JG80197|This note describes a rare observation of naturally occurring free-falling streams of sand-water mixtures that form vertical sandcastle-like structures with complex interdigitate patterns. These emergent structures and patterns develop on sand dunes during winter via successive stacking of sand-laden flows of snow meltwater. Individual lobes comprising the structures are emplaced via infiltration-induced depositiona process known as sieve deposition. Collectively, the processes and vertical structures documented here provide an expanded context for understanding the behavior and emergent patterns of gravity-driven wet granular slurries in natural, uncontrolled settings.
30068801|The gross structure of the Picuris Range, defined by the buckled and imbricated km-thick Ortega Formation quartzite, is that of a tight synclinorium bounded by limb-parallel ductile shear zones. Folds are moderately inclined, horizontal, and are locally refolded, cleavage-transected, and cut by ductile faults. Three boundaries separate lithostratigraphic successions: (1) the south-dipping Pilar shear zone, which separates the Glenwoody Formation from overlying Hondo Group, shows both reverse and normal motion; (2) the Plomo fault is a south-dipping, ductile reverse fault, which separates the Hondo Group from the structurally overlying, but older, Vadito Group; and (3) the north-striking Picuris-Pecos fault, which truncates both of the other boundaries, separates supracrustal rocks from an eastern plutonic terrane. Granitoids (1680-1450 Ma) intrude Vadito Group rocks only. The first two boundaries do not juxtapose different tectonometamorphic terranes, even though they are major shear zones. Although the Picuris Range has common characteristics with adjacent ranges, several features mark it as unusual (cleavage-transected folds, a problematic distribution of plutons, and a map-scale anticline). These features may be manifestations of the strain heterogeneity characteristic of the Proterozoic rocks of New Mexico, rather than evidence of diverse tectonic histories. Folding and top-to-the-north shearing occurred during a progressive shortening event, perhaps related to the ca. 1650 Ma Mazatzal orogeny of Arizona and central New Mexico.
30065625|Petrologic, geochronologic, and structural studies of Indian-plate rocks in the footwall of the Main Mantle Thrust indicate that peak metamorphism occurred in thrust imbricates well before the final assembly of the Kohistan island-arc with the Indian plate. As the northern margin of the Indian plate was thickened by this early thrusting, the metamorphic rocks evolved along increasing pressure-temperature paths and, in some regions, reached temperatures sufficient for partial melting. It is difficult to constrain the timing of this early deformation and metamorphism, but
30058267|Consideration is given to the relationship between the chemical potential of a species and its concentration in solids of the type (A, B, C)M and (A, B)(C, D)qM, where A, B, C, D, and M are chemical species. On this basis the distribution coefficient is derived for different combinations of chemical mixtures. For coexisting phases  = (A, B)M, and  = (A, B)N, the distribution coefficient with reference to species A is
30062223|Chemicomechanical interactions are discussed in terms of pressure, relative movements of phases in magmas, and magmatic differentiation. The effects of mechanical (non-volatile) pressure on the system albite-anorthite-diopside are calculated for certain conditions, and the conclusions are extended to more complex systems. The results indicate that pressure effects are small for pressure differences of several thousand atmospheres and that oscillatory zoning in plagioclase probably cannot be attributed to pressure changes. Crystallization in basic magmas typified by the Stillwater Complex is compared with that in batholiths of orogenic regions in terms of chemicomechanical effects, degree of attainment of equilibrium, and criteria for magmatism. A mode of pressure differentiation of possible importance under deep-seated earth conditions is proposed.
30080789|The Hounsfield metabentonite, an altered volcanic ash of Ordovician Black River age, lying above the Leray and below the Watertown members of the Chaumont formation at its type section in New York, has been-identified in sections in New York, Ontario, Wisconsin, Iowa, Minnesota, Missouri, Kentucky, and Tennessee. Stratigraphic sections are described from several regions, and the criteria supporting the identification of the beds with the type Hounsfield are summarized.
30068763|Two contrasting patterns of Mn distribution emerged from geochemical examination of marine cores in several regions. Uniformly abundant Mn is contained in sediments from pelagic open oceans, while in hemipelagic regions, Mn is often concentrated in several specific horizons and is associated with
30079567|A new Middle Cambrian fossil locality has been discovered southeast of Libby, Montana, in a soft shale believed to be the equivalent of the Gordon, Spence, and Wolsey shales of adjacent regions. The fossils are well preserved and easily worked. The occurrence throws new light on Middle Cambrian paleogeography.
30070473|The distributions of intensity and orientation of maximum shearing stress in typical stress systems are plotted on stereographic projections in order to show the three-dimensional relationships. Mathematical expressions of these relationships as well as graphical methods of evaluation are given. Relationships of shearing stress to orientation of fault planes and orientation of net slip of faults are suggested. Methods of studying the relationships of faults and shearing stress are described.
30060927|A revised denudational chronology based on K-Ar dating of basalts for much of southeastern Australia shows that many major topographic features are far older than was previously realized. Some upland surfaces originated in the Mesozoic and others in the Early Tertiary; in some areas the last major uplift and onset of canyon cutting occurred prior to the Mid-Oligocene. Apart from the slow headward extension of canyons and localized high level stripping, much of the region had taken on approximately its present-day form by the Mid-Miocene. Paradoxically, however, none of the mechanisms that have been proposed to explain the survival of paleoforms hold here. These instances may well be typical of large parts of the interior of tectonic plates, and a revision of widely held estimates of modal rates of denudation seems required.
30064694|The Appalachian structural front marks a comparatively narrow zone, east of which the rocks have been greatly mashed, folded, and faulted, while west of this zone the rocks lie more nearly horizontal. This is shown by cross-sections. The structural break closely parallels the axis of the trough of deposition from at least early Silurian to the close of Pottsville time and therefore follows an inherited line of weakness. The type of failure was governed by the shape of the basin and the character of the beds, whether competent or incompetent, and their position in the stratigraphic section.
30070614|The classification proposes minor modifications in Fenneman's divisions and recognizes subdivisions of the Till Plains and Great Lakes sections, based largely on glacial features. The boundaries and characteristic features of the subdivisions are described, and their origin and relations to glacial features and bedrock topography are discussed.
30060086|Synthetic overgrowths have been produced on both undulatory and non-undulatory detrital quartz grains using conventional hydrothermal techniques. Runs were conducted at 1, 2, and 3 kb., and at temperatures between 212 and 658 C. Aqueous pore solutions were 4.3 and 8.3 mole per cent NaCl or 1.7 and 8.3 mole per cent NaOH; silicic acid was added in some experiments as a highly soluble source of silica. The enlargements were produced in quantity only in experiments in which silicic acid had been added and fluid pressure was equal to total pressure. In all cases, enlargements are in optical continuity with their detrital nuclei. The initial stage of enlargement occurs as small rhombohedral projections on relatively strain-free portions of the grains. Individual rhombs do not overlap lineage boundaries in the host grain, but coalesce along the projection of such structural discontinuities; in this manner these discontinuities are propagated into the overgrowth. Unstrained grains exhibit more numerous and more fully developed overgrowths than strained grains. Overgrowths did not form on polycrystalline quartz grains. Synthetic quartzites with metamorphic textures were obtained in experiments in which
30064021|Sand-sized grains comprising the planar cross-bedding found in a Late Wisconsinan outwash deposit near Caledon, Ontario, show an obliquely downslope preferred orientation. The average angle of obliquity measured from the downdip direction is about 35. Such a grain fabric was probably produced by the resultant force of the gravity pull that orients the grains to the dip direction and the lateral traction current of the channel flow which tends to imbricate the grains to the upstream dip. This asymmetric mode of grain fabric was formed during deposition of a laterally accreted outwash bar. Detailed examination of grain fabric makes it possible to distinguish the planar cross-bedding of a micro-deltaic origin from that of other types of bar deposit built either partly or predominantly by lateral accretion.
30080820|In the lower part of the Jefferson series (Devonian) of northeastern Utah a rich fish fauna was found in 1928. The study of the fossils is far from complete, but six genera have been recognized. Dinichthys, Ptyctodus, and Aspidichthys are genera which range through Middle or Upper Devonian. Glossoidaspis, Cardipeltis, and Camptaspis are new genera closely related to Upper Devonian, Lower Devonian, and Silurian forms. A complete study of the fish fauna may furnish data for correlation of the Jefferson series.
30078508|The transcontinental belt of ca. 1.4Ga granite plutons that extends from southern California to Labrador has conventionally been interpreted as either anorogenic or emplaced in an extensional tectonic setting. Recent studies in the western United States, however, demonstrate that several ca. 1.4Ga plutons were emplaced in a broadly northwestsoutheast shortening strain field. Our study of the
30065616|The San Pedro Valley in southern Arizona was probably formed by block faulting during the Miocene. Sediments that filled the valley, primarily the St. David Formation, have yielded a robust vertebrate fossil record, calibrated during the last 25 years by magnetostratigraphy and isotopic dating of volcanic ejecta. This chronologic framework is combined with new sedimentologic, paleomagnetic, and geomorphic data to evaluate the influence of subsequent tectonism within the basin. We conclude that tectonism in the San Pedro Valley has been relatively quiescent following the initial block faulting and suggest that ensuing rates of sedimentation and incision were most likely controlled by climatic factors rather than tectonic-geologic ones. Vertebrate datum planes established in 1975 are revised on the basis of new paleontologic and geologic-isotopic data. We now recognize only three faunal datum planes in the St. David Formation, and have abandoned the youngest (Lepus) datum plane.
30068780|U-Pb zircon ages of samples of anorthosite, pyroxene monzodiorite (jotunite), and pyroxene quartz monzonite (quartz mangerite) of the Morin anorthosite complex, Grenville Province, Quebec, are
30071554|Convolute lamination and other sedimentary structures have been observed repeatedly in sequences characterized also by graded bedding. As a result, practically all have come to be regarded individually as proofs of turbidity-current deposition. But gravity-deformed stratification and load structures as well as flutes, grooves, current bedding, and ripple mark are already recorded in non-graded sequences representing quite varied environments. This paper records examples of convolute lamination also in diverse, non-graded deposits, leaving only repetitious graded bedding and anomalous resedimented organisms or detritus as chief evidences of ancient turbidity currents. Existing terminology and classification of the physical sedimentary structures in question mix genetic and descriptive factors, thus conceal more fundamental relations of the two chief formative processes involved-gravity-induced versus current-induced flow. Most structures involve both processes to varying degrees; however, classifications have imposed an unrealistic dichotomy between these processes. Morphologically similar contorted statification can be produced by two and probably three or more different processes. In many cases two of these have acted together simultaneously.
30065150|Analysis of variation in changing rates of accommodation space creation, as represented by stratigraphic thickness, has become an integral part of ongoing investigations into the origin of ancient, meter-scale, upward-shoaling, cyclic marine carbonates. Groupings of thicker than average and thinner than average cycles within long stratigraphic sections have been thought to represent the influence of long-term eustatic sealevel variation on rates of accommodation space creation under conditions of constant basin subsidence. Statistical analysis demonstrates that a large percentage of early Paleozoic cyclic carbonate sequences contain thickness distributions indistinguishable from those anticipated for random associations of cycles, and that only a few have characteristics commensurate with long-term changes in rate of accommodation space creation. Moreover, in those cases where some extraneous control is suggested, computational considerations readily demonstrate that change in subsidence rate and/or differential compaction could easily give rise to similar stratigraphic associations of cycle thickness. Even if it is accepted that long-term sealevel change has occurred during the accumulation of cyclic carbonates, significant time gaps and difficulty in recognizing and documenting thin cycles results in considerable uncertainty when attempting to use cycle thickness diagrams as records of long-term sealevel change.
30078317|Early Miocene basaltic lavas that flowed into river systems in central eastern New South Wales are still preserved as sinuous hill-top cappings. They permit reconstruction of many of the characteristics of the Early Miocene river systems and allow for comparison with the adjacent modern counterparts of these rivers. The long profiles of both the Early Miocene and modern valleys are rather similar and apparently exhibit adjustment to the lithologies of their channel substrates, as would be proposed under Hack's condition of dynamic equilibrium. Slightly less post-Early Miocene incision in the rivers' headwaters indicates, however, that the landscape has not experienced uniform catchment-wide downwasting, as would also be proposed by Hack. Traditional geomorphic models which propose declining relief and decreasing importance of lithological influences over long time periods also are inapplicable to the area. On balance, the most suitable model of the post-Early Miocene evolution of this area would incorporate slow rates of landscape evolution, the persistence, rather than waning, of lithological influences on river systems, and minor increases in relief. Such a model is probably applicable to other humid areas which are of moderate relief and have experienced tectonic stability.
30078332|The rate of plate convergence during arc-continent collision can be estimated from the rate at which the secondary effects of subduction move across the underriding plate in advance of the plate boundary. The following sequence of events is typical: (1) shoaling and/or emergence of the continental shelf, presumably caused by lithospheric flexure; (2) rapid subsidence, by a combination of normal faulting and trenchward tilting; and (3) a change from platformal to flysch sedimentation. Such a sequence has been recognized in the Taconic foreland basin in eastern New York and interpreted as being the result of collision between the ancient passive margin of North America and an island arc terrane at an east-dipping subduction zone during Medial Ordovician times. A plot of age versus distance across strike shows that the diachronous migration of these phenomena across the foreland proceeded at rates of 2 to 3 cm/yr; we regard this as the plate convergence rate during the latter part of the Taconic Orogeny. Our result is comparable with modern rates of plate motion and also agrees with an earlier estimate for the Taconic, which was based on the rate at which a series of locations on the outer trench slope passed through fossil-defined isobaths.
JG80065|The addition of oceanic material through accretion-underplating was an important process in construction of the convergent/transpressive Cordilleran margin of North America. According to radiolarian ages, the Late Triassic or younger Eastern Hayfork terrane represents trench deposits that accreted outboard of the coeval North Fork immature island arc. It consists chiefly of chert and argillite but contains tectonic and olistostromal blocks of preexisting rock units derived from exotic sources that include inboard Klamath terranes. Fine-grained terrigenous debris was shed from these eastern terranes, but the Eastern Hayfork mlange also contains blocks of quartzofeldspathic metasandstone of uncertain provenance. New detrital zircon U-Pb ages from five blocks of immature, variably metamorphosed, arkosic to subarkosic sandstone range from Late Proterozoic to Late Archean, with modes of 18041843, 1970, 2300, and 25502585 Ma. The adjacent, inboard North Fork terrane contains zircons with Phanerozoic ages, indicating derivation from eastern Klamath lithotectonic belts; however, no zircon grains with Phanerozoic ages were identified in the investigated Eastern Hayfork metasandstones. Petrographic analysis indicates that sand grains of the Eastern Hayfork blocks were initially derived from a transitional continental province whose textural immaturity precludes long sedimentary-transport distances. Thus, the metasandstone blocks were most likely tectonically incorporated into the oceanic mlange from a local protolith and were not deposited in the trench as sand. Single-grain detrital zircon age spectra for the Eastern Hayfork metasandstone blocks are similar to those for several Cordilleran terranes, precluding clear discrimination among them regarding provenance. Although no currently exposed source is identical to the mlange blocks, the Eastern Hayfork zircons show similarities to Laurentian passive-margin clastics in terms of Paleoproterozoic and Neoarchean ages. The presence of an outlier of the Antelope Mountain Quartzite of the Yreka terrane near the Eastern Hayfork terrane, however, indicates that this was a likely source of the exotic blocks. Evidently, this preexisting unit cropped out along the leading edge of the Cordilleran continental margin during Early Mesozoic mlange formation, but its areal extent has been diminished by subsequent erosion, deposition, and/or deformation.
30068068|Racetrack Playa in Death Valley, California is home to a group of stones which have, on occasion, slid hundreds of meters across the dry lake bed. New data on wind shear from a similar playa, Owens Dry Lake, about 80 km SSE of Racetrack Playa, and data on the velocities of wind gusts across these playas are consistent with threshold coefficients of static friction that allow for the motion of 30 of the 31 rocks for which data are available.
30079966|The Helderberg Group of New York State, consisting of a wide range of shallow water carbonate lithologies, contains one of the finest and most complete stratigraphic records of Lower Devonian earth history. Highfrequency spatial and temporal rhythmicity of carbonate accumulation in the Helderberg Group has been evaluated by examining thickness frequency distributions of individual sedimentation units in flasered ribbon rock and of individual lithofacies elements. These distributions provide important insights into the sedimentation processes that ultimately controlled stratal thicknesses. Observed thickness frequencies are closely approximated by the exponential end member of the gamma distribution, wherein flaser and lithofacies thickness frequency over each stratigraphic interval is dependent only on net sequence length and the number of stratal elements. Exponentially distributed thickness frequencies would be expected if lithologic change were a Poisson process, that is, if horizons of lithologic change occurred more or less randomly throughout. Such Poisson variation in lithologic thickness suggests a general absence of regularly recurrent highfrequency depositional forcing of stratal thicknesses during accumulation. At the individual flaserbedded and lithofacies scale, deposition was primarily a stochastic rather than a deterministic process. Thickness distributions of supposedly shallowingupward lithofacies associations, and magnitudes of sealevel rise inferred from lithologic change across shallowing cycle boundaries, exhibit similar skewed distributions of thickness/magnitude recurrence in Helderberg Group sections. These also are readily interpreted as generally Poisson processes of carbonate accumulation. Skewed frequency distributions of either cycle thickness or water depth change result from the grouping of a small number of elements from an exponential population of randomly distributed sizes. Modal (albeit skewed) cycle thickness distributions are simply an artifact of cycle definition and need not bear any relation to periodic extrabasinal forcing mechanisms. We conclude that thicknesses of flasered bedding units and lithofacies in the Helderberg Group largely reflect the more or less incidental migration of Lower Devonian depositional subenvironments across New York State during sediment accumulation. Stratigraphic extents of shallowingupward lithofacies associations and apparent punctuated deepening across shallowing cycle tops are little different from chance groupings of stratal units randomly drawn from an exponential population. If any sealevel control is manifest in these patterns of sediment accumulation, it must have been nearly haphazard with respect to both secular recurrence and magnitude of eustatic change.
30064963|The gorge of Quebrada de los Cedros (a tributary of Ro Macan in southwestern Puerto Rico) is a deroofed portion of a complex cavern system through which part of the drainage of Ro Tallaboa was diverted by a process of subterranean stream piracy. The karst features in Quebrada de los Cedros and in other parts of the region indicate that the absence of extensive karst development in the mid-Tertiary limestones in southwestern Puerto Rico is probably due to their lack of mass permeability rather than to insufficient rainfall. The direction of the underground flow in the upper part of the quebrada is against the direction of the dip of the beds, which indicates that the structural control is not critically important in the development of subterranean passageways. Water will move along any plane, whether structurally controlled or not, as long as it has the opportunity to be drained at a lower level under the force of gravity.
30075227|UPb zircon ages for two granitoid boulders from the Neoproterozoic, Port Askaig tillite in Scotland yield Paleoproterozoic ages of 1876  7.5 Ma, MSWD = 1.63, and 1793  6.5 Ma, MSWD = 0.21. Neither sample shows any evidence of older inherited material or younger metamorphic overgrowths in its zircon population. Nd model ages between 2.30 and 1.95 Ga from 14 granitoid clasts from the tillite indicate that the precursor of the granitoid source fractionated from the mantle during Paleoproterozoic times, and there is no evidence of involvement of Archean crust in the generation of the granites. Paleoproterozoic crustal growth is a signature of the North Atlantic region. Although a perfect match for both the geochemistry and age of the boulders cannot be found, the rocks share features in common with plutonic rocks of the Makkovik, Svecofennian, Ketilidian and southern parts of the Scottish Proterozoic provinces.
30078396|The partition coefficient for the normalized fraction of the lowmelting component
30079515|The writer describes briefly the most generally accepted hypothesis on the origin of the Alps, and notes that the evidence upon which this theory has been built is stratigraphic, lithologic, and paleogeographic, with almost complete neglect of mechanical structural factors. The need of employing certain mechanical structural evidence to support the other types is emphasized, and the manner of its use and application is outlined. Numerous examples are described where the writer has applied mechanical structural evidence successfully in the "Hautes Alpes Calcaires" of the western Alps. The paper urges a fuller exploitation of such evidence in attacking structural problems, and suggests that the solution of the obscure problems of Alpine structure will require its use as an important supplement to the types of evidence already used.
30081175|A series of postdepositional alteration events can be distinguished in the late Archean Witwatersrand Basin. They range from thrustcontrolled metamorphism during preTransvaal crustal thickening, burial metamorphism and hydrothermal infiltration during crustal thinning and associated deposition of the 2.62.1 Ga Transvaal Supergroup sediments, thermal metamorphism related to the 2.06 Ga Bushveld Igneous Complex, and hydrothermal alteration as a consequence of the 2.023 Ga Vredefort impact event. The relative importance of these events varies locally, with different events responsible for the maximum temperatures achieved in different parts of the basin: the preTransvaal metamorphism affected the northern margin of the basin, whereas the synBushveld thermal metamorphism is particularly pronounced in the lower parts of the Witwatersrand Supergroup. Chlorite geothermometry, in conjunction with fluid inclusion microthermometry and the thermodynamic modeling of equilibrium mineral assemblages, was applied to siliciclastic rocks to set constraints on the geothermal gradients. The best estimate for the steadystate Paleoproterozoic geotherm in the Witwatersrand Basin is 27C km
30080933|The captorhinid reptile Captorhinikos has heretofore been known to occur only in the post-Arroyo Clear Fork Permian of Texas, and C. chozaensis has been known only from the Choza formation. The find of a specimen of C. chozaensis in the Hennessey formation of Oklahoma helps to correlate this formation with the Upper Clear Fork beds. Captorhinikos is very similar to Captorhinus and Labidosaurus in both cranial and postcranial structure, the only reliable diagnostic feature being the pattern of the dentition.
30071153|The central Basin and Range province has provided a natural laboratory for the study of continental extension since the pioneering studies of Chester R. Longwell. It is here that largemagnitude crustal extension along systems of normal faults was first documented by R. Ernest Anderson. Estimates of crustal extension in the Lake Mead extensional domain (eastern central Basin and Range province) have been based largely on restoration of displaced blocks, most notably the Frenchman Mountain block. The original position of Frenchman Mountain, an allochthonous block that has been translated more than 60 km westward during regional extension, has been controversial for more than 2 decades. We use correlation of mass wasting deposits with source areas, Paleozoic stratigraphic characteristics, and subunconformity pinchout relations to evaluate previously published models for the original position of the Frenchman Mountain block and use new evidence to propose a more tightly constrained preextension position for this block. Our work restricts the original position of the Frenchman Mountain block to 8 km or less from the Gold Butte block. We favor an interpretation in which Frenchman Mountain originated as the hanging wall of the tectonically denuded Gold Butte block and was therefore translated to its present position by movement along kinematically coupled detachment and strikeslip faults. Regional relations require multiple stages of movement along numerous structures from this preextension location, and we propose a new model for the trajectory of the Frenchman Mountain block to its present position.
30081071|The Dona Ins pluton, northern Paraba, is a fine-grained, foliated, garnetiferous leucocratic granite, a product of a low degree of partial melting. SiO values are high and restricted (70.6 to 75.5 wt %). Data trends of major oxides vs. SiO are generally systematic, but trace element distributions are irregular. Two distinct groups of rocks (A and B) are apparent in the field, Group crosscutting Group A along numerous internal contacts. Group rocks have higher SiO and lower KO, CaO, FeO, Sr, Ba, and LREE than Group A rocks. Erratic Rb-Sr isotopic behavior provides "scatterchrons" rather than true isochrons. For Group A samples, t = 475  102 Ma and initial
30078353|This paper presents a new interpretation for the tectonic evolution of the Smartville complex that forms the Western Belt of the foothills metamorphic belt in the northern Sierra Nevada, California. New geological, petrological, and geochronological information suggest that the Smartville complex may form part of an Early Jurassic island-arc terrane that was probably built on a pre-existing oceanic basement. Inferred oceanic basement is represented by multiply deformed and metamorphosed ophiolitic rocks that crop out in the Central Belt north and east of the Smartville complex that are intruded by numerous Lower Jurassic dikes of an incipient island-arc character. Lower Jurassic volcanic and plutonic rocks of the Slate Creek and possibly the Lake Combie complexes in the Central Belt are interpreted as fragments of the early Jurassic arc terrane. Accretion of the ensimatic arc terrane into the continental margin of North America may have occurred along east-vergent thrusting around Middle Jurassic time and may correspond to a major suturing event in the Mesozoic Sierra Nevada. The 160 Ma sheeted dike complex and tabular plutons intruding the Smartville complex represent intra-arc rifting during late Jurassic time and form parautochthonous units within the arc. This proposed tectonic scenario implies that the lithologic units in the Western Belt do not necessarily represent a single cogenetic arc-ophiolite, but rather a composite arc terrane with a complex tectonic history.
30056982|The problem of the origin of barrier reefs and atolls is biological as well as geological. By failing to determine the organic composition and the age of elevated limestones, some workers have given much undeserved support to the theory of subsidence. Uncon-formable contacts between elevated limestones and older volcanics on tropical islands have little bearing on the subsidence theory unless the limestones are coralliferous. Recent studies show that many elevated coral reefs have a foundation of non-coralliferous limestone, and in some cases this limestone is geologically considerably older. The basin-shaped limestone islands in Fiji which certain writers have interpreted as elevated atolls are not usually to be so considered. Under proper conditions the basins are formed by subarial solution regardless of the structure, age, or organic composition of the limestone. Even tiny remnants of so-called much dissected, elevated atolls show individually well-developed basin shapes.
30063934|Glacial outwash, pluvial lake deposits, and possible pre-glacial gravel crop out along the Truckee River from the eastern Sierra Nevada to the western Great Basin. Deposits range in age from Tioga to pre-Donner Lake. Soils of varying degree of development have formed on the deposits; most are at the surface, but a few are buried. Halloysite is the dominate soil clay mineral under pine forest in the humid climate west of Verdi, whereas montmorillonite > illite > kaolinite comprise the characteristic assemblage under desert shrub vegetation in the semi-arid climate east of Verdi. Thus, halloysite reflects a high degree of leaching, montmorillonite a much lesser degree of leaching. The uniformity of clay mineral assemblage in all soils formed from Quaternary sediments east of Verdi suggests that climate and vegetation patterns have not changed drastically in the lowlands in middle and late Quaternary time. Montmorillonite may alter to kaolinite in a leaching environment, whereas kaolinite and halloysite probably will not alter readily to montmorillonite if conditions change toward less leaching. As large amounts of halloysite and kaolinite are absent in the soils east of Verdi, leaching conditions much greater than those of the present probably have not existed in the lowlands for long periods of time.
30065626|In the granulite-gneiss-charnockite-granite Sharyzhalgay Complex of the Lake Baikal region in eastern Siberia Early Proterozoic collisional and extensional events were separated by ca. 100 m.yr. The earlier collisional event, associated with the development of granulites and gneisses as the result of high-grade dynamothermal metamorphism, took place close to
30084927|A systematic study of granitic batholiths and of metalliferous veins associated with them shows that practically all such deposits are in the regions above the batholiths and in the thin outer shells of the batholiths. The cores of the batholiths are essentially barren of valuable deposits. Thus a normal batholith may be divided into (1) the metallized roof, (2) the metallized hood, and (3) the essentially barren core. The metals were expelled from the magma that solidified to form the core after the hood had solidified, and it is believed that deposition of metalliferous veins was practically completed before the core solidified. The magma that forms the core was practically sealed off from deep-seated sources of metals before it became solid. Veins without metals are found in it, but practically no valuable metalliferous deposits. It is believed that the magma of the batholith generated a strong vapor pressure on cooling, after the manner illustrated by experiments of Morey with silicate melts. It is probable that this pressure was sufficient to fracture the roofs of some batholiths. Thus the magma may generate the forces that form the fractures that are filled by veins and also supply the metalliferous fluids that deposit the ores. A consideration of Goranson's experiments on the effect of temperature and pressure on the solubility of water in granite magmas suggests that there is probably a great concentration of water in the earth's outer shell.
10.1086/599021|Repetitive patterns of facies recurrence are frequently reported from the shallowwater sedimentary rock record and are postulated to have been driven by orbital forcing on eustatic sea level. Consequently, multiple statistical techniques have been developed to evaluate whether patterns of stratigraphic succession are more consistent with a periodic sea level signal or are stochastic. Previous studies focused on development and/or application of such methods to test empirical geological records. However, the character of such records cannot be known a priori, as deposition, erosion, and preservation influence the resultant composition, nor can those records be readily manipulated to explore the sensitivity, robustness, and overall validity of statistical methods. Here we simulate carbonate layers using computermodeled successions generated by periodic sea level changes. The resulting stratigraphic records were then evaluated statistically. Thickness distributions of simulated lithofacies were compared to distributions predicted for Poisson processes, which by definition are not driven by cyclical sea level changes. Our results suggest that periodic processes produce stratigraphic thickness frequencies that are difficult to distinguish from random frequencies except under highmagnitude sea level fluctuations. Similarly, autocorrelation fails to correctly recognize cyclic patterns in such simulated records. Models with highmagnitude sea level fluctuations (icehouse conditions) had thickness frequencies that are suggestive of orbital forcing, whereas lowmagnitude sea level fluctuations (greenhouse conditions) appeared independent even though they were modeled using Milankovitch orbital forcing. The increasing evidence based on spectral data from real rock successions suggests that Milankovitch drivers are common in both icehouse and greenhouse periods. Because statistical approaches are unsuccessful in recognizing the cyclic driver of these simulated records, we infer that it is difficult to disprove independence from real stratigraphy even when orbital forcing is controlling the rock composition. Even in the necessarily simplified world of computer simulations, the numerous factors involved in depositing stratigraphic successions work to complicate or mask any periodic signal, thus generating the appearance of stochasticity in some successions.
30058935|Attention is called to the fact that "eutectic" has been used in varying ways, and that some confusion has resulted; also that analogies have been drawn between the final stages of crystallization of natural magmas and those of laboratory melts, from which, in some instances, they differ in essential particulars. Careful consideration of the word's meaning and implications is urged.
30062398|The Elberton granite is an undeformed pluton which intrudes polydeformed gneisses along the eastern margin of the Georgia Inner Piedmont. Magmatic biotite and muscovite display internally concordant,
30063373|Several controversial points in the geology of the Adirondack anorthosite are briefly discussed, and some new observations are added. Balk's postulated evolutionary series, leading from gabbroic anorthosite to large, spherical gabbros, needs revision in view of Buddington's proof that anorthosite is cut by discordant gabbro dikes. The possible derivation of gabbroic anorthosite from Grenville skarn is discussed. A certain amount of pyroxene, and perhaps even of andesine, has been precipitated by volatiles. Accumulations of mafic minerals, therefore, need careful examination to establish their origin. A rather prolonged stage during which diminishing flowage and initial fracturing overlapped in place and time is thought to explain, to some extent, the observed occurrence of mineral-veneered short fractures with, or without, marginal flexures in the surrounding anorthosite. The origin of ill-defined siliceous veins and of the rare anorthosite dikes may be related to this condition of the anorthosite. The evidence for a chilled border of the anorthosite is judged to be inconclusive. Some features bearing on the shape of the anorthosite massif are reviewed, and interpretations of syenite dikes in anorthosite are briefly discussed.
30059985|Nearly 50 schemes of sandstone classification have been proposed since Krynine's establishment of a modern classificatory method in 1948. Some attempts to solve the problems lying behind such a proliferation of classification schemes have been made by Klein, Shutov, Crook, and others with constructive criticisms. I analyzed integratively most of the proposed schemes and concluded: (1) the notion of three basic rock-types: (orthoquartzite, graywacke, arkose) should be abandoned because of their inadequate connection with diastrophic cycles and their ambiguous and confused definition, (2) the concept of fluidity factor or textural maturity cannot be applied strictly to indurated sandstones in orogenic belts, (3) sandstone composition depends upon the mean grain size, and (4) the ratio of quartz: feldspar: rock fragments is variable with mean grain size and amount of "clay-matrix." A threefold classification: (grain size, amount of clay matrix, composition of framework constituents) is recommended for sandstone classification; it represents a modification of Gilbert's classification, thus avoiding introducing new terms.
10.1086/681218|Despite the presence of a deep history of continental evolution from Archean to Recent and a wealth of outcrop, existing studies of detrital zircon geochronology in Morocco are limited, focused mostly in the Cambrian and Neoproterozoic Pan-African exposures in the Anti-Atlas belt. We broaden the use of this tool by surveying the detrital zircon geochronology of three stratigraphic units from three distinct Mesozoic terranes: the Tisiren unit of the Maghrebian flysch domain, the Ketama unit of the Intrarif, and the Bou Rached sandstones of the Middle Atlas Mountains. Samples were analyzed for zircon U-Pb ages using laser-ablation inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry, and zircon fission-track (ZFT) ages were analyzed using the emerging technique of scanning electron microscope high-density fission-track analysis. In total, 259 U-Pb ages are presented, along with 60 ZFT ages. U-Pb ages reveal dominant Pan-African (Cryogenian-Ediacaran) and West African cratonic (Paleoproterozoic) signatures that are typical of northwest Africa. All samples also include significant Mesoproterozoic U-Pb populations that are hitherto unknown in Morocco and scarce in North Africa. Proposed scenarios for the provenance of these zircons include delivery to Morocco from the Amazonian craton or the African Volta basin during Ordovician glaciation and/or delivery from Avalonian terranes during the Variscan orogeny. The Bou Rached sandstones contain a significant Ordovician-Devonian U-Pb population not found in the other samples and are of an age without a viable source currently dated in Morocco. An Avalonian source is likewise suggested for these Ordovician-Devonian ages. The Ketama and Tisiren units have comparable U-Pb ages, but their preliminary ZFT cooling age distributions differ, lending support to the idea that different source regions are required for the two domains.
30079904|Previous analyses of meterscale cyclicity have deemphasized thin beds within investigated stratigraphic intervals. Here, we analyze the effect of excluding relatively thin beds on cycle delineation and interpretation in the type Cincinnatian Series. Whereas inclusion of all strata suggests wide variation in cycle architecture, systematic culling of thin beds decreases this variability considerably, in part by removing much of the evidence for intervals of deepening that are important components in more than half the meterscale cycles recognized here. Thus, cycles in the culled data conform more easily to a parasequence model, in that a greater plurality exhibit a simple shallowingupward motif, raising the concern that the exclusion of thin beds in other analyses might similarly oversimplify the perceived signal of cyclicity.
10.1086/658200|The sphene-centered ocellar texture consists of leucocratic ocelli with sphene (titanite) crystals at the center, enclosed in a biotite-rich matrix. This texture has been recognized worldwide in hybrid intermediate rocks. On the basis of structural, petrological, and geochronological data from selected outcrops of the Variscan Ribadelago pluton (NW Iberian Massif), we propose that the ocelli were formed by migration and accumulation of a residual melt through a plagioclase- and biotite-dominated crystalline framework. At the late stage of crystallization, the magma acted as a hyperdense suspension and reacted to the pressure gradient caused by the regional stress field, entering the domain of grain-supported flow. Microstructures reveal that aligned crystal domains arose in the crystal framework from the shearing and compaction of the crystal mush and behaved as magmatic microshears. Relative displacement of adjacent crystal clusters along these microshears corresponded to the onset of Reynolds dilatancy that generated an expansion of the crystal mush, involving melt migration and pore aperture. The mineralogy of the ocelli, dominated by andesine and sphene, represents the composition of the migrating melt. The chemistry of this late, Ti-rich melt stems from the incongruent melting of biotite. Magmatic sphene from the ocelli yields a U-Pb age of
30070516|The Schiel Complex (2059 +35/-36 Ma) is one of the alkaline intrusive suites emplaced in the northern part of the Kaapvaal craton during the Early Proterozoic. It is a typical mixed silica-undersaturated to -oversaturated complex bearing a wide composition of rocks, including pyroxenite, glimmerite, foskorite, carbonatite, dolerite, shonkinite, and dominant syenite and granite. The mineralogical and geochemical features of the syenites and granites define a petrologic association with quartz + alkali feldspar + diopside-hedenbergite clinopyroxene + lepidomelane biotite  ferro-edenite to ferro-pargasite hornblende as major mineral phases; accessories are apatite, titanite, zircon, and magnetite. Chemically, they are alkaline to peralkaline and characterized by relatively low contents of Al, Mg, and Ca and high contents of high field strength elements, including Nb, Ga, Y, and rare earth elements. These features are characteristic of most A-type granitoids. The genesis of syenites and granites of the Schiel Complex is related to the geological evolution of the Southern Marginal Zone of the Limpopo folded belt after the cessation of high-grade metamorphism and during the subsequent extensional period. It is here considered in terms of partial melting of a granulitic lower crust under high flux of mantle-derived magmas and volatiles. The melts produced were emplaced along an important shear zone of post-orogenic regional extension, the Kudus River Lineament, a long-lived zone of crustal weakness. This proposed petrogenetic model can account for the geological setting and the petrological and geochemical features of the alkaline complex.
30062575|The Yakima basalt of eastern Washington is associated toward the west in the Cascade Mountains with the Keechelus andesitic series. The latter series has generally been regarded as the younger. In the Mount Aix quadrangle the upper part of the Keechelus andesitic series is mapped as a separate unit-the Fifes Peak andesite. Marginal flows of the Yakima basalt overlap the Fifes Peak andesite and are clearly younger than the andesite. The Yakima basalt is generally regarded as Middle Miocene but may be Upper Miocene. The Fifes Peak andesite is presumably not younger than Middle Miocene. The lower part of the Keechelus andesitic series may be no younger than Oligocene. The Snoqualmie granodiorite is probably intermediate in age between the lower part of the Keechelus andesitic series and the Fifes Peak andesite. The Cascade Mountains of southern Washington owe their present height principally to uplift rather than to the accumulation of volcanic materials.
30071239|A longstanding but often ignored problem in geology is the fact that compositional data are closed, i.e., data sum to a constant and, thus, are not amenable to standard statistical techniques. The undesirable properties of closure can be overcome by converting compositional data to log ratios; the transformed data can usually be analyzed with parametric statistics. Woronow and Love proposed tests for establishing immobile element reference frames for measuring chemical change. These tests are independent of the usual assumption that Al, Ti, Zr, and the rare earth elements are immobile, an assumption contradicted by field studies and laboratory experiments suggesting that these elements are sometimes mobile. In this paper, Woronow and Love's tests are examined using an intuitivegeometric approach. Although their tests are generally sound, modifications are proposed to make them more powerful. An additional test for immobility is proposed using variance ratios. These tests were applied to the alteration of the Bingham Porphyry deposit. Results suggest that SiO
30081068|The Norfolk Basin of southeastern Massachusetts formed during the Pennsylvanian in a tectonically active setting. The sedimentary facies in the basin form a wet alluvial fan depositional system, constructed primarily by braided streams. Provenance and other sedimentologic data constrain the amount of offset along proposed strike-slip faults located north of the basin. Left-lateral motion, previously suggested to have played a major role in the formation of the Norfolk and Narragansett Basins, appears to have played a negligible, or at most, indirect, role in the formation of the Norfolk Basin. The basin underwent two episodes of folding, with associated development of two axial planar cleavages, and episodes of reverse, thrust, and strike-slip faulting during the Permian Alleghanian orogeny. Illite crystallinity and other petrologic data demonstrate that the sedimentary rocks were metamorphosed to the lower greenschist facies, probably at temperatures between 200 and 300C. These data indicate that the Late Paleozoic deformation and metamorphism in southeastern New England is more widespread and intense than was recognized previously and extends at least 50 km north to include the Norfolk Basin.
30063879|The sequence of sediments between two Upper Carboniferous (Westphalian A) coals in the Lancashire Coalfield is described with particular reference to Ravenhead Quarry, near Wigan. Part of this succession consists of regularly-bedded laminated sandstone/siltstone units containing non-marine bivalves and their escape shafts. The escape shafts provide evidence of rapid sedimentation. At least four sandstone/siltstone units accumulated within the lifetime of a community of bivalves which eventually died out because of failure of recruitment of new spat. It is concluded that sedimentation was controlled by monsoons. The sandstone accumulated during wet seasons, intervening siltstones during dry seasons.
30066371|Isothermal sections at 600, 650, 700, 750, and 800 C, run for the most part at 15 kilobars total pressure, were obtained using a squeezer-type apparatus. Above approximately 675 C. the system contains two two-phase and two single-phase areas. One single phase region extends a short distance into the ternary system along the full length of the
30056252|Most glacial studies have been chiefly concerned with motion, advance and recession, transportation by the ice, and the carving of land forms. The smaller features, discussed in this paper, have generally not been described. Many of these lesser features, located on and near the terminal parts of valley glaciers, are here named and described for the first time.
30078319|The possibility that Citronelle and Hawthorne sediments in peninsular Florida are terrestrial and marine components, respectively, of an extensive delta was considered through statistical studies involving sediment grain sizes and heavy-mineral suites of the formations. A correlation analysis utilizing all measured variables (in pairs) proved to be inconclusive in determining the possible correlation of the formations. A multivariate approach was then undertaken utilizing principal component analysis. From this it was concluded that the Citronelle and Hawthorne formations are not parts of the same massive delta. Sedimentologic characteristics of the Citronelle sediments support the principal component interpretation.
10.1086/650180|Spatial and temporal patterns in the sedimentary record are controlled by a wide range of forcing mechanisms. Macrostratigraphy uses the temporal ranges of gapbound rock packages, compiled separately for different geographic locations, to quantify these patterns. The total number of gapbound packages (
30060033|Some of the problems with earlier theories for erosion and transport by ice sheets are discussed, and it is noted that those theories can not simply account for the often reported finding that most till is derived from bedrock only a few tens of kilometers upglacier. Considerations of the mass balance of debris in transport lead to the conclusion that ice sheets are capable of transporting most debris only a short distance. The theory that the breakup of bedrock is mostly a preglacial process is developed. The advancing ice sheet collects the debris and then deposits it after a short travel. As the ice sheet first advances over the regolith, debris is frozen onto the base and is carried until basal melting due to geothermal and frictional heat causes lodgment till deposition. Most debris is deposited during the advance of the ice sheet and is carried only a short distance. A generally small amount of debris is carried at higher levels and is deposited during ice standstill and retreat as melt-out and ablation tills.
30079718|Contrasts in the occurrence of cyclic cuspate spits are found (1) between a smooth sandy oceanic barrier shoreline and spit-decorated shorelines of the associated narrow barrier lagoon, and (2) in spit development varying from none on a straight sandy shoreline to progressively prominent development with increasing convexity along an adjoining sandy headland. Critical factors in this selectivity seem to be wave fetch and shoreline curvature; both factors present contrasts in the efficiency of longshore sediment drift of coarse particles. Examples of wave fetch include southeastern Alabama and the coasts of St. Lawrence Island, Alaska; examples of shoreline curvature are believed to include both the large salient of the Cape Hatteras-Cape Fear-North Island sandy cuspate foreland and the small sandy foreland of Cape Sable, southwestern peninsular Florida. These contrasts seem to have escaped previous notice. The conditions are not found on all barrier-lagoon or sandy headland shorelines.
30067281|Studies in the Columbia quadrangle lead to the following conclusions: (1) intrusion of granite and conversion of volcanic and sedimentary rocks into schist are results of the same geologic cycle; (2) schist near the granite has been subjected to lit-par-lit injection and replacement by granitic material; (3) an advanced stage of injection and replacement is expressed by granitic rock in which schistose and gneissic structures are preserved. In the extreme stage, replacement and recrystallization have obliterated most of the inherited structure, the resulting rock being a granite contaminated by traces of the older rocks, with consequent marked variations in composition and structure; (4) no granite was found that had undergone mashing or other appreciable deformation except ordinary fissuring.
30058911|The description of the sediments includes chemical analysis, figures showing the size of the particles of sediment in different parts of the lake, the rate of clearing of the water under laboratory conditions, and the character of the lamine which are being formed.
30068114|The cut-off of a meander produces a fall or rapid which is later removed upstream by headward erosion. In entrenched valleys, steepened parts of the longitudinal profile may then correspond to cut-off meanders located some miles downstream, and standing now high above the valley bottom. A study of numerous cut-off meanders leads to the conclusion that such steepened parts, having heights corresponding to that of the initial falls do exist really upstream in more than half of the valuable cases. The rate of headward erosion seems affected by the discharge of the stream, being less for small creeks than for more important rivers. In the latter, it equals several hundred times the rate of vertical down-cutting.
30056726|The Cimarron River formerly had a narrow channel throughout its course from the Kansas-Colorado state line to the Kansas-Oklahoma state line. Accelerated erosion began in 1914 and has increased the average width of the channel to more than 1,000 feet. Overcultivation appears to have been the principal cause of the erosion.
30069368|Remains of three drowned forests have been investigated at Odiorne Point, New Hampshire, and Fort Lawrence and Grand Pr, west-central Nova Scotia. Carbon-14 ages and altitudes below mean tide levels were determined for four in-place stumps of white pine at each locality. Assuming that each dated stump was killed by rising salt water, and that its
30060340|Excessive displacement of the earth's crust has been limited, at least since the later Paleozoic, to well-defined belts, here called the earth's "mobile belts," which are virtually continuous and form a definite and characteristic pattern. In the first part of this paper, the pattern of these mobile belts is briefly described and analyzed, special weight being given to Haug's hypothetical reconstruction. The essential continuity of these belts points to the conclusions (1) that they are the result of stress conditions in the earth's spheroid as a whole and not of local stresses independent from point to point; and (2) that their pattern, therefore, offers a clue to the mechanics which dominate the major diastrophism of the earth. In the second part the results of experiments (largely by the author) are presented which show that the pattern of the earth's mobile belts is unlike that displayed (a) by wrinkles formed on a thin shell adhering to a contracting core; (b) by fractures produced by compression on a thin shell adhering to a contracting core; that it bears a distinct likeness, on the other hand, to the pattern of fractures produced by tension on a thin shell adhering to an expanding core.
30060408|In the vicinity of Sapawe and Steep Rock lakes, Rainy River district, Ontario, is a large series of schistose pre-Cambrian sediments bordered on the north by basic vol-canics (Keewatin), and on the south by intrusive granite. They strike west to Rainy Lake and to the east gradually finger out into the granite. Geologists have assigned the sediments a stratigraphic position both below the Keewatin, as "Coutchiching," and above the Keewatin, as "Seine." This paper deals with the structure of the sediments along the Keewatin contact in the area first mentioned. Evidence, based on minor structures in the sediments and the major structures of the area, is presented to show that the contact has suffered faulting of the shear type, and that the apparent dip of the sediments under the Keewatin is not definite proof of their age. The larger structures, involving faults and discordant folding of the disputed sediments and the Steep Rock Lake sediments near by, are interpreted as due to one period of diastrophism related to the intrusion of "Algoman" granites. The data given favor a Seine age for the sediments, but since areal mapping is incomplete, the question is left open.
30063625|Coordinated taphonomic, geochronologic, and geochemical studies of bivalve death assemblages and their sedimentary environments of San Blas, Caribbean Panama, permit us to identify the major factors controlling skeletal degradation in mixed carbonatesiliciclastic tropical shelf sediments. Ten sites were studied along environmental gradients including water nutrients, grain size, and sediment chemistry (carbonate, organic carbon, and reactive iron contents). Taphonomic data were derived from naturally occurring bivalve death assemblages and experimentally deployed specimens of
30062278|The solubilities of water in six melts in the system
30068845|Ages based on electron microprobe analysis using the chemical ThUtotal Pb isochron method (CHIME) were determined for monazite and zircon in 12 granulitefacies paragneiss samples from four exposures on or near the coast of East Antarctica: Mt. Vechernyaya (Alasheyev Bight; 46 E, Rayner Complex), East Ongul Island (3935
30081106|Tonalitic orthogneiss from the Brookville Gneiss in southern New Brunswick has an igneous protolith age of
30058443|Optical orientations of 1,725 ice crystals were determined at eleven locations on the Emmons Glacier by means of a 6-inch universal stage mounted between crossed polaroid sheets. The crystals were 0.2-6 inches across and from three to forty were included in each
30081290|The Coahuila Piedmont is a physiographic province in Northeastern Mexico, lying between the Rocky Mountains and the Coastal Plain. A discussion of its physiography shows it to have had a physiographic history similar to that of other areas along the Rocky Mountain border. The surface is occupied by Comanchean-Cretaceous strata, and Pliocene (?) Reynosa conglomerate. Two principal structural units are the Sabinas and Huerfana basins. Gently dipping structure and low rolling topography prevail.
30064102|The Rainy Creek complex represents a composite of successive intrusions of igneous rocks emplaced into the Precambrian Belt Series, probably in middle Cretaceous time. The succession began with the emplacement of a body of coarse-grained biotite pyroxenite with a core of coarse-grained biotitite, which is considered to have formed from the accumulation of alkalies and volatiles near the roof of the pyroxenite pluton. Nodules in the biotitite appear to be xenoliths of altered ultramafic rock. Following this igneous phase, magnetite pyroxenite intruded a zone of weakness between the biotite pyroxenite and the Belt Series, forming a ring dike surrounding the inner pyroxenite body. All of the ultramafic rocks are considered to be products of fractional crystallization of a common parent magma. Available mineralogic and experimental data suggest that the biotitite and biotite pyroxenite were emplaced under high
30065662|The primary evidence for the temporal and spatial distribution of glaciation prior to the Cenozoic is the occurrence of tillites. These are diamictites (poorly sorted mixtures of very coarse-grained to fine-grained sediments), and associated deposits, which have features considered diagnostic of glacial action. The discovery that many diamictite-bearing sequences were the products of debris flows and related mass flows, with contemporaneous rainout of coarse sediment, has led to the reinterpretation of many tillites as glaciomarine debris-flow deposits. Fallout of ballistic ejecta from the impact of large asteroids or comets can also create large-scale debris flows with simultaneous rainout of debris. Recent calculations of the predicted volume and distribution of impact-generated diamictites suggest that they should be common in the geologic record. Moreover, ballistic debris-flow deposits can apparently exhibit a number of features considered characteristic of glacial deposits (e.g., striated clasts, eroded and striated pavements). The possible confusion between glacial and impact diamictites-a few diamictite deposits formerly interpreted as glacial or questionably glacial in origin are already known to be impact ejecta-suggests that a review of the properties of diamictites of various origins is required. Evidence of shock deformation in diamictites is the most important criterion for determining an impact origin. It is possible that some diamictites identified as glaciogenic may actually be ejecta of large impacts, which may help to explain climatic anomalies, such as Lower Proterozoic tillites at a time of predicted global warmth, and the low-latitude distribution of some Upper Proterozoic glacial deposits.
10.1086/669230|Understanding sedimentary provenance is essential when investigating clastic strata. The lack of compositional variability in mature sediments associated with Cambrian cratonic sequences in the United States makes traditional petrographic discrimination of sedimentary origin difficult. The upper Cambrian Mount Simon Sandstone of the Illinois Basin is a quartz arenite (Q
30085016|The Cannibal Creek Granite, a foliated pluton within a strongly deformed aureole, shows several diagnostic features of a diapir: the intensity of the aureole deformation diminished away from the contact; the aureole foliation is continuous with that of the granite and forms closed, elliptical trend lines; and the contact metamorphic minerals are synkinematic with regard to the aureole foliation. The pluton deformed its aureole in three stages, involving initially brittle, then ductile, and finally brittle deformation styles. Initial intrusion of a low strength magma stoped, kinked and flexed aside its overburden. Crystallization of the magma prevented further rise, and it ballooned and deformed its aureole evidently entirely by ductile bulk shortening perpendicular to the contact. This, the major stage of aureole deformation, records no evidence of vertical movement of the pluton, or of progressive simple shear along its margin. During this stage, the magma may have been Theologically a high-strength Bingham body, with a melt content probably less than 30%. Ballooning probably accounts for at least 70% of the pluton's present volume. The second brittle stage of deformation involved the fracturing of the complex and inner aureole rocks, possibly in response to thermal contraction. Three external dykes formed a sheath around the pluton, and three ring dykes were injected about a subsiding central block.
30065814|New field and chemical data are presented for the nepheline-bearing gneisses of the Haliburton-Bancroft district. Evidence has already been presented (Tilley and Gittins, 1961) to show that some of the nepheline-bearing rocks of the region are igneous rocks that retain their original igneous texture. The nepheline-bearing gneisses of the region are of two kinds: regionally metamorphosed metasomatic (nephelinized) rocks and regionally metamorphosed igneous rocks. Examples of nephelinized skarn and nephelinized marble from Glamorgan and Monmouth townships are described, and an attempt is made to interpret the chemistry of nephelinization in the light of these examples. Gummer and Burr (1946) concluded that the nepheline gneisses were derived from biotite- and hornblende-bearing paragneiss by metasomatism (nephelinization), the agents of this metasomatism being derived probably from granitic magma. The conclusion is reached in the present study that the gneisses thought by Gummer and Burr to be original paragneiss represent an arrested stage of nephelinization and that Si, Al, Fe, Na, and K were added to the host rocks during metasomatism. It is emphasized that nephelinization is a series of related processes, rather than a single process, that leads generally but not inevitably to a feldspathoidal assemblage. The source of the metasomatizing agents appears to be feldspathoidal magma, the former existence of which is known from the presence of igneous nepheline-bearing rocks of magmatic origin previously referred to. Such an origin alleviates the difficulties inherent in deriving the agents of nephelinization from a granitic or any other source. The nepheline-bearing pegmatities of the region are thought to be of igneous rather than metasomatic origin.
30078383|Late Ordovician blueschist from the schist of Skookum Gulch, eastern Klamath Mountains, California, is the oldest known blueschist in California and one of the oldest in North America. Lawsonite-bearing glaucophane schist occurs as lenses intimately interlayered with chlorite schist, quartz-albite schist, and dolomite marble. Detailed investigation of a portion of the Skookum Gulch schist demonstrates that these rock types share a common deformational and metamorphic history. The first deformation occurred during blueschist metamorphism and produced similar-style isoclinal folds and an axial-planar foliation. During subsequent deformations, parallel-style open to tight folds and local kink bands deformed foliation but produced no recognizable recrystallization. Major and selected trace elements, analyzed by XRF for 12 samples of mafic schist, show that the protoliths were broadly basaltic in composition (
30059012|Lenses of dedolomitized marble occur interspersed with Precambrian cataclastic rocks of the northeast-trending Mullen Creek-Nash Fork shear zone in the east-central portion of the Medicine Bow Mountains of southeast Wyoming. Eight lenses of tremolite marble (dolomitic) and one small body of serpentinized forsteritic marble (calcic) were observed. The Mullen Creek-Nash Fork shear zone separates a thick sequence of low grade metasedimentary rocks, including two locally siliceous dolomitic marble (metadolomite) units of the Nash Fork Formation, from a higher grade felsic and amphibolitic complex. The marble lenses that occur within the shear zone are considered to be fault slices of the dolomitic units that were dedolomitized during mylonitization. The formation of tremolite and forsterite in the lenses was probably facilitated by the presence of a water-rich fluid in the shear zones. Minor occurrences of talc-dolomite-calcite-quartz and tremolite-dolomite-calcite-quartz assemblages in the main sequence of Nash Fork Formation metadolomite are probably also a function of reactions in zones locally enriched in
30066401|Hooke's Discourse of Earthquakes (1668) and Hutton's Theory of the Earth (1785) contain several interesting similarities, although the latter clearly overshadows the former for the magnitude and power of the synthesis. On some specific geological problems, Hooke's insights were accurate and remarkably modern: several examples are given, especially concerning geophysical matters. It would be wrong, however, to conclude that the Huttonian theory is almost identical, or totally contained, although in a sketchy form, in Hooke's Discourse. The three great achievements of Hutton are (1) the constant and consistent use of the principle of actualism in interpreting geological events; (2) the notion of geostrophic cycle with its concomitant understanding of the integrated effect of slow processes acting for a long time; and, perhaps most importantly, (3) the discovery and acceptance of the scale of geologic time. Actualism was accepted by Hooke, but so it was by many others before Hutton; the idea of cycle is present in Hooke, but it is not developed to the level of the Theory, and an appreciation of the scale of geologic time is lacking. Hooke, therefore, deserves an important place in the history of geology but should in no way be given "priority" over Hutton for the development of a theory of the earth.
30060272|On the basis of physiographic and lithologic evidence, previous workers in southern New Mexico believed an ancestral Rio Grande occupied a course through the Jornada del Muerto Basin, across La Mesa, and into northern Mexico, where the waters evaporated in the lake region. Subsequently, a lower river extended headward through the gap at El Paso, Texas, captured the upper stream, and diverted its flow to the Gulf of Mexico. A re-examination of the evidence in the southern Jornada Basin and of La Mesa shows that the postulation of the ancestral course of the river is highly conjectural and cannot be proved. Bordering the Rio Grande Valley are gravels containing a vertebrate fauna including Cuvieronius and Equus, which indicate a Kansan age. Three paleosols separate the gravels from overlying sediments on which the Jornada-La Mesa surface is formed. This surface must date from mid-Pleistocene. Distribution of gravel on La Mesa surface west of the present Rio Grande Valley but derived from rocks in the mountains east of the valley precludes existence of the valley in Jornada-La Mesa time. The Jornada surface occurs in an internally drained basin extending northward toward central New Mexico. The La Mesa surface was an internally drained basin extending southward into Chihuahua, Mexico. The Rio Grande now is entrenched northwest-southeast below the Jornada-La Mesa surface and is bordered by a stepped sequence of geomorphic surfaces, the youngest of which is less than
30067368|Basalt flows in the San Jos Valley, Valencia County, New Mexico, are of pahoehoe type and are characterized by flow-units. A "flow-unit" may be defined as a tongue-shaped structure within a flow. In transverse cross section flow-units are small lenses from ioo to more than 300 feet long and from 10 to more than 20 feet thick. As many as five flow-units, one on top of the other, may occur in a flow. As there is no evidence of erosion, weathering, or deposition between flow-units, the time-interval between them must be short. The simplest flow mechanism for lava is one in which the lava moves as a single unit. The existence of the flow-units, however, indicates a greater complexity in the mechanism of these flows. At the front of the flow and also on its margins tongues a few hundred feet wide break out and flow for considerable distances. A number of tongues form, crusts appear on them, and these tongues are buried by later tongues, which in turn are buried by others. In this way multiple flows are formed. Such flows differ from single flows of pahoehoe type in their greater proportion of vesicles and other cavities, a fact of importance in the movement of solutions through them.
30056830|A description is given of the occurrence of iron-sulphide concretions in coal and other sedimentary rocks. The composition and structure of these concretions have been determined by modern microscopical methods. Marcasite is found to be the chief form of iron sulphide present as stratigraphic bands in coal beds. Pyrite is the common form occurring as concretions along certain stratigraphic horizons in the other sedimentary rocks. The microscopic and field evidence both indicate that the iron sulphide was formed at the time when the sediment was being deposited. Deposition of the sulphide as a colloidal gel appears to explain the facts best.
30062265|In the Southern Peloponnesus, allochthonous Phyllites sl. are juxtaposed on the Ionian parautochthonous zone and are overridden in turn by the Gavrovo-Tripolitza or Olonos-Pindus nappes. The Phyllites sl. allochthon consists of three nappes. The lower is affected by medium-high-P, low-T metamorphism (4-6.5 kb, 325-400C). The middle and upper nappes are affected by low P, low T metamorphism (P <4 kb, 250 to 350C). The metamorphosed lower nappe is thrust over Ionian unmetamorphosed parautochthonous rocks of the Taygete range. The explanation of such high-P, low-T metamorphism and of such abnormal superposition is critical for the various models proposed for reconstructing the geodynamic evolution of the Hellenides or of other orogenic belts. Our model (a flake tectonic model, not a pure subduction one) implies a polyphased tectonic evolution with, first, the Ionian zone underthrusting below the Gavrovo-Tripolitza zone and, next, the Phyllites nappes and Gavrovo-Tripolitza nappe overthrusting on the Ionian and Paxos zones.
30065792|Stratigraphic and petrochemical data from island arc rocks in the NE Caribbean support previously proposed tectonic models of attempted subduction of the Caribbean oceanic plateau beneath the Caribbean island arc during pre-Aptian time (~119 Ma) and consequent reversal of arc polarity from SW-facing to NE-facing by the early Late Cretaceous (~97 Ma). We propose that reversal in subduction polarity is marked by an abrupt change from relatively depleted and non-radiogenic tholeiites of the primitive island arc series to more enriched and radiogenic volcanic rocks of the calc-alkaline series. The stratigraphic contact between the primitive island arc series and the overlying calc-alkaline series in central and eastern Hispaniola (Dominican Republic) and Puerto Rico is a major unconformity overlain by a shallow-marine limestone of Aptian-Albian age. We compare the characteristics of the proposed pre-Aptian Caribbean subduction reversal event to the better-documented Neogene subduction reversal event in the Solomon island arc in the SW Pacific.
30079955|Analysis of the Caren Unit in the Ordenes Complex (northwest Iberian Massif) has supplied relevant data concerning the existence of a Paleozoic oceanic lithosphere, probably related to the Rheic realm, and the early subductionrelated events that were obscured along much of the Variscan belt by subsequent collision tectonics. The ophiolite consists of serpentinized harzburgite and dunite in the lower section and a crustal section made up of coarsegrained and pegmatitic gabbros. An Early Devonian zircon age (
30062189|Maar-craters are volcanically produced, but they are preserved as sedimentary deposits that reflect (1) the depositional environment into which these volcanoes erupted and (2) post-eruptive sedimentary environments in the surrounding area. Study of maar-crater deposits in the Hopi Buttes volcanic field, Arizona, show that volcanoes there erupted into a broad playa, and their craters were subsequently filled by complex sedimentary packages of reworked eruption ejecta, laminated lacustrine carbonates, and clastic sediment (including reworked tuff) from outside the craters. Data from the Hopi Buttes deposits are used to formulate a model for crater sedimentation in playa settings, applicable to interpretation of other maar-crater deposits.
30071223|The Cranberry Island series is a thick succession of Silurian volcanic breccias, ash flow tuffs, lava flows, and hypabyssal intrusions comprising the southern margin of Mount Desert Island and the Cranberry Islands of southeastern Maine. The rocks of the series preserve remarkable textures indicative of the simultaneous eruption of mafic and felsic magmas, during both explosive and effusive events. The Cadillac Mountain intrusive complex is an approximately 20-km-wide composite layered mafic to felsic plutonic body that dominates Mount Desert Island immediately north of the outcrop of the Cranberry Island series. The rocks of the Cranberry Island series and those of the Cadillac Mountain intrusive complex are correlative in age and similar in composition. The age of the Cranberry Island series, based on new U-Pb geochronology of zircon, is
30057912|Descriptions of faults may be simplified by giving the amounts of the three components of the movement of one side relative to the other parallel to each of three mutually perpendicular axes. The axes here suggested are (1) the direction of strike of the fault plane, (2) the horizontal direction of dip of the fault plane, and (3) the vertical.
30068727|Modern first-cycle quartz arenites are forming in the Orinoco drainage basin by at least two distinct mechanisms. Common to both mechanisms is an environment of intense chemical weathering and extended time over which weathering can occur. In the Llanos (Andean foreland basin), extended time is provided by temporary storage of orogenically derived sediments on extensive alluvial plains. In lowland portions of the Guayana Shield, long soil mineral residence times are produced by very low erosion and transport rates, resulting from low relief and tectonic quiescence. Both weathering intensity and the duration of weathering are important in the modification of sand composition. First-cycle quartz arenites are produced in diverse tectonic settings and cannot be used by themselves to infer paleotectonic settings of ancient sequences. Furthermore, although tectonic setting is of great importance in determining sand composition, modifications during transport and deposition can overprint the effects of the tectonic regime. In extreme cases, such as first-cycle quartz arenites, the tectonic signal may be virtually obliterated. Many criteria used in the past to discriminate between first-and multi-cycle quartz arenites are invalid when applied to the quartz arenites of the Orinoco drainage basin. At present, the only unambiguous criterion is that the presence of sedimentary lithic fragments and syntaxial quartz overgrowths is clearly indicative of a multi-cycle origin for at least one component of a sand.
30078235|It is shown that sliding and turbidity currents have formed an important mechanism of sedimentation in several Mesozoic and Tertiary basins of the Alps. It is argued that the features developed under these conditions, if applied on a regional scale to the study of sedimentation, provide a valuable tool for paleogeographic and orogenic investigations.
30065802|The island of Cyprus represents an excellent site to assess quantitatively petrologic clastic response to actively obducting oceanic sources in order to define an actualistic reference for ophiolite provenance, in terms of framework composition and heavy mineral suites. An improved methodology, an extension of the classic ternary QFL logic to include a wider spectrum of key indexes and ratios, provides an accurate synthesis of modal data and allows differentiation of three main petrographic provinces and at least seven subprovinces. Diagnostic signatures of detritus from various levels of an oceanic lithospheric source, and criteria for distinguishing provenance from suprasubduction versus midoceanic ophiolites are also outlined. Modern sands derived from the Troodos Ophiolite contain variable proportions of largely pelagic carbonate to chert, boninite to basalt, diabase to metabasite, plagiogranite to gabbroic, and cumulate grains supplied from progressively deeperseated levels of the multilayered oceanic crust. Dense minerals are mainly clinopyroxenes (diopside), prevailing over orthopyroxenes (enstatite, hypersthene, clinoenstatite), hornblende, tremolite/actinolite, and epidote. Where serpentinized mantle harzburgites have been unroofed, detritus is markedly enriched in cellular serpentinite grains and enstatite, with still negligible olivine and spinel. Sedimentaclastic sands dominated by chert (Mamonia Province) or carbonate grains (Kyrenia Province) are deposited along the southern and northern shores of the island, respectively. Compositions of Cyprus sands are virtually unaffected by climatic, sedimentary, or anthropic processes; recycling of sandstones from foreign sources is a major process only in the Karpaz Peninsula. Petrographic analysis also provides an independent mean to identify prevalent directions of longshore sand transport.
30079609|This paper presents the results of a thermal study of the system,
30071515|Fine-grained jadeite alterations of detrital sodic plagioclase in several specimens of metasediments from the Franciscan formation have been analyzed with the electron microprobe. Iron is the major "impurity," ranging from 1 to 8 wt. per cent. An "average" jadeite has the composition
30066163|A consideration of geologic explanation in the light of recent discussions of explanation in science and history have led the author to the conclusion that geologic explanations are like explanations in human history in being largely directed toward the derivation of singular statements describing particular events and in being probabalistic and genetic.
30079563|The retreat of the glacial sheet a number of thousand years ago and the subsequent long-period surface temperature variations must almost certainly have left their impress on the geothermal curve. An attempt has been made to find such an effect and to interpret it in terms of past surface temperatures by subjecting to mathematical analysis a series of geothermal measurements recently made in the Calumet and Hecla conglomerate mine. The results indicate that the glacial epoch ended for this region 20,000-30,000 years ago, and that it was followed by a period with ground temperatures distinctly warmer than the present, succeeded in turn by one cooler, and lasting until comparatively recent times.
30080246|Neoproterozoic adakitic plutons that crop out along the western margin of the Yangtze Block (South China) from Kangding on the north to Panxi on the south provide constraints on the origin of the giant Jinningian magmatic event of South China. Representative plutons include the Xuelongbao (750 Ma), Datian (760 Ma), and Dajianshan intrusions. The latter two bodies consist mainly of granodiorite with relatively high SiO
30065745|The west slope of the Blue Ridge mountains in central Virginia is a polygenetic landscape containing interglacial and periglacial features. This paper proposes a general model relating the distribution and origin of hillslope and toeslope Quaternary landforms to climatically influenced geomorphic processes. Two generations of interglacial debris fans in the study area differ in their degree of soil development and clast weathering. Boulder streams, which clog debris flow chutes for the upper debris fans, are interpreted as solifluction features formed during successive periglacial episodes. Growth of the boulder streams and associated talus slopes can influence the magnitude and frequency of debris flows and fan formation during interglacials.
30078266|The effect of changing oxygen fugacity on the equilibrium crystallization of two basaltic melts has been determined at 1 atm total pressure. Liquidus curves for spinel (chromite-titaniferous magnetite), hexagonal oxide, olivine, pyroxene, and plagioclase are represented on temperature versus
30055648|Part I of this study starts with a review of some common errors in petrologic calculations. The sources and accuracy of data are referred to and some rules are given for keeping track of the probable accuracy of calculated results. In Part II twenty-six problems are outlined or referred to as illustrations. These are selected to cover a variety of petrologic topics and a variety of methods for handling more or less inaccurate data. Emphasis is probably to be placed on two points: (I) the fact that calculations cannot give reliable results if based on inaccurate data or unjustified assumptions, but if the amount of error can be estimated, the limits between which the true values lie may be of value even if there is a large range of values between the limits; and (2) where a strict calculation can hardly be applied, there is a method of particular value to petrologists, a method known to mathematicians as "successive approximations." Part III of the study applies the methods to some calculations in igneous differentiation.
30059122|Cores taken from the Gorda Ridge in the Northeastern Pacific have a sedimentation rate of approximately 10 cm/1,000 years-appropriate for the study of late Quaternary stratigraphy. Analyses of the silt (2 to 20 micron fraction) mineralogy of the cores using X-ray diffraction methods combined with measurements of changes in the relative abundances of radiolaria and foraminifera provide a mineralogic history of the period from 83,000 years B.P. to the present. Quartz-rich strata mark periods of reduced northern hemisphere ice cover, of high stands of sea-level and to a lesser degree periods of catastrophic flooding of the Columbia River.
30056977|Twelve of the more recent proposals for the classification of igneous rocks are discussed with the intention of noting points of agreement and of difference. A considerable measure of agreement is found regarding the main factors that should be used in classification, but there are serious differences in detail. Can these differences be reconciled?
30062585|Evidence of three distinct glaciations, tentatively dated as later Wisconsin, Iowan-Wisconsin, and Illinoian, is recognized on San Francisco Mountain. Wisconsin snow lines and the southernmost extent of mountain glaciation in the United States are treated briefly, and features produced by frost action are described. The relation between glaciation and volcanic eruptions is discussed.
30060081|Age determinations using the
30078494|The Egersund dike swarm of SW Norway is made up of 11 basaltic dikes trending ESEWNW. Two groups are defined: porphyritic dikes with bytownite phenocrysts of tholeiitic affinity and aphyric dikes of tholeiitic to alkaline affinity. Baddeleyite in the most alkaline dike gives a UPb intrusive age of 616  3 Ma. The swarm is parallel to the Neoproterozoic southwestern (presentday orientation) Tornquist margin of Baltica. It is coeval with the Long Range swarm of Labrador which is parallel to the southeastern protoAppalachian margin of Laurentia. Both swarms are related to rifting that resulted in the opening of Iapetus ocean. Chronocorrelation of Neoproterozoic riftrelated magmatic suites in western Baltica and eastern Laurentia suggests diachronic opening of Iapetan oceanic basins at ca. 610 Ma along the northwestern Baltoscandian margin of Baltica and at ca. 550 Ma along the protoAppalachian margin of Laurentia and Tornquist margin of Baltica.
10.1086/671392|High-resolution digital elevation models of Earths solid-fluid interface reveal that Earths bimodal elevation distribution is characterized by a dominant mode at or very close to present-day sea level. It is hypothesized that sea level is Earths dominant modal elevation because it is the only elevation where two opposing first-order surface processeserosion and depositionact to increase the area of a single elevation. The observation that sea level is the dominant elevation implies that (1) the time needed for the modal elevation to adjust is very short and/or (2) long-term (10
30085001|The refined lattice parameters of twenty-seven analyzed members of the cummingtonite-grunerite series,
30058658|The triangular highland known as the Llano de Albuquerque lies in Bernalillo and Valencia counties, New Mexico, between the Rio Grande and the Rio Puerco. Westward it breaks off in a low escarpment called the Ceja del Rio Puerco, which in part forms the western boundary of the Basin and Range Province. The northern 30 miles of the Ceja is a fault-line scarp which marks a series of nearly north-south en echelon faults between the late Tertiary Santa Fe formation and the older rocks of the Plateau Province. Part I.-The Santa Fe consists of fine-grained, alluvial fan deposits. Part of the material was derived from areas of volcanic rocks, but the major portion of it came from the sedimentary rocks of the Plateau Province to the northwest. The boundary of the basin of deposition lay some 10 miles or more northwestward. Ten miles east of this area the Santa Fe consists of river gravel, indicating that the fan deposits were laid down in the western portion of a basin containing a through-flowing river comparable to the present Rio Grande. Four main faults or fault zones, successively offset to the west, separate the Santa Fe from the older rocks. In addition, there are three fault zones within the Santa Fe. Because the Santa Fe is here divisible into three lithologic units, Lower Gray, Middle Red, and Upper Buff members, it has been possible to estimate the minimum throw of these faults and to speculate on the amount of depression of the basin as a result of this faulting.
30062336|The variation in stable phase assemblage has been determined over a wide range of temperature, pressure, and water content for four compositions within the system
30061243|Results are described of susceptibility anisotropy measurements made on natural medium to coarse silt that has been redeposited from flowing water in a laboratory flume. It is shown that the orientation of the axis of maximum susceptibility is controlled principally by the shear produced by the current flow tangential to the surface of the deposit. For sediment within this size range, the aligning effect of the earth's magnetic field on the magnetization induced in the particles is only apparent at the smaller values of applied fluid stress.
30075174|The statistical nature and remarkable generality of Horton's law of stream numbers suggest the speculation that the law of stream numbers arises from the statistics of a large number of randomly merging stream channels in somewhat the same fashion that the law of perfect gases arises from the statistics of a large number of randomly colliding gas molecules. The fact that networks with the same number of first-order Strahler streams are comparable in topological complexity suggests equating "randomly merging stream channels" with a topologically random population of channel networks, defined as a population within which all topologically distinct networks with given number of first-order streams are equally likely. In a topologically random population the most probable networks approximately obey Horton's law but exhibit certain systematic deviations. For networks with given number of first-order streams, the most probable network order is that which makes the geometric mean bifurcation ratio closest to 4. For networks with both order and number of first-order streams specified, the most probable networks have the property that the bifurcation ratio of the second-order streams is always close to 4 and, hence, that the bifurcation ratios respectively decrease, remain unchanged, or increase with order and the corresponding curves on the Horton diagram are respectively concave upward, straight, or concave downward according as the geometric mean bifurcation ratio is less than, equal to, or greater than 4. Statistical comparison of these properties with 172 published sets of stream numbers strongly supports the conclusion that, as speculated, populations of natural channel networks developed in the absence of geologic controls are topologically random and, hence, that the law of stream numbers is indeed largely a consequence of random development of channel networks according to the laws of chance.
30056469|The San Luis Valley in south-central Colorado has heretofore been considered a single physiographic unit. In this paper are described five distinct geomorphologic subdivisions of the valley together with the fundamental geologic history which gave rise to the characteristics of each subdivision.
30066399|Subaerial sediment flow is the predominant process depositing diamictons at the terminus of Matanuska Glacier. Flows originate where sediments overlie glacier ice. Ablation of ice exposed in slopes disaggregates the overlying sediment and mixes it with meltwater and debris released simultaneously. This material generally flows only after its strength is further reduced by excess pore pressures and seepage pressures generated by meltwater from thawing ice. Moving sediment flows show reasonably systematic changes in physical attributes such as dimensions, texture, flow rates, density and erosional action, and in grain support and transport mechanisms that can be related to changes in the water content of their matrix material. At lowest water contents, flows support grains by their strength and move through shear in a thin zone at their base. Increased thickness of the zone in shear and deformation of other types accompany increased water contents, with grain interference and collisions, localized liquefaction and fluidization, transient turbulence, and bedload traction and saltation operating simultaneously in such moving flows. At highest water contents, flows appear fully liquefied. The fluidity of the sediment flow and the amount of water in the sediment flow channel determine the degree of preservation of the source flow's properties and the depositional morphology. Because mobilization of a sediment flow destroys the glacial sedimentary properties of its sediment source and, further, because the mechanics of transport and deposition develop new "non-glacial" properties in this sediment, the diamicton deposited in the glacial environment by sediment flow should not be called till.
30085499|A review of the facts relating to the behavior of quartzose xenoliths which have suffered immersion in basic igneous magmas has led the writer to conclude that the phenomena displayed are due to the intervention of a condition of liquid immiscibility effective at, and through some interval below, the temperature of onset of crystallization in the host magma. A study of the behavior of crystalline basic rocks immersed in granitic magma reveals features suggestive of the operation of a similar effective liquid immiscibility, while a review of the petrography of members of a calc-alkaline series of igneous rocks yields circumstantial evidence in keeping with this view. The properties of igneous glasses are shown to exhibit discontinuity as between members of an acid series, on the one hand, and a basic series, on the other, while the characteristic occurrence of common hornblende in phaneritic rocks bridging this hiatus indicates a possible new significance for this mineral in igneous rocks. The present communication considers the form of the liquidus in the natural system basalt-rhyolite-silica, on the basis of Greig's triangular diagram and of individual ternary silicate systems. The new interpretation leads to fundamental changes in the concept of basalt-rhyolite relations; some implications of these are discussed.
30061144|The Cathedral Peak Granite, a body of quartz monzonite in Yosemite National Park, California, is intruded by a basalt plug approximately 320 feet across. Fission tracks in the quartz monzonite were partly obliterated close to the basalt, thus differentially reducing the fission-track ages of different accessory minerals. Apatite and sphene from samples within 5 feet of the contact yield concordant fission-track ages averaging 9.4  0.2 m.y.; from samples more than 500 feet from the contact they yield ages averaging 80.7  0.4 m.y. At intermediate distances, apatite yields younger ages than sphene and is affected at greater distances from the plug. By using experimentally determined annealing curves, maximum temperature at each sample location was estimated from the percentage of tracks lost. Estimates based on sphene are in good agreement with calculated maximum temperatures, whereas estimates from apatite data are not.
30055917|In the vicinity of Mt. Aigoual, in the central portion of the Cevennes, a limited outcrop of ancient glacial tillite has been discovered. The scarcity of the glacial phenomena, which are usually so abundant in regions of Pleistocene glaciation, and the entire absence of the topographic situations, where alpine glaciers could have formed, indicate that the tillite in question is considerably older than Pleistocene. The peculiar location of the glacial evidence in certain mature valleys, which physiographic investigation shows to be of mid-Tertiary age, has led to the conclusion that the glaciation occurred before the close of Miocene time.
30065789|The growth potential of carbonate platforms, i.e., the maximum rate at which they can aggrade vertically, is difficult to assess. To estimate the growth potential from the conservative side and search for variations with time, we have compiled published accumulation rates from the Phanerozoic. Accumulation rates vary in a pattern, with maximum rates up to 200 m/Ma or more (not corrected for compaction) in the late Devonian, Permian, late Triassic, late Jurassic and mid-Cretaceous, separated by intervals of reduced rates (e.g., Carboniferous, early Jurassic and late Cretaceous). The most dramatic drop occurs at the Permo-Triassic boundary, after which there is no documented platform growth. This pattern resembles the evolutionary rhythm of bloom and demise of reefs and reef-builders. The observed maximum accumulation rate of 200 m/Ma (over
30078510|Tertiary basins adjacent to the northern edge of the Tibetan Plateau include both giant intracontinental sedimentary basins such as Tarim and Qaidam and smaller basins directly related to the evolution of the Altyn Tagh strikeslip fault system and nearby foldthrust belts. Three examples of these smaller basins that formed during early evolution of the Altyn Tagh fault system are the Xorkol, Aksay, and Subei basins. The Xorkol basin was the site of nonmarine siliciclastic sedimentation in alluvial fan, playa, and fluvial environments from at least the midOligocene through the Miocene. Sediment was delivered to the basin from source areas uplifted by basinbounding thrust faults and from the opposite side of the Altyn Tagh fault. The age of the Aksay basin is more poorly constrained, but it also contains Oligocene(?)Miocene(?) nonmarine clastic strata that were derived from the southern side of the Altyn Tagh fault and adjacent thrustfaultbounded uplifts. The Subei basin is characterized by similar OligoceneMiocene fluvial, playa, and alluvial fan deposits; however, in this basin, sediment was derived only from adjacent reversefaultbounded highlands rather than from across the Altyn Tagh fault. Differences in the lithostratigraphy, depositional environments, clast composition, and paleocurrent directions demonstrate that these basins formed as individual entities and do not represent remnants of a regionally extensive basin that was later dislocated by strikeslip faulting. Thus, these basins do not represent piercing point pairs, as was previously suggested. However, because they are synslip basins, they do record the relative timing of strikeslip and reverse faulting and the surface response to deformation, and they provide fault offset data in the provenance relationships between sediment and source terranes on opposite sides of the fault.
30065018|Spinel and quartz are an example of an incompatible mineral pair on which few petrographic observations have been made. At Cortlandt, New York, emery bodies are cut by quartz veins, and the following reaction products were formed as a result of the interaction between spinel and silica: sapphirine, garnet, sillimanite, and cordierite. Their stability relations are expressed in an appropriate diagram. Where quartz and spinel occur in the same thin sections, they are invariably separated from each other by reaction rims bordering the quartz. The reaction between spinel and increasing amounts of silica yielded sapphirine, garnet plus sillimanite, and cordierite, in that order. In addition to the spinel, the sapphirine and probably the garnet (pyrope-almandite) are incompatible with quartz.
30066297|The initial size distribution of gas bubbles in lava flows is modified by bubble rise and coalescence during post eruptive cooling and crystallization. A simple model which computes the effects of rise and coalescence accounts for observed features and may provide a means whereby the initial bubble size distribution can be inferred. A model lava flow of assumed thickness, viscosity, and volume percentage of gas bubbles is given an initial bubble size distribution. Bubbles coalesce due to differences in their relative rise velocities. Using a gravitational collection kernel, the process may be modeled by numerical integration of the stochastic collection equation, which yields the change in the number density spectrum of the population from the number densities of all pairs of bubbles and their probabilities of collision. Bubbles rise and coalesce within a fluid interior sandwiched between fronts of crystallization that advance inward from top and bottom. Bubbles that are overtaken by the crystallization fronts cease to migrate. The model predicts the formation of upper and lower vesicle-rich zones separated by a vesicle-free interior. The upper zone is broader, more vesicular, and has larger bubbles than the lower zone. Increasing the initial average bubble size in the model results in a stratigraphically lower and thinner lower vesicular zone, a thicker vesicle-free central region, and a higher and more vesicular upper zone.
10.1086/675244|New excavations along the Panama Canal have yielded a growing Early Miocene assemblage of mammals referred to as the Centenario Fauna. Despite the areas proximity to South America, the mammals of the Centenario Fauna have entirely North American affinities. The Centenario Fauna is distributed throughout a 115-m stratigraphic interval encompassing the uppermost Culebra and Cucaracha Formations within the Panama Canal basin. Previously published ages constrain the age of the lower limit of the Centenario Fauna to no younger than 19 Ma, but the upper limit has remained problematical. A fresh exposure of the Cucaracha tuff, a prominent marker horizon within our measured sections, has yielded two new radioisotopic determinations: (1) an
30060076|Poles of deformation lamellae in quartz in a folded quartz-mica-schist show two maxima in an incomplete girdle normal to the fold axis and are symmetrically situated with reference to late tension cracks in garnet. The deformation lamellae have thus formed late in the movement history of the rock, coinciding with the conjugate shear planes developed because of non-rotational strain after the megascopic fold with monoclinic symmetry was formed.
30060383|Certain strata found south of Lexington, Rockbridge County, Virginia, in the upper part of the Liberty Hall formation of late Middle Ordovician age have been interpreted as "bentonite" and of volcanic origin. Careful study of the material indicates an almost total absence of the properties normally attributed to bentonite. The material consists of minerals related to the clay group and exhibits slightly schistose structure both megascopically and microscopically rather than the structure inherited from a tuff. It would seem to be classified conservatively and appropriately as a high-alumina shale with slightly schistose structure produced by dynamic metamorphism. Nor is the assumption of volcanic origin strengthened by the postulation that the feeding vent was located east of the Blue Ridge in Nelson County, Virginia, the rocks of which are clearly plutonic in origin and probably pre-Cambrian in age.
30061089|The Bou Azzer inlier, AntiAtlas Morocco, is a critical element for understanding Gondwanan geology because it exposes rocks formed during the paleosuturing of the Gondwanan margin with periGondwanan arc terranes. Numerous intrusions within the inlier allow specific tectonic events associated with the tectonic evolution of the Gondwanan margin to be bracketed. Detailed examination of plutons within the inlier reveal down temperature magmatic to solidstate fabrics and contact relationships indicative of emplacement during oblique collision between the margin and one or more arc terranes. UPb geochronological data for the At Abdulla diorite (
30058971|In the course of geographic and geologic explorations centering about the vicinity of Nain, Labrador, observations were made on the abundance and field relations of the diabase dikes. A petrographic study of these with genetic conditions constantly in mind seemed to indicate that the percentage of olivine among the heavier constituents furnishes the most satisfactory index of the closeness of relationship between the various kinds of diabase found in this region. It seemed also that the monoclinic pyroxenes in them are much less aluminous than in ordinary augite. Both these observations may find wider application than to the Labrador material.
JG116509|Isotopic dating of sheared and unsheared rocks can be important in understanding deformational processes in orogenic belts. This study examines
30062171|Large lava plateaus, which form abruptly within plates without apparent tectonic cause, appear to be the terrestrial equivalents of lunar maria. Deep erosion of lava plateaus reveals that their magma chambers are gabbro and granophyre complexes, the classic lopoliths. The close association of the Deccan Plateau with the timing of the terminal Cretaceous boundary clay suggests that it is an impact crater large enough to cause pressure relief melting in the asthenosphere. Basalt then flooded the crater to form a lava lake, the terrestrial equivalent of a lunar mare. Part of the crater rim survives in the Amirante Ridge. The Carlsberg oceanic ridge and Chagos-Laccadive hotspot track formed simultaneously with the Deccan Plateau. Several other Mesozoic and Cenozoic lava plateaus are parts of similar arrays of simultaneous features. One of those is the southern Oregon part of the Columbia Plateau, with its associated continental rifting in the northern Basin and Range, and the Yellowstone hotspot track along the Snake River Plain. Impact craters apparently start hotspots by initiating pressure relief melting, which develops into a persistent low pressure cell within the mantle. They appear to form oceanic ridges and continental rifts by initiating a crack in stressed lithosphere, which then propagates in a direction transverse to that of maximum tensional stress. Pressure relief melting below the propagating fracture develops a persistent low pressure cell within the mantle.
30066388|A saline discharge from beneath Taylor Glacier has abundant halite (NaCl), aragonite (
30056088|Various phenomena of plastic flow under shearing stress are studied at confining pressures up to
10.1086/651523|We report geochronological and geochemical data for the calcalkalic Lowland Creek volcanic field (LCVF) in westcentral Montana.
JG116502|An extraordinary continental shell bed is reported from the Upper Cretaceous Kaiparowits Formation in southern Utah. This shell bed, referred to as the Kaiparowits Blues Ceratopsian shell bed, is highly unusual among fluvial-estuarine shell beds for its great thickness, surface area and shell density and its geometry. It covers
30080872|Contrary to the views of H. N. Fisk, the heavy-mineral and feldspar content of the Lafayette gravel underlying the Smithland and higher surfaces of the uppermost portions of the Mississippi embayment definitely establishes its preglacial age. Physiographic evidence indicates a Pliocene age. Epeirogenic uplift rather than late Tertiary climatic change or eustatism is believed to have initiated gravel deposition. Related in a general way to the similar, isolated deposits of the upper Mississippi Valley, alluvial fan deposits at the head of the Mississippi embayment were favored by physiographic position. The location and magnitude of the fans in part controlled the entrenchment positions of the Tennessee, Mississippi, and Cumberland-Ohio rivers. Subsequent erosion has reduced the fans to approximately 21 per cent of their original area and in part cut the present surfaces on the gravels.
30059412|A study of the stratigraphy and paleogeography of a portion of the "Clinton" formations occurring between the Niagara Gorge and Martville, New York, points to the following conclusions. The Reynales, including the hematite beds, the Martville sandstone, and other members, is a single formation, although it is neither a time nor a lithologic unit. The Neahga, Lower Green shale of Hall, at Niagara, and the Maplewood shale of Chadwick at Rochester are of limited extent along the strike, indicating possible independence. The purple shale at Rochester and Sodus Bay should not be divided but constitutes a single unit, the Sodus formation of Chadwick.
30059052|This study is based on a reconstruction of the paleogeographic and paleobathymetric history of the South Atlantic and on a standardized set of sediment and biostratigraphic data from all Deep Sea Drilling Project sites. Standard data sets used are the lithologic description, biostratigraphic age, $CaCO_{3}$ content, carbonate and carbonate-free sedimentation rates corrected for compaction, and hiatus distribution. For each site the subsidence history has been determined. Paleoceanographic variables used are the spatial and temporal lithofacies distribution, history of calcite compensation depth, surface fertility and lyocline, erosional events, and special lithologies (black shales). During its early history the South Atlantic consisted of a narrow rift divided by the Rio Grande Rise-Walvis Ridge barrier into a restricted northern and an open (to the southern ocean) southern basin. In the northern basin, evaporites are the earliest known marine sediments (Aptian) while more normal pelagic deposits formed in the southern basin. Free circulation of surface water between the southern ocean and the North Atlantic became possible late in the Mesozoic or in the early Cenozoic, and deep circulation (below 3 km depth) paths were open from north to south by the early Cenozoic. During the early and middle Mesozoic the South Atlantic had its own oceanographic character with dominantly terrigenous sedimentation and two anoxic black mudstone phases (Albian and Santonian) probably resulting from a strong oxygen minimum in mid-water caused by either excess surface fertility or old, slow moving bottom water. In the late Cretaceous the South Atlantic became part of the world ocean system and global events have overshadowed local ones since that time. After the early phase of rapid sedimentation of terrigenous material, the depositional history has been influenced mainly by the increasing width and water depth of the basin and by fluctuations of the level and intensity of carbonate dissolution. At the Eocene/Oligocene boundary, the onset of a deep water circulation dominated by a cold circum-polar source of surface water is clearly marked by erosional events, a sharp drop of the calcite compensation depth and the arrival of biogenic siliceous oozes in the Argentine Basin.
10.1086/663876|The onset of the India-Asia continent-continent collision in Tibet was accompanied by the elimination of oceanic crust and the development of a peripheral foreland basin on the subducting continental crust. However, owing to the progressively southward migration of this foreland basin, the appearance of flexural uplift (forebulge) predated flexural subsidence (foredeep) at the distal location, such as at Gamba and Tingri in the southern Tethyan Himalaya. Consequently, to trace and date this forebulge may provide a better constraint on the India-Asia collision. At Gamba and Tingri, our studies on the stratigraphy, paleontology, and paleoenvironment show that depositional cessation of the limestones occurred at Shallow Benthic Zone 7 (SBZ 7, 5455 Ma) in the Gamba area and at the base of SBZ 10 (52.8 Ma) in the Tingri area. At Gamba, a conglomerate layer within the upper Zongpu Formation is suggested to represent the formation of the forebulge at the onset of the foreland basin, and the coincidence of the conglomerate layer with the Carbon Isotope Excursion (CIE) provides a precise age of 56 Ma (the Paleocene/Eocene boundary) for the possible initial India-Asia continental collision. Our results not only provide a reliable and precise age for the India-Asia collision but, for the first time, report time equivalence between the India-Asia collision and the CIE in Tibet.
30068580|Low, intersecting ridges, 3-10 feet high and 75-500 feet wide, with intervening depressions form a fracture pattern which is strikingly revealed on airplane photos of the flat Lake Agassiz plain. The ridges occupy the axial part of the old lake basin and are known to extend from Fargo, North Dakota, northward to well beyond the Canadian boundary. Because the ridges are composed entirely of the underlying lake clays and surface soils, they cannot be explained by ordinary agents, such as wind, waves and currents, or glaciers. It is proposed that the ridges represent frozen-ground structures formed during retreat of the late Wisconsin ice. This is supported by the occurrence of periglacial involutions, fossil ice wedges, and polygonal and network soil patterns in the lake sediments.
30060514|Inspection of the planform of meandering rivers indicates that they are generally not symmetric but display at least two forms of asymmetry indicative of flow direction. One is downchannel delay in the inflection point of meanders, producing traverses (the part of the channel trace that crosses from one side of the valley to the other) which are dominantly convex facing down valley. The other is upvalley skew in the axis of gooseneck loops. An index of inflection asymmetry is presented and applied to 15 rivers: the data confirm the statistical preference for delayed inflection. An explanation of the phenomenon is offered based on the hydraulics of flow through bends. Of major importance appears to be the persistence downchannel of patterns of helical circulation and cross-sectional distribution of longitudinal velocity well past the bend that forms them. The upvalley skew of goosenecks is, in many cases, nothing more than an extreme form of convex-downvalley looping, maintained as meanders have increased their tortuosity. Some goosenecks, however, show no delayed inflection and appear to develop from differences in rates of downvalley migration between adjacent meander traverses. It is concluded that the minimum variance theory and sine-generated model of meanders should now be discarded.
30058631|Projected profiles and field observations indicate that there are three major and one minor upland surfaces in the Appalachian Plateau of western Pennsylvania and eastern Ohio. Arguments are advanced to prove that these represent erosion surfaces developed under four distinct baselevel controls. The effect of structure upon the development and configuration of these surfaces is considered.
30068614|Bedding sequences and stratigraphic sections can be profitably considered from the standpoint of their lithologic transitions, that is, the probability of any particular unit being followed by the other units in the sedimentation system. Dependent Markov processes appear to be most appropriate for the study of lithologie transitions. This paper contains an elementary expository account of Markov processes and their relation to sedimentation. A Devonian limestone-dolomite-anhydrite sequence, an Ordovician limestone-shale sequence, and Penn-sylvanian cyclothems show statistical evidence of at least a one-step dependence, or memory. Other geologic evidence also points to the existence of dependent lithologie transitions, especially in transgressive sequences. Markov processes can also be used to synthesize stratigraphie sections.
30055998|The region of Shoshone Canyon is significant, because it contains both overthrust and block-faulted structures in close association. The stratigraphic section comprises 3,200 feet of conformable, marine, Paleozoic sediments, 800 feet of Permo-Triassic red beds and over 5,000 feet of Jurassic and Cretaceous sandstones and shales. This is notably thinner than the corresponding section in the overthrust belt of southeastern Idaho, but greater than that in the front ranges of Wyoming and Colorado. Flexures, which appear as folds in the Paleozoic and Mesozoic strata, have been traced with certainty to sharply faulted blocks of the underlying pre-Cambrian complex. Distinct from these is the Heart Mountain overthrust which places Paleozoic limestones above sediments of Mesozoic and early Tertiary age. The two types of structure are shown to differ in age and in the thickness of rocks involved. Upfaulting of the pre-Cambrian with flexing of the sediments took place in late Upper Cretaceous. These uplifts were extensively eroded and covered with sands and gravels before the over-thrusting in late Eocene or Oligocene. Further faulting in Miocene and later time accentuated the earlier uplifts and disposed the remnants of the overthrust sheet at four different elevations.
30058012|The present paper deals with the fundamental principles, conceptions, and ideas upon which some new sedimentological research methods are based.
30081114|The bedded barite deposits of central Nevada are hosted by rocks of the Roberts Mountains allochthon and constitute the largest barite reserves in North America. Detailed geochemical studies of three barite deposits in the Devonian Slaven Chert indicate that rocks surrounding the barite have elevated concentrations of carbon and phosphorous relative to nonbarite-bearing rocks. Rare earth element data suggest that the barites were deposited in oxygenated seawater far from a spreading center. Ratios of Al, Ti, Fe, and Mn indicate that hydrothermal input to the sediment was minor relative to detrital input. The assembled data suggest a biogenic rather than a hydrothermal origin for the barite deposits. A model is proposed in which the barites were deposited at the
30081054|Segregation vesicles contain solidified residual melt. The segregation vesicle technique of seafloor basalt orientation is based on the assumptions that: (1) the orientation of this residue is mainly gravity controlled and forms a geopetal feature, and (2) rocks remain relatively stationary during the time of segregation, solidification, and magnetization. By application of this technique it is possible to determine the horizontal cooling of certain seafloor basalts recovered in drill cores and then correct the magnetic direction for the dip of the rocks, determine the true thickness of lithologic units (measured perpendicular to the dip), and estimate the dip direction, with some degree of confidence. This technique was applied to DSDP holes 332A, 332B, 334, 395, 395A, and 396B, which penetrated 117 to 583 m into basaltic basement crust of the north Atlantic Ocean. Segregation vesicles occur in 26 to 50% of the samples collected from each hole. Primarily upright dips of 4 to 41 were measured in holes 334, 395, 395A, and 396B, but dips in holes 332A and 332B range from 20 upright to 14 overturned, with half of the samples dipping between 55 and 88. Holes 332A and 332B may have penetrated megabreccia which formed due to mass wasting of uplifted fault blocks along the valley walls of the mid-ocean ridge, whereas the other holes may have penetrated more coherent fault blocks. As a consequence of tilting, the true thickness of rocks recovered in holes 332A and 332B may only be ~50% of the vertical thickness penetrated. Dip directions are poorly constrained and do not indicate a consistent dip direction either toward or away from the rift valley. Correcting in-place magnetic directions for the dip of the rocks usually brings these directions closer to the dipole value, but nine polarity changes may occur in the corrected magnetic polarity sequence of Hole 332A whereas the other holes exhibit a maximum of two polarity changes in the vertical section. The deformation of the upper 500 m of oceanic basement documented in this paper implies that either marine magnetic lineations may not always record the earth's magnetic field at the time that portion of crust formed or are evidence for a deeper magnetic source layer in the north Atlantic.
30078300|Paleomagnetic samples were collected at 273 sites within a 2012 m continental sedimentary sequence in the Clark's Fork Basin near Powell, Wyoming. The lower 1158 m is in the Polecat Bench Fm while the upper 854 m is within the Willwood Fm. Although significant secondary components of magnetization were present, alternating-field demagnetization to 300 oe peak field revealed the polarity of the primary component of the natural remanent magnetism. A well-defined polarity zonation is observed. The Polecat Bench Fm is dominantly of reversed polarity but does contain two normal polarity zones. The Willwood Fm in this section is entirely of reversed polarity. Abundant Tiffanian, Clarkforkian, and Wasatchian faunas indicate that the age range of the sediments is from late Paleocene through early Eocene. These age constraints, along with the characteristic polarity sequence, allow the magnetic polarity sequence to be correlated with the magnetic polarity time scale. The section correlates with the magnetic polarity time scale from the reversed polarity interval preceding anomaly 26 chron into the reversed polarity interval preceding anomaly 24 chron. Tiffanian fossils are found in sediments deposited during the reversed polarity interval preceding anomaly 26 chron up into sediments deposited during anomaly 25 chron. Clarkforkian faunas occur in sediments deposited during anomaly 25 chron into the base of the overlying reversed polarity zone. Wasatchian faunas are found within sediments deposited during the reversed polarity interval preceding anomaly 24 chron. The Paleocene/Eocene boundary occurs in the Clark's Fork Basin in the reversed polarity interval preceding anomaly 24. These data indicate that the age of anomaly 24 chron is early Eocene rather than late Paleocene.
30079427|We present new and critical isotopic data for late to postkinematic granitoid intrusions and their epidoteamphibolitefacies country rocks (Mabujina unit) in central Cuba. The Mabujina unit tectonically overlies a nappe sequence of highpressure (HP) metamorphic rocks in the Escambray Massif. These granitoid rocks have a variable granodioritic to granitic composition, are generally rich in large ion lithophile elements, and resemble normal midocean ridge basalts in their high field strength element concentrations. On the basis of low initial
30081163|Quartz-monzodiorite is generally considered to represent the parent magma of high-Mg quartz-monzodiorite plutonic suites; thus such suites are thought to be melts from a metasomatized mantle wedge. It is proposed here that hornblende tonalite, which is present in the feeder dikes of high-Mg quartz-monzodiorite plutonic suites, better represents the parental magma. Hornblende tonalite has a higher compatible element content with a relatively lower incompatible element content and a lower
30068179|Montlake is a large, spectacular sinkhole, walled with massive sandstone, located on the Cumberland Plateau, near Chattanooga, Tennessee. It is virtually unknown and is remarkably different from the common types of sinkholes. In spite of its situation 800 feet above limestone beds, it is thought to have originated by collapse of hundreds of feet of strata into a large cavern. Description and preliminary treatment of the theory of origin are here offered.
30070527|The work examines relationships between faulting and the physical properties of the host rock based on a study from the active rift zone in Iceland. Although compositionally identical, hyaloclastites, pillow lavas, and columnarjointed lavas have different mechanical properties that exert strong controls on the distribution of faults and strain within fault zones and the mechanical processes associated with displacement. In hyaloclastite, a fault zone comprises a braided array of lowerorder shear fractures. Veins of silica within gouge zones imply periodic dilational shear. In pillow lavas, reactivation of the nearrandom arrays of primary fractures results in wide fault zones with diffuse margins. Displacement is achieved by the accumulation of small increments of slip on primary joints and by the development of throughgoing shear fractures. Columnar lavas have the highest bulk strength and the fewest primary weaknesses. The subvertical cooling joints are favorably oriented for dilationalshear reactivation. Frictional slip criteria on vertical fault planes indicate that shear must often have preceded dilation. Faulting in consolidated columnar lavas is likely to be velocity weakening and therefore seismogenic at shallow crustal levels. Both pillow lavas and hyaloclastites are weak, so that displacement is diffused within fault zones. Such properties are compatible with velocitystrengthening behavior and quasistable, nonseismogenic slip.
30061963|A continuous series of 1/2-cm.-thick sections from a pilot core, collected at the top of a small knoll in the equatorial Atlantic have been investigated by a variety of methods. In 1954 the suggestion was made that in this core the carbonate content was a reflection of temperature in the upper layer of the sea. Paleotemperature measurements on the tests of Globigerinoides sacculifera are given for 33 sections. The broad relation between paleo temperatures and rates of accumulation of
30056077|Information is presented concerning sixty-one ventifact localities in nineteen states, of which eight yield specimens believed to be of pre-Pleistocene origin. Southeastern Massachusetts, southern California, and Wyoming are the chief regions where ventifacts occur.
30064179|Evidence for three shortlived compressive episodes of late Carixian, late Callovianearly Oxfordian, and TithonianBerriasian ages that lasted <5 m.yr. and occurred during the process of rifting of the Algarve Basin is presented. These tectonicinversion episodes are described at outcrop and cartographic scales and have been dated with the accuracy provided by the ammonoid scale. An uplift event of late ToarcianAalenian age of undetermined tectonic origin is also described. We show that these four tectonic episodes coincide in time with important ecological events, such as the onset of migration and/or the segregation of Boreal and Tethyan ammonite species and the confinement of the Algarve Basin. Stratigraphic and paleoecological data from the Algarve and Lusitanian Basins are compared and discussed together with eustatic and tectonic information. We propose that the tectonicinversion episodes that caused uplift are the origin of the Mesozoic sedimentary gaps and the intermittent opening and closure of the seaway located offshore the SW corner of Iberia between the Algarve and Lusitanian Basins (i.e., a seaway between the Boreal and Tethyan realms). Three tectonic mechanisms for the origin of these shortlived compressive episodes are presented after comparing the tectonic setting of the Algarve Basin with other geological provinces of the world where similar phenomena also occurred.
30055894|Fifty analyzed siliceous lavas, described in the literature, were studied to observe the relation of chemical composition to groundmass texture and kind of phenocrysts. It was found that the amount of excess silica in a rock determined the type of its ground-mass; rocks with more than 26 per cent of quartz in the norm showed rhyolitic texture, and rocks with less than 26 per cent of normative quartz showed trachytic texture. Although most of the rocks showed a reasonable approach to the composition of Vogt's granitic anchi-eutectic, it was found that the kind of phenocrysts present were often not the kind to be expected from a melt striving to reach the anchi-eutectic composition. More accurate data are needed for a critical consideration of the anchi-eutectic theory.
30066057|Kimberlite, and rocks with kimberlitic affinities, have a relatively wide distribution throughout the United States. They occur in the western margin of the Appalachians from New York to Tennessee; in the central region of the U.S. including Kentucky, southern Illinois, Missouri, Kansas and Arkansas, and in the Western States of Montana, Colorado, Wyoming and the Colorado Plateau. However, diamond-bearing kimberlite is currently known to be present in only two areas, Arkansas and the Colorado-Wyoming State Line. The available data regarding the ages of intrusion for the various kimberlites indicate that activity of this type has occurred sporadically from at least Middle Paleozoic times to Mid-Tertiary. The spatial distribution of kimberlites within any area may be related to a local structural trend but the occurrence of kimberlites throughout the U.S. cannot at this time be reconciled to any continental structural pattern. In recent years geological interest in kimberlite has increased due to the mineralogical and geochemical investigations into the nature and origin of the lower crustal and upper mantle xenoliths that are often present in kimberlite. Examination of such xenoliths in the United States has resulted in "stratigraphic" sections through the crust and upper mantle to depths of approximately 200 km for specific areas.
30056996|The high-temperature phase equilibrium relations in the system
30068736|Cores from the interior portions of westernmost Bob Allen Key and Sid Key document island nucleation from a supratidal precursor developed on a paralic peat deposit; whereas cores from exterior portions of these islands document development of marine mudbanks, progradation or colonization by mangroves, and supratidal sedimentation. The supratidal precursor beneath these islands consists of eroded remnants of coastal tidal flats or local topographic highs that remained supratidal throughout the Holocene sea-level rise. Sedimentologic and biostratigraphic evidence suggest erosion of mangroves by storms or inundation of mangroves by storm deposits is a common precursor to subsequent sediment aggradation on both islands. If other Florida Bay islands develop from mangrove colonization of marine mudbanks, then data from westernmost Bob Allen Key and Sid Key indicate that nucleation from a supratidal precursor and mangrove colonization of marine mudbanks are both viable mechanisms for island initiation. The absence of evidence of a supratidal nucleus beneath an island can result from (a) island migration and subsequent erosion or (b) insufficient sampling density. Stratigraphic data from Florida Bay are insufficient to discriminate between the relative importance of these two models of island evolution; we contend that any model of the evolution of Florida Bay islands must incorporate island nucleation from a supratidal precursor as a viable mechanism for island evolution.
10.1086/677045|Mesozoic growth of continental crust along the southwestern margin of North America and its southern extension in Mexico has been partly explained by the accretion of terranes. These terranes have been considered to be fragments of exotic, intraoceanic island arcs that approached mainland Mexico after the Early Cretaceous. Trace elements and Lu-Hf isotopic systematics for primitive arc successions of the Zacatecas Volcanic Field indicate a close relationship with parts of the northern Guerrero superterrane. Major and trace element systematics of lava flows and dioritic rocks from laccoliths suggest a cogenetic origin of the Zacatecas Formation and Las Pilas Complex rocks, here combined in the Zacatecas Group. This group represents a single arc succession that evolves from a primitive to mature arc. Initial
30070684|Submarine magmatism in the Sicily Channel Rift began in the early Pliocene and lasted until almost 200 yr ago. We present here petrological and geochemical data on volcanic rocks dredged from Graham and Nameless banks and Pantelleria seamounts in the Pelagian sector of the Sicily Channel Rift. Petrological evidence suggests that the ascent of magmas to the surface was relatively rapid, probably through channels superimposed over the major tectonic discontinuities of the Rift. Major and trace element data indicate an ocean island basalt affinity for Graham and Nameless bank alkaline lavas and a depleted tholeiitic signature for one Pantelleria seamount, which had a shallower mantle source. SrNdPb isotopic compositions suggest a heterogeneous mantle source involving both focus zone (FOZO) and high (HIMU) components. Lead isotopic compositions are slightly less radiogenic in the tholeiitic basalt and more radiogenic (closer to HIMU) in the alkaline lavas. We hypothesize that a decompressional melting mechanism affected the mantle beneath the Sicily Channel at different levels. Our data fit in a regional scenario characterized by the presence of HIMU or FOZO components in alkaline and calcalkaline volcanics all around Sicily. The explanation for the common isotopic composition could lie in a (fossil) plume head that variably contributed to magmatogenesis in response to variable lithospheric stretching.
30068675|The Solar Lake is a hypersaline monomictic, seasonally mesothermal pond on the Gulf of Elat coast. Bottom water temperatures reach 57C, compared with about 20C at the surface. Dolomite has formed recently in the sediment of the pond. The dolomite has a 6-7% mole excess of
30058025|A study of the patterns assumed by drainage lines suggests the existence of types additional to those commonly recognized. A more detailed classification of drainage patterns is herewith presented, in the belief that clearer conceptions regarding the various types will increase their usefulness in interpreting structural controls of drainage evolution.
10.1086/670652|Previous work has ascribed a cosmic impact origin to black, high-temperature, carbon-encrusted beds (23 cm thick), associated with the Younger Dryas readvance of ice at 12.8 ka during the Late Glacial in the northern Andes of Venezuela. The evidence for this includes carbon spherules, aluminosilicate melt rocks, melted coatings of glass-like amorphous carbon, and Fe-Mn on sands and clasts derived from local felsic gneiss and granite. These sediments have been subjected to renewed investigation using high-resolution scanning electron microscopy and energy-dispersive spectrometry, and new data show that spherules at site MUM7B exhibit unique morphologies and compositions. Molar oxide weight percentages prove the spherules are not volcanic and show little overlap with cosmic materials. Spherule microstructures display quench melting and, thus, could not have formed from slow geological authigenic, diagenetic, or metamorphic processes. Instead, geochemical values for the Venezuelan samples plot within the limits of impact-related materials, including tektites, ejecta, and impact spherules from a number of craters and strewnfields (cf. Chicxulub Crater, Chesapeake Bay Crater, Tunguska, Australasian tektite field, Lake Bosumtwi Crater, Ries Crater, and others). These results are identical to previously reported spherules from the Younger Dryas boundary layer (YDB) on three continents, North America, Europe, and Asia, and the most likely origin is from a cosmic impact/airburst 12.8 ka, as previously proposed. The MUM7B site is one of the two southernmost sites (Venezuela and Peru) in South America, thus extending the evidence supporting the YDB impact event into a new hemisphere on a new continent.
30085017|A subaerially exposed coral reef records a period of marine conditions following earliest Holocene transgression into the technically active, subsea level Enriquillo Valley, Dominican Republic. Field mapping, detailed leveling of reef elevations, and I4C dating of fossil corals and mollusks reveal the following chronology of reef development in an unusual geologic and tectonic environment: (1) earliest Holocene (
30066275|The Darkainle nepheline-syenite complex, consisting essentially of intrusive magmatic nepheline syenites and syenites also includes small amounts of associated metasomatic nepheline-bearing biotite gneisses. The metasomatic rocks are characteristically richer in biotite than the magmatic types and are commonly migmatitic. They differ texturally in having interstitial nephelines and disoriented feldspars, whereas the magmatic types have large subhedral nephelines and show parallel-flow alignment of feldspars. Formation of the nepheline-bearing gneisses is ascribed to the process of nephelinization. This process has involved addition of
30071165|Stratigraphic boundary surfaces and internal anatomy of unconformity-bounded units may be deciphered by using properly conceived petrography that identifies compositional, spatial, and temporal characteristics of sand grains. Discussion of two case studies of synorogenic deep marine successions indicates the potential of this method. When intrabasinal source areas are present, relative sea-level changes can exert direct influence on the intrabasinal/ extrabasinal grain budget. In this case genetically significant, unconformity-bounded units are not only characterized by their internal facies architecture, but also by internal organization in "petrosomes" (as it is for biozones in biostratigraphy). When intrabasinal source areas are narrow or absent, relative sea-level changes only control the timing of the record in deep-sea sands of tectonic modifications in hinterland sources. In this case, unconformity-bounded sequences may be fingerprinted with distinctive detrital compositions. These results emphasize the potential for use of sand petrography in sequence stratigraphy with particular reference to (1) basinal successions, where superposed sequences are conformable, (2) field mapping of structurally complex or poorly exposed areas where sequence-stratigraphic relationships are hidden, and (3) stratigraphic analysis of subsurface bodies.
30061251|The purpose of this paper is to illustrate the value of the use of soil mechanics in geology by the correlation and interpretation of sediments from glacial Lake Agassiz on the basis of soil mechanics test data. Quantitative data on the soil mechanics properties of liquid limit, plastic limit, natural water content, relative water content, and preconsolidation stress on samples from test borings at Grand Forks and Fargo, North Dakota, and Crookston, Minnesota, are used in establishing five stratigraphic units within the lacustrine sediments. Correlation of these units among the three localities is evaluated by means of statistical correlation coefficients. In addition, profiles of preconsolidation stress indicate a period of surface drying that denotes a short interval of drainage of Lake Agassiz not heretofore reported. Thus in this case the use of soil mechanics data yields information not readily obtainable by the usual geologic methods. It is believed that soil mechanics data could be used to considerable advantage in many other geological problems.
30063829|Results of a Sm-Nd isotopic analysis of Archean metavolcanics in the Holenarsipur greenstone belt, Karnataka, South India, give a whole-rock isochron age of 2.62 Ga for lightly deformed metabasaltic amphibolites in the northern part of the belt. This is within error of the age of high-grade metamorphism and crustal thickening which affected areas further to the south during the late Archean. Together with the geochemical affinities of these and other metavolcanics in Karnataka, and results of regional structural analysis, this unexpected age supports a model relating volcanism and crustal thickening to northward subduction and crustal accretion during the late Archean. Data from basic and ultrabasic metavolcanics from the more strongly deformed and higher-grade southern arm of the Holenarsipur belt do not permit an age greater than 3.0 Ga. Previously, these rocks were regarded as part of an older supracrustal sequence that predated the local 3.0 to 3.3 Ga gneissic complex. The new dates therefore considerably simplify attempts at accounting for greenstone evolution in South India.
30080229|Rooted detachment faults and detachments beneath rootless slide blocks exhibit many similar structural characteristics. However, while rooted detachments are thought to penetrate into the midcrust and to accommodate significant crustal extension, rootless detachments break to the surface downdip and are not directly involved in such extension. Distinguishing between these two mechanically different kinds of structure is central to the assessment of extension magnitude. Here we examine deformation along the Mormon Peak detachment, a feature that has been cited as an example of both a rooted and a rootless structure. Located in the Mormon Mountains of southeastern Nevada, this detachment has been interpreted as one of three lowangle normal faults of regional scale that together are thought to have accommodated more than 50 km of Basin and Range extension. For the most part, however, the Mormon Peak detachment is expressed as a series of isolated exposures where Paleozoic rocks are in brittle fault contact with nonmylonitized underlying rocks. Individual blocks contain highangle normal faults that terminate downward at their respective detachment surfaces, yielding a geometry common to both modes of emplacement. In order to test between these competing interpretations, we studied deformational characteristics close to the detachment surface, reasoning that a seismogenic fault ought to differ fundamentally from a surficial slide block, particularly if the slide block was emplaced in a single event rather than by protracted or episodic creep. An examination of the contact mapped as the Mormon Peak detachment reveals that the character of deformation is indistinguishable from that of known gravitydriven slide blocks and is fundamentally different from that associated with seismically cycled faults. Moreover, the orientation of kinematic indicators observed at detachment surfaces is consistently close to the downdip direction, which in many places diverges strongly from the expected direction of movement in the rooted detachment model. We conclude that outcrops of the inferred upper plate of the Mormon Peak detachment represent an assemblage of individual rootless gravitydriven slide blocks and not the erosional remnants of a formerly contiguous extensional allochthon. If similar misidentifications have been made elsewhere in the Basin and Range Province, total Cenozoic extension may have been significantly overestimated. Implications for the interpretation of extensional geology in general are farreaching.
30063033|At a locality on Barton Creek, near Austin, Texas, the stream flows across horizontal layers of alternating hard and soft limestone. The bed-rock channel is incised by a number of long parallel grooves whose smoothed surfaces and U-shaped profiles are interpreted as a result of corrasion. On higher benches similar grooves occur at levels not now reached by the water of the stream, which are now being corroded by standing water, resulting in pitting of their smooth surfaces and in the formation of flat-floored, steep-walled basins known as tinajitas or etched potholes. The origin of the tinajitas is discussed. It is concluded that the features described are a result of the downward cutting of a youthful stream in a semi-arid climate, with a change from corra-sive work to corrosive work on the valley-side benches as the stream cuts below them.
30068810|Five main petrologic and geochemical groups can be identified among the Middle to Late Miocene lavas from the western part of southern Baja California: (1) calcalkaline and Krich andesites emplaced between 15.5 and 11.7 Ma; (2) adakites and (3) associated niobiumrich basalts erupted between 11.7 and 8.5 Ma in the Santa Clara volcanic field, Vizcaino Peninsula; (4) 10.69.2 Ma tholeiitic basalts and basaltic andesites that form large tabular plateaus near San Ignacio; and (5) magnesian and basaltic andesites of adakitic affinity whose emplacement started at 11.7 Ma south of San Ignacio and between 9.7 and 8.8 Ma near La Purisima. These lavas, although spatially and temporally related, display very different geochemical signatures. Their trace elements and isotopic characteristics suggest that three different magma sources were involved in their genesis. Partial melts of subducting altered oceanic crust produced the adakites when erupted directly at the surface. These magmas were eventually trapped in the mantle wedge where they reacted with ultramafic lithologies. Such slabmeltmetasomatized mantle could then melt to produce niobiumrich basalts or magnesian andesites, depending on the pressure that controlled the stability of garnet into the mantle wedge. The melting of fluidmetasomatized mantle wedge led to the emplacement of andesites. In southern Baja California, the opening of a slab window following active ridge subduction resulted in the additional contribution of partial melts from the suboceanic mantle uprising through the tear in the slab. This process might be responsible for the occurrence of tholeiitic basalts and basaltic andesites near San Ignacio. The studied association can be considered as a modern analog of highthermalregime Archean subductions.
30060182|In the Coeur d'Alene Mining District of northern Idaho the presence of glacially striated bedrock surfaces high on cirque headwalls and on very narrow divides behind and beside the cirques cannot be explained by commonly accepted theories of cirque origin. It is suggested that during the waxing phase of a glacial age the developing cirques are brim full or overfull of snow, nv, and ice and that during the maximum phase of glaciation a carapace of ice may cap summit areas above the cirques.
30081313|Orogenic peridotite occurs as a megaboudin structurally juxtaposed with smaller boudined masses of corona troctolite, skarn, and garnet amphibolite in metasedimentary rocks of the YukonTanana Terrane, Yukon. The peridotite shows welldeveloped plagioclase coronae on spinel and records cooling from 1000 to 600C and decompression across the spinelplagioclase peridotite facies boundary at 0.7 GPa. The troctolite boudins record cooling to 850C through the same facies reaction at 0.8 GPa. In an aureole surrounding the peridotite body, the mainly quartzofeldspathic country rock contains leucosome with garnet, orthopyroxene, and sillimanite formed from breakdown of biotite, which records temperatures of 900C at pressures of at least 0.7 GPa. Exhumation of the peridotite body from the mantle during rifting of continental lithosphere at least 25 km thick subjected continental margin metasediments to conditions above the fluidabsent metapelite solidus. The contrasting strength of upper mantle and crustal lithologies during extension may explain the structural juxtaposition and boudinage of upper mantle peridotite and troctolite on various scales. The Os isotopic compositions of the peridotite body show that it represents either relatively young mantle lithosphere with an age only slightly older than the Devonian metasedimentary rocks in which it is hosted or mantle that is metasomatized in the same events related to rifting. The rocks in the study area bear striking similarities to those in and surrounding the Zabargad (Red Sea) and Ronda (Spain) peridotite massifs and are interpreted to have formed in an Early Paleozoic preoceanic rift. Other enigmatic mantle tectonite occurrences in continental margin metasediments in Yukon and Alaska may have a similar origin.
30066296|U.S. Naval Oceanographic Office surveys have updated bathymetry for 1300 km of the Emperor Fracture Zone (EFZ). Multi-beam swath mapping sonar provides up to total coverage on survey lines of various spacings. The feature's accurate position is obtained with LORAN-C data plus navigational satellite data. Data are presented at a 200 fm (366 m) contour interval on a Mercator projection. The EFZ apparently was a spreading rift along a paleo-plate boundary of a microplate some 70 m.y. ago. At present, it is a relict feature. The EFZ is a series of secondary and tertiary linear ridges and troughs. The overall trend is from NW to SE. There are three principal secondary segments: from 4615'N, 17250'E to 4130'N, 178E to 4030'N; and 180 to 3645'N, 17530'W. Apparent pull-apart basins are found within each segment. The growth of listric normal faults may also explain the growth of the intrafracture zone basins. The most complex bathymetry is found where the Chinook Fracture Zone intersects the EFZ.
30079882|Regional lithostratigraphic correlation of early Neoproterozoic Sequence B on the northwest margin of Laurentia includes a 0.5-2 km-thick, laterally continuous, quartzarenite marker of mainly fluvial origin. Concordant U-Pb ages of 54 single detrital zircons from five regionally dispersed samples cluster in the Archean (2.8-2.6 Ga), Paleoproterozoic (2.0-1.9 Ga), and Mesoproterozoic (1.6-1.0 Ga). The vast majority (85%) of the zircons are of Mesoproterozoic age, with a high proportion clustering between 1.25-1.0 Ga, closely matching the age of synorogenic intrusions in the Grenville Province of North America. A
30064658|The form and fabric of pillow lavas from Iceland and Wales are described and attributed to a mode of formation and propagation akin to the digital advance of pahoehoe.
30081113|The intimate stratigraphical association between Lower Toarcian manganese carbonates and carbon-rich shales in Austria, Czechoslovakia, Germany, Hungary, Italy, and Switzerland is suggestive of a genetic connection between the two, given the similar anoxic to euxinic depositional environments in which both these distinctive sediments form today. Ammonite biostratigraphy and carbon-isotope stratigraphy suggest that these metalliferous deposits are everywhere of identical age, namely tenuicostatum to early falciferum Zones. Recognition of an early Toarcian anoxic event in the Alpine-Mediterranean domain, characterized by the development of a well-developed oxygen-minimum zone across the rifted proto-continental margins of the Tethys, indicates that these metalliferous deposits can be related to mid-water transport of manganese, possibly of continental derivation. The fact that, in the majority of localities, formation of the manganese carbonates immediately pre-dated deposition of the carbon-rich shales suggests that their deposition was characteristic of conditions immediately preceding the anoxic event itself: carbon-isotope evidence suggests that regional carbon-burial rates, presumably linked with concomitant deoxygenation of water masses, were beginning to increase during this interval. In some areas fluctuating redox conditions at the sediment-water interface during the anoxic event itself led to the precipitation of manganese carbonates. Although the early Toarcian event affected many parts of the Alpine-Mediterranean region, including Greece, it is only in central Europe, particularly Hungary, that economic manganese deposits were formed, and hydrothermal sources cannot be excluded as a factor in their genesis.
30084953|This article discusses some features of talus behavior above timber line in alpine climates of moderate precipitation. The angles of rest of talus material generally range up to 36 1/2 and very rarely exceed that figure. The steepness of talus slopes is dependent largely upon the coarseness of material; an empirical table gives the angles of rest characteristic of talus fragments of different diameters. The patterns of talus and vegetation on slopes are shown to be related to several factors, of which the degree of slope is most important. Ridges of loose rock that form at the feet of talus cones, but are separated from them by troughs, are also described and explained as accumulations at the downslope edge of snowbanks; anomalous angles frequently observed on talus piles are related in origin to these ridges. The rle of water in talus accumulation is briefly discussed.
30068500|Penetratively deformed peridotites from the Monte Maggiore spinel/plagioclase lherzolite massif in Alpine Corsica are intruded by gabbroic dikes ranging in mineralogy from troctolites to Fe and Ti gabbros. The dikes cross-cut diffuse plagioclase segregations and veinlets which may represent trapped mafic melt within the residual peridotite. Elliptical shaped dunite pods with refractory compositions are often bounded by lace-like networks of plagioclase (
JG117101|The supracrustal assemblages of many Archean cratons contain significant volumes of graywacke-mudstone turbidites, and, notably, the stratigraphy of the Slave craton is dominated by these rocks (
30067409|The temporal and spatial distributions of trace elements in paleosols in relation to soilforming processes and climate have received little attention, primarily due to their generally low concentrations (<100 ppm) and a fundamental lack of knowledge of their behavior in soil systems. Trace element concentrations of Pennington Formation paleosols, spanning an 8Ma interval in the Late Mississippian (Chesterian), were analyzed using linear and multivariate statistics of wholerock elemental data. Linear statistics of the elemental data set show that Ti, Zr, Nb, Cs, La, Hf, Ta, W, Ce, and Th have the highest correlation through time, with
30080245|Late Archean diachronous unconformities underlying tectonically controlled coarse clastic successions are located throughout the Superior Province of Canada. Examples studied in detail include hiatuses at the base of the Timmins and Kirkland basins in the Abitibi greenstone belt and the Crowduck and Stormy basins in the Wabigoon Subprovince. The Timmins molasse basinfill succession overlies a highangle subaerial unconformity separating deepwater turbiditic deposits from fluvial conglomerates. A subaerial erosional unconformity defines the contact between mafic flows and overlying felsic volcaniclastic deposits and fluvial conglomerates of the Kirkland Basin. The Crowduck and Stormy successions are characterized by shallowwater and subaerial unconformities between quartzfeldspar porphyry stocks and clastic deposits. The pronounced characteristics of the molasse basins, which include (1) basal unconformities with older sedimentary, volcanic, or plutonic rocks; (2) bounding fault systems; (3) basin margin porphyry stocks; (4) coarse clastic facies; and (5) locally interstratified tholeiitic, calcalkaline, and ultrapotassic volcanic rocks, can be compared with several examples from other subprovinces within the Superior craton. The basal unconformities preserved along basin margins are time transgressive throughout the Superior Province, as indicated by a successive age decrease in molasse successions from north to south. These hiatuses mark a significant change in tectonic regime from compression, during which deepwater turbidite and pillowed flow deposits were uplifted, to extension and transcurrent (strikeslip) movement, during which the molasse basins formed. This major change in deformation was possibly associated with the development of a forebulge during oblique convergence and accretion of multiple oceanic arcs.
30056863|This is a review of the chronologies based on varved (annually laminated) sediments and a revision of the estimates of the gaps in the varve data. A Finno-Swedish chronology by Gerard De Geer, Ragner Liden, and Matti Sauramo covers the last 11,600 years. It is based on 650 historical years (A.D. 1300-1950), 380 interpolated years (A.D. 920-1300), and the rest on postglacial and glacial varves. The Salpausselka or Younger Dryas age is dated at 10810-10150 B.P. (before the present, 1950). The marked temperature rise which caused the departure of the ice from Salpausselka II in the Finnish year + 1 or 10150 B.P. is taken as the beginning of the Neothermal (European Postglacial) age. The North American chronology ends during the ice oscillations at Cochrane, south of James Bay. These are correlated with the comparably located Nyland and Salpausselka halts in southern Finland. Thus the drainage of Lake Ojibway and varve Timiskaming no. 2025 are dated at about 11300 B.P., and the Cochrane oscillations at 11300-10150 B.P. Then, going backward in time, the Timiskaming retreat occupied 2,025 counted years (varves) plus 525 estimated years (rapid retreat matches the subarctic Allerod age), the Sioux Lookout-Pembroke halt 350 estimated years, the Valders retreat 3,000 counted and 1,800 estimated years, and the St. Johnsbury halt (Valders maximum) 200 counted years. Thus, according to this chronology, the Valders maximum prevailed about 19,200-19,000 years ago. The Mankato culmination at the Altamont moraine occurred slightly later. The estimates of the gaps in the varve records are low, not high. The Valders maximum, marked in the MMwest by the Manistee moraine and correlatives, is recorded in New England by the St. Johnsbury moraine and probably by the Augusta-Belgrade outwash deposits. The preceding relatively warm Two Creeks age matches the rapid Hanover retreat and possibly the Boiling age in Europe. The ice recession from Hackensack in New Jersey to St. Johnsbury, which was interrupted by halts at four separate times, is recorded by 6,830 varves; and, according to one interpretation, three gaps have been estimated at a total of 970 years. Accordingly, the ice border left Hackensack some 27,000 years ago. There are no varve data bearing on the peripheral belt or the terminal moraines. The entire chronology since the uncovering of Hackensack is based on 22,325 varves, 650 historical years, and 4,025 estimated years. However, there was, perhaps, a major interval between the New Haven and the Springfield retreats. If so, the chronology begins with the Springfield retreat and amounts to 23,600 years based on 19,645 varves, 650 historical years, and 3,305 estimated years. The radiocarbon date of 11,400 for the Two Creeks forest bed in Wisconsin cannot be correct. It implies that the Valders-Mankato maximum is some 11,000 years old as against about 19,000 years according to the present chronology. The age of 11,000 years in turn implies that the North American ice sheet still extended into the Great Lakes when the European ice had entirely disappeared, and that the Cochrane oscillations, the subsequent 575-mile retreat to the Labrador ice center, and the time since the ice disappeared together represented less than 3,300 years. The accuracy of radiocarbon dates seems to depend mainly on the history of the materials used. Most erroneous dates seem to be a consequence of change in the proportions of C12 and C14 in the samples by physical contamination with younger organic matter and old carbonates and by decomposition. Most contamination is promoted by ground moisture, but it can take place in absolutely dry caves by visiting burrowing animals. Decomposition, which is performed by microorganisms, mainly aerobic bacteria, requires moisture. When occurring under wet conditions, decay is believed to release relatively fewer C14 atoms than C12 atoms during its early stages, so that the samples give too low dates. However, decomposition upon occasional wetting does not seem to affect the radiocarbon content. The main tasks and problems are to determine which kinds of materials are usable and to find and recognize such materials.
30079503|This paper is a contribution toward the settlement of a long-standing controversy concerning certain points in Chester stratigraphy in Kentucky and Illinois. The late Professor Weller correlated the Renault formation of Randolph County, Illinois, with both the upper part of the Ohara limestone and the lower part of the Gasper limestone, and also correlated the Bethel sandstone of western Kentucky with the Sample sandstone of Breckinridge County, Kentucky. He and his son, Dr. Marvin Weller, denied the validity of the name Gasper and used, instead, the hyphenated designation Renault-Paint-Creek. Professor Weller also questioned the suitability of the name Bethel for the sandstone unit so named. The present paper presents concrete evidence tending to disprove the views of the Wellers on the points mentioned. Certain characteristic species of fossils mark the lower part of the Gasper beneath the Sample sandstone and the same assemblage occurs in Christian and Caldwell counties, Kentucky, in the lower part of the typical "Tribune" limestone of Ulrich (for which the name Gasper was substituted), and above the Bethel sandstone and hence above the Ohara limestone which immediately underlies the Bethel sandstone in western Kentucky. Not one of the characteristic members of this fauna has ever been found in the Ohara limestone or below the horizon of the Bethel sandstone. From this it follows that the Bethel and Sample sandstones are not the same. Therefore the Renault formation cannot be the equivalent of both the Ohara, which is below the Bethel, and the "lower Gasper," which is above the Bethel. As it is admitted by the Wellers that the Gasper is an indivisible unit equivalent to the Renault and Paint Creek, and as the name is applied in accordance with the customary modern practice of giving a new name to two or more combined units, its validity cannot be fairly questioned. In regard to the name Bethel, it is shown that the sandstone near Bethel school, now Crittenden Springs school, which Weller thought to be the lower part of the Cypress sandstone, is directly underlain by the Ohara limestone and therefore clearly Bethel, so that the name is entirely appropriate.
30060160|The Gibbs equation for equilibrium in a multicomponent system has been applied to the equilibrium distribution of elements in the earth's gravitational field. In contrast to the conclusions reached by use of the commonly used binary equation, one finds that atomic weight and partial molai volume alone do not determine whether an element should concentrate up or down. The chemical interactions are very important and can reverse the trend expected from the density. Although accurate data are not available, reasonable estimates of the necessary thermodynamic data can be obtained for prediction of expected trends. Thus in the case of uranium one can show that it should concentrate toward the surface of the earth in an equilibrium system. Many of the elements seem to be distributed qualitatively in the manner expected for an equilibrium system. However, it was not possible to use these conclusions to test the various theories for the formation of the earth, since it is possible to explain such a distribution using either of the commonly advanced theories.
30060377|Mining operations in Hurricane Basin, in the Silverton Quadrangle of Colorado, have disclosed the presence of a body of ice beneath rock-stream and landslide dbris. The ice is believed to represent the remnant of a glacier, and the relations appear to confirm the suggestion of Cross and Howe that the rock dbris buried small glaciers remaining in the cirques after the ice disappeared from the main valleys.
30061180|The size and shape of metamorphic aureoles is investigated as a possible indicator of hydrothermal convective cooling of epizonal igneous intrusions. A simple family of numerical models illustrates the effect of convective cooling on maximum temperatures attained in the country rock surrounding an intrusion. Boundary layer approximations have also been applied to describe convection of vaporizing groundwater near the contact of an intrusion early in its cooling history. Maximum temperature isotherms are taken to reflect the width and shape of thermal aureoles defined by preserved mineral assemblages as appears to be reasonable based on several well-studied conductively cooled intrusions. The thermal aureoles of intrusions for which oxygen and hydrogen isotope data indicate convective groundwater circulation have been examined on the basis of the simple numerical and boundary layer models. The shape of the low temperature alteration aureole of the well-mapped El Salvador porphyry copper deposit suggests convective cooling of a permeable intrusion. The width of the low temperature (greenschist) aureole of the Mull intrusive complex can be explained by convective cooling of permeable intrusive rock. The narrow high temperature (amphibolite) aureole of the Cuillin gabbro on Skye can be explained by strong convective cooling; but the low temperature (greenschist) aureole is wide enough to be consistent with conductive cooling, thus suggesting decreasing permeabilities during the cooling history. This is consistent with oxygen isotope sampling and other geologic observations.
30081260|Tillamook Bay on the northern Oregon coast has experienced significant sediment accumulation and shoaling. Analyses show that part of the increased sedimentation was a result of substantial human impacts in the watersheds of the five rivers that drain into the bay. River discharges were enhanced by approximately 13% during the period 19311954, when commercial logging and a series of devastating forest fires occurred, compared with discharges in the years after reforestation. Potential annual sediment yields calculated from daily discharges were enhanced by 29% during 19311954, but actual yields would have been substantially greater as a result of increased erosion rates because of deforestation. Sand transported by the rivers consists primarily of rock fragments, in contrast to the quartz and feldspar sand carried into the bay from the ocean beach. Surface sediments collected throughout the bay consist, on average, of about 40% sand from the rivers and 60% from the ocean beach. Cores show increasing percentages of beach sand beneath the surface, with evidence for major episodic inputs rather than the higher percentages of riverderived rock fragments that human impacts would have produced. Subduction earthquakes have struck the Oregon coast repeatedly during the past several thousand years; the most recent was in January 1700. The downcore increase in beachderived sand in Tillamook Bay is from sand transport by the tsunami that accompanied the 1700 earthquake and the deepening of the bay from land subsidence at the time of the earthquake, which permitted more frequent and extensive spit overwash events during storms.
10.1086/676596|The Jiangnan Fold Belt was formed through the collision of the Yangtze and Cathaysia Blocks during the Neoproterozoic. The ca. 820 Ma mafic-ultramafic rocks from the Fanjingshan region in the western Jiangnan Fold Belt, South China, are composed mainly of olivine pyroxenite, clinopyroxenite, and gabbros with minor wehrlite. Olivine pyroxenites have low and constant K
30058617|The Flathead and Gros Ventre formations of the Teton, Gros Ventre, northwestern Wind River, and western Owl Creek Mountains gradually merge toward the east, forming the lower part of the Wyoming "Deadwood"; the Gallatin formation maintains its lithologic identity eastward into the Bridger Mountains, where it forms the upper part of the Wyoming "Deadwood." The Gallatin contains a number of faunal zones corresponding to zones in the type St. Croixian, the lowest zone containing an early Upper Cambrian fauna. Paleontologic and stratigraphic evidence indicates that the pre-Gallatin formations are largely Middle Cambrian. The formational name, Depass, is proposed for beds lying below the Gallatin in the Wyoming "Deadwood." A persistent limestone member in the lower Gros Ventre and the lower limestone member of the Gallatin are designated by the names, Death Canyon and Du Noir, respectively. The lithology, faunal content, and stratigraphic relationships of the formations are described, and an interpretation of the Cambrian history and paleogeography of Wyoming is presented.
30056268|Gravity data in the United States are used to derive warp anomalies. The correlation of these with tectonic structure is discussed.
30068649|An examination of more than 200 cornstone (concretionary carbonate) profiles of New Red Sandstone age, in western Scotland, confirms that these carbonate accumulations are analogues to the caliche of semi-arid areas. New evidence of laminated, pisolitic and brecciated textures from the cornstone "caprock" strongly suggests that downward percolating water and non-tectonic fracturing were important during subaerial diagenesis. The cornstones occur preferentially in floodplain deposits, and particularly within the upper parts of alluvial, fining-upwards cyclothems. The occurrence of cornstones in this part of the cyclothems and their persistence through such cyclothemic sequences suggest, contrary to a commonly accepted hypothesis, that climatic controls are important in the formation of such alluvial sequences. The cornstones are stratigraphically more significant than the associated rock types in the monotonous New Red continental sequences. In particular, thick, mature cornstones indicate condensed sequences and are also a useful palaeoclimatic index, such caliche normally forming in semi-arid regions.
30078409|The ca. 315260Ma Kiaman Reversed (PermoCarboniferous) Magnetic Superchron is an important time marker that can be used for correlation of stratigraphic sequences from a local to a global scale. Earlier workers, from a paleomagnetic study of the Joggins stratigraphic section of the western Cumberland Basin of Nova Scotia, demonstrated that the base of the superchron lies above redbeds of the lowermost portion of the late NamurianWestphalian A Boss Point Formation. Although a detailed sequence of reversals was observed below this point, no normal magnetic polarity zones were recognized above it. In our study, samples were collected from redbeds of the distal member of the Westphalian A New Glasgow formation of the eastern Cumberland Basin, which directly overlie the gray sandstones of the Boss Point Formation. Most sampling sites carry a normal polarity magnetization, probably acquired at about the time of deposition. Therefore, the base of the Kiaman Reversed Superchron lies within or above the New Glasgow formation. Either the top of the Boss Point Formation is diachronous between the two areas, or, more likely, the base of the superchron is significantly higher in the stratigraphic section than previously recognized, a conclusion that is important for both intrabasin and intercontinental stratigraphic correlations. It implies that the pattern of preKiaman magnetic reversals reported from below the Boss Point Formation in the Joggins section is significantly older than previously thought and, therefore, cannot be used for comparison with magnetic reversal patterns that closely underlie the base of the superchron at other localities in the Cumberland Basin or on other continents.
30062473|An evaporite deposit with an outcrop area of about 1 square mile, encircled by a reef zone composed largely of Porities californica, occurs on the northeastern end of Carmen Island. The flat surface of the deposit is below spring-tide level but isolated from the Gulf of California by the reef, beach deposits, and man-made dikes. Beds of halite, gypsum, and clay are present to a depth of at least 8 feet. The geologic history of this deposit began with the inundation of a north-trending graben during late Wisconsin or early Recent time which formed a bay about 1 mile wide and 3 miles long. A broad flat-topped reef then grew along the shoreline and eventually closed across the mouth of the bay. Slight relative emergence of the reef ring isolated a small lagoon in which sea water, having washed over and seeped through the reef, evaporated. As salinity increased, calcium sulfate, halite, and probably potassium and magnesium salts were precipitated, and the lagoon became filled mainly with evaporite sediments. In late Recent time a coarse clastic beach deposit, about 0.4 miles wide and 1.0 miles long, formed seaward from the reef.
30058983|The Columbus limestone, lying on top of the Detroit River group in northern Ohio and in Ontario, was correlated with the Onondaga limestone of New York State by James Hall and others. But the true Onondaga limestone is now known to occur beneath the horizon of the Detroit River group in the Mackinac Straits region of Michigan and throughout most of its occurrence in Ontario. Eastward along the line of the major axis of Lake Erie the Detroit River group pinches out, allowing the Columbus limestone to lie directly on top of the Onondaga limestone in Norfolk and Haldimand counties, Ontario. This is one of the most important contacts in the Devonian of the Lake Erie region and shows that the two somewhat similar limestones are, in reality, separated by a long period of sedimentation (Detroit River) or by the interval of dis-conformity represented by it and are therefore not to be correlated. Although it may be traced from New York west and northward through Ontario and into Michigan, it thins to the south, and there probably is no outcropping Onondaga limestone extending into Ohio.
30060088|The fraction greater than
30060476|Tourmaline is really a complex isomorphous mineral group which can be easily differentiated under the microscope into a series of varieties and types. These types are based upon the recognition of five main sources of tourmaline in sediments: granitic, pegmatitic, metamorphic injected, sedimentary authigenic, and reworked sedimentary detrital. Actual examples of the application of these concepts to the solution of problems of correlation, interpretation, and differentiation of sediments and to the reconstruction of paleogeographic conditions are given.
30081101|According to two recently proposed tectonic models for the accretionary history of the southern Canadian Cordillera, the Omineca Belt (the hinterland to the fold-and-thrust belt) is a composite suspect terrane assembled outboard of North America and subsequently sutured to it during the Late Cretaceous as part of a composite microcontinental terrane referred to as Cordilleria or Baja B.C. These models suggest displacement of Omineca Belt rocks with respect to North America of 1500 to 2500 km, respectively. To test these models, we analyzed U and Pb isotopes in both single crystal and multigrain detrital zircon populations from Late Proterozoic Windermere Supergroup metasedimentary rocks of inferred suspect origin and compared them to the ages of crystalline basement of western North America. Our data are consistent with a western Canadian provenance for these metasediments and thus call into question tectonic models that propose large latitudinal displacements of the Omineca Belt during assembly of the southern Canadian Cordillera.
30080001|We analyze the structure and assess the deformation history of the Tierra Caliente Metamorphic Complex (TCMC) of southern Mexico, where Laramide accretion of exotic terranes is in debate. The TCMC consists of a southplunging antiform fault that is bounded on both its eastern and western flanks. Tierra Caliente Metamorphic Complex rocks show at least two phases of compressional deformation. The first and most prominent records a mean tectonic transport direction of 068. This phase is responsible for eastverging asymmetrical folding and thrusting of both metamorphic and superjacent sedimentary rocks. The second phase has an average transport direction of 232 and is restricted to the western portion of the TCMC. A third phase is responsible for normal faulting. Lack of discernible deformation before Late Cretaceous time indicates that the main deformation phase is coincident with Laramide orogenesis elsewhere in the North American Cordillera. The stratigraphy, structure, and deformational history of the TCMC do not require accretion of exotic terranes. We explain the Mesozoic tectonostratigraphic evolution of the TCMC in terms of deposition and deformation of Mesozoic volcanic and sedimentary strata over the attenuated continental crust of the North American plate.
30056781|The central highlands of Los Santos province, South Panama, a complex of acid to basic igneous rocks, together with tilted Eocene beds, was the scene of volcanic and mountain-building activity, probably about the close of the Oligocene. Cessation of volcanism may not have occurred until Pliocene or Pleistocene time.
30057598|Gravel remnants at various elevations over a wide area in southeastern New Mexico are related to a once extensive cover of High Plains Ogallala deposits. A correlation of the "quartzose conglomerate" fill along the Pecos depression with basal Ogallala is suggested.
30071150|Proposed assembly of the Rodinia supercontinent in the late Mesoproterozoic involved the collision of the Amazon craton with some portion of the southern or eastern margin of cratonic North America. Previously reported paleomagnetic data from the SW Amazon craton suggest a paleogeographic link between Grenvillian deformation of the SW Amazon craton and late Mesoproterozoic tectonometamorphism in southern Laurentia. A structural, geochronological, and petrological investigation of the western Amazon basement rocks (Rondnia, Brazil) was carried out in order to document evidence of a Grenvillian collision connecting the Amazon to Laurentia. Integration of
30063434|An analysis is described which allows the complete orientations of grains in a crystal aggregate to be determined from a suite of pole figures obtained with the X-ray pole-figure goniometer. The orientation of a crystallite with respect to the specimen is specified by three Euler angles and the preferred orientation of the crystallites by a frequency distribution of Euler angles, termed the "orientation distribution function" (ODF). When the ODF is plotted in a Cartesian coordinate system, it has a space group symmetry that is a function of the point group symmetry of the crystal and of the specimen. To determine the ODF, the pole figures are expanded with polyhedral harmonics and the ODF with symmetrical generalized spherical harmonics; a least-squares solution is obtained for a set of linear equations relating the coefficients of the two expansions. A recrystallized quartzite specimen with a crossed girdle pattern of optic axes from the mylonite zone of the Moine thrust (northwest Scotland) is used to illustrate the analysis. The specimen has a well-developed foliation ab and lineation b. Pole figures for nine diffraction peaks were measured with an X-ray pole-figure goniometer. Grains contributing to the strong [0001] maximum at the intersection of the two girdles subparallel to the specimen a axis (Type I maximum of Sander) have a second-order prism {1120} preferentially oriented parallel to foliation. The girdle pattern of [0001] can be generated by rotating about two [1120] axes in the bc plane 30 from b. of special significance for petrofabric studies is the ability to specify the complete orientation of the grains and in particular to determine separately pole figures for planes with the same d-value, such as r = 1011 and z = 0111 in quartz. Differences in the distribution of positive and negative forms observed in the quartzite may originate by Dauphine twinning during slight postcrystalline deformation. But it has not been possible to prove that this mechanism is the cause of the distribution of positive and negative forms in this specimen. The technique may be used to study any monomineralic aggregate and is especially well suited for the analysis of fine-grained specimens. The ODF is needed in the computation of elastic constants, the strain energy, or the chemical potential of an aggregate with preferred orientation.
30069365|A sorting index which differs from any introduced to this date is proposed. This index has a maximum of 100 per cent when all particles lie within a single grade size and has a minimum of 0 per cent when all class intervals contain equal masses of particles. The equation for the index is
30075175|Fractionations of
30062470|The Austurhorn intrusion, one of a number of larger gabbro and granophyre intrusions that occur within the Tertiary lava pile of southeastern Iceland, is a composite, stocklike body cropping out over about
30058909|Field investigations carried on in the region of the attenuated drift border in northeastern Kansas indicate that an ice sheet extended beyond the limits of the previously mapped glacial border. The evidences cited are the presence beyond the glacial border of: true and reworked till deposits, glacial striae, unusually abundant and widespread erratics both near and remote from the glacial border, and unsorted drift occupying places without any regard for topographic position or elevation. Additional evidences of an indirect nature are: the absence of any more conclusive evidence of glacia-tion immediately north of the old mapped glacial border than south of it and the presence of the Kansas River trough between the erratics and the position which the edge of the melting ice must have had according to the previous mapping.
30081247|Detrital zircons from six modern rivers draining the Appalachian Mountains were dated using UPb isotopes measured by excimer laser ablation induction coupled plasmamass spectrometry (ELAICPMS). Of the 905 grains analyzed, 736 were acceptable for age determination and 524 (71%) of these yielded ages between 950 and 1250 Ma, defining a continuous Grenvillian tectonomagmatic event that peaked around 10201050 Ma. Of the remaining zircons, 20% (
30056976|The present status of the "cleavage" problem in America is briefly outlined, and, using material from a critical area in southern Quebec, the writer applies universal-stage methods to determine the relation of the mineral orientation to the field structures. X-ray data from a slate in the Thringian Forest support the microscopic evidence. It is concluded that secondary foliated surfaces may have different origins, in some cases being "plaiting" surfaces, in others "shear" surfaces. The relations between the two types are briefly discussed and the importance of petrofabric investigation emphasized.
30070741|Evidence from river surveys, historical photographs, and field investigations show that 410 rapids in 12 canyon rivers of the Colorado Plateau region are distributed randomly or only slightly more regularly than random. Rapids, in their distribution, show little tendency toward equal spacing, are not related to discharge, and are not always colocated with debris sources. Analysis of force of flowing water and resistance of the boulders in rapids of the canyons of the Green River in Dinosaur National Monument, Utah-Colorado, shows that although some particles may have been moved by flood flows within the past 75-100 years, the largest particles were not moved. Under the present climatic/hydrologic regime, these rapids are relict geo-morphic features that are either unchanging or are accumulating debris from tributary sources. Consequently, any theory attempting to explain the distribution and dynamics of rapids in canyon rivers must (1) appeal to the relationship between force and resistance as a measure of stability at particular sites, without reference to operation of the river system as a whole; and (2) account for the effects of climatic/hydrollogic conditions that have recurrence intervals greater than 100 years.
30075240|White micas in slates and metasandstones from deformed and imbricated chertbasaltturbidite sequences of the Narooma Accretionary Complex of the eastern Lachlan Fold Belt, Australia, show b
30065798|Although lags of bones and teeth are commonly cited criteria for marine unconformities, the consistency of the association of vertebrate fossils and discontinuity surfaces, as well as the taphonomic (postmortem) controls on this relationship, are poorly understood. A field test across fluvial, paralic, and shallow marine facies in the Campanian Two Medicine and Judith River formations of Montana indicates that the distribution of vertebrate skeletal concentrations is poorly correlated with the inferred durations of erosional and omissional hiatuses. Instead, vertebrate concentrations associated with discontinuities of all durations tend to be patchy and closely track the abundance of fossil material in underlying and lateral facies. Based on the analysis of 83 measured sections, we found first that erosional bases of channels and minor scours within channels yield vertebrate lags; tidally influenced fluvial deposits are more productive than are upland fluvial deposits. Second, erosional shoreface ravinements and their correlative transgressive marine flooding surfaces (fourthorder sequence boundaries) have welldeveloped vertebrate lags only along segments that cut across older shoreface deposits. Third, a nonerosional, widely traceable discontinuity, which is interpreted as the nonmarine extension of a 75.4Ma thirdorder transgressive surface, is completely lacking in vertebrate concentrations. Despite being unfossiliferous itself, this discontinuity does mark a regional change in the richness of the vertebrate fossil record, with overlying beds characterized by a much greater abundance of skeletal material. Fourth, a laterally extensive set of erosional surfaces, embedded within multistory fluvial sandstone sheets, is the nonmarine extension of an 80Ma thirdorder sequence boundary in the marine basin and lacks vertebrate concentrations. The strong dependence of vertebrate lag development on preexisting local sources of skeletal material rather than on the magnitude of the erosional vacuity or the duration of the hiatus contrasts with skeletal concentrations of invertebrates in marine successions, where exhumation is generally much less important than the production of new elements during the hiatus. These findings provide a guide to prospecting productive fossil horizons in terrestrial records and underscore fundamental differences in the ways in which bioclastic material accumulates in terrestrial and shallow marine settings, the qualities of paleobiologic data derived from such concentrations, and the relative reliabilities of skeletal material as cues to stratigraphically significant discontinuities.
30062185|Evaluation of magma compositions in the Keweenawan Mid-Continent Rift shows that major element chemistry and variations in lava flow composition with stratigraphy were controlled by the physical evolution of the rift. In particular, evidence from the North Shore Volcanic Group of Minnesota reveals that primitive high-Al olivine tholeiite magmas saturated with olivine, clinopyroxene, and plagioclase at high pressure near the base of the crust were emplaced throughout the crust where they underwent lower pressure fractionation of olivine and plagioclase to again become triply saturated. As the rift evolved tectonically, magmas from successively deeper chambers were erupted until finally the deep-seated, voluminous primitive high-Al magmas were able to reach the surface, thereby explaining the predominance of high-Al basalt in the upper volcanic sequences and plutonic rocks.
30061059|Coarse-grained gravel lifted from the channel of Sexton Creek during flash flooding was deposited on the floodplain surface in three distinct lobes. The overbank gravel was laid down passively on the floodplain and no scouring of that surface preceded the depositional event. The deposits have a flat lower surface and are convex-up in shape. Similar deposits are exposed as gravel lenses in the stratigraphic sequence underlying the floodplain. Failure to recognize the overbank origin of the gravel lenses could lead to incorrect interpretations of the paleoenvironment.
30078571|The stratigraphy of the Emma Creek formation, a newly differentiated Middle and Upper Pliocene formation of south-central Kansas, is described. The lithology of the formation and its origin, source areas, and physiographic history are discussed. The vertebrate fossils of this formation, the younger McPherson formation (restricted), and the early controversy over the dating of the "McPherson Equus Beds" are discussed.
30061962|Correlation of the three stages of Glacial Lake Chicago with sequential changes in level of contemporaneous glacial lakes in the Erie and Huron basins was correctly made in four papers by Bretz, in 1951-1955. The channel of Glacial Grand River and the Allendale delta afford convincing evidence that the later correlations by Hough (1958) are in error.
30063666|A distinction is drawn between structures of ordinary dimensions under low pressures and structures of continental dimensions under high pressures. These are discriminated by the dominance of solid (idiomolecular) flow and the transition of one elastic state into another. Back of these and other distinctions drawn, the special objective is the support of the continents. The ultimate building units, the atom, the molecule, and the crystal, are defined on the basis of the new view of matter. The producing zones of these and the weaker building materials are sketched, unqualified rigidity is denied existence, and the yield factor in elastico-rigid bodies critically discussed. The distinction between rest stages under stress-balance (elasticostatic) and hydrostatic equilibrium is emphasized; elasticostatic configurations are compared with hydrostatic and illustrated by the warpings of the "sea-level" due to the solid shell. The superficiality of this is shown, and its unfitness as a test of continental support. The real criteria are found to lie in base-leveling, sea-transgression, parallel deposition, periodic diastrophism, Eulerian nutation, body tides, and internal transmission of seismic waves. These are discussed and the conclusion reached that the "floating crust" is a misinterpretation, that no hydrostatic substratum has prevailed since base-leveling began, that the earth-body is a heterogeneous elastic solid, that internal reorganization is the dominant agency in terrestrial reconstruction, that the earth is better organized and stronger today than ever before, and that the processes of reorganization show no signs of exhaustion.
30081204|The alluvialfan deposits in the Cretaceous Yongdong Basin, Korea, consist of conglomerates with a muddy or sandy matrix and sandstones with thick or thin laminations. The conglomerates and sandstones occur commonly in couplets, constituting apparently single sedimentation units. Facies transitions in the deposits can be summed up in a tripartite facies sequence: (1) a clastsupported conglomerate with a muddy or sandy matrix and parallel clast alignment (facies A and B), (2) a matrixsupported coarsetail normally graded conglomerate with random clast orientation (facies C) and thickly stratified pebbly sandstone (facies D), and (3) laminated sandstone (facies E). The clastsupported conglomerate is interpreted as deposits of debris flows dominated by frictional grain interactions. Development of pervasive parallel clast alignment, lacking large floating clasts and inverse grading, suggests deposition via incremental aggradation rather than en masse freezing. The matrixsupported conglomerate and thickly stratified sandstone are interpreted as deposits of dense inertia layers or traction carpets developed beneath a highconcentration bipartite flow. The laminated sandstone indicates traction sedimentation associated with dilute flows. The facies sequence therefore suggests deposition from a composite sediment flow that comprises a preceding debris flow, a trailing watery flow, and an intermediate flow between. The intermediate flow is regarded as a hyperconcentrated flow on the basis of its bipartite nature because a hyperconcentrated suspension has a meager yield strength and is prone to be density stratified. The measured section comprises three depositional sequences, decameters thick and separated by thick mudstone beds, which could be interpreted in terms of fan evolution (progradation and retreat) under an influence of changing sediment supply from a drainage basin. Close association of sediment type with constituent facies in the three sequences suggests that composite sedimentflow deposits are favorably developed by sandmatrix debris flows drained from large and less rugged catchments.
30080928|The rocks between the Northfield slate and the Gile Mountain formation in east-central Vermont can be distinctly divided into three mappable lithologic units. The western two units are continuous with the Barton River and the Westmore formations as denned in the Memphremagog quadrangle to the north. Hitherto these two units have been included within the Waits River formation, a thick sequence of calcareous and non-calcareous rocks in the Barre and East Barre quadrangles. An analysis of the minor folds and cleavage-bedding relations in the area indicates the possibility of correlating the Westmore formation with the Gile Mountain formation across the limbs of a major syncline, the trough of which is occupied by the calcareous unit in the central part of the East Barre quadrangle. If correct, this interpretation makes this calcareous unit the youngest unit in the Paleozoic sequence of Vermont and hence calls for a revision of the stratigraphic sequence in eastern Vermont. It is proposed that the name "Waits River formation" be restricted to this youngest calcareous unit, inasmuch as the type locality-Waits River village-is situated in this unit and excellent outcrops are present nearby. Also, in view of the foregoing subdivision, the total section of rocks included under the "Waits River formation" of Currier and Jahns (1941) may be redefined as the "Barre group," composed of Barton River, Westmore, and the present Waits River formations.
30062436|U-Pb analyses of zircon from the Burlington Granodiorite suggest intrusion at c. 460-465 Ma. Hornblende and biotite from northern border phases of the pluton record similar
30080000|A paleomagnetic study of the late Middle to possibly early Late Cambrian Liberty Hills Formation in the Ellsworth Mountains, Antarctica, reveals a stable magnetization with positive fold and reversal tests. The paleopole is based on 16 sites from volcanic and sedimentary rocks and lies at lat 7.3N and long 326.3E (
30060417|The Pleistocene coastal terraces along the Atlantic seaboard of the United States are bounded by shore lines that are horizontal south of the glaciated region and that appear to continue unwarped westward along the Gulf coast to Texas. The shore lines stand at altitudes of approximately 25, 65, 95, 160, 215, and 265 feet above mean sea-level. If these horizontal shore lines owe their present height to world-wide lowerings of sea-level rather than to upheavals of the land, shore lines at the same altitudes should be recognizable along other stable coasts. Marine terraces at approximately the same altitudes have been noted in France and in South Africa. The shore lines are interpreted as records of high water due to melting of the polar ice during interglacial stages and to changes of sea-level caused by any movements of the sea bottom that may have taken place during the Pleistocene. A tentative correlation refers the 265-foot shore line to a warm pre-Nebraskan stage of the Pleistocene, each succeeding lower level to an interglacial stage, and the 25-foot shore line to an inter-Wisconsin warm period. The crustal movements which deformed Pliocene sediments but which did not warp the Pleistocene terraces mark the transition from the Pliocene to the Pleistocene.
30065041|The eustatic sea level curve of Haq and co-workers differentiates a long and a short term signal. The mechanism that controls the long term curve is primarily variation in the volume of the ocean basins, while the short term curve reflects changes in ocean water volume. Only glacial eustasy operates at the frequency and with sufficient magnitude to control the short term curve. At each increment of time the volume of water sequestered from the ocean basins to account for the difference between the long and short term curves is computed, incorporating both hypsometric and water loading factors. An amount equivalent to that of present day Antarctica was sequestered at an approximately 5 Ma frequency since 145 Ma, but direct geological evidence of Late Jurassic to Early Tertiary continental ice of this equivalent magnitude is lacking. Because the existing ice coverage of Antarctica inhibits direct observation, we use the known fractionation affects of sequestration of water on the oxygen isotopic composition of sea water as a direct proxy for evidence of removal of large volumes of water from the oceans. Using fractionation factors estimated for different modes of water extraction of between
10.1086/650181|Within the Western Interior Basin of North America, hundreds of small carbonate mounds associated with Late Cretaceous hydrocarbon emissions or seeps form the most extensively distributed occurrence of fossil seep mounds that is known, the Tepee Buttes. Analysis of the stratigraphic literature for the basin reveals that Tepee Butte formation occurred intermittently over a 10m.yr. period within a narrowly restricted paleogeographic region. The modern geographic distribution of the Tepee Buttes is constrained roughly to between 10130
30066045|Reddish-brown glacial-marine sediment was deposited in the Laurentian Channel during the late Pleistocene. The sediment contains calcite, quartz and feldspar grains with relic iron oxide rims, and red calcite-cemented lithic sandstone and arkosic rock fragments derived principally from Triassic (and/or Carboniferous-Permian) sediments of Appalachian Canada or from their reworked derivatives. Two 10-23-cm.-thick brick-red tills, 70-350 cm. apart and containing concentrations of the above detritus, lie within the glacial marine sediment; both tills thin and converge seaward. The pebbles, granules, and sand show little evidence of glacial abrasion and may have been derived from the adjacent shallow shelf and transported by ice which advanced over the deep waters of the Laurentian Channel. If the brick-red tills were deposited at the ice front, they are time-transgressive beds within a wedge of glacial marine sediment. A strong sub-bottom reflector correlates in some areas with the upper brick-red till and in other areas with sand beneath the lower brick-red till. Brown silty clays and clayey silts lie above this reflector and, together with overlying gray sediment, are generally more than 20 feet thick and thin seaward and toward the channel walls. The coarse fraction of the gray sediments consists chiefly of angular quartz, feldspar, and amphibole-rich granodioritic rock fragments derived from the crystalline rocks of eastern Quebec.
30079956|Bedrock sculpturing of semilithified St. George Formation sandy mudstone exposed on a wavecut platform has produced a variety of erosional forms that include surface scratches made by beach debris, ripplelike ridges that reflect differential erosion of bedrock, potholes, and scallopshaped pockets and grooves, which may be straight or sinuous. Straight grooves form by preferential incision of regional joints. Sinuous grooves are not fracture controlled, are oriented parallel to wave runup (orthogonal to the coast), and exist as closely spaced subparallel, nonconnecting, internally drained grooves that are best developed on higher platform ramparts and benches. Sinuous grooves have a mean length of 258 cm, mean maximum width of 14 cm, and mean width/length ratio of 0.08. They are not as deeply incised as straight grooves, do not serve as conduits for lowtide runoff during winter months, and typically terminate by shallowing and narrowing in both seaward and landward directions. Sinuous appearance results from trains of linked commashaped depressions, commonly with the blunt, highly curved end of each being most deeply incised and oriented seaward. Corrasion of bedrock highs and/or cavitation associated with turbulent vortices during tsunami runup likely contributed to the genesis and/or enlargement of the sinuous grooves. Auguring and coring in a back barrier bog and diatom analysis reveals a landwardthinning, 17 cmthick, laterally continuous, clean, tsunamiemplaced sand layer with a sharp basal contact up to 125 m inland of the modern hightide line. While seasonal cycles of beach aggradation and degradation combined with sediment transport and bedrock erosion accompanying lowtide runoff and hightide wave motion undoubtedly accounts for form modification of sinuous grooves, it is unlikely to account for their origin.
30063824|The high-grade gneisses of Sri Lanka display spectacular in-situ granulitization phenomena similar to those observed in southern India and of current interest for evolutionary models of the lower continental crust. The absolute ages of these rocks are poorly constrained and so, using the SHRIMP ion microprobe, we have analyzed small spots on zircons from upper amphibolite to granulite grade quartzitic and pelitic metasediments. Detrital grains from a metaquartzite of the Highland Group preserve premetamorphic U-Pb ages of between 3.17 and 2.4 Ga and indicate derivation of the sediment from an unidentified Archean source terrain. The Pb-loss patterns of these zircons and the other samples suggest severe disturbance at ca. 1100 Ma ago, which we attribute to high-grade regional metamorphism. Two pelitic gneisses contain detrital zircons with ages up to 2.04 Ga and also record an \approx 1100 Ma event that is also apparent from metamorphic rims around old cores and new zircon growth. A granite intrusive into the Highland Group granulites records an emplacement age of 1000-1100 Ma as well as metamorphic disturbance some 550 Ma ago but also contains older, crustally derived xenocrysts. Zircons from a metaquartzite xenolith within the granitoid Vijayan Complex are not older than \approx 1100 Ma; therefore the Vijayan is neither Archean in age nor acted as basement to the Highland Group, as previously proposed. We suggest that the Vijayan Complex formed significantly later than the Highland Group and that the two units were brought into contact through post-1.1 Ga thrusting. Although the granulitization phenomena in India and Sri Lanka are similar, the granulite event in Sri Lanka is not Archean in age but took place in the late Proterozoic.
30059703|Nodules of firmly cemented red clay containing remains of Lysorophus and associated forms have been obtained from eight localities in the Clear Fork formation of Texas. A new amphibian, Euryodus primus gen. and sp. n. is described in detail. It is referred to the order Lepospondyli and is shown to have nectridian affinities. Evidence suggesting a considerable size range in the amphibian Lysorophus is presented. The fauna of the "lysorophus pockets" consists of several types of small lepospondylous amphibians. A lungftsh tooth also has been found associated, but life-association is doubtful. The fauna probably lived in rain pools along the beds of intermittent streams. It is more Pennsylvanian than Permian in aspect.
30060363|This paper describes six species of plants, the first known from this region, comprising a large Equisetum and five Cycadophytes, associated with the shells of Unio, from the upper part of the Red beds in the vicinity of Lander, Wyoming, thus proving their continental origin and the presence of a considerable flora. The horizon is the same as that from which Williston described several Reptilia and called the Popo Agie beds. These correspond to the Jelm formation of Knight, and are probably Keuper in age.
30058442|The perfection, fine exposure, and unusual accessibility of ogives on East Twin Glacier, Alaska, make this an exceptional place in which to study the nature and origin of this phenomenon. The origin of ogives is discussed, and previous hypotheses are critically analyzed. With the exception of a hypothesis first suggested by R. T. Chamberlin, that ogives are the surficial expressions of shearing planes, no other hypothesis satisfactorily accounts for the fact that these ogives are exposed edges of layers of denser and dirtier ice than the intervening layers. Concepts of glacier flow evolved by Demorest provide a reasonable mechanism for understanding their formation, namely, periodic obstructed extrusion flow down-glacier from an icefall. Debris which was originally basal is believed to become, by upthrusting and ablation, the surface manifestation of an ogive.
10.1086/665733|The influences of geologic and climatic factors on erosion and sedimentation processes in rivers draining the western flank of the California Coast Range are assessed. Annual suspended, bedload, and total sediment fluxes were determined for 16 river basins that have hydrologic records covering all or most of the period from 1950 to 2006 and have been relatively unaffected by flow storage, regulation, and depletion, which alter the downstream movement of water and sediment. The occurrence of relatively large annual sediment fluxes are strongly influenced by the El NioSouthern Oscillation (ENSO) and the Pacific Decadal Oscillation (PDO). The frequency of relatively large annual sediment fluxes decreases from north to south during La Nia phases and increases from north to south during El Nio phases. The influence of ENSO is modulated over a period of decades by the PDO, such that relatively large annual sediment fluxes are more frequent during a La Nia phase in conjunction with a cool PDO and during an El Nio phase in conjunction with a warm PDO. Values of mean annual sediment flux,
30056321|Recently discovered stylolites in quartzite, associated with thin films of coal, reveal significant evidence bearing upon the theory of origin. The relationships between the stylolite-seams with the coal partings and the sedimentary structures of the bedrock give conclusive support to the solution (secondary) theory of origin, as opposed by the pressure (primary) theory.
30059234|The latite intrusion near Port Kembla, New South Wales, is a flat-topped laccolith intruded into marine tuffaceous sediments of Permian age. Systematic study of internal structures revealed that movement in the direction of primary flow structures continued into post-consolidation and post-alteration stages. Contact relations and structures of included sediments indicate that the country rocks were unconsolidated at the time of intrusion, and because of this the margin of the intrusion was irregular during its growth. This resulted in the inclusion of sedimentary material in zones broadly oriented in planes of flow foliation both where these were steep over the feeder and flat near outer margins. At the same time tension joints formed in still fluid but very viscous latite, and unconsolidated sediments were injected into the fractures. Hydrothermally altered zones in the latite are characterized by an abundance of sedimentary sheet inclusions, and the alteration was caused mainly by absorption, before complete consolidation, of connate, Na-rich water derived from the sediments. Chemically and in part mineralogically the alteration produced a change in the latite similar to that expected of purely magmatic processes of differentiation. Diagenetic alteration of country rock far removed from the intrusion produced secondary minerals identical with the dominant products of hydro thermal alteration.
30068062|Lapilli and unusually thick, high viscosity lavas extruded from Oldoinyo Lengai in June, 1993 are composed of crystal-rich natrocarbonatite containing a small proportion of porphyritic silicate spheroids. The silicate spheroids are of wollastonite nephelinite mineralogy, but they also contain natrocarbonatite mineral grains and aggregates (a) in glass inclusions within nepheline and pyroxene phenocrysts, and (b) within the fine-grained silicate groundmass of the spheroids. The chemical relationships of the natrocarbonatite component in the spheroids to the dominant silicate fraction are consistent with liquid immiscibility, as are the multiple stages of unmixing. These direct observations confirm the intimate relationship between natrocarbonatite and wollastonite nephelinite inferred both from the field relationships at Oldoinyo Lengai, and from low-PT experimentation. The plutonic equivalent (wollastonite ijolite) of the magma type found to be parental to natrocarbonatite at Oldoinyo Lengai does occur in other carbonatite complexes of differing ages and wide geographical distribution; hence it is possible that the generation of natrocarbonatite is not unique to Oldoinyo Lengai. Certain features in the matrix of the carbonatite flows (coarser grain size, breakdown of solid-solutions observed in earlier, rapidly chilled lavas) are attributed to the relatively slow cooling of these atypically thick flows.
30084972|The concept that jointing in rock masses exerts a pronounced influence upon topography is old and well established. The idea that topography may in turn influence joint development, however, is not commonly realized and is almost entirely restricted to the phenomenon of sheeting. Detailed study of a large homogeneous body of massive granite shows a high degree of interdependence for jointing, sheeting, and topography. The theory is advanced that most joints are perhaps the surficial expression of directions of weakness within the massive granite. The existence of numerous directions of potential cracking in the granite leads to the supposition that favorable directions for rock expansion will determine in large part which potential joint sets may become opened. Trend, frequency, and spacing of joints as determined in the field, therefore, are influenced to a large extent by detailed configuration of the topography. Sliding of granite layers on inclined sheeting planes provides the necessary expansion for consequent opening of two steep joint sets, one more or less parallel and the other perpendicular to slope strike. Thus sheeting and topography play an important role in the selective development of open joints from the numerous potential sets in the massive rock.
30060432|This paper is chiefly a discussion of new morphological details exhibited by various members of the Heterostraci. A review of the Scottish Thelodidae is included, and a new occurrence of Thelodus from Canyon City, Colorado, is noted.
30070719|The Niagaran rocks of southwestern Ohio and southeastern Indiana exhibit several lithologic and paleontologic facies on their respective flanks of the Cincinnati Arch. Detailed stratigraphie zoning of these rocks, subsequent laboratory investigation of thin sections, insoluble residues, and rock powders, and chemical analyses of the samples collected show (1) the lower part of the Dayton limestone of Ohio is equivalent to the entire Dayton limestone of Indiana; (2) the Osgood shale of Ohio is equivalent to the upper Osgood shale of Indiana; (3) a portion of the Laurel limestone of Indiana is equivalent to the entire Laurel limestone of Ohio; (4) the Euphemia, Springfield, and Cedarville dolomites are true dolomites, whereas the Dayton and Laurel limestones are dolomitic limestones; and (5) the water in which the Niagaran sediments were deposited appears to have varied in depth between 150 and 500 feet.
10.1086/670651|Reconstructions of geologic provinces in the crust are an important component of understanding ancient plate tectonic processes and crustal evolution. Isotopic data from plutonic rocks, primarily Sr, Nd, Pb, and O, have been commonly utilized to delineate ancient geological provinces. Sulfur isotopes have not previously been utilized for province reconstruction, perhaps because of the difficulty in analysis and interpretation. We present here the results of the first large-scale effort at utilizing sulfur isotopes as an indicator of crustal architecture and demonstrate that sulfur is complementary to other isotopic measurements. We also show that, because of mass balance considerations, sulfur can be potentially a far more sensitive indicator of magma-crust interaction processes during magma migration through the crust than are other isotope systems. We anticipate that addition of sulfur isotope measurements to other studies of crustal evolution will provide significant insights into plate tectonics and crustal evolution in many areas of the world.
30060231|Differential vertical movement between continents is suggested by plotting percentages of continental areas that were flooded at a certain time in the geologic past on the corresponding continental hypsometric curves. If the plots do not lie at the same elevation, the continents have moved differentially since the time of flooding. A plot of Eocene and Miocene percentages of flooding on hypsometric curves suggests that Africa has risen significantly relative to North America, South America, Europe and Australia since the Miocene and possibly since the Eocene. Evidence for widespread epeirogenic uplift in Africa during the Tertiary implies that the epeirogenic rise of Africa rather than subsidence of the other continents best accounts for the relative uplift indicated by the plots on hypsometric curves. The large amount of uplift in Africa relative to the other four continents suggests that the African type of epeirogeny could be an important factor in the cause of widespread regressions that occurred during the geologic past.
30061958|Many of the dikes in this area exhibit conflicting age relations with the plutonic rocks which contain them. Some of the dikes show clear evidence of having been replaced by the same plutonic rocks they evidently cut. Conflicting evidence is also provided by the associated extrusives, which, although they rest on and contain boulders of, plutonic rock, are dioritized and locally intruded by this same rock. The writers suggest that these dikes are essentially contemporaneous with the formation and evolution of the plutonic rock and that therefore the plutonic rock, while it was evolving by metasomatism and recrystallization, was capable of sustaining fractures. It can be demonstrated that breaks in the plutonic rock, either faults or joints, were present after the intrusion of some of the dikes and that these breaks have since totally healed by recrystallization. For the study of plutonic rocks the dikes described afford a useful tool.
30058166|Comparatively few Pennsylvanian fossils are known to have precise zonal significance, and consequently most species at present have no more than general correlative value. This is partly because the Pennsylvanian stratigraphic sequence is uninterrupted, except locally, by important breaks separating easily distinguished faunas and partly because most Pennsylvanian species are too poorly understood to be recognized with precision and separated from closely related forms. Complications are introduced by the extreme diversity of Pennsylvanian environments, which resulted in the close stratigraphic association of almost wholly different faunules. The faunal approach to Pennsylvanian correlation has produced results that are unsatisfactory except in a most general way. Detailed correlations can be made much more accurately on the basis of lithologic sequence, and studies of this type have revealed notable errors in correlations based on fossils. Moreover, faunal studies have resulted in the misidentification of certain diagnostic species and confusion regarding the ranges of others. The detailed study of closely related fossils from many different stratigraphic zones in an effort to work out evolutionary trends gives great promise of much more useful and significant results. The establishment of sequences of evolutionary stages is now known to be possible and offers a means of correlation far superior to that which is dependent on the mere presence or absence of individual index species. All such studies are still in their preliminary stages, but more or less progress has been made with several groups, particularly the fusulinids.
30065042|A mass conservation model for paleo-ice sheet cyclicity provides a conceptual analogue for modeling sedimentary cycles. In particular, the relative snowline instability in glacial models suggests a general motif for stratigraphic cyclicity: relative baselevel instability. A simple sedimentary basin model is constructed along these lines that produces free oscillations with no external forcing. All previous models have attributed sedimentary cyclicity to external forcing: eustatic sea level changes, sediment supply rate changes (or rate of sea level changes), or tectonic subsidence rate changes. Such forcing is seriously challenged when confronted with (possibly) global synchronous high frequency cycles of large amplitude during non-glacial periods. Weakly coupled nonlinear oscillators tend often to synchronize. This may be a promising way of understanding widespread synchroneity in the stratigraphic record.
30060366|A cobble of symmetrical lenticuloid form bearing a number of very distinct residual facets was taken from a pothole in which it had acquired its characteristic shape. The circumstances of its origin and accompanying types of abrasive motion are analyzed and conclusions drawn as to their relative importance and the relative rates of abrasion of the cobble and of the pothole.
30071079|All three axes of deformed ellipsoidal pebbles have been measured in quartz conglomerates in the Sparagmite rocks (arkosic sandstones) of central Norway. More than one hundred measurements have been treated statistically. Shearing motion is considered as the main element of the deformation, and various problems concerning the deformation are discussed.
30068504|Trondhjemite occurs in association with Ordovician ophiolitic rocks in the Girvan-Ballantrae area of south Ayrshire, Scotland. The geochemical characteristics of the Ballantrae trondhjemite are the same as those of oceanic plagiogranites found on the present ocean floors and in ancient ophiolite complexes. Rare earth elements are employed in a model which shows that the Ballantrae trondhjemite could have originated by fractional crystallization of typical Ballantrae tholeiitic pillow basalt. The lack of potassium in the trondhjemite may be due to its removal by late magmatic vapor-phase transport.
30063767|Altered volcanic ashes (K-bentonites) in the late Ordovician (Caradocian) Utica shale of New York State are the product of explosive arc volcanism. Most of the 30 K-bentonites examined in this investigation contain fragmental crystals and rock fragments (microliths) up to 600 (xm in diameter that generally are neither detrital contamination from the surrounding black shale nor igneous phenocrysts. The dominant phases are garnet (
30063884|Calcite permineralization of peat stages in the Herrin (No. 6) Coal Member at the Delta Mine is typical of the "coal balls" which are encountered in this major Pennsylvanian seam of the Illinois Basin. The
30066151|A new adaptable deformation apparatus has been developed for constant strain-rate tests up to 5 kb. confining pressure and 500 C. at strain rates from 0.4 to
30058000|This paper presents a summary of the petrology and petrography of a batholith of Algoman age. The central part of the batholith is a highly quartzose biotite-soda-granite, and the borders are shonkinite. It is concluded that the various types of igneous rock found in the batholith resulted from the differentiation of a magma. The mode of magmatic differentiation is discussed.
30056513|Criteria for distinguishing between dikes and pseudo-dikes (or xenoliths), particularly when both are foliated, are discussed in this paper. Consideration is given to time and direction of application of stresses which produced the foliation. Examples are mainly from southern California.
30068612|The Gosses Bluff cryptoexplosion structure is a large circular structure in central Australia. It has a minimum diameter of 10 miles and consists of a central uplifted area of structurally disturbed Paleozoic sediments approximately 4 miles in diameter which is surrounded by a ring of explosion breccia at least 3 miles wide. The presence of bentonite and zeolites and the position of Gosses Bluff on a regional anticlinal trend support a cryptovolcanic origin. Features such as shatter cones, deformation lamellae, shattered quartz, glass, partially melted quartz grains, and severely brecciated sedimentary rocks indicate shock and, together with the form of the crater and the decrease of shock effects with depth, suggest that an impact origin is likely.
JG116501|This article reports a precise
30068844|The spatial distribution of elevations and slopes on continents is a primary expression of complex interactions between tectonic and climatic systems. Because rates of tectonism and climatically mediated erosion vary in both space and time, it is possible that heights of land and steepness of associated slopes change both across climatic regimes and during the tectonic evolution of any particular landmass. As a geomorphic record, spatial variations of continental physiography with latitude afford some insight into the relative importance of tectonic and climatic processes in controlling Earth surface elevations. Because modern digital elevation models afford abundant data on continent surfaces across the complete set of equator to pole climate ranges, we have undertaken an evaluation of the dependence of continental physiography on climate using the latitudinal gradient as a proxy for firstorder change in temperature and precipitation. Continental hypsometries can be largely explained by elevation distributed as an exponential function of the square root of area of land, and hypsometries with normalized maximum elevations and total areas exhibit no significant latitudinal variation. This suggests that spatial variation in Earth surface topography, as manifest by areaelevation relations, is largely insensitive to latitudinal position and associated climate. Land surface slope, however, does covary with absolute latitude. Steeper slopes are apparent at higher latitudes and likely record the poleward influence of cryogenically mediated processes of continental denudation. The coincidence of increasing subaerial slopes with latitude and stasis in hypsometric distributions of elevations suggests that poleward regions are also more dissected than their equatorial counterparts.
30058906|This paper, after an introduction regarding the fundamental elements of the cycle of erosion, institutes a comparison between the barren mountain sides and the desert rock floors (pediments) of arid regions and the forested mountain slopes and the fertile peneplains of humid regions, with the object of discovering how far these contrasted landscapes are comparable with each other and of denning the various factors on which their contrasts depend. For humid regions the familiar principles of weathering and streams are followed; for arid regions the principles of degradation set forth by Lawson and the examples described by Bryan are accepted as guides. Sequences of forms are sketched for both regions, beginning with those which are largely consequent upon the deformation of a peneplain of massive granite, and ending with those which are wholly consequent upon the far advanced degradation of the deformed mass. It is concluded that a close analogy exists between the two sequences, and that their difference of appearance is due to their difference of climate. The plant cover of humid regions permits the accumulation of abundant soil even on fairly steep slopes; and of still deeper soil on lowlands of degradation; yet under the soil cover of mountain slopes boulders of decomposition are found grading into solid rock, which are closely homologous with the visible boulders resting on the bare rock of arid mountains. Similarly, under the heavy soil cover of a granite peneplain is a buried foundation of decomposed rock which is truly homologous with the gravel-veneered rock floors or pediments of arid degradation.
30062176|Garnets on the pyrope-grossular join have been synthesized, their unit-cell edges measured, and the activity of
30064107|The dispersion of three sizes of tagged grains normal to the shore line by shoaling wind waves was studied in Buzzards Bay, Massachusetts. Experiments were restricted to periods during which wave crests approached near parallel to the shore line. Selection of the 2-hour interval, when the tidal curve is symmetric about high tide, minimized the effect of changing still-water level. Within the experimental range of the data, it is concluded that under the same wave conditions finer grain sizes have a greater tendency to move offshore than coarser grains. A change in wave state, resulting in an increase in the maximum horizontal velocity near the bottom, produces an increase in the tendency for all test grain sizes to move seaward. Theoretical concentrations computed from the equations of turbulent diffusion of contaminant particles in the atmosphere agree qualitatively with the empirical observations of this study and suggest possible explanations.
30060176|The formation of river terraces by rejuvenation is interpreted according to an open-system theory of stream grading. The general case and two special cases are considered. One special case in which the terrace profile follows the stream profile is appropriate to the steady-state stream. In the other special case the terrace profile describes the envelope to a set of successive non-steady-state stream profiles. From this result it is possible to devise a method of reconstructing past stream profiles and to sketch the limits to the application of profile extrapolation as a means of predicting past base levels.
10.1086/664787|Irelands Aran Islands are an excellent place to test whether coastal boulder depositsincluding individual rocks weighing several tens of tonnes near sea level and clasts weighing several tonnes transported at tens of meters above sea levelrequire a tsunami for emplacement or whether storm waves can do this work. Elongate deposits of cobbles, boulders, and megagravel are strung along the Atlantic coasts of the Aran Islands. No tsunamis have affected this region in recent centuries, so if these deposits are forming or migrating at the present time, they must be storm activated. We find a diverse range of evidence for recent ridge activity. First, shells of
30062151|The polyphase Closepet batholith in South India intrudes Archean tonalitic and granitic gneisses in a terrane that grades from amphibolite to granulite grade at the southern end of the batholith. Two granite and two granodioritic suites are recognized in the batholith. One granite suite from the southern terminus of the batholith has high Sr, Ba, La/Yb, and Eu/Eu*, and low Sc, Y, Nb, Ta, and total REE and is similar to other granites from along the amphibolite-granulite transition zone that have the characteristics of a fractionally crystallized cumulate. The other granite suite has lower Sr and Ba, higher Sc and Y, and no distinctive Eu anomaly. This latter group, which is widespread in the southern Closepet batholith, can be derived by 20% equilibrium partial melting of a tonalite source (containing hornblende and garnet) that is compositionally similar to South India tonalites near the amphibolite-granulite transition. The two granite groups may have been produced by separate episodes of
30060464|The Cape May formation of New Jersey is a late Pleistocene accumulation of sand and gravel deposited when sea-level stood a score or more feet above that of today. The seaward part of the formation, containing fossils at several places, is marine, whereas valley deposits to the landward, contemporaneous in age, are fluvial. The formation was first considered to be Wisconsin in age, because it contains erratic stones. But more recently it has been considered as nonglacial, because it was deposited during a high stand of the sea and because it contains warm-water fossils: that is, as either interglacial or early postglacial during a temperature maximum. The present study approaches the question of age by an analysis of the topography of the marine portion of the Cape May formation. It is found to be that of low bars and shallow longitudinal depressions parallel to the present shore, drained and slightly modified by consequent fluvial erosion. From the evidence of the amount of erosion of the constructional topography of the marine part of the formation and the amount of weathering which has taken place, it may be rather confidently referred to an interglacial or interstadial interval, prior to the last episode of glaciation. And, furthermore, sea-level has not been higher than its present stand since this interglacial time.
10.1086/674423|The Edong-Jiurui district is located more than 1000 km from the current Pacific subduction zone. It is part of the well-known middle and lower Yangtze River Cu-Fe-Au belt in central eastern China. Cu mineralization in this area is spatially and temporally associated with Late Mesozoic magmatic rocks. These rocks exhibit geochemical features of adakites, but their origin is not yet fully understood. To explore the relationship between Cu mineralization and Mesozoic magmatism, we report geochemical, Sr-Nd-Pb isotopic, and zircon U-Pb age data from adakitic rocks in the Edong-Jiurui area. Zircon U-Pb ages point to a protracted period of magmatic activity from 151 to 139 Ma. This time span coincides with the Cu mineralization (146137 Ma) in the middle and lower Yangtze River belt. Adakitic features of the rocks are displayed by high contents of SiO
30071237|In a zone of active tectonic uplift, one expects a river to change morphology simply because valley slope deforms. But by cutting through a transverse uplift, the Sevier River in southern Utah also adapts to the tectonics by eroding and depositing. These localized changes of transport are caused by varying channel geometry, pattern, sedimentology, and slope. In the uplift, the river is narrow, efficiently shaped, coarsergrained, and expends a greater proportion of energy on bed particles. It deposits sediments downstream in exaggerated meandering reaches with wider, less efficient channels. Localized erosion and deposition create a dynamic equilibrium with the structural growth, but this equilibrium includes nonlinear responses like knickpoints and depositional lobes. In response to the required erosion and deposition, the river so dramatically alters channel grain size and channel geometry that the increase of sinuosity expected in the tectonically steepened valley does not occur.
30085502|The possibility of mapping sedimentary facies by continuous functions of the proportions of the end-members or of quantities derivable from them is examined. Two contrasting procedures are suggested. The first divides the system into classes, each of which contains a unique "end-mixture" of simple type. To express the "distance" between the end-mixture and the other members of the class, a variable quantity, D, is defined. The maximum values of D coincide with the class boundaries. Maps constructed by this method are relatively self-contained and easily interpreted. The second method involves calculation of the entropy, as defined in information theory. Maps showing the distribution of entropy in the system may disclose a physically significant structure. If desired, the two types of maps may be combined. The methods described are applicable to systems of any number of components.
30058688|Lows and balls constitute a series of submerged troughs and ridges built approximately parallel to beaches with an abundant supply of sand and a gently sloping bottom. They are the work of plunging breakers and form best where the shoreline is relatively straight and where the prevailing winds are onshore. They remain in approximately the same position as long as conditions do not change. If change in wave size (height or length) occurs, the lows and balls may move slightly onshore or offshore as the position of the breaker line changes. However, if the water-level lowers, or other conditions change so as to bring the crest of the ball near the surface, currents and waves of translation are set up across the top of the ball, and the structure then migrates shoreward as a subaqueous dune. The currents and waves of translation across the top of the ball prevent its being built up above the water surface by the work of the waves alone. Thus the ball is not the immediate forerunner of the offshore bar or barrier beach. On the inshore terrace, shoreward of the true lows and balls, ridges are built in various ways by waves and currents and frequently are driven to shore as subaqueous dunes. It is these minor ridges that have been mistaken by some investigators for migrating balls.
30056287|In many places in New Mexico and Arizona a kaolinized, white horizon has been noted at the top of the Morrison formation (Jurassic) immediately under the Dakota (Cretaceous). In general, this is kaolin-cemented, white sandstone, but in Rio Arriba County, New Mexico, there occurs a nearly pure, white, massive kaolinite in small lenses at the contact between the formations. The kaolinization is of such widespread distribution that it may be useful as a horizon-marker in drilling operations, and it indicates that a moist climate prevailed during a part, at least, of the time between Jurassic and Cretaceous deposition in this area.
30063933|Desert varnish samples from Deep Springs Valley and Death Valley in California were studied with the use of the electron microprobe. Varnish can be interpreted as having two layers, an inner subordinate layer rich in
30056316|The nonglacial Pleistocene formations of central and western Kansas have been studied at many localities during the last ten years. In this paper the results of these investigations are reviewed, the major aspects of the stratigraphy are discussed, and the most significant problems are listed. Recent work has resulted in the assignment of a Pleistocene age to heterogeneous deposits, formerly believed to be Tertiary, that occur widely in western Kansas and the assignment of a Tertiary age to some sediments of central Kansas, formerly supposed to be Pleistocene, that now are differentiated as the Emma Creek formation. Some perplexing problems have been answered, but new and formerly unsuspected problems have been brought to light. The most important stratigraphic problem is the proper definition and delineation of the Pliocene-Pleistocene boundary. Other problems that warrant detailed future studies are correlations among the several strati-graphic units discussed and correlation of these nonglacial formations with the glacial formations of the upper Mississippi Valley.
30070501|Traditionally, land-mammal biochronology has subdivided the Cenozoic into discernible time intervals with an average duration of about
30071560|Mammal-bearing lacustrine and tuffaceous sediments from three localities of the Santa Cruz Formation, type fauna of the Santacrucian Land Mammal Age, in Patagonia, southern Argentina, are calibrated by radioisotope dating with the aid of magnetostratigraphy. The strata range from about 17.6 Ma to perhaps 16.0 Ma, and are thus of late-early Miocene age. The Santacrucian Land Mammal Age ranges from about 18.0 Ma to about 15.0 Ma.
30079450|Need for more extensive application of thin-section petrography to study of sediments, especially rock phosphates, is emphasized. The petrographic microscope alone is inadequate for investigation of these rocks, and often it will be necessary for the petrographer to employ X-ray diffraction, qualitative microchemistry, and other special methods. The mineralogy of rock phosphates is discussed in light of present limitations of knowledge of these minerals, and data are furnished on thirty-eight minerals that can occur in these rocks. A list of recently discredited species is also furnished, and several textures and microstructures are illustrated. The geochemical and mineralogical data on rock phosphates are regrettably meager. Theories on the origin of some of the primary, sedimentary rock phosphates cannot progress beyond the realm of speculation until the conditions which bring about precipitation of varieties of apatite from sea water have been more thoroughly investigated by laboratory techniques. Data on the origin of some of the rock phosphates of aluminum and iron are somewhat more complete, but, even here, the paragenesis of the minerals is poorly known.
30081165|To explain the temporal change in growth rates of tafoni on homogeneous, insoluble rocks, modeling is carried out based on a formulated relationship for weathering-induced reduction of rock strength. The model is expressed by
30057121|Basins with interior drainage are of widespread occurrence on the New Jersey Coastal Plain. They are oval, irregular, shallow depressions, without rims or orientation, and occur on all lithologic formations. The presence of extensive frost-wedge fillings, involutions, festoons, and other frost structures indicate that the area was exposed to a colder climate than that of today. The origin of the basins is attributed to frost-thaw action and subsidence in the periglacial zone when the Continental Ice Sheet stood just north of the Coastal Plain in Pleistocene time and is likened to the subsidence thaw basins being formed in arctic regions today.
30071148|We document the stratigraphy and provenance of the lower Tertiary terrigenous sections in the Zhepure Shan region of the Tethyan Himalaya, southern Tibet, using petrographic and geochemical wholerock and singlegrain techniques. The Cretaceousearly Tertiary shelf deposits of shallow marine carbonates and siliciclastics of the former Indian passive margin near the western end of the Zhepure Shan are conformably overlain by lower Tertiary clastic rocks. Sandstones in the Jidula Formation (Paleocene) mostly contain monocrystalline quartz grains of cratonic origin. In contrast, significant amounts of immature framework grains with a distinct ophiolitic and volcanic arc influence are present in the Youxia (Early Eocene) and Shenkeza (postEarly Eocene) formations. Major, trace, and rare earth element concentrations in both sandstones and shales complement the petrographic data and indicate that the source of the Jidula Formation consisted primarily of quartzose basement rocks, probably of Indian continental origin, whereas the sediments of the Youxia Formation were mainly derived from the uplifted Gangdese arctrench system associated with the obduction of the Asian subduction complex. The compositions of Crrich spinels in the Youxia and Shenkeza sandstones resemble those from forearc peridotites and were most likely derived from the arc and ophiolite rocks along the developing YarlungZangbo suture to the north. No spinels have been observed in the Jidula sandstones. Therefore, the early Tertiary detrital clastics in the Zhepure Shan record a marked change in provenance and sediment character and specifically at the time of deposition of the Youxia Formation, which contains a zone P8 foram assemblage. This change indicates that the onset of IndiaAsia collision and the first development of the foreland basin immediately south of the IndiaAsia suture zone occurred at
30065801|The geochemistry and isotope systematics of Archean greenstone belts provide important constraints on the origin of the volcanic rocks and tectonic models for the evolution of Archean cratons. The Kam Group is a 10kmthick pile of submarine, tholeiitic mafic, and subordinate felsic volcanic rocks erupted between 2712 and 2701 Ma that forms the bulk of the Yellowknife greenstone belt in the dominantly granitemetasedimentary Slave Province. Mafic rocks range from Normalmidocean range basaltlike basalts to slightly lightrareearthelementenriched (LREEenriched) but Nbdepleted basaltic andesites and andesites, whereas dacitic to rhyodacitic felsic rocks are strongly LREEenriched and highly depleted in Nb. The
30058759|A brief summary is presented of measurements of heats of solution of minerals belonging to the forsterite-fayalite and to the enstatite-orthoferrosilite series and of artificial ilmenite and geikielite. In the olivine and orthopyroxene series, the heat of solution in HF is found to be a linear function of the Mg: Fe ratio, indicating perfect isomorphism between the corresponding end-members. The importance and possibilities of applying calorimetry to the study of isomorphism are emphasized. On the basis of the calori-metric data available for the minerals in question, the heat and free energy are given for the reaction: olivine + fquartz  2 pyroxene. The difference of the stabilities of MgSiO and FeSiO is illustrated. The stability reaction of ilmenite and geikielite in the presence of olivine or orthopyroxene is calculated from the calorimetric data. The influence of the entropy of mixing isomorphic minerals upon the stability relation is emphasized.
30079809|Field relations, isotope systematics, and plate tectonic reconstructions require that felsic adakites in the Yangtze Block and the Dabie Orogen, eastern China, were not derived from a subducting slab, despite the signature of a mantle component in the contemporaneous mafic adakite hosts of CuAu deposits in the same areas. The apparently contradictory requirements are accounted for by (
30065607|In complement with stratigraphic and sedimentologic studies, the time resolution provided by magnetic polarity stratigraphy is a powerful tool that can be used to identify, assess, and quantify both temporal variability (unsteadiness) in sediment accumulation over a particular stratigraphic sequence and spatial variability (non-uniformity) in sedimentation across a depositional system. Chronostratigraphic variability is documented and evaluated in the Miocene channel and floodplain sediments of the Chinji Formation, part of the extensive Siwalik foreland sequence located on the Potwar Plateau of northern Pakistan. Magnetic polarity stratigraphies have been developed in multiple vertical sections correlated along strike, allowing for paleomagnetic isochrons to be traced throughout the sequence and providing a chronologic framework in which to identify unsteadiness and non-uniformity in patterns of sediment accumulation. Analysis of variability over different time scales is accomplished by constructing simulated sediment accumulation histories for time-bounded stratigraphic intervals using estimates of deposition rates for various fluvial facies, taking into account effects of erosion, and partitioning estimated time of hiatus between depositional episodes. Unsteadiness in sediment accumulation, quantified by comparing short-term episodic accumulation rates with long-term net stratigraphic rates, is used to compare variability in sediment accumulation over different time intervals and to demonstrate non-uniformity in sediment accumulation between coeval stratigraphic intervals. The significant variability in sediment accumulation observed over short time scales (
30068065|The end-Paleozoic Pangea appears to have contained three continents that had grown in the Precambrian and remained intact until Mesozoic rifting: Ur, formed at ~3 Ga and accreted to most of East Antarctica in the middle Proterozoic to form East Gondwana; Arctica, an approximately 2.5-2 Ga continent that contained Archean terranes of the Canadian and Siberian shields and Greenland; and Atlantica, formed at ~2 Ga of cratons of ~2 Ga age that now occur in West Africa and eastern South America. Arctica grew at ~1.5 Ga by accretion of most of East Antarctica plus Baltica to form the continent of Nena. Collision of Nena, Ur, and Atlantica, plus minor plates, formed the supercontinent of Rodina at ~1 Ga. Rifting of Rodinia between 1 and 0.5 Ga formed three continents: East Gondwana; Atlantica (which became the nucleus for West Gondwana); and Laurasia (which contained North America, Greenland, Baltica, and Siberia). Gondwana formed at ~0.5 Ga by amalgamation of its eastern and western parts. Various plates accreted to Laurasia during the Paleozoic, and collision of Gondwana with Laurasia created Pangea at ~0.3 Ga.
30058866|This paper presents a new genus of land turtles from the Upper Pliocene of West Texas. The almost complete skeleton is described, measurements given, and diagnostic characters pointed out.
30059077|A general description of the geology and geography of a newly discovered range of mountains in Antarctica (approximately 7215' S.-16000' E.) is given along with their location and extent. Four photos and two maps are included.
30062437|The Erzincan, Susehri, Niksar, and Lake Hazar basins are actively evolving pull-apart basins in eastern Turkey. Their structural, drainage, and depositional systems generally support a pull-apart basin sedimentation model based on ancient pull-apart basin deposits. This model involves marginal coarse-grained sedimentation adjacent to master faults, axial fine-grained sedimentation away from master faults, and high sedimentation rates. However, studies of the Turkish pull-apart basins suggest the following refinements in the model. (1) Detailed sedimentary facies patterns and the dominant facies of a pull-apart basin vary according to basin shape, climate, drainage character, and volcanic activity. Depositional environments near fault-bounded margins include alluvial fan, fan delta, and alluvial apron. Depositional environments in central areas away from fault-bounded margins include active braid plain, inactive braid plain, meander plain, salt playa, marsh, lacustrine, mouth-bar delta, and volcanic. (2) If internally drained, a pull-apart basin is likely to contain axial and transverse drainages. If externally drained, the drainage pattern varies and may exit the basin axially or transversely. (3) Pull-apart basin shapes are not necessarily rhomboidal. Comparison of data from the Turkish pull-aparts with other modern and ancient pull-apart basins suggests that sediment thickness (y) is related to length of a pull-apart basin parallel to master fault overlap (x) by the equation y = .08x + .26. This relationship predicts sediment thickness in the Erzincan, Susehri, Niksar, and Lake Hazar pull-apart basins is 2.9, 2.1, 1.5, and 0.68 km, respectively.
JG80130|Increased study of submarine groundwater systems in recent years has provided a wealth of new data and techniques, but some ambiguity has been introduced by insufficient distinguishing of the relevant spatial scales of the phenomena studied. Submarine groundwater flow and discharge on passive continental margins can be most productively studied and discussed by distinct consideration of the following three spatial scales: (1) the nearshore scale, spanning approximately 010 m offshore and including the unconfined surficial aquifer; (2) the embayment scale, spanning approximately 10 m to as much as 10 km offshore and including the first confined submarine aquifer and its terminus; and (3) the shelf scale, spanning the width and thickness of the aquifers of the entire continental shelf, from the base of the first confined aquifer downward to the basement, and including influences of geothermal convection and glacio-eustatic change in sea level.
30058271|Recent measurements on the oxygen isotopic fractionation between calcite and water and the oxygen isotope measurements on coexisting minerals permit the estimation of the isotopic fractionation factor as a function of temperature for systems involving any pair of the phases: quartz, calcite, hematite, and water. The use of these calibration curves for geological thermometry is illustrated for several natural samples. The isotopic composition of oxygen in hydrothermal fluids is also estimated from the measured O18/O16 ratios in hydrothermal minerals. The mean value thus estimated is 6%0 greater than the oxygen of mean ocean water.
30084825|Experimental crystallization of olivine tholeiite and
30067912|A review of the geological sciences reveals the fact that there was a passage from axiomatic approach in the 18th century to purely inductive adjustment in the following periods. At present mathematical geology again offers the axiomatic approach. The restoration of axiomatic idea is due to maturation of geological sciences. There are three different approaches to mathematical geology. The more mature the geological ideas in the problem are, the more the mathematic tool is determined by the geological meaning of the problem. Less mature geological problems make it necessary to introduce more routine mathematical means with restricted foundation to form geology. Some problems in geology and mathematics have been investigated and shown to be of importance for both sciences as well as for development of mathematical geology.
30055955|This paper presents a summarized account of field studies of the rifts or faults formed at the time of the earthquake, interpretation of structural data, and relation to some structural features of the western part of the Great Basin and California. Sixty rifts occur in a belt 38 miles long and 4 to 9 miles wide in a valley between two groups of mountain ranges. Horizontal movement on individual rifts and the en echelon pattern of the entire group indicate that the major movement causing the earthquake was horizontal-the east side toward the south with reference to the west side. This direction of relative horizontal movement is the same as that on the east front of the Sierra Nevada at Owens Valley and on faults in California, including the San Andreas rift. It is suggested, therefore, that movements in the western part of the Great Basin and California are definitely related. The rift area lies on the boundary between those ranges trending dominantly to the north and northeast and those ranges trending dominant-ly to the northwest. This line does not appear to have been pointed out previously, and it may be a tectonic line corresponding in some respects to the east front of the Sierra Nevada and the San Andreas rift.
10.1086/677902|The Pearya Terrane, recognized as the only exotic terrane along the Canadian Arctic margin, includes a Neoproterozoicearly Paleozoic basinal or passive-margin metasedimentary sequence that is structurally juxtaposed with arc-related Paleozoic rocks and a metamorphic basement complex containing early Neoproterozoic orthogneiss. The Neoproterozoic siliciclastic sequence is similar to other clastic sections formed at the breakup of Rodinia, but its paleogeographic origin and crustal affinity are uncertain. Detrital zircon age spectra from seven samples reveal three groups: Group A, with numerous peaks at c. 11001800 Ma and the youngest population at c. 1020 Ma; Group B, defined by a dominant c. 970 Ma age peak; and Group C, with dominant peaks from c. 9701800 Ma and a small population of c. 635710 Ma grains. Spectra from Group A resemble data from the latest Mesoproterozoic units in Svalbard, East Greenland, and the Scandinavian Caledonides, with the ubiquitous Mesoproterozoic ages observed in all these regions compatible with derivation from the Grenville-Sveconorwegian Orogen of Laurentia and Baltica. The dominance of 930970 Ma ages in Group B reflects input from magmatic rocks of this age in Pearya and Svalbard, while the 635710 Ma ages observed in Group C overlap with magmatic ages observed in the Arctic AlaskaChukotka Terrane and units in the Taimyr-Timanide region. The Neoproterozoic siliciclastic strata of the Pearya Terrane originated distal to northeastern Laurentia, in a position similar to that of the constituent terranes of Svalbard and the Eleonore Bay Supergroup of East Greenland, and they record deposition along a Neoproterozoic convergent margin active during the prolonged breakup of Rodinia.
30065811|The calcareous shells of recent articulate brachiopods and fossils of the same class dating back to the Mississippian are investigated for their crystal form,
30065156|A total of 17 sphene and 45 zircon fission track ages (FTA) are reported from the Piedmont Province of Pennsylvania, Delaware, and Maryland, the Reading Prong of New Jersey, and the Newark Basin of Pennsylvania. With the exception of one sphene sample, FTA fall within a relatively restricted age range: sphene 190-217 Ma (average 199 Ma) and zircon 143-218 Ma (average 184 Ma). Near concordance of FTA over a large tract of crystalline basement (
30067304|The Jordan sandstone-Oneota dolomite contact was studied in detail in the field, and numerous samples were collected for microscopic study. Evidence in support of solution of the dolomite at the contact and of the presence of a large diastem between these two formations is presented.
30078284|Similarities between Proterozoic (~ 1.8-2.5 Gyr) and Archean (> 2.5 Gyr) banded iron-formations are probably more significant than their differences. The contrasts largely reflect differences in the tectonic settings of Proterozoic and Archean terrains. Archean banded iron-formations are not as thick nor laterally as extensive as the major Proterozoic iron-formations. Nevertheless, some Archean iron-formations have strike lengths of over 150-200 km and may have been quite extensive prior to the deformation that has affected most Archean terrains. Stratigraphic sequences in which iron-formations occur are highly variable and indicate that iron-formations formed in many depositional environments. Sedimentary textures in the iron-formations are dominated either by granules and oolites or laminations (including microbanding) reflecting differences in their physical conditions of deposition. Granular and oolitic textures are abundant in only three Proterozoic depositional basins and most Precambrian iron-formations are laminated. Despite differences in associated lithologies and sedimentary textures Precambrian iron-formations have similar bulk compositions and mineral assemblages, implying that the chemical conditions of iron-formation deposition were similar through much of the Precambrian. The formation of banded iron-formation appears not to have reached a maximum around 1.8-2.0 Gyr but to have been an important process over a long period in the Precambrian.
30060463|The pre-Cambrian granite masses of the southern Black Hills are regarded as protrusions through the schistose sedimentary cover from a batholithic mass below. The granites of the Harney Peak area are a composite of many sills, tongues, dikes, and irregular masses of various compositions and ages. Within the area are many xenoliths of sedimentary rocks which in the central part are composed of metalimestone and amphibolite. The bedding planes and the axial planes of the isoclinal folds in the sedimentary inclusions in the interior dip outward from the central axial region and form a well-defined xenolith dome. The growth of the dome is believed to have been from the center outward by marginal intrusion on the border of a laccolith-like structure rather than by outward spread from central intrusion. As the structure increased in size, marginal dips steepened. Xenoliths were isolated largely by cross-cutting masses intersecting concordant injections and for the most part were never completely engulfed in liquid magma, so that there was little or no downward stoping. The formation of the Harney Peak dome was preceded in the area by overthrust faulting and recumbent folding and accompanied by the production of vertical faults near the margin of the granite mass, probably by the force of intrusion.
30057909|Patterns composed of two sets of slip joints are useful to the geologist as a record from which to interpret the state of stress or strain in the observed rock mass at the time of its failure. For such an interpretation it is necessary to decide whether the direction of greatest compressive stress, or of greatest shortening, be taken as the bisectrix of the acute, or that of the obtuse angle between the joints. Theoretical considerations of failure by slipping along two sets of planes at approximately 90 to one another bring out two general theories. One, called the "stress theory" in this paper, concludes that these planes form acute angles facing the direction of greatest compression; and the other, called the "strain theory," that these planes form obtuse angles facing the direction of greatest compression. An analysis of experimental data and field evidence in the light of the factors evaluated by these two theories suggests the following rule: that in incompetent beds the strain theory be used, i.e., that the direction of greatest shortening be interpreted as bisecting the obtuse angle between the slip joints, and that the joint patterns in competent rocks be used with caution in this connection. Some remarks on the nomenclature of joints are added, suggesting that joints be classified as "slip" or "rip joints" instead of as "shear" (compression) or "tension joints." Also the general relations of stress and strain are discussed, emphasizing the distinction between causal and internal stresses and the fact that some independent evidence is necessary in order to determine the causal stress from the internal stress or strain condition recorded by the rock structures.
30079613|This paper presents thirty-nine new analyses and petrographic notes on igneous rocks of the Canadian Shield. Attention is called to some peculiar rocks and to the probable bearing of the results on calculations of the composition of the Shield.
30060102|The predominate Tertiary (44.2  2.2 m.y.) intrusions of the Sacramento Mountains are thin dikes and sills of fine- and coarse-grained camptonite. Both rock types contain phenocrysts of diopsidic augite, hornblende, and plagioclase (
30068835|One of the worlds most extensive occurrences of whiteschists (talckyanite schists) is located in south central Africa with several exposures along a ca. 700 km northwestsoutheast striking zone. The metamorphic evolution and age relations of whiteschists and associated rocks from four localities, three in the Lufilian Arc and one in the Zambezi Belt, were investigated. In the Lufilian Arc whiteschists, associated garnetamphibolites and biotitekyanitegarnet gneisses record peak metamorphic conditions of about
30059054|A thick deep-sea clastic succession in the Upper Carboniferous of the Cantabrian Mountains, Spain, is identified as a small (radius some 10 km) deep-sea fan, called the Pesaguero Fan. The fan succession is composed of facies triplets, each of which consists of a mudstone blanket, a sandstone lobe, and a conglomerate tongue. A facies triplet represents a complete cycle of progradation of a major, active fan lobe (sandstone and conglomerate) over a previously inactive part of the fan (mudstone). New lobes originate by avulsion from the inner fan environment. The distribution in space and time of individual fan lobes may be controlled by the combined influence of gradient advantage, the Coriolis effect, and sea level change.
30079439|Albanian ophiolites are represented by two different coeval belts, each displaying wellexposed, complete ophiolitic sequences that originated in the same oceanic basin and each showing distinct geochemical characteristics. The eastern belt is characterized by suprasubduction zone (SSZ) ophiolitic sequences, including island arc tholeiitic and boninitic volcanic series. The western belt, although composed mainly of midocean ridgetype (MORtype) ophiolites with highTi geochemical affinity, also exhibits alternating sequences showing distinct geochemical affinities referable to MOR and SSZtype volcanics. These volcanics can be geochemically subdivided into four groups: (1) group 1 basalts show high field strength element (HFSE) and rare earth element (REE) concentrations similar to those of oceanfloor basalts; (2) group 2 basalts, basaltic andesites, dacites, and rhyolites, characterized by HFSE and light REE depletion similar to those in many lowTi volcanics from SSZ settings; (3) group 3 basalts exhibit geochemical features intermediate between groups 1 and 2 but also bear SSZ features, being characterized by HFSE depletion with respect to the NMORBs; (4) group 4 boninitic dikes display very lowTi contents and typically depleted,
30075140|The Maybrun Mines property, Kenora District, Ontario, is underlain largely by Keewatin-type metavolcanics that are transected by igneous rocks. Belts of metasedimentary rocks are very minor in extent. The igneous rock types that underlie the porperty consist of granodiorite, aplite, and leucogranite, and these are accompanied by metamorphic amphibolites derived from (1) metasedimentary high-rank graywacke and volcanic tuff, (2) extrusive meta-andesitic lavas, some of which contain pillows, and (3) intrusive gabbro, diorite, and dacite porphyry. The meta-andesite is characterized by pillow structures and spots which are saussuritized plagioclase phenocrysts. The chilled borders of the pillows and the intrastratification of the meta-andesitic lavas and metasedimentary strata suggest a marine environment of deposition of the pillowed lavas.
10.1086/673177|Pediments are convergent forms. Of the recognized types, the covered is of epigene derivation and is characteristic of certain sectors of fold mountains. The more widely distributed mantled forms (shield lands, dissected plateaus, and fold mountains) are of etch origin. The associated rock pediments are two-stage features resulting from the stripping of the regolith from the mantled forms. They remain in physical continuity with the scarp or outcrop, whereas platforms, also of two-stage origin, stand in isolation. Etching also accounts for those several streamless mantled pediments that presently lack any substantial backing upland and, hence, source of seepage. The interpretation of pediments as etch and, hence, azonal forms directs attention to the role played by subsurface weathering and pediments in landscape evolution.
30065153|To examine the role of organic constituents in the destruction of calcium carbonate skeletons, we aged fresh shells of the bivalves Nucula sulcata (organic-rich nacreous aragonites with low crystallite surface areas) and Cerastoderma edule (organic-poor porcellaneous aragonites, high crystallite surface areas) under both sterile and non-sterile ("microbial") conditions in aragonite-undersaturated, -saturated, and -supersaturated seawaters for periods up to 11 months. Deterioration was tracked by SEM and weight-loss, and compared to damage produced by reagents of specific effect. The same qualitative sequence of damage was observed in all tanks for both species, but rates of deterioration were
30061973|Sediments of the Panama Basin contain >90% nonbiogenous components adjacent to Central and South America, but <5% in the area west of the Galapagos Islands. The nearshore deposits are quartz rich, with clay fractions consisting of roughly equal amounts of chlorite, illite, and kaolinite. These sediments are dispersed over distances of several hundred kilometers by currents in waters of intermediate depth (below the photic zone, but not deep enough to be affected by bottom topography), and to a lesser extent by bottom currents that flow through the deepest parts of the Basin. In the outer parts of the basin, the nonbiogenous deposits are quartz poor, with clay fractions dominated by authigenic montmorillonite. Winnowing and lateral reworking at the sea floor, which strongly affect the distribution of biogenous components, have little effect on the patterns of occurrence of the clay minerals.
30065498|In order better to characterize the features of patch reefs, we studied two reefs located in Bermuda's north lagoon. Both are less than 150 m wide and rise steeply from the relatively featureless lagoon floor at 18 m depth, to within 1 or 2 m of sea level. On the rough mesa-like reef tops, coral- and algae-covered knobs are interspersed with sediment-filled valleys and hollows. There is no pronounced zonation of the organisms or reef structures across the reefs, although one reef is atoll-like, having a coral-algal margin surrounding a sandy plain. Massive corals, principally Montastrea annularis and Diploria strigosa, are the most important reef-framework builders, as revealed in sections made by blasting. Uneven coral growth is thought to be the major factor influencing the shape of reef cavities which are common throughout the reef mass. The walls of these cavities are veneered with distinctive wall growths built by the skeletons of shade-loving organisms, principally encrusting ectoprocts, coralline algae, bivalves, and foraminifera. Sediments of the reef top are generally coarse-to-very-coarse sands with good-to-moderate sorting. All the particles are derived from the skeletons of organisms dwelling on the reefs, although the proportion of Halimeda fragments increases with an increase in sandy substrate on the reef. Cavity sediments are generally finer grained; their contribution to the total mass of reef sediment is difficult to estimate, although it is thought to be large. Some reef sands are washed down the reef face to build a steep reef sediment slope, but at distances greater than 10 m from the reef, the reef-derived constituents become quantitatively unimportant. On the near-reef lagoon floor, fine sediments winnowed from the reef settle from suspension to form a "halo of fines" around the reef.
30061273|Optical and electron probe microanalysis of the dark patination coating rocks from the Sonoran Desert reveal a distinct, though sometimes discontinuous layer approximately 20 microns thick. This layer is characterized by concentrations of iron, manganese and magnesium considerably higher than their concentrations within the host rocks. The metal-rich layer is contained within a clay-like matrix and is, in some samples, separated from the host rock by a weathering cortex up to 1 mm thick. A large fraction of the metal in the outer layer appears to have been derived from sources external to the varnished rocks, probably wind-transported dust and clay.
30078451|Middleton Island, lying near the margin of the continental shelf in the Gulf ot Alaska, is about 5 miles long, 1 mile wide, and 126 feet in maximum elevation. A Pliocene or Pleistocene bedrock sequence, totaling 3,675 feet in thickness and consisting chiefly of marine glacial sediments, is exposed on and near the island. The bedrock sequence strikes N. 27-55 E. and dips 22-30 NW. Pulsating emergence of the island in late Pleistocene (?) and Recent time is recorded by uplifted marine terraces at five levels between 10 and 105 feet above the present sea-level. The deposits of gravel, sand, and mud overlying the wave-cut bedrock surfaces of the terraces are largely, if not entirely, residual material derived from the bedrock.
30065644|Metamorphism in the Taygetos (western Peloponnesus) and Parnon (eastern Peloponnesus) tectonic windows shows two distinct styles of evolution. The metamorphism in the Taygetos window shows at least two conventional clockwise P-T-t evolutionary paths characteristic of collision of subduction settings. Metamorphism in the Parnon window, however, is characterized by a counter-clockwise P-T-t evolution followed by a later clockwise P-T-t path. The early evolution in the Parnon window implies that extension (lithospheric thinning) induced deep local shearing and local thickening of the Phyllite Series prior to collision. We propose that this extension was related to a major low-angle normal fault that appeared below the Ionian basin and the Tripolitza platform. This hypothesis implies a late Eocene or older age for the beginning of the metamorphism that affected the precursors of the Phyllite Series. It also implies that the closure of Tethys at this time was controlled by a complex system of converging as well as diverging boundaries. During collision, the Phyllite Series of Parnon began retrograde metamorphic evolution moving westward, while those of Taygetos underwent a prograde one below the structural pile of the Tripolitza and Pindos units.
30067420|This paper considers the mechanics of intrusion of large dikes as exemplified by the Medford Dike in eastern Massachusetts. Associated with the large dike are many older cross-dikes belonging to at least seven systems. A careful mapping of these dikes shows clearly that they have not been offset by the intrusion of the large dike. This suggests that the Medford Dike did not intrude the country rock by pushing aside the walls of a fracture, but rather that the country rock formerly occupying the dike chamber was removed by some process of stoping. Evidence is set forth to show that a theory of piecemeal stoping is not as satisfactory an explanation as a hypothesis of large-block stoping-i.e., that the whole block formerly occupying the dike chamber sank downward in the upwelling basaltic magma.
30063622|Unconformable surfaces separating Precambrian crystalline basement and overlying Proterozoic to Cambrian sedimentary rocks provide an exceptional opportunity to examine the role of primitive soil ecosystems in weathering and resultant formation of saprolite (weathered rock retaining rock structure) and regolith (weathered rock without rock structure), but many appear to have been affected by burial diagenesis and hydrothermal fluid flow, leading some researchers to discount their suitability for such studies. We examine one modern weathering profile (Cecil series), four Cambrian paleoweathering profiles from the North American craton (Squaw Creek, Franklin Mountains, Core SQ8, and Core 4), one Neoproterozoic profile (Sheigra), and one late Paleoproterozoic profile (Baraboo), to test the hypothesis that these paleoweathering profiles do provide evidence of primitive terrestrial weathering despite their diagenetic and hydrothermal overprinting, especially additions of potassium. We employ an integrated approach using (1) detailed thinsection investigations to identify characteristic pedogenic features associated with saprolitization and formation of welldrained regoliths, (2) electron microprobe analysis to identify specific weathered and new mineral phases, and (3) geochemical mass balance techniques to characterize volume changes during weathering and elemental gains and losses of major and minor elements relative to the inferred parent materials. There is strong pedogenic evidence of paleoweathering, such as clay illuviation, sepicplasmic fabrics, redoximorphic features, and dissolution and alteration of feldspars and mafic minerals to kaolinite, gibbsite, and Fe oxides, as well as geochemical evidence, such as wholerock losses of Na, Ca, Mg, Si, Sr, Fe, and Mn greater than in modern profiles. Evidence of diagenesis includes net additions of K, Ba, and Rb determined through geochemical mass balance, Kfeldspar overgrowths in overlying sandstone sections, and Kfeldspars with reaction rims in weathered basement. The subCambrian paleoweathering profiles formed on granite are remarkably similar to modern weathering profiles formed on granite, in spite of overprinting by potassium diagenesis.
30084982|The long-range order-disorder of Al-Si within the tetrahedral layer of muscovite is discussed by the nearest neighbor model. According to this model, the lambda point exists, but it is lower than that of margarite. If the percentage occupancies of aluminum at the
30063989|Dynamic crystallization experiments were performed to reproduce textural and mineralogic features of some Grande Ronde, Columbia River pillow basalts and thereby estimate cooling rates of the various pillow textural zones. The essential petrographic features of these pillows can be experimentally duplicated by melting at the liquidus temperature (1140C), followed by isothermal-drop crystallization at 1125C, and then linear cooling to subsolidus temperatures at rates between 2400C/hr (to reproduce vitrophyric rims) and 10/hr (to reproduce the holocrystalline interiors). In both cooling experiments and the pillows, the Al-content of pyroxenes and the Fe-content of plagioclase display a systematic variation with respect to cooling rate or position within the pillow. Pyroxene grain size data derived from the cooling experiments display a linear relationship with cooling rate, but are strongly influenced by the original melting temperature. Pyroxenes crystallized during experiments originally melted at liquidus temperatures are finer-grained than those crystallized at identical cooling rates but from original sub-liquidus melt temperatures. As predicted by a conductive cooling model, cooling rates for pillow cores (i.e., 10-15/hr for a 200 cm pillow radius and 100-300/hr for a 25 cm pillow radius) can only be reconciled with pyroxene grain sizes observed in experiments that were cooled from the sub-liquidus melt temperatures. The equilibrium phase relations also indicate a sub-liquidus eruption temperature as recorded by microphenocrystic assemblages observed in vitrophyric pillow rims. The pre-emptive thermal history of the lava will modify pillow textures from those predicted by conductive cooling models. Superheating destroys nucleation sites in the melt, and subsequent cooling yields finer-grained textures than those which would occur in the absence of superheating. Pre-emptive crystallization may also affect the development of groundmass texture by using up all the available nucleation sites for the growth of phenocrysts. This would result in finer matrix textures than might otherwise occur.
30078386|The spatial and temporal complexity of earth surface processes and landforms and the presence of deterministic chaos in many fundamental physical processes provide reasons to suspect chaos in geomorphic systems. A method is presented to assess the likelihood of chaotic behavior in a geomorphic system. The method requires identification of the fundamental system components, their positive, negative, or negligible influences on each other, and the relative strength or magnitudes of these links. Based on this information, the method can classify geomorphic systems as stable and nonchaotic, unstable and potentially chaotic, or unstable and generally chaotic. Positive, self-enhancing feedback is a key diagnostic of the likelihood of chaotic behavior. A sample application of the method to the problem of coastal marsh response to sea level rise is provided, which shows the marsh to be unstable. If changes in vegetation cover are partly dependent on vegetation density, the system is generally chaotic if marsh vegetation exhibits self-enhancing feedback (for example, seed source effects) and potentially chaotic if vegetation exhibits self-limiting feedback (competitive effects). The attractors controlling the chaotic dynamics represent states of pronounced erosion/drowning or accretion/expansion.
30079992|The calcalkaline Ladakh batholith (NW Himalayas) was dated to constrain the timing of continental collision and subsequent deformation. Batholith growth ended when collision disrupted subduction of the Tethyan oceanic lithosphere, and thus the youngest magmatic pulse indirectly dates the collision. Both UPb ages on zircons from three samples of the Ladakh batholith and KAr from one subvolcanic dike sample were determined. Magmatic activity near Leh (the capital of Ladakh) occurred between 70 and 50 Ma, with the last major magmatic pulse crystallizing at ca.
30079943|Alleghanian metamorphism in southcentral New England is characterized by Late Pennsylvanian,
30081159|A continental minerotrophic peatland in Alberta was studied for its botanical, petrographical, mineralogical and geochemical characteristics. Changes in peat stratigraphy and mineralogy are related, and development toward oligotrophic conditions is recorded. Elemental concentration and distribution vary in the peat profile, reflecting the influence of natural and anthropogenic factors on peat geochemistry. Many elements (Al, As, Ba, Co, Cr, Fe, Mn, Th, V) accumulate in the zone of water table fluctuation as a result of changes in redox chemistry. The relative elemental concentration at the surface and near-surface (e.g., As, Cr, Sb, Th, Ti, V) may also be attributed to atmospheric deposition related to anthropogenic activity. Chemical analysis (Al, Fe, Mg, Na, Si, Ti) also reveals the presence of a non-visible volcanic-ash-rich layer near the base of the peat profile, possibly Mazama tephra. This study provides evidence of pyrite formation in a freshwater peat-forming environment, associated with high-sulphur peats.
30068825|The Central Iberian Zone comprises lowgrade metamorphic zones alternating with Variscan thermal domes apparently equilibrated at the same pressure. The Variscan thermal domes are composed of authochtonous to allochtonous granites and anatectic complexes that represent remnants of the granite source layer. The anatectic complexes consist of 90% highgrade metasediments and 10% Cadomian (
30059966|Near Spokane, Washington, are some pegmatites that are unusual, not only because they contain cassiterite, but because the tin has been precipitated from a magmatic solution that is exceptionally rich in aluminum and has among its associates the minerals andalusite and sillimanite. The andalusite was precipitated first, followed by cassiterite, but the andalusite has been in part replaced by orthoclase, with which the sillimanite formed about contemporaneously, both probably the products of hydrothermal solutions which attacked the early minerals of the pegmatites. Small amounts of wolframite and scheelite occur in the pegmatites and related quartz veins, some of the veins also with galena and tourmaline. This shows the origin of pegmatites and metalliferous-bearing veins from the same parent solutions.
30070464|The contemporary and Pleistocene coral reefs of the Australian shelf regions illustrate reef development in a relatively stable epicontinental environment-the most common facies in geology. All reef forms-fringing, barrier, atoll, and platform reefs- and five varieties of coral island are found here. The vertical distribution of corals is controlled mainly by light, a function of turbidity, and the areal distribution mainly by temperature (minimum is about 18 C. average for the coldest month). The shape of coral reefs is generally controlled by wind, wave, and current, although complex forms due to old geomorphologic or structural controls later modified by wind, etc., are also common. Normally, a small reef patch, in a region of a single dominant wind and current, will grow into a horseshoe form, then to an atoll, and will eventually fill up to become a large platform. Coral islands are due either to accumulation of sand or shingle, in which case they tend to have an oval or streamlined shape, or to a Recent eustatic drop in sea level, leading to emerged coral limestones that tend to be eroded into irregular scalloped patterns. "Negroheads" may be formed by such erosion and by jetsam-like accretion on the reef margin. Reef borings and structural and geomorphologic features show that ecologic, tectonic, and eustatic factors may all play a part in reef development. The reality of Pleistocene-Recent eustatic oscillations is proved on geological and physiographic grounds, regardless of coral reefs. Most of the reefs in the Australian area are believed to have grown up from initial coastal fringing reefs during eustatic lows, but the foundations of many of the deeper reefs (in the Great Barrier Reef and on the outer Sahul Shelf) must have subsided tectonically. Physiographic evidence shows that an antecedent platform (a continental shelf) existed prior to the main development of the reefs. Sedimentation is extremely rapid in the enclosed Great Barrier Reef lagoon but is slow on the exposed northern and western shelves. In both living and ancient reefs the proportion of actual colonial corals grown in situ is extremely small in relation to the enormous quantities of "coralline" sedimentary debris. The ratio of reef structures to areas of "normal" shelf sedimentation, even in the most prolific coral areas, is also very small. The thickness of reef structures in the Great Barrier Reef lagoon has been proved by boring not to exceed 500 feet. Physiographic evidence shows that most of the near-shore reefs are not more than 60 feet thick. Similar evidence shows that in extreme marginal areas (which probably underwent Quaternary subsidence) certain reefs may exceed 1,500 feet in thickness (e.g., on the outer Sahul Shelf). The Great Barrier Reef borings and those of Funafuti, Bikini, etc., show that tectonic subsidence was fairly rapid in all of them. Concentrations of
30075163|The Illinoian and Wisconsin Pleistocene stratigraphy of the Whitewater basin, southeastern Indiana is summarized. Analyses are of the vegetation preserved in an Illinoian interstadial deposit, the Sangamon soil, and an early Wisconsin interstadial deposit. The pollen diagrams show a vegetational succession during Sangamon time from conifers (mostly pine) to hardwoods, with a final reversion to a coniferous boreal forest of spruce, fir, and pine at the beginning of the Wisconsin Stage. The Sangamon hardwood period was apparently warmer and drier than the postglacial hypsithermal interval in the region. Spruce wood and mosses were found at the upper surface of the Sangamon soil, buried by glacial rock flour and the earliest Wisconsin till; these, together with pollen data, provide a partial record of the flora extant at the end of the Sangamon interglacial, or the beginning of the Wisconsin. Pollen and mosses from Illinoian and Wisconsin interstadial calcareous deposits indicate that these intervals were probably short and cool throughout. Comparison of the palynological results obtained in this study is made with the few other Sangamon and interstadial vegetational analyses which are known. One of these earlier vegetational studies by Voss (1933, 1939), on presumed Sangamon peat from central Illinois, is re-evaluated on the basis of later geologic evidence and is now considered to represent an early Wisconsin interstadial deposit.
30066064|The use of sets of serial sections is important in many geological applications because it can enable precise reconstructions to be made of the sectioned objects. Reconstruction techniques which have previously been used-optical visualization, graphical reconstruction and physical modeling-are unsuitable for routine use, especially when internal structures of an object are to be studied. A new system, termed "computerized modeling," is described here which, although more expensive, is quick and simple to use. A two-stage reconstruction process can be used for two-phase systems. When an object is sectioned, the intersections of its bounding surfaces with the sections trace out sets of closed loops. The first (feature recognition) stage compares loop patterns on adjacent sections to locate matching features which define the topology of the object. If sections are sufficiently similar this stage can be fully automated; otherwise it is done manually. The following (interpolation) stage determines the geometrically best-fitting surfaces connecting the matching features. The object is finally described by its bounding surfaces in a form in which it can be manipulated objectively. Three examples are given: two pairs of test patterns of varying complexity, and a set of sections through a rhynchonellid brachiopod.
30062380|The temperature structure of a subduction zone, including convection in the surrounding asthenosphere and dehydration and frictional heating in the descending slab, has been calculated by a finite difference procedure. Models of ocean-ocean (thin landward lithosphere) and ocean-continent (thick landward lithosphere) convergence have been constructed. In the ocean-ocean case, melting is predicted only in the wet-peridotite of the asthenosphere overlying the downgoing slab. In the ocean-continent case, however, melting of the lower continental mantle, the basal continental crust, and the subducted oceanic crust as well as the asthenosphere above the slab could occur. A complex origin for continental volcanic arc magmas is permitted by this model. Additionally, a change in focal mechanisms from interplate thrust to intraplate compression and a zone of high b-values (the frequency-magnitude relation of earthquakes) in the upper of two seismic planes delineating the subducting Pacific Plate beneath northeastern Honshu, Japan, both occur where dehydration of the oceanic crust is predicted to occur in our model. The coincidence between the location of the dehydration front in the slab and the existence of an aseismic front in the wedge above this dehydration boundary suggests that water advecting upward from the slab prevents the occurrence of earthquakes. Temperatures in this region between the aseismic front and the volcanic front are too cold to allow melting of wet peridotite to occur, but beneath the volcanic front, melting of wet asthenosphere is predicted.
30061992|Undeformed ash-flow tuffs for which a late Eocene age is herein established unconformably overlie eroded granitic rocks of the largely Cretaceous and Paleocene coastal batholith in the lower part of the Pacific slope of the Andes 60 km east of Lima, Peru. These relations (1) indicate rapid uplift of the coastal region, as well as areas farther inland, shortly after Cretaceous-Paleocene plutonism; (2) provide additional evidence for a pulse of Eocene deformation, igneous activity, and uplift contemporaneous with the change in plate movement reflected by the bend in the Hawaii-Emperor trace; (3) suggest that certain of the centered volcano-plutonic complexes of the coastal batholith may have remained active after uplift and erosion of older rocks of the batholith; and (4) demonstrate that rocks of the coastal region and the lower western slopes of the Andes were largely unaffected by middle Miocene tectonism.
30067423|A specimen of ophiacodont reptile (Winfieldia hilli, gen. et sp. nov.) is described from the Permian Fort Riley limestone of Kansas. Its morphology, its deposition in a marine formation, and the stratigraphy of Paleozoic vertebrate remains from the Northern Plains are discussed.
30063344|A gravity-meter traverse across the Douglas fault in Pine County, Minnesota, has been run. Assuming the fault to be sandstone against basalt, the throw of the fault has been shown to be about 11,000 feet.
30078265|Middle Devonian orogeny in western North America is suggested by unconformities in widely separated areas along the continental margin, and is consistent with a variety of geologic information. In the Shasta Lake region of northern California the Copley Greenstone and Balaklala Rhyolite, which contained an isolated arthrodire plate, are inferred to be of Eifel age. These units underlie the Late Eifel age Kennett Formation. An early Paleozoic sequence in the Gazelle-Callahan area to the north includes fossiliferous beds as young as the Ems to Middle Devonian. Age of metamorphism of rocks known a short distance to the west is about 380 m.y., which could represent an Eifel age event. An angular unconformity and orogenic interval is known at the northern end of the Sierra Nevada between fossiliferous Silurian and Mississippian age beds. In the southern Sierra Nevada, an unconformity exists between fossiliferous Late Devonian beds and unfossiliferous beds of older Paleozoic age. In the eastern Sierra Nevada, rocks of probable Permian age rest unconformably on rocks of possible Ordovician or Silurian age at one locality. Evidence for possible Middle Devonian orogeny is also known from Northwest Washington (Givet age beds resting unconformably on basement complex) and from southeastern Alaska (Givet age beds resting on Silurian and older rocks; Lower Devonian beds overlain with possible unconformity by beds of Givet and Eifel [?] age). A clastic wedge, of Givet age at its base and possibly derived from the west, is known from Northeastern British Columbia. Widespread disconformities of Ems and Eifel age on the western edge of the adjacent platform are perhaps unrelated to Middle Devonian orogeny. These scattered data may indicate the presence of a Late Eifel age orogenic episode which involved the so-called Klamath-Sierran island arc and parts of other inferred arcs located in western Canada and southeastern Alaska. If so, this orogenic interval is considerably older than the Antler event, which centered in Latest Devonian-Mississippian time in a more eastern continental slope environment.
30064651|Maps of postglacial uplift for Arctic Canada (excluding the Queen Elizabeth Islands) portray a highly irregular surface. Analysis of sites where the elevation and age of marine limits are known indicates that the variability is explicable in terms of distance (D) from the former ice margin (a measure of ice thickness) and date of deglaciation. These two variables account for 80 per cent of the variation in postglacial uplift (
30060694|Factor analyses in a Q mode recovered simple quantitative relationships from a large amount of petrographic data from Mississippian carbonate rocks (Ste. Genevieve Limestone). Four factors explain most (87%) of the data in terms of established microfacies, inferred energy groups, inferred depositional processes, and known variation in deposition and evolution of carbonate strata through time. Individual factor analyses of four stratigraphic sections demonstrate the homogeneity of depositional environments of the Ste. Genevieve Limestone and depict the degree of oolitization and intensity of local agitation (factor 1), intensity of transporting subaqueous currents that distributed and supplied nuclei for oolitization (factor 2), bioclastic composition related to indigenous faunas and their distribution (factor 3), and pelletoidal composition of lithic and fecal origin (factor 4). Combination of transporting subaqueous currents (factor 2) and intensity of agitation (factor 1) is interpreted to indicate chiefly variation in relative energy with depth and nearness to shore, and is illustrated as a stratigraphic variation curve. This agreed well with a previously determined relative bathymetry curve based on microfacies succession. These analyses indicate an optimum classification with highly interdependent depositional categories in a complex, but well-ordered, marine depositional framework. Overall, the pattern is simple.
30084809|Counts to determine the frequency distributions of the occurrence of accessory heavy minerals in sediments may lead to binomial, Poisson, or negative binomial distributions; and conditions leading to those distributions are discussed. A set of data may be "fitted" to these model distributions, and the goodness of fit may be tested by chi-square. An example of fitting the Poisson, mixed Poisson, and negative binomial to some estimates of the frequency of zircon in some samples of Oswego sandstone from a single outcrop is described; the lack of fit appears to be due to non-random variation among operator-sample pairs.
30084830|Calcareous tubes of the polychaete family Serpulidae are composed of magnesian calcite, aragonite, or mixtures of these two minerals. Mineralogy is controlled principally by generic factors, but may be modified-at least in some genera-by environmental factors. The percentage of aragonite in most serpulid tubes shows little or no correlation with water temperature. The
10.1086/682009|Paleogeographic reconstructions of India and Madagascar before their late Cretaceous rifting juxtapose the Antongil Block of Madagascar against the Deccan Traps of India, indicating that the Western Dharwar Craton extends below the Deccan lavas. Some recent studies have suggested that the South Maharashtra Shear Zone along the northern Konkan coast of India limits the northern extent of the Western Dharwar Craton, implying that the craton does not extend below the Deccan Traps, raising a question mark on paleogeographic reconstructions of India and Madagascar. The continuity of the Western Dharwar Craton north of the South Maharashtra Shear Zone below the Deccan Trapsor its lack thereofis critical for validating tectonic models correlating Madagascar with India. In this study, zircons in tonalitic basement xenoliths hosted in Deccan Trap dykes were dated in situ, using the U-Pb isotope system. The data furnish U-Pb ages that define three populations at 2527  6, 2456  6, and 2379  9 Ma. The 2527  6 Ma ages correspond to the igneous crystallization of the tonalites, whereas the 2456  6 and 2379  9 Ma ages date metamorphic overprints. The results help to establish for the first time that the basement is a part of the Neoarchean granitoid suite of the Western Dharwar Craton, which extends northward up to at least Talvade in central and Kihim beach in the western Deccan. By implication, the South Maharashtra Shear Zone cannot be the northern limit of the Western Dharwar Craton. The granitoids are correlated with the Neoarchean felsic intrusions (2.572.49) of the Masaola suite in the Antongil Block of Madagascar, supporting the existence of a Neoarchean Greater Dharwar Craton comprising the Western Dharwar Craton and the Antongil-Masora Block.
30078247|Recently obtained sounding lines have been combined with published Hydrographic Office soundings to show the generalized bathymetry in the east equatorial Pacific. Carnegie Ridge is a relatively shoal area west of Ecuador, of which approximately 10,000 square miles lie shoaler than 1,000 fathoms and the shoalest portion is within 750 fathoms of the surface. The shallow northern extension of the Peru Trench bathymetrically separates Carnegie Ridge from the continental terrace. Cocos Ridge is a submarine ridge which extends southwestward from Costa Rica to the northern part of the Galapagos Islands. A relatively shoal zone of irregular topography is present for at least 560 miles west of the islands. Between Costa Rica and the Galapagos Islands the general depth along the ridge is between 900 and 1,000 fathoms; but irregularities project to lesser depths, and one of these forms volcanic Cocos Island. Four echograms taken across the ridge failed to reveal truncated seamounts upon it. On the basis of the bathymetry of Carnegie Ridge and the geological history of Colombia and Ecuador, it is speculated that the easternmost portion of Carnegie Ridge may once have been part of the western borderland for the early Tertiary geosyncline which existed along the present coastal lowlands of western Ecuador. This would have shortened the sea route to the Galapagos Islands and possibly facilitated the rafting of plants and animals to the Islands. A recently proposed explanation for the origin of Galapagan life called for the emergence of Cocos Ridge to within a short distance of the Islands in Miocene time, but the apparent absence of truncated seamounts on Cocos Ridge is evidence against a former emergence. The portion of Cocos Ridge lying west of the Galapagos Islands resembles, in trend and topography, the four great submarine fracture zones which are found west of North America.
30063954|Conventional gravity tectonics alone do not account satisfactorily for the low-angle Heart Mountain detachment fault that is associated in space and time with the inception of volcanism in the Absaroka volcanic field. In the light of recent advances in knowledge of vesiculation and fluidization processes, it is here envisaged that voluminous volcanic gas was intruded laterally at a favored stratigraphic horizon below extremely massive limestone, effectively reducing friction so that an extensive but thin sheet of this limestone and overlying rocks were able to slide along a very gentle slope. Where the sheet cracked, gas and rluidized material escaped, and blocks of the hovering and sliding sheet abruptly came to rest. This hypothesis meets certain physical requirements imposed by depth of vesiculation and explains various puzzling major and minor structural features. Further discussion concerns possible analogies and prerequisites for "hovercraft" tectonics to occur.
30056886|The amount of cementing material varies considerably in the Simpson sandstones of the Arbuckle Mountain region, Oklahoma, and in the St. Peter sandstone in north-central Arkansas and east-central Missouri. The frosted appearance of many of the quartz grains is due to incipient secondary outgrowths, pressure solution, and thin clay coatings. The white stringers of quartz, previously referred to as veins in these sandstones, are largely the result of granulation rather than the deposition of silica. Most of the quartz cementation is unrelated to faulting, but some carbonate was introduced in faulted areas. Carbonate replaces clay and the marginal portion of quartz grains. The clay coating on quartz grains tends to be replaced by secondary quartz except where the coating is thick. Meteoric waters apparently have not etched the quartz grains or promoted the deposition of secondary silica. Pressure solution at grain contacts has modified grain shapes and reduced porosity. In the St. Peter sandstone the most pressure solution occurred in the clay-bearing sandstones. The amount of silica which dissolved as a result of pressure solution appears to be sufficient to account for most of the secondary quartz in the sandstones.
30080866|If the porosity of a commonly occurring sedimentary rock is estimated from its bulk density by the equation,
10.1086/597515|The Mojave province in southern California preserves a comparatively complete record of assembly, postorogenic sedimentation, and rifting along the southwestern North American continental margin. The oldest exposed rocks are metasedimentary gneisses and amphibolite, enclosing intrusive suites that range from tonalite and quartz monzodiorite to granite with minor trondhjemite. Discrete magmatic episodes occurred at approximately 17901730 and 16901640 Ma. Evidence from detrital and premagmatic zircons indicates that recycling of 19001790 Ma Paleoproterozoic crust formed the unique isotopic character of the Mojave province. Peak metamorphic conditions in the Mojave province reached middle amphibolite to granulite facies; metamorphism occurred locally from 1795 to 1640 Ma, with widespread evidence for metamorphism at 17111689 and 16701650 Ma. Structures record early, tight to isoclinal folding and penetrative westvergent shear during the final metamorphic event in the west Mojave province. Proterozoic basement rocks are overlain by siliciclasticcarbonate sequences of Mesoproterozoic, Neoproterozoic, and Cambrian age, recording environmental change over the course of the transition from stable Mojave crust to the rifted Cordilleran margin. Neoproterozoic quartzites have diverse zircon populations inconsistent with a southwest North American source, which we infer were derived from the western conjugate rift pair within Rodinia, before establishment of the miogeocline. NeoproterozoicCambrian miogeoclinal clastic rocks record an end to rifting and establishment of the Cordilleran miogeocline in southern California by latest Neoproterozoic to Early Cambrian time.
30079883|The Hualapai basin, northwestern Arizona, contains one of the thickest known, nonmarine halite deposits in a continental rift. The basin is a large half-graben in the hanging wall of a listric normal fault along the eastern margin of the Basin and Range province. Seismic reflection and drill-hole data indicate that the little-deformed halite is 2.5 km thick in the central part of the basin, approaches
30056889|A study was undertaken in an area east of Berkeley, California, to attempt to determine if a recognizable relation exists between landslide occurrence and slope exposure. Seventy per cent of the landslides observed were found to occur on slopes with northerly and easterly orientation. It is suggested that in the area under consideration exposure plays an important role in determining on which slopes landslides are most likely to occur.
30080805|The author proposes (1929) to replace the term "eutectic curve" by the new term "cotectic curve," and, further, deals with the terms peritectic, anchi-eutectic, anchi-cotectic, etc. He also gives a summary of the physical chemistry of the sequence of crystallization, with particular application to the genesis of the granites.
30067917|A method is presented whereby serial sections can be stored by computer in a form in which they are available for a variety of mathematical manipulations. One important application is the representation of the original object as a projection into two dimensions. The sections, or any selected parts of them, can be displayed in the correct mutual positions as seen from any desired angle. In an appendix a technique is described for large-scale production of serial sections through brachiopods and other objects of similar size.
30080927|The paleotemperature record of the Swedish deep-sea core 280 from the middle North Atlantic correlates closely with similar records of other deep-sea cores from the equatorial Atlantic, the Caribbean, and the Mediterranean. A generalized curve of the temperature variations of tropical surface oceanic waters during the last 300,000 years, based on the paleotemperature curves of the deep-sea cores, shows a close correlation with continental temperature variations inferred from loess profiles and pollen profiles and with eustatic changes of sea level. The temperature of the bottom water of the equatorial Atlantic Ocean followed the variations at the surface with a smaller amplitude and a time delay less than a few thousand years.
30057890|If meanders formed in the latter part of an erosion cycle are intrenched in immediately subjacent hard rocks without change of plan when uplift rejuvenates the stream, but are greatly changed or lost in the process of deepening the valley in weak rocks, present distribution of meanders indicates the character of the rocks through which the stream has cut since the beginning of the present cycle of erosion. Construction of a restored geological section along a stream course permits determination, by empirical vertical shifting of the stream profile, of a single position in which meanders at the selected elevation will be preserved by intrenchment in hard rocks, where intrenched meanders actually occur, and will be lost by cutting downward through a considerable thickness of soft rocks, where intrenched meanders are absent. This observation, checked by a fairly close accordance of results obtained by independent study of different streams and peneplain remnants in the Colorado Plateau, indicates that the relative elevation of stream valleys in the earlier erosion cycle may be approximately determined from study of inclosed meanders.
30065725|Exposures of the Fort Union Formation on the divide between Hunt Creek and Cub Creek in the northern Clark's Fork Basin, Carbon County, Montana, were selected for magnetostratigraphic study of the transition between the Torrejonian and Tiffanian Land-Mammal Ages. Paleomagnetic samples were collected from 25 sites within a 160 m-thick section of the Fort Union Formation at that location. Rock-magnetic analyses indicate that alternating-field demagnetization to peak fields in the 10 to 40 mT interval successfully removed secondary components of natural remanent magnetism (NRM). Characteristic NRM directions define three polarity zones, a 50 m-thick normal polarity zone bracketed by two reversed polarity zones. The Cub Creek local faunule CC-2 (
30058168|Paleontologic correlation must be guided by principles, some of which are stated here, derived from a study of living organisms and their distribution. In application of these principles, nine floral zones in the Arcto-Carboniferous province of Pennsylvanian floras are considered. The floras included are all lowland, warm-climate, rain forest assemblages. In the Rocky Mountain area certain floral types appear that are thought to represent upland floras. In the Antarcto-Carboniferous province the Pennsylvanian floras differ greatly in the main and are believed to represent coal-climate, rain forest assemblages. A few representatives of these assemblages are considered, and a few Arcto-Carboniferous elements present are regarded as immigrants during an epoch of milder climate.
30064719|The destructive power of intruding magmas is sometimes overstated as a consequence of the belief that high drag force is automatically the result of high viscosity, or because a magma contains phenocrysts or xenoliths which cause abrasion. However, consideration of the principles of fluid dynamics indicates that the opposite may generally be the case. Abrasion by particles suspended in a viscous magma is negligible, and the drag forces associated with viscous flow are not necessarily large inasmuch as high viscosity acts to limit flow rate. These contentions are demonstrated analytically for the aqueous suspension model of the formation of orbicules and comb layering proposed by Moore and Lockwood, for which the effects of an aqueous fluid and magma may be compared. As a result of this analysis, a magmatic origin for comb layering and orbicle growth is preferred, a conclusion compatible with other interpretations of comb layering.
30068811|The Ireteba pluton is a 66 Ma
30062235|Oxygen and carbon isotope analyses of four pelecypod species collected from the Pleistocene Caloosa-hatchee Formation of south Florida are presented. Based on these data and some knowledge of the ecological habitats of the species, a detailed interpretation of the paleoecology and paleogeography during Caloosahatchee time is given. The interpretation suggests that most of the Caloosahatchee Formation was deposited in very shallow restricted marine water that varied from brackish to hypersaline but maintained a high
30063672|Many faults in the Pennsylvanian sandstones in Oklahoma have been found indirectly by means of various indications, the most important of which is veining.
30066250|The nature of randomness in geological materials and processes is analyzed briefly. Attention is focused on important, little-recognized aspects of the philosophy inherent in certain stochastic models that were used extensively in recent Russian and French research-particularly that of Vistelius, Matheron, and their coworkers. The fundamental importance of such stochastic models for making statements (with specified confidence limits) about process and response phenomena in a wide range of geological spheres is emphasized.
30065728|The abundance (A) of granitic and metamorphic clasts in Wisconsinan till in the Dummer Moraine at the edge of the Precambrian Shield of Ontario decreases exponentially but then remains nearly constant at about 4% for more than 800 km down-ice in southwestern Ontario, Ohio, and Indiana. The exponential decrease is attributed to the transport and deposition in the basal ice of the Laurentide ice sheet after it crossed the contact between the granitic rocks of the Precambrian Shield and the overlying Paleozoic carbonate rocks. The transition from exponential to linear distribution was caused by a change in transport mechanism from basal to englacial transport of clasts that were moved above the base of the ice sheet and thus escaped attrition and deposition in basal till. The transport half-distance of a boulder train can be estimated from a plot of In A vs. transport distance within the exponential transport regime. The half-distance can then be used to determine the transition distance, which indicates how far the source of a boulder train is located up-ice from the transition region. Additional examples from the literature were used to calculate the transport half-distance for the exponential transport mode and the transition distance between the exponential and linear transport modes. The results indicate that the half-distances for the exponential transport mode vary from about 2 km to 16 km, depending primarily on the mechanical properties of the clasts and bedrock over which the ice flowed. The transition distances vary from about 10 km to 50 km, in direct proportion to the transport half-distances. The positive correlation between exponential transport half-distance and the transition distance can be used to facilitate prospecting surveys based on tracing ore boulders to their source.
30063685|The Keaiwa lava on Kilauea is the oldest lava flow recorded by white men in the Hawaiian Islands. It is remarkable among the many flows from Kilauea because it welled out from a crack 6 miles long, spreading out seaward in a flow which is in places only a few inches thick. The absence of cinder or driblet cones along the crack indicates that the usual fire fountains of Hawaii did not play during this eruption. Attached to the walls of the crack in many places are lava balls that resemble bombs but do not owe their form to projection. Two phreatic explosions occurred along the crack immediately after the eruption.
30079694|The method of measuring temperatures at which organic calcium carbonate is precipitated, by determining the isotopic composition of the oxygen in the calcium carbonate, has been applied to a study of skeletal growth of modern Bermuda biota and, to a limited extent, to its geographically and taxonomically related interglacial Pleistocene analogues. Mollusks constitute the bulk of the species studied. The results indicate that the temperature at which the animals deposit their skeleton is dependent upon the threshold limit of skeletal deposition of a given species and, under extreme conditions, upon environmental controls. The determined average temperature of skeletal deposition may range anywhere within a few degrees of the extreme annual fluctuation of temperature of the locality. Thus no single species can be used for determining the average paleotemperatures or the paleotemperature ranges. The study of fossils of certain interglacial Pleistocene deposits of Bermuda indicates that the temperature conditions under which the studied organisms lived are within a degree or two centigrade of the present temperature conditions.
30062225|Concordant
30062260|A series of three experiments was made at 125C and 10 kbar in which a 1-gram reservoir of molten oceanic tholeiite was maintained in contact with one end of a 6.5 mm diameter cylinder of partially-molten, fine-grained granite. Detailed microprobe analysis (450 spots total) of the quenched samples revealed progressive basalt/granite interaction as run duration increased from 0.75 to 8 to 24 hours. Interdiffusion of melt components is limited for structure-controlling species such as
30062155|Silicification of calcitic fossils occurs along thin solution films at which calcite dissolves and silica precipitates. The mechanism is replacement controlled by force of crystallization, whereby the growth of the silica phase exerts pressure across the silica-carbonate contact, increasing the Gibbs free energy and hence solubility of shell calcite. Physical evidence for force of crystallization-controlled replacement includes restriction of carbonate dissolution to the silica-carbonate contact, and euhedral quartz terminations at some quartz-calcite contacts. Correlations among some replacement quartz types and fossil taxa indicate that shell microstructure and bulk pore water silica concentration control replacement quartz type.
30059935|This paper names and describes amphibian tracks of an hitherto undescribed form from the Lyons sandstone of Colorado; mentions some arthropod tracks, and discusses the age of the formation and the conditions of sedimentation.
10.1086/651539|Terrestrial source areas are linked to deepsea basins by sedimentrouting systems, which only recently have been studied with a holistic approach focused on terrestrial and submarine components and their interactions. Here we compare an extensive pistoncore and radiocarbonage data set from offshore southern California to contemporaneous Holocene climate proxies in order to test the hypothesis that climatic signals are rapidly propagated from source to sink in a spatially restricted sedimentrouting system that includes the Santa Ana River drainage basin and the Newport deepsea depositional system. Sediment cores demonstrate that variability in rates of Holocene deepsea turbidite deposition is related to complex oceanatmosphere interactions, including enhanced magnitude and frequency of the North American monsoon and El NioSouthern Oscillation cycles, which increased precipitation and fluvial discharge in southern California. This relationship is evident because, unlike many sedimentrouting systems, the Newport submarine canyonandchannel system was consistently linked to the Santa Ana River, which maintained sediment delivery even during Holocene marine transgression and highstand. Results of this study demonstrate the efficiency of sediment transport and delivery through a spatially restricted, consistently linked routing system and the potential utility of deepsea turbidite depositional trends as paleoclimate proxies in such settings.
30080002|The MalaguideGhomaride Complex is capped by Upper OligoceneAquitanian clastic deposits postdating early Alpine orogenesis but predating the main tectonicmetamorphic evolution, end of nappe emplacement, unroofing, and exhumation of the metamorphic units of the BeticRif Orogen. Two conglomerate intervals within these deposits are characterized by clasts of sedimentary, epimetamorphic, and mafic volcanic rocks derived from MalaguideGhomaride units and by clasts of acidic magmatic and orthogneissic rocks of unknown provenance, here studied. Magmatic rocks originated from lateVariscan twomica cordieritebearing granitoids and, subordinately, from aplitic dikes. Orthogneisses derive from similar plutonic rocks but are affected by an Alpine metamorphic overprint evolving from greenschist (
30068799|Forty-three experiments were completed in a large flume (1.8 X 18.3 m) to examine the effects of sediment load, sediment size, and channel gradient on braided-river morphology. The laboratory results were supported by field research and analogs from the published literature. Subaerially exposed braid bars were formed by the dissection and further accretion of stalled linguoid dunes, which are actively migrating bedforms. Bar-forming processes and channel dynamics were the same in both sand-and gravel-bed channels. However, linguoid dunes stalled and were transformed into braid bars more frequently in gravel-bed channels, and therefore, gravel-bed channels were more intensely braided. Aggradation resulted in the development of more bars rather than in an increase in the size of preexisting braid bars. The number of actively migrating linguoid dunes also increased with sediment load in the highly mobile sand-bed channels. Conversely, in degrading channels, the number of braid bars decreased and average bar size increased due to the coalescence of smaller braid bars. The degrading gravel-bed channels remained braided as the channels degraded, whereas rapid incision in the upstream portion of sand-bed channels resulted in the development of a single channel flanked by terraces. The downstream reach remained braided as a result of continued delivery of sediment from the incising reach. Rapid incision upstream and continued deposition downstream resulted in the development of a greater number of inset erosional terraces upstream, which correlate temporally with higher and younger terraces downstream.
30081158|Suggestions that the Precordillera of Argentina has an early Paleozoic connection to the Appalachian-Ouachita rifted margin of the southern U.S. have been based on Cambro-Ordovician stratigraphy and faunal assemblages. Further support comes from comparing Precambrian Grenville Appalachian basement with xenoliths brought up in Precordil-leran Miocene volcanic rocks. U-Pb zircon ages and whole rock Pb and Nd isotopic data from the xenoliths show that Precordilleran basement, along with some part of the westernmost Sierras Pampeanas (Pie de Palo Range) to the east, is essentially unique in South America and is best interpreted as being derived from Laurentia. A Grenville age is substantiated by U/Pb zircon upper intersect ages of
30056600|In driving the 13-mile San Jacinto Tunnel on the Colorado River Aqueduct water was tapped in a fault intersected a short distance from the Potrero shaft. A geological investigation was made in an effort to determine whether additional faults were present in the mountain mass to be penetrated by the tunnel. The use of aerial photographs facilitated structural studies and geological mapping of the area. During the course of this survey, a number of faults were identified which were expected to be sources of difficulty in driving this tunnel. The geological features involved in a change in the alinement of the tunnel and the location of an additional access to expedite the completion of the tunnel are herein described.
30056141|In this paper the writer makes contributions to the geology of that little-known region of southeastern Oregon in which Steens Mountain and the Pueblo Mountains are situated, and which was discussed in a reconnaissance way some years ago by I. C. Russell in connection with ground-water resources. The material presented here is to be taken in the light of additional contributions, and not as an exhaustive treatment. The main theme is the structure of Steens Mountain, which is discussed in some detail and the general conclusion expressed that this so-called "fault block" mountain and accompanying graben owe their origin to thrust and not to normal faulting. New evidence for former glaciation on Steens Mountain is presented, thus strengthening the thesis of Russell. A first attempt at a compilation of a stratigraphic table for this region is given, and the tuffs at the base of the Steens Mountain Valley are tentatively correlated with the John Day tuffs of Oligocene age, farther north.
10.1086/662736|The petrogenesis of adakites holds important clues to the formation of the continental crust and copper  gold porphyry mineralization. However, it remains highly debated as to whether adakites form by slab melting, by partial melting of the lower continental crust, or by fractional crystallization of normal arc magmas. Here, we show that to form adakitic signature, partial melting of a subducting oceanic slab would require high pressure at depths of >50 km, whereas partial melting of the lower continental crust would require the presence of plagioclase and thus shallower depths and additional water. These two types of adakites can be discriminated using geochemical indexes. Compiled data show that adakites from circum-Pacific regions, which have close affinity to subduction of young hot oceanic plate, can be clearly discriminated from adakites from the Dabie Mountains and the Tibetan Plateau, which have been attributed to partial melting of continental crust, in Sr/Y-versus-La/Yb diagram. Given that oceanic crust has copper concentrations about two times higher than those in the continental crust, whereas the high oxygen fugacity in the subduction environment promotes the release of copper during partial melting, slab melting provides the most efficient mechanism to concentrate copper and gold; slab melts would be more than two times greater in copper (and also gold) concentrations than lower continental crust melts and normal arc magmas. Thus, identification of slab melt adakites is important for predicting exploration targets for copper- and gold-porphyry ore deposits. This explains the close association of ridge subduction with large porphyry copper deposits because ridge subduction is the most favorable place for slab melting.
30079713|The pH of anaerobic marine sediments is in general constant relative to
30064959|Armored mud balls presently forming on a wave-cut bench in the intertidal zone on the north shore of the Minas Basin, Nova Scotia, differ from more spherical mud balls formed in alluvial flood plains and deep marine environments. Tidal action shapes angular blocks and plates of plastic mud into rounded to well-rounded armored triaxial ellipsoids by a back-and-forth rolling motion on the inclined gravel-covered platform. Balls become rapidly reduced to fairly uniform size; their long axes on the lower part of the platform tend to parallel the shoreline. A number of armored ellipsoids are found partially buried. These structures are occasionally preserved in ancient intertidal deposits. An evaluation of their size, shape, armor composition, and particular orientation in relation to shorelines can thus be of use in paleogeographic reconstructions.
30067028|Both vertical uplift and lateral extrusion of rocks in convergent orogens have been widely documented. This article, using the basement core of the Qinling orogen as an example, demonstrates orogenparallel westward uplift with both vertical and horizontal displacement components. The Qinling complex of the Qinling orogen is a tectonic slice of a Precambrian crystalline basement. It is an elongate lens between younger terranes bounded by the Shangdan suture to the south and by the Zhuxia zone to the north. During the middle Paleozoic, the complex underwent largescale orogenparallel westward oblique ductile uplift. Supporting evidence for this includes the following: (1) opposite shear senses of the two bounding shear zones, i.e., the thrustsinistral shear on the south and thrustdextral shear on the north; (2) welldeveloped eastward plunging (orogenparallel) Atype structures in the complex, such as stretching lineation and sheath folds; (3) strong decompression metamorphism of the complex from 0.66 GPa to 0.45 GPa and eclogites decompressed from 1.2 GPa to 0.5 GPa; and (4) eastward migration in the emplacement of synkinematic granitic plutons. Integrated analysis of
30057160|The present paper discusses the work of Andre Cailleux on Quaternary periglacial wind action in Europe, published during the war as a memoir of the Socit gologique de France. Cailleux has outlined the periglacial zone chiefly on the basis of the distribution of wind-worn sand grains in Quaternary deposits. It is felt that this new criterion, although overextended by Cailleux, is basically sound and is additional proof for a cold, windy climate adjacent to the ice sheets-a climate demonstrated by such well-known indicators as loess and frost-produced soils.
30070656|The LuningFencemaker foldthrust belt (LFTB) of Nevada accommodated substantial Mesozoic shortening in the backarc region of the U.S. Cordillera. Metamorphic grade in this belt has not been studied, and timing of deformation is not well defined. In this study, we present new data on metamorphic grade and age of deformation in the northern LFTB. We focus on the D
30064718|Samples from the Jurassic Inferior Oolite, which show evidence of early cementation, were experimentally deformed at 25C, 100C, 200C, 200 MPa confining pressure, and strain rates of
30066093|Basaltic lavas that flowed into river valleys draining westward from the uplands of southern New South Wales have preserved the Early Miocene landscape to a remarkable degree. The reconstruction of this landscape shows that the major topographic features of the highest part of the Australian continent had taken on essentially their present form by the Mid-Tertiary, and that some of these features were formed during the Mesozoic. Plateau surfaces have been lowered by only about 2 to 5 m/Ma, and most major streams have incised by only about 5 to 18 m/Ma, with a maximum incision of 30 m/Ma, since the Early Miocene. Despite the passage of 20 Ma, stream gradients have not waned, nor have major breaks in profiles been eliminated. On the contrary the modern stream profiles are strikingly similar to their Early Miocene counterparts, suggesting that the evolution of the profiles has been determined mainly by variations in stream power, rather than by the headward retreat of nickpoints through the drainage system. These findings, together with those of earlier research in the uplands of New South Wales, imply a rate and pattern of Cenozoic denudation very much at odds with widely accepted models derived from areas, like the Appalachians, that have no chronological and stratigraphic datum comparable to the widespread lavas of southeastern Australia.
30080961| Paleontological and lithological studies of engineering borings and boring logs indicate that a buried, subaerial erosion surface of Pliocene (?)-Pleistocene age cuts across clastic sediments of pre-Yorktownian Miocene age in the subsurface and subbottom of the lower Chesapeake Bay area. When the bore-hole data are coupled with the results of subbottom echo profiling and piledriving records, it is possible to construct accurate cross sections of the buried Miocene-Pleistocene contact. The cross sections show "lows" in the erosion surface that may be correlated with the buried channels of the Pleistocene Elizabeth, James, York, and Susquehanna river valleys. Probable channel depths below mean low water at control points are: 100 feet (Elizabeth River, beneath Tunnel no. 1), 155 feet (James River, at Hampton Roads Tunnel), 120 feet (York River, at Yorktown), 158 feet (Susquehanna River, off Cape Charles City), and 160 feet (Susquehanna River, at Fisherman Island, Cape Charles). The channel depths of what is believed to be the buried Susquehanna River valley are less than expected when placed on a curve showing the expectable gradients of that stream during the time of the most-recent, maximum lowering of sea level (ca. 18,000 years B.P.). The discrepancy suggests uplift of that channel of approximately 170 feet in about the last 18,000 years. Pollen analysis and
30059953|Olites are described which were formed in the hot-water coil of a furnace. The olites are composed of calcite and have nuclei of iron oxide. It is concluded that the olites developed from the precipitation of lime carbonate around particles of iron oxide, the precipitation being due to the release of carbon dioxide as a consequence of the heating of the water. Lime carbonate was then deposited on the walls of the coil to form scale and around particles of iron oxide to form olites.
30061147|Rock fragment 15445,10 consists of dominant olivine (91 mole % MgSiO, 0.03 wt % NiO) and aluminous enstatite (91 mole % MgSiO, 5 wt % AlO), together with substantial chrome spinel (14 wt % CrO), minor amounts of granular, interstitial plagioclase (94 mole % CaAlSiO), and traces of rutile (?) (1.0 wt % NbO) and armalcolite. Calcium-rich pyroxene, sulfide, metal, and ilmenite were not found. The texture and mineralogy of the rock is consistent with initial igneous accumulation (solid residue) at moderate pressure (e.g., 2 kbar), followed by partial recrystallization during granulation at 950  50 C and a pressure greater than or equal to 1.3  0.5 kilobars.
30081052|Unsteady, nonuniform motion of persistently active landslides is a process of widespread importance. A general, three-dimensional theory aimed at elucidating this process is developed from physical principles and field measurements of landslide behavior. The theory employs a versatile constitutive model that represents landslides as deformable bodies composed of frictional, nonlinear viscoplastic material. The three-dimensional theory is reduced to a mathematically tracTable form by defining an ideal landslide datum state that consists of steady, unidirectional shear flow driven by ground-water seepage and gravitational forces. Solution of the datum-state equation of motion yields vertical landslide velocity profiles that can represent deformation styles ranging from shear-thickening viscoplastic flow to perfectly plastic frictional slip. This range of theoretical profiles encompasses the range of profiles measured in four persistently active northern California landslides. Also obtained from the datum-state equation of motion is an analytical solution for datum-state landslide sediment fluxes. An important feature of this solution is that it represents theoretical landslide sediment fluxes as a family of continuous-functions. The solution thus provides a mathematical basis for a general perturbation analysis of the kinematics of unsteady, nonuniform landslide motion, which will be presented in a companion paper in a subsequent issue of the Journal.
30080158|Field relations of arrested charnockite patches, felsic pegmatite dikes, and coarse cordierite + graphite veins in the granulite facies supracmstal belt of southern Kerala suggest paleo-fluid channels. We have investigated the stable isotopic composition of graphites associated with these structures, as well as those in association with charnockites adjacent to calcsilicate horizons. The remarkably high
30062114|The central belt of the Franciscan subduction complex of California is largely a zone of pelitic-matrix melange bearing exotic blocks of blueschist and eclogite. In outcrop, the matrix appears to be a black shale with an anastomosing fracture cleavage. In this study, the petrology of the melange matrix was compared to that of the high-pressure/low-temperature metashales from the Diablo Range and the low-pressure/low-temperature metashales from the base of the Great Valley sequence. The shale matrix and high-pressure metashales (7 < P < 10 kb) contain the assemblage quartz + albite + phengitic white mica + chlorite + sphene + trace amounts of lawsonite, pumpellyite, or calcite. By contrast, low-pressure Knoxville shales (2 < P < 3 kb) contain quartz + albite + mixed-layer clay minerals + calcite. Most matrix samples from the exotic block-bearing melange and high-pressure metashale have illite crystallinities of 4 to 10 mm, up to 100% 2M white mica, densities exceeding
30056075|The state of Maine may be separated into four physiographic subdivisions. The largest of these, the Moosehead Plateau, is bounded by an escarpment extending across the state. The presence of this escarpment is demonstrated by a series of profiles with an accompanying discussion.
10.1086/662718|This article presents a reasonable present-day, sea-level highstand numerical simulation and scenario for a potential tsunami generated by a landslide with the characteristics of the BIG95 debris flow, which occurred on the Ebro margin in the western Mediterranean Sea in prehistoric times (11,500 cal yr BP). The submarine landslide deposit covers an area of 2200 km
30084931|Barbed tributary valleys and other drainage features in the vicinity of Kicking Horse Pass have been interpreted as indicating stream capture stimulated by movements of the earth's crust. A simpler explanation is found in the changes commonly produced by valley glaciers in mountains. The observed facts suggest that during the Pleistocene a westward-moving distributary from the Bow Glacier scoured down the Pass and caused a shifting of the divide eastward, with consequent transfer of drainage. Examples are given of similar drainage modifications in other regions.
30080847|Integration of Pleistocene chronologies of the central Great Plains and the glaciated area is a major problem of late Cenozoic stratigraphy in North America. Lenticular deposits of volcanic ash associated with fossil mollusks occur in both regions and furnish a widespread datum for interregional correlations. The ash lentils, collectively called Pearlette, can be differentiated petrographically from other late Cenozoic ash deposits of the Plains region and have been studied at localities extending from southeastern South Dakota to northwestern Texas. The associated molluscan fauna possesses an unforeseen degree of uniformity and stratigraphic significance. The Pearlette ash and faunal zone occurs above Kansas till and below Loveland loess and Iowa till in the Missouri Valley region and is judged to be early Yarmouthian in age. A modification of stratigraphic names for Kansas contributes to uniformity of terminology in the Plains region.
30071585|The observation that magmatic conduits evolve with time has provided a new framework within which to interpret Aleutian compositional and isotopic data. Accordingly, a two-stage physical model of Aleutian magma genesis has been developed and used to model quantitatively geochemical and isotopic mass balance relations. Parental magmas, approximated by high-alumina basalts, are presumed to be generated by partial melting of eclogite and subducted sediment. The incorporation of sediment produces elevated parental magma Sr and Pb isotopic ratios but lowered
30079932|The size distribution of fragments in the crushed zone adjacent to a fault, and that of grains in a zone of very finegrained particles (the fault gouge), was determined for two different faults in central Japan. One fault has a wide (ca. 100 m) zone of rock fragmentation between the fault gouge zone and the basement rock formation. Dimensions of the 50 largest rock fragments were measured in the field at locations within a continuous outcrop of this fault. At some places, bulk samples were also collected, and the particle, fragment, and grain size distributions were determined in the laboratory. The relationship between the logarithmic mean of the sizes of the largest 50 fragments and their distances from the fault suggests that size reduction of fragments is due to bulk crushing away from the fault and to surface grinding near the fault. The other fault has no crushed zone of basement rocks but does have a 5mwide zone of fault gouge. Ten samples of ca. 200 g each and three bulk samples of ca. 2 kg each were obtained from this fault's fault gouge, and the logarithmic means of the sizes of the largest 50 fragments in each of these 13 samples were determined. It was found that the dominant process in this fault gouge zone is not fragmentation but, rather, the polishing and grinding of fragments. This analysis indicates that the dominant fragmentation processes at places distant to, intermediate to, and within the fault gouge zone are bulk crushing, surface grinding, and surface polishing, respectively.
30071192|The loess deposits of the Mississippi Valley area are widespread and have been extensively studied. In the upper valley they have definite stratigraphic relationships to the drift sheets. From these relationships they are known to have a definite stratigraphic sequence, and their ages have been, in the main, closely determined. They show an eolian genetic relationship to source areas by their thickness, texture, structure, topographic position, and percentage composition of carbonates. Their eolian origin is also indicated by their faunal and, in places, floral assemblages. Some of the loess deposits also reflect the climatic conditions under which they accumulated and the rate of deposition with respect to rate of solution of carbonates. Where they carry plant fossils, the nature of the vegetation which was growing on the surface at the time of deposition is recorded. The stratigraphic sequence that prevails in the upper valley can be unmistakably traced into the lower valley to beyond Natchez. Mississippi, in all its principal attributes. The authors find no substantial evidence to support the "loessification" theory of R. J. Russell and H. N. Fisk or for the Pleistocene correlations and events which they postulate, based on their hypothetical mode of origin of the loess.
30059307|Hydrological studies of additional pluvial lake basins on the southern High Plains, and a consideration of the yearly distribution of rainfall and of the possibilities for increased runoff, indicate that late Pleistocene lake levels could not have been maintained by only an increase in runoff as previously suggested by the writer. Rather, an increase in precipitation from the present 18 inches to a maximum of about 33-34 inches, a decrease in evaporation from the present 60 to 44 inches, and an increase in runoff from the present 1/4 inch to at least 81/2 inches, would be needed to restore the West Texas Cary-aged pluvial lake levels.
30079534|The non-clastic Permian sediments in west Texas consist of normal marine limestones, dolomites, and evaporites in ascending order. The dolomite, which appears in large part to be an altered marine limestone, contains numerous inclusions of anhydrite. This non-bedded anhydrite is divided into massive inclusions, phenocrysts, aggregates, vein and cavity fillings, and fossil replacements. The massive inclusions, phenocrysts, and most of the aggregates appear to be primary. The veins and fossil replacements are necessarily secondary.
10.1086/661988|The Ventersdorp Supergroup, an undeformed, subgreenschist-to-greenschist facies volcanosedimentary succession deposited on the Kaapvaal Craton between 2729 and 2665 Ma, represents an exceptional opportunity to study early cratonic evolution on Earth. Provenance studies of siliciclastic and volcaniclastic successions of the supergroup show that the Ventersdorp basin was sourced from two different regions, one that had a Mesoarchean history and another that maintained its juvenile character at the time of deposition. The volcaniclastic wackes of the Ventersdorp Supergroups Kameeldoorns Formation are mainly composed of Mesoarchean detrital material with Nd isotope model ages (
30064199|A micrometric study of several hundred thin slices of intrusive dolerites and tholeiites throws some light on the crystallization history of basaltic minerals and, in particular, on the origin of ophitic texture. Special attention is given to the phenocrysts of chilled contacts. It is found that the texture bears only a rough relationship to the mineralogy but that the more extreme phases of ophitic texture are found in olivine-dolerites with a low pyroxene/feldspar ratio. Evidence gained from chilled contacts and from fresh tholeiites shows that in tholeiitic suites both pyroxene and plagioclase started to form at a very early stage and continued to crystallize in ophitic relationship and in fairly constant proportions throughout the cooling history. In olivine-basalt providences, however, olivine or plagioclase is the first mineral to form, being followed much later by pyroxene.
30068178|Virginia and Maryland, with parts of adjoining states, are included in the present gravimetric study, which shows that the isostatic anomalies are closely related to densities of underlying geological formations in this area. No definite relationship of the anomalies to the topography of the area is found.
30071234|The Keraf Suture, formed during the Neoproterozoic consolidation of Gondwana, is a 500 km long, 50 km wide, Ntrending suture between the Neoproterozoic ArabianNubian Shield in the east and the older Nile Craton to the west. The Keraf Suture is superimposed on E and NEtrending structures on both sides. The northern part of the suture is dominated by Ntrending, upright folds, whereas the southern part is characterized by N and NNWtrending, sinistral, strikeslip faults. A major antiform defines a structural divide between the northern and southern parts of the suture.
30064203|The unconsolidated terrestrial sediments in central-western Texas consist of a Pliocene wedge truncated eastward, discontinuous remnants of three pre-Wisconsin interglacial stages, and Wisconsin to Recent terrace deposits and wind-blown sand. This material very occasionally rests on siliceous conglomerate of Oligocene or Miocene age. Distinctive units can be traced from the Llano Estacado (High Plains) onto outliers east of them and across the extensive upland plains of north-central Texas. Most important is the unique "algal" limestone, which constitutes the upper cap rock of the High Plains and extends more than 100 miles farther east. It is part of a soil profile developed on limestone gravel, apparently of Sangamon interglacial age. The region's most extensive topographic surface, developed almost on top of the "algal" limestone, continues into a pediment on Cretaceous limestone, which was a source of gravel. This and other altered limestone gravels are the caliche of the region. The terrestrial sediments were deposited while sea level was relatively high. At such times erosion, characterized by pedimentation with retreating scarps, gave way to widespread alluvia-tion. In the Pleistocene this alluviation occurred during the interglacial stages. The Pliocene and Oligocene-Miocene beds also are correlated tentatively with marine transgressions recorded in Gulf Coast sediments and with basin-filling in the eastern part of the Rocky Mountains. These sediments affect the petroleum industry by the limitations they impose on surface-exploration techniques.
30058644|Measurements show that the velocity of sound in Pyrex and in silica glass rises with increasing temperature and that these substances support vibrations substantially without loss to temperatures above 700 C. Measurements on rock samples show a decrease in velocity with increasing temperature, only part of which is reversible as the material cools. This permanent reduction in velocity is explained by differential thermal expansion. The reversible temperature effect on velocity of sound is less than 1 per cent per hundred degrees in granite, and about 5 per cent per hundred degrees in diabase. The geophysical significance of these results is discussed.
30055888|The Alabama and Tombigbee rivers, which drain most of Alabama and small portions of Georgia and Mississippi, converge at Mobile Bay. The Alabama River appears to have been formed by the diversion of streams which were formerly through-flowing. It is suggested that downwarping in southwestern Alabama caused the convergence of the drainage. The distribution of the Lafayette gravels aids in the interpretation of the history of the streams.
30085058|Based on the momentum equation of flow, the force per unit area which the flow exerts radially on the outer bank of a stream bend is expressed by an equation in which the force is explicitly related to the curvature ratio R/w (curve radius/channel width). A dimensionless curvature coefficient
30063902|Hyperpycnal events (when suspended sediment concentrations exceed 40 g/L) occur in small and mediumsized rivers throughout the world but are particularly common in Taiwan; they are often related to landslides or debris flows initiated and transported by typhoon floods. SuperTyphoon Herb, which swept across Taiwan on July 31August 2, 1996, triggered floods and landslides throughout the southern part of the island. Sediment concentrations in at least seven rivers (Taan, Choshui, Pachang, Erhjen, Tsengwen, Kaoping, and Peinan) approached or exceeded 40 g/L. Calculated sediment discharged from nine rivers (these seven as well as the Wu and Houlung, neither of which apparently reached hyperpycnal concentrations) during these 3 d was 217 million tons (MT)most of it on August 1of which 80% was discharged at hyperpycnal concentrations. Presumably, most of the sediments discharged by the Peinan River (to the southeast) and the Kaoping, Erhjen, Tsengwen, and Pachang rivers (to the southwest) were transported directly to the Huatong Basin and the South China Sea (via the Penghu Canyon system), respectively. The bulk of the typhoonderived sediment (142 MT), however, was discharged to the northwest (primarily by the Choshui River), and its fate remains unknown. It may have ultimately reached the Penghu Canyon system and thereby the South China Sea, but more probably it was transported northward (via the Taiwan Warm Current) toward China, the East China Sea, or (perhaps) the Okinawa Trough.
30080206|This study examines the depositional process and characteristics of deposits of largescale experimental debris flows (to 15 m
30056939|Topographic texture is measured by two distinct parameters: drainage density (D) and channel frequency (F). In maturely dissected regions the functional relation between D and F is (1)
30056619|The post-Yarmouthian Pleistocene of Kansas is characterized by extensive loess sheets which contain buried soils. The loesses and associated fluvial deposits are classed in Kansas as Crete, Loveland, Peoria, and Bignell members of the Sanborn formation. Based on lithologic characteristics, sequence, content of fossil mollusks, and stratigraphic continuity of buried soils, the members are identified throughout their extent in Kansas. Also trustworthy correlations with late Pleistocene deposits in Nebraska and Iowa, including the type Bignell and Loveland loesses, can be made. The Peoria loess of Kansas is shown by faunal evidence to be equivalent to the Peoria (Iowa and Tazewell) loess of central Illinois.
30066416|Sapphirine occurs in a quartzite in the Eastern Ghats granulite province near Vizianagaram, India. Sapphirine is developed at the contact of quartzite and spinel-magnetite-cordierite bands and occurs as small grains throughout the quartzite. Bulk chemical analyses of sapphirine-bearing rock suggest that the protolith was a quartzite with aluminous and ferruginous cements. The presence of monazite and rare earth element (REE) analyses also indicate a sedimentary origin. Textural relations indicate that spinel, sapphirine, hypersthene, and sillimanite formed in an early metamorphic event at very high temperature and elevated pressure. Low activity of water and high oxygen fugacities accompanied reactions forming these minerals. Later metamorphic reactions accompanied by higher activity of water produced cordierite and biotite. Mineralogic geothermometry also supports a multi-stage metamorphic history. Experimental evidence for temperatures of 850C or more required to stabilize sapphirine and quartz indicates that some parts of the Eastern Ghats province are among the highest temperature metamorphic terrains which have been described, comparable to Napier Complex of Endeby Land, Antarctica and the Wilson Lake area of Labrador.
30060691|Recent engineering research into the strength of rockfill suggests that the minimum angle of shearing resistance (
30080157|Fission-track ages of apatite and zircon from the middle Ordovician Deicke K-bentonites, collected over a wide area of the southern Appalachian basin, bracketed the previously determined K/Ar ages (270-300 Ma) of illite/smectite (I/S) separated from these K-bentonties. The zircon fission-track ages ranged from
30062174|New geological and limited geochemical data indicate that the Kings Mountain belt forms part of the exotic Carolina arc terrane. The Carolina terrane and the fundamentally different Piedmont terrane are juxtaposed along the Kings Mountain shear zone and its extensions to the northeast and southwest. Ultramafic-mafic (ophiolitic?) rock bodies, melanges, and syn- or post-kinematic granitic plutons are present in or near the Kings Mountain shear zone and support its identification as a terrane suture.
30084983|The lower Upper Devonian sequence in the western half of New York consists largely of evenly stratified alternating layers of gray shale and mudrock, very dark gray to black shale, and gray siltstone. The sediments were derived from source areas to the east and southeast and were deposited in an arm of a shallow epicontinental sea that covered much of the eastern half of the United States. Vast numbers of linear current-oriented structures occur in this sequence. The current-oriented structures-both inorganic and organicare divided into two categories: those associated with the deposition of silt and sand and those associated with the deposition of fine-grained mud. Current-oriented structures such as groove casts, flute casts, bounce casts, brush casts, prod casts, and current ripple marks are associated with the deposition of silt and sand-presumably by turbidity currents. Most of these structures are preferentially oriented approximately east-west, parallel to the direction of current flow, and at a sharp angle to the axis of the arm of the sea that covered western New York in early Late Devonian time. The shape of flute casts, prod casts, brush casts, and asymmetric ripple marks shows that the currents flowed from east to west. Linear current ripple marks, however, are grouped approximately north-south at right angles to the direction of flow of turbidity currents. Specimens of Fucoides graphica Vanuxem and plant fragments imbedded in shale and mudrock are associated with the deposition of fine-grained mud. These structures are preferentially oriented approximately northeast-southwest, indicating that the mud-depositing currents flowed along a northeast-southwest trend. These are the normal marine currents. They flowed from the northeast, more or less parallel to the axis of the arm of the sea that covered western New York during early Late Devonian time. Fucoides graphica is a narrow semicylindrical cast on the bottom of a bed of siltstone or sandstone. It resulted from the removal of a partly buried cylindrical object-probably the fecal pellet of a fish-from the mud floor of the sea and subsequent burial of the resulting depression by the layer that now bears the cast. Many specimens of F. graphica are asymmetrical in cross section, due to erosion of the "fucoidal" depressions by the silt- and sand-laden currents. Continued erosion modified many of the "fucoidal" depressions to deep, relatively broad spatulate depressions that are preserved as flute casts on the bottom of the covering layer. All gradations, from specimens of unmodified F. graphica to well-developed flute casts, occur in New York.
30068831|We outline an efficient integrated wavelet, a spectral, and a crossspectral approach for the timeseries analysis of geologic data. Here these techniques are applied to a database of 154 large igneous provinces (LIPs) in order to test for cycles, trends, and abrupt changes in temporal distribution since 3500 Ma. The average frequency of events is relatively constant and supports an overall model of semicontinuous temporal emplacement of LIPs. However, several weak cycles were obtained in the analysis. Those of longest duration are a 170m.yr. cycle from 1600 Ma to present and in the late Archean, a 330m.yr. cycle from about 3000 to 1000 Ma, a cycle decreasing in length from 730 to 550 m.yr. over the interval 3500 Ma to present, and a still weaker cycle increasing from 900 to 1000 m.yr. over the interval 2000 Ma to present. Additional cycles of shorter duration include a 250m.yr. cycle in the late Archean, a 230m.yr. cycle in the Phanerozoic, a 105m.yr. cycle in the early Proterozoic, and several <60m.yr. cycles occurring in scattered intervals. The uncertainties in the cycle patterns preclude a simple correlation with previously interpreted forcing functions: a 30m.yr. cometary impact, a 270m.yr. galactic year, a 500300m.yr. supercontinent cycle, and a 800m.yr. resonance between tidal and free oscillations of the core. However, our 170m.yr. interval spacing is associated with clusters of LIP events over the past 1500 Ma. Future timeseries analyses on improved versions of the LIP database (and appropriate subsets) will be required to test the robustness of the cycles we observe and to identify underlying forcing functions.
30057867|The new process described makes use of the oxyacetylene flame. The surface of the matrix rock is heated with this to a very high temperature, and before the heat has time to penetrate to the fossil, water is applied for sudden cooling. The process makes possible the obtaining of fossils from rocks so hard and tough that it has been impossible to secure them otherwise.
30078380|Precambrian paleosols are potentially one of our best sources of information about the composition of the atmosphere early in earth's history. To be used this way, however, an alteration profile must be shown to be an in situ product of vadose processes. Data from modern soils show that the ratios of less mobile elements such as Zr, Ti, and Al can be used as a preliminary screen to test for the in situ nature of a profile. If the Ti/Zr ratio departs from that of the host rock by more than 40%, or the Ti/Al ratio departs by more than 50% for moderate degrees of weathering, then a significant allochthonous contribution to the profile is indicated. This technique correctly separates in-place from allochthonous horizons when applied to independent data from two modern profiles. A review of published Precambrian profiles identifies two often-cited examples, Denison and Pronto, as suspect based on these criteria. In the interpretation of paleoatmospheres, it is also necessary to show that Fe is controlled not by diagenetic but by pedogenic processes. Comparison of the distribution of Fe to that of Ti and Zr shows that Fe is generally leached from confirmed paleosols older than 2.2 Ga, but is retained in modern soils and in younger paleosols. Reducing conditions developed during diagenesis can, however, produce a removal of Fe in modern alteration profiles that is very difficult to distinguish from removal by soil processes under a low-oxygen atmosphere. Diagenetic and pedogenic Fe removal can possibly be distinguished by the presence of a vertical zonation with a lower zone of Fe enrichment in the pedogenic case.
30063807|The core of the former atoll on Niue island, South Pacific, is extensively dolomitized. A detailed stable isotope study reveals that the dolomites are uniformly enriched in
30071097|Stromatolites are laminated structures that have been previously termed fossil algae. It is now recognized that such structures may be formed by a number of different processes and organisms. Recognizable algal stromatolites are more validly treated as organosedimentary structures than fossil organisms. This paper proposes a new classification of algal stromatolite structures based upon their geometric forms and relates these forms to their sites of growth relative to sea-level environments. The classification uses the arrangement of the basic geometric units (hemispheroids and spheroids) from which common stromatolites and oncolites are built. Three main arrangements of these geometric structures occur in Recent algal stromatolites and oncolites; (1) laterally linked hemispheroids (LLH), (2) discrete, vertically stacked hemispheroids (SH), and (3) discrete spheroids-either as randomly stacked hemispheroids or concentrically arranged spheroids (SS). The abbreviations are used to designate the various structures conveniently. Since certain restricted environments are associated with modern stromatolites, ancient environments may be interpreted by recognition of fossil stromatolite forms. For example, protected intertidal mud flats, where wave action is slight, may be inferred by the presence of type-LLH stromatolites (Collenia). Exposed, intertidal mud flats, where scouring action of waves and other interacting factors prevent growth of algal mats between stromatolites, are inferred by the presence of type-SH structures (Cryptozoon). Low intertidal areas that are exposed to waves and agitated shallow water below low-water mark are inferred by the presence of type-SS structures (oncolites). In addition, the arrangement of laminae in these structures reflects frequency of movement, frequent motion resulting in concentrically arranged spheroids and occasional motion in randomly stacked hemispheroids.
30068745|Alkaline (A-type and highly fractionated felsic I-type) granites that may have formed in post-collisional plate tectonic environments are present in the Alaskan Cordillera, the New England and Lachlan Fold Belts of Australia, and the Arabian-Nubian Shield. Their emplacement is associated with diffuse extension and/or strike-slip shear movements that follow the proposed collisional events by ~25 to 75 Ma. The post-collisional alkaline granites are compositionally most similar to within-plate (anorogenic) alkaline granites, but also show affinities with volcanic arc and syn-collisional granites. They may easily be mistaken for anorogenic granites in complexly deformed or poorly exposed terranes. Most of the alkaline granites probably originate by middle or lower crustal anatexis, but the origin of the necessarily high melting temperatures remains unresolved. Their source rocks are just as likely to be previously unmelted mafic meta-tonalites as they are to be restite from which I-type granitic melt had been extracted earlier.
30057083|The water table in the Ocala limestone is the local base level of erosion in southeastern Alachua County. The basin of Orange Lake has developed in that area as a result of the erosion of insoluble sediments of the plateau and solution of the Ocala limestone to that water plane. Usually, the lake fluctuates with the water table. The lake water sometimes becomes perched when impervious lake sediments prevent loss of water through the lake bottom and solution channels into the underlying permeable limestone. This situation may develop when the water table falls during periods of diminished rainfall. The recent low stand of water in Orange Lake was caused by factors in addition to the prevailing drought conditions. The regional water table in the limestone fell below the lake bottom. This resulted in sufficient hydrostatic pressure to unlodge sediments plugging a sinkhole. The lake level subsequently fell considerably, due in large part to the quantity of water discharged into the underlying limestone through the sink. Santa Fe Lake, located in northeastern Alachua County, is largely sealed off from the principal aquifer, the Ocala limestone, by Pleistocene clayey sands and relatively impervious sediments of the Hawthorne formation. Sufficient rain water from the youthful plateau of pine-palmetto flatlands, swamps, and marshes slowly drains and seeps into the lake to largely offset losses from evaporation, transpiration, and seepage even during drought periods. In addition to discharge by seepage in an eastward direction through surficial sands, overflow into a swampy area north of the lake occurs at times of unusually high water. These conditions result in a more stabilized lake level than that of Orange Lake. Even though the Hawthorne formation and surficial sands are superimposed on the Ocala limestone in the region of Levys Prairie lakes, that part of Putnam County is a recharge area of the Eocene limestones. In this region the upper part of the Hawthorne formation contains considerable carbonate. Solution of both Hawthorne sediments and the Ocala limestone has resulted in slumpage that breached the superimposed, relatively impervious sediments, thus facilitating and, in some cases, allowing free downward movement of water to the principal aquifer, the Ocala limestone. A sink is known to connect one Levys Prairie lake with underlying pervious sediments. The lakes fluctuate markedly with periods of drought and abundant rainfall. The lower parts of this prairie surface coincide approximately with the piezometric surface of the water in the Eocene limestones. It appears that the piezometric surface in this area of subsurface drainage is acting as a temporary base level of erosion despite the surficial insoluble sediments. The topography contrasts markedly with the area of Orange Lake from which most of the insoluble materials of the plateau have been eroded away.
30078534|In a few hours or days, scores of meters of beach width can be lost due to a severe storm. However, newly available shoreline data from the U.S. East Coast show that beaches recover after storms to positions consistent with their longterm (100+ yr) trend. Even the largest storms, such as the Ash Wednesday Storm of 1962, considered to be the most damaging in the twentieth century, appear to have had little effect on the longterm trend. The gradual recession of beaches along the U.S. East Coast is mainly controlled by other factors such as sealevel rise and variations of sediment supply. Therefore, it follows that barrier beaches in a coastal plain setting would not experience longterm erosion in response to storm impact if the sea were to stop rising and sediment supply did not change.
30057895|In central Randolph County, southwestern Illinois, a 52-foot cut shows, below Illinoian drift, 12 feet of leached gray loess referred to Kansan time. Below this loess is a much-weathered old till, probably of Nebraskan age, which seems best attributed to ice invasion from the Labrador center.
30057084|Effects on beaches of nine storms and two hurricanes have been measured on the beaches of Cape Cod. Changes in beach volume and topography take place very rapidly, and vertical cuts of 9 feet in the foreshore and volume changes of as much as 520 cubic feet per linear foot during one tide have been measured. The positions of offshore shoals influence the amounts of beach erosion, with cutting being greater behind openings in the bars. Migration of openings in the bars shifts the locus of maximum cut and fill laterally along the beach. Wave erosion at the base of the cliffs, while occurring irregularly, is important as it increases the rate of mass wastage in the slopes.
30063783|The constituents and structure of two basaltic volcanoes which grew in meltwater ponds in an ice sheet are described. Pillow lava and para-pillow lava, a newly denned variety of subaqueous lava flow, appear to have fabrics and fabric relationships similar to that of pahoehoe and aa, and are inferred to have similar modes of emplacement. Pillow breccias are attributed to gravitational collapse of pillow lava in varying states of cooling and crystallization. Flow-foot breccias are attributed to the flow into water of lava erupted in air. Vitric tuffs are inferred to be the product of explosive activity coinciding with emergence of the volcanoes from their meltwater ponds. The emergent explosive phase, which followed effusion of lava in water (pillow lava) and preceded effusion in air (sheet lava/flow-foot breccia), is attributed to explosive evolution of steam from water sucked into the conduit by rapidly rising lava. The onset of explosive activity at depths of less than about 200 m is related to increasing velocity of uprise of lava with decreasing depth of eruption.
30063955|Neither the dispersed nature of the Heart Mountain fault blocks nor the fault breccia are compatible with the hovercraft mechanism proposed by C. J. Hughes. The upper plate was not emplaced as a coherent sheet; it broke up into numerous blocks soon after movement began, and the blocks became widely separated before movement ceased. If they had been supported initially by high gas pressure, the pressure would have been lost long before the blocks came to rest. The fault breccia was examined at thirty localities; volcanic rock fragments were found only at one, and there they apparently were derived from rocks that are older than the faulting.
30057397|Gutenberg has shown that certain features in the travel time curves of seismic phases can be explained as the result of the presence of a velocity minimum for the wave propagation at a certain depth. He also advanced the hypothesis that this low-velocity zone is a "decoupling" zone between the material above it and that below it. Because this low-velocity zone also represents the wave guide for the G-waves, and the latter reaches around the whole globe, the decoupling zone would have to be present everywhere. Originally the decoupling zone was assumed to be at some 70 km. depth, but it now appears that it has to be put at 140 km. The present paper investigates the effect of the presence of such a decoupling zone at the specified depth upon the various theories of orogenesis. It is shown that all those theories of mountain-building which are based upon the assumption that crustal shortening is the cause of mountains, are affected to the extent that the shortening required is now much less than previously estimated. The other theories of mountain-building are only superficially affected.
30060823|The Shackleton Range Metamorphic Complex in the Mount Provender area consists of northwest-trending migmatitic hornblende-bearing gneisses, marbles and calc-silicate rocks, kyanite schist, quartzites and granulites, amphibolites, garnetiferous gneisses, and ultramafic rocks. The calculated whole rock Rb-Sr isochron age for five samples of feldspathic augen gneiss from a layer 25 m thick is
30057863|The Giants Range batholith is a great body of granite in northeastern Minnesota that lies between the Mesabi and Vermilion iron-mining districts. It outcrops as a narrow belt that strikes east-northeast and occupies an area of about 1,000 square miles. The granite intrudes Archean and Lower-Middle Huronian rocks and is overlain unconformably by Upper Huronian sediments. The Duluth gabbro cut across and metamorphosed its southeastern edge. In general the top of the batholith seems to have been flat except for a row of cupolas which now form the Giants Range. The lateral contacts strike nearly parallel to the adjacent schists. Intrusive effects along the borders include apophysal dikes, marginal breccias, roof pendants, lit-par-lit injection, and contact metamorphism. Like most large intrusions, the batholith shows much internal complexity. Hornblende- and biotite-granites, low in quartz and rich in soda, predominate, but variations in mineral composition and texture are numerous. Assimilation of wall rocks probably was slight. Differentiation produced rocks ranging from diabase and shonkinite to soda-granite.
30056090|On the higher mountains in the Coast Range of British Columbia and Alaska the action of ice and snow is so severe and the surface is changing so rapidly that little record of old suface features remains and an estimate of the amount of erosion by ice is difficult to make. In the valleys likewise, ice erosion has been active and the surface has changed rapidly; but here reference to certain datum planes, such as sea-level and the levels of certain rivers, suggests that glacial scour has deepened some of the major valleys 2,000 feet or more. In the period between 9,000 and 4,500 years ago conditions of intense alpine glacia-tion prevailed. Between 5,500 and 4,500 years ago the climate was moderating; the ice retreated rapidly and disappeared from Stikine and Taku fiords. From 4,500 until about 1,500 years ago the climate was warmer than at present. Subsequently the ice advanced in places for 20-25 miles beyond present glacier termini. It then retreated to its present stage.
30061090|The Chubut is a mediumsize (42,000 km
JG80218|Coesite-bearing gneiss and eclogite constitute the North-East Greenland ultrahigh-pressure (UHP) terrane on a small island located at approximately 7800N, 1854W in the North Atlantic Ocean. The island lies on the eastern margin of the much larger Caledonian North-East Greenland high-pressure (HP) eclogite province. This eclogite province is composed of juvenile Paleoproterozoic crust dominated by 1.852.0-Ga calc-alkaline magmatic-arc rocks that were deformed and then intruded by a suite of anorogenic granites at approximately 1.75 Ga. These orthogneisses can be traced to the foreland of the Caledonian orogen before they disappear under the ice sheet and thus are taken to be part of Laurentia. Whole-rock and trace-element geochemistry from six UHP gneisses demonstrate that the samples represent the more mafic parts of the calc-alkaline arc seen in the HP eclogite province. U-Pb ion probe ages of zircon from four gneisses add to the evidence that the protoliths of the UHP rocks are Paleoproterozoic. Two clinopyroxene-bearing intermediate orthogneisses have ages of
30057955|The surface configuration of eastern Ohio and adjacent West Virginia and Kentucky-is governed by varying resistance and attitude of strata which have been differentially sculptured during four cycles of erosion. The occurrence of resistant Mississippian and basal Pennsylvanian rocks between weaker rocks, in combination with the geologic structure, has produced a cuesta and lowland which dominate the landscape of eastern Ohio, and a portion of Kentucky. Because of differences in topographic expression and physiographic history the cuesta and lowland should not be included in the Kanawha section of the Appalachian Plateau.
30079533|Sills occurring in the sedimentary rocks on the lower slope of Loveland Mountain belong to two rock types of slightly different ages. Monzonitic-diorite porphyry is the older; quartz-monzonite porphyry, the younger. They are derived from the same magma reservoir, and are composed of different proportions of the same minerals. The groundmass of the quartz-monzonite porphyry is very acidic. Although the sedimentary rocks between them are unaltered, both porphyries are altered. However, the monzonitic-diorite porphyry is comparatively fresh, whereas the quartz-monzonite porphyry is intensely altered. The principal products of alteration are albitized plagio-clase, sericite, penninite, epidote, white carbonate, and iron-carbonate. They were introduced progressively. Evidence indicates that the alteration of each porphyry was an end stage of its intrusion and that the agents of alteration were in the magma itself or followed the same paths as the magma. It is suggested that the term "deuteric" be restricted to reactions in a closed system and not applied to alterations of the type described here.
30058687|The Illinoian drift of southern Indiana has been leached of its calcium carbonate to an average depth of 158 inches. The depth of leaching in the Wisconsin drift varies from about 4 1/2 feet along the Shelbyville moraine to 3 feet along the Bloomington moraine. Fifty-nine localities were found where calcareous Wisconsin drift, loess, or lake silt rests upon leached Illinoian drift. Measurements at these localities indicate an average leaching of 6 feet during the Sangamon interglacial stage. From 4 to 5 feet of gumbo til were formed upon the Illinoian drift during Sangamon time. This compares closely with the amount of gumbotil formed to the west of Indiana, but leaching did not penetrate to so great a depth in Indiana as elsewhere. This may have been due to lower relief and higher water table in Indiana during Sangamon time than in the states west of Indiana. Comparison of the weathering of the silts in southwestern Indiana shows the presence there of local loess and lake silt of Illinoian age and extensive loess and lake silt of Wisconsin age. The main body of loess in Indiana is the equivalent of the Peorian loess to the west. Within the Tazewell drift area two loesses occur which are the equivalents of the Tazewell and Iowan loesses of Illinois. Extensive lake silt of Wisconsin age occurs along the tributaries of the Wabash and Ohio rivers. The ponding of these tributaries was due to the deposition of an extensive valley train along the lower Wabash, while it acted as a sluiceway for the Wisconsin ice sheet. An estimate of 135,000 years is made for the duration of the Sangamon interglacial stage in southern Indiana. The Tazewell drift in Indiana has probably been undergoing leaching for at least 45,000 years.
30079915|The general relationship between channel morphology and the grain size of sediment in the channel bed is an important but poorly known aspect of alluvial rivers. An analysis of an equation for total sediment flux in the limits of suspension, bedload, and mixedmodes of transport indicates distinct, steadystate regimes of channel morphology. Such regimes are readily seen in published data for modern alluvial rivers by way of a conventional Shields plot or a plot of channel slope as a function of relative grain size
30059316|The pseudoternary system nepheline-diopside-sanidine represents a plane within the six-component system CaO-MgO-AlONaO-KO-SiO as well as a plane through the tetrahedron nepheline-kalsilite-silica-diopside. Liquidus phase relations show primary phase fields of olivine, nepheliness, leucitess, and diopsidess and the presence of piercing points at
30060804|Granitic rocks in Japan have an intimate correlation with the country rocks which they intrude. The granitic rocks which intrude basic rocks are mainly quartz diorite and tonalite, whereas those which intrude acidic rocks are mainly biotite granite or hornblende-biotite granodiorite. This relation suggests that the granitic magmas changed their compositions by assimilation of country rocks.
30057923|A sub-Chattanooga geologic map showing the areal distribution of pre-Chattanooga formations, a structure contour map on the Chattanooga shale, and a cross section across central Tennessee have been prepared to illustrate the stratigraphy and structure of the Nashville dome. The dome is shown to have been developed synchronously with mountain-building activity in Appalachia. When Appalachia was active, the dome was above sea level; and when Appalachia was inactive, the dome was covered by calcareous sediments. It is believed that the dome was uplifted essentially by vertical bulging caused by stresses transmitted plastically in the deeper rocks of the crust. Uplift occurred many times, the axis of greatest uplift shifting east or west in accord with the intensity of stresses transmitted westward from Appalachia. The fingers of Richmond and Silurian formations are believed to be erosional remnants preserved by favorable structural position rather than deposits in "long, narrow embayments." The history of the dome from the Cambrian through the time of deposition of the Chattanooga shale is reviewed.
30059192|As part of a general study of authigenic feldspars, microcline and albite crystals of authigenic origin were heat-treated at temperatures near the melting point of albite. Within 28 days the microcline crystals were converted by a diffusive disordering transformation to sanidine. Untwinned albite cleavage fragments transformed to analbite within 10 days, and a measurable change in the reciprocal lattice angle  was observed in one day. The transformation from low-temperature albite to analbite is gradational in character, and it is evident that the crystals pass through all intermediate states; it is thus similar to the micro-cline-sanidine transformation. During the heating period the albite crystals became mosaic and produced smeared X-ray reflections. The mosaic structure appears to be related to the formation of the unquenchable monoclinic form of NaAlSiO, the existence of which is deduced from fine albite and pericline twinning. After the crystals had completely transformed to monoclinic NaAlSiO the smeared X-ray reflections became sharp once again.
30067043|The Kibaran Supergroup, a >3000kmlong belt of metasedimentary and igneous rocks in the southeastern Congo, is in a critical location between the Congo Craton (sensu stricto) and the TanzaniaBangweulu Block. Understanding its tectonic evolution will shed muchneeded light on the amalgamation history of subSaharan Africa. This study presents UPb SHRIMP age data for 150 detrital zircons from four metasedimentary formations of the Nzilo Group, the middle lithostratigraphic unit within the Kibaran Supergroup in Katanga Province. These samples yielded dates between
30056567|The natural steam (vents, soffioni) of the Larderello and adjacent regions in Tuscany, Italy, was used in the largest pre-war natural steam power-plant installation in the world. The boric acid and other mineralizers in the steam were exploited in a large chemical industry. Many wells were drilled to tap the emanations delivered through fractures from a probable batholith freezing beneath. Pneumatolysis is at work on a grand scale. This geologic occurrence merits more attention from American (and European) geologists than it has received. Data collected on brief field visits during early partial rehabilitation of the plants following bombing and demolition are presented.
30059350|Deposits of olitic aragonite sand are being formed in a discontinuous belt in very shallow waters along the margins of the Great Bahama Bank. In a studied area south of Bimini, there is strong negative correlation between water depth and olitic structure of the grains suggesting that waters less than six feet deep are optimal for olite formation. The largest percentage of olitically coated grains, and the grains with the greatest number of lamellae are concentrated in, and just below, the intertidal zone, where they are in contact with sea water judged to be supersaturated (metastable) with respect to aragonite. The metastable condition is believed to result from the fact that tidal flow over the barrier rim of the shelf lagoon brings relatively cool,
30062059|Measurements of homogenization temperatures of fluid inclusions relative to their location in colored and chemically zoned garnet crystals collected along a 500 m traverse from a granodiorite contact, King Island, Tasmania, Australia give a thermal history of the cooling pluton. Homogenization temperature vs. distance curves are essentially linear. The gradients are approximately 385C at the contact to 305C at 500 m from the inner core; 420C to 305C, outer core; 740C to 425C, inner midsection; 800C to 470C, central midsec-tion; 680C to 420C, outer midsection; 540C to 305C, inner edge and 470C to 305C, outer edge. The thermal model suggested is that relatively small amounts of hotter saline aqueous solutions permeated large quantities of cooler contact rocks (at approximately 350), already having a thermal gradient, caused the crystallization of andradite-core garnets. The solutions initially were not in thermal equilibrium with the contact rocks but ultimately the resultant temperature recorded in the inclusions did reach thermal equilibrium. As convective heat-loss from the pluton continued the isotherms moved out from the granodiorite during crystallization. Due to decarbonization reactions, overpressures exceeding the breaking strength of the overlying rocks were produced resulting in faulting with the aqueous fluid entering a 2 phase area (boiling) and garnet cores generally being fractured. With the waining of pluton-produced heat, lower temperature inclusions were trapped in the now unfractured grossular-rich garnet rims. These represent the return of the isotherms back to the pluton's contact.
30060367|For the use of beginning students in mineralogy or crystallography, simplified directions are given for applying the Goldschmidt method to the study of crystals on the two-circle contact goniometer. The methods for plotting face-poles in the gnomonic projection, determining symbols of faces from their face-pole co-ordinates, transfeirrng Goldschmidt to Miller symbols and vice versa, determining axial ratio, and crystal drawing are all presented.
30060905|Lherzolite and harzburgite inclusions from the Green knobs kimberlitic diatreme on the Colorado Plateau have textures characterized by clusters of coarse-grained, intergrown enstatite, diopside, and spinel. The high molar fraction of spinel in these clusters indicates that they formed by reaction of olivine and garnet. Similar textures have been described from peridotite inclusions in basalt and from ophiolite complexes. The texture seems less common in inclusions examined from the Basin-Range province in the western United States than from the Colorado Plateau. The texture reflects transport of garnet peridotite through the garnet-spinel transition, and it suggests that mantle convection occurred to depths less than 90 km. The cluster texture should be explicitly described with modal data in descriptions of peridotite textures.
30062063|Soft-sediment clastic dikes at New Paltz, New York are pre-cleavage structures which have been redistributed during folding. Folded clastic dikes contain a cleavage as an axial surface foliation, and this cleavage is continuous with the slaty cleavage in the surrounding pelite. Bedding folds and dike folds have a common axial surface. Previous workers have suggested that clastic dikes might be made parallel to slaty cleavage by rotation during deformation instead of by injection during dewatering. The evidence presented here supports this view and countermands the hypothesis of tectonic dewatering as a mechanism for the production of slaty cleavage on a regional scale.
30078381|Many empty shells of bivalves produced by a local subpopulation will disarticulate into left and right valves between death and final burial in open and shallow seas. In areas above the normal wave base, wave-induced turbulent flows can cause transport of these valves. In this study, the spatial diffusion of valves is simplified and simulated by a random walk model using a microcomputer. In these simulations, there were no large differences between the numbers of left and right valves in an infinite area, and they are really the same as the mean of the universe. But the differences between numbers of left and right valves are sometimes large, and various changes are observed, depending on the sampling area. The different numbers of left and right valves in a finite area shows the magnitude of deviations from the mean of the universe, even if the shapes of left and right valves were true mirror images. The left-right phenomenon of bivalve shells is explainable by one of the statistical laws in a finite area and primary-information losses of L-R ratio in shallow seas. Cv, a measure for the difference of L-R ratio from 1, characterizes the statistics of fluctuations in L-R ratio best. Shell diffusion under random sorting wave action is enhanced by that above the normal wave base in the open sea. Cv can be used to discriminate the source area of shells and the accumulation area, for instance the beach, of empty shells in the area above the wave base. Cv is therefore a very useful standard for assessing wave environments above the normal wave base in the facies-analysis of fossil assemblages at the species level.
30066060|Two kinds of model experiments were conducted: one was done in a wave tank and the other in a wave basin. In the former test, a model cliff was placed at an angle of 90 to the input wave direction, while in the latter, an identical cliff was installed at an angle of 60. Erosional process in the wave tank experiment was characterized by a closed-loop system, while that in the wave basin test by an open-loop system. In the former system, the erosive force of the input waves was modified by the action of sand deposited at the cliff base: the sand intensified the erosive force by acting as an abrasive or it moderated the force by acting as an obstacle. This feedback-control system was analyzed by applying the automatic control theory. A result showed that the maximum erosive force, intensified by sand, was 4.5 times as great as the erosive force having no sand effect.
30066272|The thin-bedded limestone and shale beds of the Tanners Creek Formation are divided into five assemblage zones. Within each assemblage zone, the organisms are grouped into fossil communities. The Tanners Creek Formation, which is the basal unit of the Richmond Group of Upper Ordovician age, is about 70 m. thick where it outcrops in southeastern Indiana. Time-trend curves for twenty-three fossil types are plotted to study the distribution of the organisms within the Tanners Creek Formation. A computer program was compiled to compute and plot the time-trend curves which are used to divide the formation into assemblage zones. A twenty-one-term smoothing equation is used for the major trends and a seven-term equation for the short-period fluctuations in the faunal distribution. The following assemblage zones are named for the dominant pairs of brachiopod genera: Zone A, Rafinesquina-Zygospira; Zone B, Resserella-Zygospira; Zone C, Resserella-Sowerbyella; Zone D, Platystrophia-Leptaena; and Zone E, Rhynchotrema-Plaesiomys. Within each assemblage zone, the fossils which occur most frequently together are grouped into fossil communities. Within each assemblage zone the product-moment correlation coefficients are computed between each pair of fossils. The fossils are grouped into communities, using an R-mode cluster analysis computer program. The major fossil communities which transcend assemblage zone boundaries include (1) Rafinesquina-Zygospira community, (2) crinoid-trilobite community, (3) bryozoan community, (4) Resserella community, and (5) Hebertella-Strophomena community. Field observations on the condition and orientation of the fossils are used in conjunction with point-count data on the fossils and matrix to interpret the depositional environment and its relationship to the assemblage zones and communities. A principal-components factor analysis computer program with a varimax rotation is used to study the relationship between the organisms and their environment. Based on the interpretation of field and thin-section data, a marine regression occurred from Zone A to Zone C, with a transgression in Zone D and a regression in Zone E.
30079639|A well-exposed area of gneisses was mapped in great detail. This mapping illustrates the processes of deep-zone deformation and reveals certain characteristic structures. Most characteristic is a dome and basin structure of any attitude. Application of the conclusions from small-scale mapping to areas of the pre-Cambrian complex indicates that many so-called batholiths are probably domal structures of paragneisses.
30075226|The late Neoproterozoic (706  4 Ma) Polly Wright Cove pluton is an elliptical intrusive body composed predominantly of biotite granite that intruded Grenvilleage granitoid crust in the central Virginia Blue Ridge province. Fineand mediumgrained biotite granite occurs as multiple tabular sheets near the pluton margins and as fingerlike projections that extend into the country rock. The pronounced sheeting is absent from the pluton interior where mediumgrained biotite granite and a younger biotite leucogranite are massive. Structural elements in and adjacent to the pluton are generally parallel. Highstrain zones in the country rock and pluton record SEdirected extensional deformation. Country rock fabrics and internal pluton structures appear to be contemporaneous, suggesting that the Polly Wright Cove pluton was emplaced syntectonically into actively extending country rock during the early stages of late Neoproterozoic rifting of Laurentia. Emplacement began with the intrusion of sheeted dikes and was followed by minor latestage expansion of the pluton interior. Detailed microstructural analysis, as illustrated by this study, has the potential to aid significantly in the interpretation of the tectonic aspects of magmatism.
30060899|Geomorphic mapping of flood plain and channel morphology in the Quaternary alluvial valley of the Colorado River revealed ten cross-cutting assemblages of fluvial channel patterns and associated sedimentary structures and textures. Quantitative studies of the modern and ancient patterns between Austin and La Grange, Texas, indicate systematic changes in channel width, meander wavelength, sinuosity, and sediment type through time. The changes appear to be cyclic, although the amplitudes of the cycles vary. Sufficient morphology is preserved to utilize empirical correlations of meander wavelength to discharge as an aid in paleohydrologic interpretation. However, the influences of sediment load and flood magnitude-frequency changes preclude quantitative speculation. Data from fluvial sediments, relict paleosols, and paleobiological studies support the hypothesis that Quarternary climate in central Texas alternated between relatively arid and humid intervals. Humid phases were characterized by fine-grained loads and high-sinuosity patterns on flood plains. Changes to arid conditions abruptly interrupted flood plain development with degradational activity. Continued arid conditions promoted aggradation by low-sinuosity streams transporting polygenetic suites of coarse sediment derived from nearby, eroding hillslopes. The transition to humid streams was gradual and probably accompanied by more uniform streamflow characteristics.
30075189|Shelf sediments off northwest Africa are latitudinally zoned, with carbonate-rich sands predominant off Spanish Sahara, and more muddy and terrigenous sediments off Morocco. This zonation cannot be interpreted simplistically in terms of the present distribution of climatic belts, or zones of relative humidity, as previously thought, but results from the interaction of climatic factors (runoff, upwelling, swell development, wind direction), with "tectonic" factors (geology and physiography of the source and depositional areas), throughout the late Quaternary. For example, carbonate sands are widespread off the desert coast of the Spanish Sahara not only because the arid hinterland precludes fluvial terrigenous sediment supply, but also because (i) the coast-parallel wind system prevents offshore aeolian transport of terrigenous detritus, (ii) the Holocene transgression was rapid, leading to the development of a widespread sand cover, and (iii) the seabed appears to be disturbed regularly by currents and wave action capable of preventing the settling of any fine terrigenous detritus which occasionally might be blown offshore. Where the winds blow consistently offshore, off the southernmost Spanish Sahara, probably aeolian terrigenous muds are quiet common. Upwelling is intensified in the same region, resulting in organic enrichment of the sediments of this southern shelf and slope. As another example, muddy and terrigenous sediments are widespread on the Moroccan shelf not only because rainfall is highest there, but also apparently because the physiography permits bypassing of the coastal zone by fine-grained terrigenous detritus, probably mainly during the flood season. Latitudinal zonations in the mineralogy of the sediments (for example a southward increase in montmorillonite), and the existence of relict muds off fossil rivers in the northern Sahara, are the results of more pluvial hinterland climates during the last glaciation. Our data reemphasize that generalizations relating shelf sediments to climate should be made with caution, and this should be borne in mind also when examining the depositional environments of ancient shelf sediments.
30057156|Geological mapping in the Bancroft area has indicated that the nepheline-bearing rocks were developed in metamorphosed sediments of Grenville type. The visible granite-syenite complex adjacent to the nephe-line rocks is younger and intrusive into those rocks. Some obvious paragneisses locally contain nepheline, and an increase or decrease in nepheline content may occur both along and across the strike of the gneisses. In fact, some rocks were traced from a typical calcareous mica or hornblende paragneiss facies into rock rich in nepheline and containing little calcite. It was also noted that the nepheline-bearing rocks are not everywhere closely associated with either granite or limestone; they actually occur scattered throughout a very heterogeneous series of metamorphosed sediments. There is no field evidence that reaction took place between a granitic or syenitic magma and limestone to yield a feldspathoidal magma; neither do the nepheline rocks present intrusive relations to the other rocks; nor are there segregations of lime-silicates in the immediate neighborhood, which might be expected if limestone syntexis in its commonly accepted form had occurred. The proposed hypothesis is that the nepheline rocks are the result of a process of "nephelinization," in which certain impure calcareous sedimentary horizons were attacked and replaced by solutions from some unknown but probably granitic source, resulting in the deposition of nepheline and sodic plagioclase without the formation of an actual nepheline-syenite magma, which has been postulated by proponents of the syntexis theory. Most of the nepheline pegmatites also appear to be replacements, although their origin is more doubtful.
30084951|Contamination in acid magmas is intimately connected with the volatiles which they contain. The chief function of these volatiles is to form a medium of low viscosity between the xenolith (or margin) and the magma through which material can diffuse with comparative freedom. This diffusion of substance to and from a xenolith constitutes reciprocal reaction. Its object is to stabilise the mineral assemblage of the xenolith so that its mineral phases are in equilibrium with the contaminated magma. The material gained by reciprocal reaction is incorporated in phases which crystallise from the contaminated magma. But material is also gained by the magma through other methods which may be loosely described as mechanical and which disintegrate the xenolith so that their constituent minerals are set free in the magma. So far, three such methods have been noted.
30060834|There is wide disparity in the current literature concerning the origin of barrier islands. The acceptance of multiple causality is advocated here, and a new classification is proposed.
30062024|The time of peak thermal conditions in the granulite facies zone of the southern Appalachian orogen corresponds to the time of formation of garnetbearing leucosomes generated by biotite dehydration melting in garnetsillimanite gneisses. Leucosomes contain unusually abundant zircon occurring as inclusions in euhedral plagioclase phenocrysts and garnet. Isotope dilution thermalionization mass spectrometric analysis of 13 elongate, euhedral zircon crystals from the leucosome yields a concordant UPb age of
30060517|Attempts to explain the origin of sand ridges on continental shelves require objective means for quantifying their wavelengths and orientations. Two-dimensional power spectral analysis is such an approach. However, mathematical peculiarities may lead to apparent discrepancies between the results of spectral analysis and wavelength estimates from bathymetric maps. This discrepancy may explain much of the reported difference between wavelength predictions based on hydrodynamic stability theory and measurements from bathymetric maps. Such a discrepancy can be significantly reduced by a modified spectral analysis technique which utilizes power spectra of bottom slopes rather than bathymetry.
30058987|Topography of Eastern Channel between Browns Bank and Georges Bank is similar to submarine glaciated valleys elsewhere, notably Cabot Trough in the Gulf of St. Lawrence. It is possible that glacial ice in these offshore regions was confined to deep embayments such as the Gulf of Maine and that it did not extend out over the continental shelf as a sheet but reached the sea as valley glaciers through older river valleys.
30069389|The
30066183|Layering of metamorphic origin which cuts recognizable bedding is described from slates, phyllites, and andalusite mica schists. The layering may be parallel to slaty cleavage or crenulation cleavage, or may be independent of any recognizable planar tectonic structure. In most examples, the development of metamorphic layering is associated with heterogeneous strain, but in some cases no heterogeneity is observed.
30064958|The Eden Shale (Ordovician) of the tri-state area of Indiana, Kentucky, and Ohio consists mainly of blue-gray clay shale alternating with thin beds of sparry and micritic limestone differing significantly from the underlying Lexington Limestone (uppermost beds predominantly sparry limestone) and from the overlying Dillsboro Formation (lowermost beds predominantly micritic limestone). Lexington lithologies reflect deposition in agitated water on a carbonate shoal; Eden deposition took place in adjacent areas of deeper, quieter water; Dillsboro sediments represent shallower conditions than those of the Eden but less agitated than those of the Lexington. In-place accumulation of skeletal debris and lime mud on minor elevated areas of the sea floor and subsequent burial by terrigenous mud resulted in a basic pattern of alternating beds of shale and biomicrudite in the Eden. Periodic storms that blanketed the inner neritic mud bottom with thin layers of winnowed coarse skeletal sand most likely produced the sparry limestones. Although small-scale limestone-shale alternations do not represent cyclic sedimentation, large-scale sedimentary cycles in the Ordovician Cincinnati Group apparently resulted from major oscillations of sea level.
30057954|The pre-Cambrian granites of the Front Range of Colorado and southern Wyoming outcrop in ten batholiths and two stocks. The granites have been classified according to relative age and mineral content, (1) The granites of the oldest group of batholiths generally carry 15 kinds of heavy minerals which average from 5 to 40 per cent of the weight of the samples. (2) The intermediate group includes 17 to 19 heavy minerals which comprise from 3 to 25 per cent of the rock. (3) The youngest group generally carries 21 heavy minerals, the amounts of which range from 2 to 10 per cent per sample. The characteristics and important variations of each diagnostic mineral are discussed in relation to the three groups.
30059252|Jack Hough's latest (1963) attempt to correlate events in the various basins of the Glacial Great Lakes contains fundamental errors which are fatal to his scheme. They involve denials of field facts reported in the literature and statements that seem surely to indicate lack of personal field examination and of adequate study of topographic maps. The first and most detailed organization of then existing knowledge of the succession of Glacial Great Lake stages was by Leverett and Taylor in Monograph 53, U.S. Geological Survey, 1915. Although studies by many later investigators have added much information and have altered some of the original correlations, the Leverett and Taylor picture has, in general, stood the test of time. Since 1915, the Huron-Erie and the Michigan glacial lake levels, with proposed correlations, have had the most attention. Out of these studies have come, since 1951, the two different concepts herein considered regarding correlation of the stages in these eastern and western basins.
30070756|The influence of dissolved ion concentration on the erodibility of marsh soils from the Lake Pontchartrain-Lake Borgne area of southeastern Louisiana was tested in laboratory experiments. Although the influence of salinity varied in different soils, erodibility generally decreased as water salinity was increased from 0 to 10. These results are in agreement with the findings of other studies that have investigated the effects of water salinity on the physical properties of cohesive soils. Field evidence from the Mississippi River delta also indicates that most rapid erosion occurs where and when water salinity is lowest, given the same wave energy. Salinity is believed to influence marsh erodibility due to the influence of salt concentration on electrical field interactions among soil colloids.
30061941|The marine to terrestrial transition in the Big Bend area falls within the Late Cretaceous Aguja Formation, and, in light of new biostratigraphic data resulting from screening for small vertebrates and magneto-stratigraphic data, the Cretaceous-Tertiary boundary falls within the Javelina Formation, which includes the first red banding produced by oxidation of overbank fluvial mudstones. No record of a catastrophic event is apparent in the Javelina Formation. The Javelina, Black Peaks, and Hannold Hill Formations and the Big Yellow Sandstone Member of the Canoe Formation record increasing uplift in the region, culminating in uplift and volcanism in the Chisos Mountains, the source for upper Canoe Formation sediments. The sequence of changes produced by this trend and by unroofing in source highlands to the west is sufficiently gradual that the Javelina through Black Peaks units are not lithostratigraphically distinct at the formation level and therefore are reduced to member status, and placed, along with the Big Yellow Sandstone Member, within the redefined Tornillo Formation. The Aguja Formation and the Toraillo Formation are united in the Chilicotal Group (new), which spans the deposits from the first significant influxes of terrestrial sediments, formed as the Cretaceous sea retreated, up to the beginning of local volcanism in the Chisos. The volcanic strata of the upper Canoe Formation are reassigned to the Chisos Formation.
30068198|Late Ordovician (Caradocian) age Viola limestones from the Arbuckle Mountains, Oklahoma, have Sr concentrations from 216 ppm to 3720 ppm (average 1600 ppm),
30080807|The history of the idea of subsidence and warping and the development of the idea of geosynclines and downwarps is reviewed, and a suggestion as to classification and definition of subsiding areas is made. Next is presented a review of the widely differing concepts held by many workers concerning the origin of the great arc-shaped depression called the Snake River plain which sweeps across the entire width of Idaho. The writer has accumulated evidence over a period of years which indicates clearly that the depression is a downwarp formed by gentle and very gradual subsidence. This great structure attains especial significance because it does not parallel the grain of the continent or the Rocky Mountain system, but, to the contrary, crosses the latter almost normal to its axis.
30067399|UPb and
30065819|Intertidal peats and radiocarbon-dated tree stumps in eastern Prince Edward Island, Canada, indicates 5-8 feet of submergence during the last 900 years. Submergence may be due to eustatic rise of sea level or to possible tilting of the island.
30080196|The results of a numerical simulation of openchannel flow of Bingham fluids provide improved capabilities for analyzing muddy debris flows and their depositis, and for routing debris flows. Because of limitations of the phenomenonological Bingham model, results are deemed applicable to mudrich debris flows only. Most published field estimates of debrisflow rheological (Bingham) properties depend on application to natural channels of analytical solutions for flow through channels with either circular or very wide channel crosssections. Lack of a general solution for flow of Bingham fluids in channels with realistic shapes has restricted capabilities in debrisflow modeling and field data analysis. Numerical solutions permit generalization and extension of analytical solutions to channels of arbitrary crosssectional form without loss of accuracy. The numerical model (FIDAP) utilizes a well established finiteelement formulation of the nonNewtonian fluid flow problem and reproduces available analytical solutions nearly exactly. A regression analysis of model results constrains general, easily applied equations that give discharge and plug velocity as functions of channel geometry, channel slope, debris bulk density, viscosity, and yield strength. These empirical equations are suitable for backcalculation of debrisflow viscosity from field data, engineering analysis, and for incorporation into one and twodimensional debrisflow routing models. An analysis of debrisflow rheology on the basis of new field observations in Owens Valley, California, utilizing this method yields the most reliable field estimates of debrisflow yield strengthviscosity pairs to date. These new field estimates corroborate trends seen in recent laboratory studies and suggest that these trends may be extrapolated to field scale.
30060698|Quartz particles from alluvial deposits in Italy display crystalline overgrowths when examined under the scanning electron microscope. Similar crystals have been observed adhering to loess particles from the Kaisersthl. Preliminary investigation suggests that the crystals consist of dolomite.
30065519|RbSr and SmNd isotopic data, rare earth element (REE ) abundances, and majorelement compositions are reported for the Triassic cherts of the Mino Terrane in the Inner Zone of southwest Japan and for the Permian and Triassic cherts of the Sambosan Terrane in the Outer Zone of southwest Japan. RbSr isotopic data of the Mino and Sambosan cherts define separate isochron lines, and the RbSr ages of ca. 210 and 240 Ma reflect the chert deposition and the end of the subsequent chemical diagenesis during which amorphous silica was transformed into quartz. It is concluded that the RbSr isotopic system of the cherts becomes essentially homogenized among biogenic silica, detrital components and hydrogeneous components during deposition, and the subsequent chemical diagenesis before lithification due to high mobility of Rb and Sr. The Sr initial ratio (0.71363) of the Triassic Mino cherts is clearly higher than those (0.7079 and 0.7068) of the Triassic and Permian Sambosan cherts, which are close to the estimated oceanic Sr ratios of 0.70660.7081 in the Permian and Triassic. On the other hand, SmNd isotopic data do not define isochron lines. This might be due to incomplete homogenization of the system among biogenic silica, detrital components and hydrogeneous components during deposition, and chemical diagenesis because of low mobility of REE. Initial Sr and Nd isotopic ratios of the Mino cherts can be interpreted by mixing typical continental crustal rocks, represented by aeolian loess compositions, with a small amount of Precambrian rocks (<10%), while those of the Sambosan cherts can be explained by mixing continental crustal rocks with oceanic volcanic rocks such as MORB (midocean ridge basalt). In the mixing model between Chinese loess and MORB, a proportion of loess is ca. 30%60% for the Middle Permian Sambosan cherts and ca. 60%90% for the Triassic Sambosan cherts. Al
30060666|A complex series of rocks in the contact-metamorphic zone west of, and adjacent to, the Idaho batholith and underlying the Columbia River basalt is described. The rocks are considered to have been originally chiefly siliceous sediments which have been changed in composition by hydrothermal replacements by solutions from the Idaho batholith to resemble types of quartz diorite and granodiorite. Coarse-grained hornblendite was also formed locally. The over-all textural appearance of these rocks is gneissic, though minor massive and schistose facies occur. Minerals which are considered to have been added to the original siliceous sediments by hydrothermal replacements are biotite, andesine, diopside, uralite, hornblende, scapolite, epidote, zoisite, clinozoisite, allanite, quartz, apatite, sphene, zircon, garnet, magnetite, and sericite. Ultrabasic rocks in small intrusions, which are described as having occurred somewhat later than the general metamorphism, were altered by autometamorphic, or deuteric, processes.
30084811|The work reported has a background in several principles of fluvial hydraulics: the tendency to flow in channels, the concentration of fluvial force against concave banks, the mechanism of interdependence, the importance of approximate grade and its result, non-vertical corrasion. An example of breaching by lateral corrasion of a bedrock meander neck is described, and evidence from maps is brought forward to demonstrate horizontal bedrock erosion at a rate of 1 foot a year. A rate of upstream knickpoint migration of 100 feet a year is established from observation. A topographic form consisting of a slip-off slope with a prominence at its lower end is given the name "pembina"-the origin of which is traced to non-vertical corrasion. The theoretical search for this origin is dependent on the hypothesis of unequal activity.
30061143|Landslide movement of sediments is a significant mode of sediment transport in certain subaqueous environments. A detailed study of Lake Tahoe, California-Nevada has shown that a series of massive, basin-wide landslides deposited a large portion of the thick bottom sediments. The latest of these landslides was comparable in volume with the largest landslides ever recorded. Several large mounds occur on the floor of Lake Tahoe. It is postulated that these mounds were formed by landslides. At the base-of-slope environment, many mounds are well layered and rotated backward suggesting deposition as coherent slump blocks. Mounds further from the base of slope are circular or elliptical in area, have a pebbly mudstone sedimentary texture, display a disordered internal structure on seismic reflection profiles, and are located on an extensive layer of similarly disordered sediments. We suggest that such mounds formed along dewatering centers during the rapid deposition of an incoherent landslide mass. A subaqueous, landslide gradation exists between coherent slumps, partially fluidized, incoherent landslide masses, and fluidized turbidity currents depending on the amount of water that has been entrained. It is postulated that only the fluid flow does not form a characteristic mound topography.
30058013|Large asymmetrical current ripples were formed from coarse gravel on the floor of a gorgelike channel made in a few hours by a high-velocity stream that partially drained a glacial lake near Ely, Minnesota. The ripples have wave lengths varying from 25 to 60 feet and an average vertical form index of 12. They represent huge symmetrical "sand waves" that have changed their profiles to asymmetrical meta-ripples.
30064209|Melhorn has clearly shown that the red drift in northern Lower Michigan is younger than and distinct from the Manistee drift. The red drift was deposited by a distinct ice sheet which lapped upon the back slope of both the Manistee moraine and the Port Huron. Melhorn has correlated the red drift with the Valders of northeastern Wisconsin, but he refers to the Port Huron system as late Cary, following Bretz. However, with the Port Huron morainic system representing as it does an ice advance before the Valders and after the dessication of the Cary ice, it seems necessary to regard the Cary, Mankato, and Valders as successive substages during the latter part of the Wisconsin glacial stage. This change in the classification is here proposed.
30063963|Zircon varies systematically in the gradational rock units of the concentrically zoned Tunk Lake pluton. Average zirconium content decreases from 660 ppm in marginal, hypersolvus, aegirine augite-hornblende granites to 170 ppm in the biotite quartz monzonite core. Zircon decreases in mean length from 0.24 mm in the margins to 0.13 mm in the core. Core zircons tend to be partially metamict and less elongate and have more complex crystal form than zircons of the margins. Frequency distributions of zircon characteristics show that marginal rocks contain zircon populations similar to the average population calculated for the pluton but with additional large crystals, and that core rocks have populations similar to the average but with large crystals removed. Broken and clustered zircons support gravity settling and magma tic convection as causes of zircon variation. Zircons accumulated in the margins of the pluton where downward-moving currents of magma were deflected inward. Zircon distribution provides information about the pluton's early history and its three-dimensional shape. The usefulness of zircon characteristics for correlating igneous intrusions is questionable. Similar zirconium and zircon variation occurs in other plutons, particularly in the common stocklike or batholithic igneous intrusions which are typically zoned from marginal hornblende granites to core biotite granites or marginal tonalites to core granodiorites. Comparison with the Tunk Lake pluton suggests that in such bodies early gravity settling and convection may have been important magmatic processes.
30066050|Core A 172-6 of the Lamont Geological Observatory has been spectrochemically analyzed for selected major and minor elements, and its carbonate content has been compared with published paleotemperature data. In a previous study, it had been concluded that lack of correlation between paleotemperature and carbonate was due, in part at least, to tropical sea conditions that must have prevailed in this part of the Caribbean during the Pleistocene. This interpretation depends to a large extent upon particle-by-particle deposition as reflected in the core's uniformity of appearance. In order to test the stability of this core further, the major elements as well as paleotemperature have been subjected to a time-series test for trend. A trend in this core is indicated for all these elements and paleotemperature, and the implications of this as well as the shortcomings inherent in the test are discussed. This test is in no way restricted to marine sediments but may be applied to river and lake deposits.
30062187|Weakly recrystallized high P/T metamorphic rocks are widely distributed in the Biei area, central part of the Kamuikotan blueschist belt, Japan. The metamorphic protoliths are trench-fill materials consisting of mafic rocks (picrite, basalt, and their clastic equivalents), pelitic rocks, psammitic rocks, chert, amphibolite, and peridotite. Many of these rocks show "block-in-matrix" fabrics, which are typical of the Kamuikotan melanges. Both sedimentary and tectonic mixings occur in the Biei ophiolitic melange. Sedimentary mixing has occurred within each sedimentary geologic unit. Serpentinized peridotite, amphibolite, basalt, psammitic rocks, and chert occur as olistoliths of diverse sizes and shapes within pelitic and mafic matrices. Tectonic mixing is associated with incompetent materials and geologic unit boundaries. Analyses of metamorphic facies and deformation facies suggest that the tectonic mixing occurred prior to or during the blueschist metamorphism, probably by a subduction-related process. The melange has been generated primarily by gravity slides and was locally overprinted by tectonic deformation. The blueschist metamorphism requires the rapid structural thickening of sedimentary piles to acquire the appropriate high-pressure and low-temperature conditions. Such tectonic episodes were accompanied by deformation and fracturing, which caused the continuous formation of ''block-in-matrix" fabrics of the melange.
30056157|Studies during the last fifteen years in connection with the preparation of a monograph on the fossil Crocodilia have revealed the lack of an adequate modern classification which includes an important Triassic form recently described by Mr. Barnum Brown. This article outlines a new classification of the Crocodilia into four suborders, and indicates by diagram the relations of the families of the Crocodilia, as they are interpreted by the author.
30070568|Records of geyser eruptions show lack of standardization of nomenclature and of technique of observation. The result has been misinterpretation of phenomena. The writer suggests standard terms and technique.
30062295|Kinematic data associated with both Laramideage and style and Rio Grande riftrelated structures show that the latest Cretaceous to Neogene interaction between the Colorado Plateau and the North American craton was dominantly coupled with a component of dextral shear. Consistent with earlier studies, minorfault data in this study yielded results of varied kinematics. Inverted to a common northeastoriented hemisphere, the mean trend of kinematic shortening associated with Laramideage structures is
30068554|Madagascar is a poorly known Precambrian domain at the eastern border of the Mozambique belt, strongly affected by the Pan-African orogeny. This large island represents a key part of Gondwanaland and the accurate dating of the major metamorphic event is critical for the reconstruction of that supercontinent. In the southeastern zone of the island, metamorphism has reached high-temperature and low-pressure conditions (850C and 5 kbar) with moderate retrogression. A U-Pb conventional multigrain, single zircon stepwise Pb-evaporation and Sm-Nd geochronological study on meta-felsic rocks has shown that basement of at least lower Proterozoic age was strongly metamorphosed around 570-580 Ma. This tectometamorphic event nearly obliterated any pre-Pan-African zircon isotopic memory. The granulite-facies metamorphism is associated with the syn-metamorphic emplacement of the Anosyan charnock-ites and granites. A strong channelized fluid contribution at 545 Ma has produced the (re)crystallization of biotite-apatite lenses containing giant monazites. Finally, the emplacement of zircon-bearing calcite veins at 520 Ma represents the latest Pan-African event in this SE Madagascar domain. This precise determination of the Pan-African overprint in this region facilitates comparative discussion of the geodynamic evolution of Madagascar and surrounding areas at the end of the Proterozoic. There is good agreement between the single zircon Pb-evaporation results and conventional isotopie dating; nevertheless slightly younger apparent ages are obtained by the former method. This discrepancy, which may have some important implications, could be related to the discordancy of the analyzed zircon populations.
30065714|The microdistribution of Mn (786 to 9480 ppm), Sr (<5 to 461 ppm), and Fe (52 to 16,700 ppm) was determined for cleat-filling calcites in the Herrin, Springfield, and Colchester Coals, using focussed synchrotron radiation. Compositional zonation in the calcites reflects a multistage history of precipitation from fluids with differing trace-element characteristics. In nearly all of the samples, a high Fe (
30056411|Two granites, one of Archean age and one of post-Huronian age, possibly Killarnean, are now generally recognized as present in the Southern Complex. Agreement does not exist regarding the relative amounts of these granites nor the criteria by which their extent should be judged. These factors are discussed, and some hitherto unpublished material is presented. Evidence is cited to show that granite at Republic is younger than a conglomerate there which has been described as containing granite fragments; that the Republic granite is probably continuous with the more northern intrusions, thus making the northern part of the Southern Complex a post-Huronian unit; and, finally, that granite farther south may correlate with this northern unit. The suggestion is offered that such a correlation is favored by a number of different lines of evidence.
10.1086/664777|The Berino paleosol is the first record of a directly dated Aridisol in the American Southwest where paleoclimatic conditions during the time of pedogenesis can be estimated. The noncalcic, argillic paleosol formed in eolian sand during the cool, wet climate of the mid- and late Wisconsin, marine isotope stages 3 and 2, in presently semiarid southeastern New Mexico. Optically stimulated luminescence dating of the Mescalero sand sheet and the Berino indicates that soil formation occurred during the period 5018 ka. The paleosol is a red 2.5YR hue Bt horizon, 120 cm thick, with 25% clay, 0.36% Fe, and an absence of visible carbonate. It is buried by younger eolian sand, although at the edges of the sand sheet, it is unburied and a relict soil. Red argillic paleosols in other sand sheets in the region may correlate with the Berino. The Berino paleosol is formally named as a pedostratigraphic unit.
30062627|Fluid inclusions have been studied in garnetiferous gneisses and igneous charnockites from Weddagala, Sri Lanka. Fluid distribution (brines in metasediments,
30057939|Along the eastern slope of the southern Sierra Nevada, California, an irregular, discontinuous septum of metamorphic rocks separates two great composite intrusions. The nature and structural relations of the metamorphic and plutonic rocks along a portion of the septum between Mono Lake and Owens Valley are sketched. The field evidence indicates that stoping and assimilation have played a minor role; and that the intrusions were forcefully emplaced. It also suggests that the intrusions are distinctly later than the folding.
30059297|Experiments on currents in which processes of long duration are involved, e.g., on slowly depositing, eroding, or decelerating suspensions, cannot be carried out in normal, straight flumes. Einstein and Krone therefore used a channel with a narrower and faster return flow. The disadvantage is the turbulent mixing during this return, but they nevertheless obtained noteworthy results. I employ a circular flume with vertical paddles moving horizontally in a circle along the axis. Centrifugal force and differences in velocity along the inner and outer wall are troublesome, but turbulence due to the drive is uniform and slight. The experiments described here are concerned with the origin of horizontal lamination as shown by nearly all turbidites of finer grain than coarse sand. The origin has been attributed to various causes, but usually to current pulsations of different kinds. Lamination is quoted as evidence for, but also against, deposition by a turbidity current. However, current pulsations are so numerous that they should produce ten to a hundred times more laminae than are present. It is shown experimentally that a perfectly steady, decelerating flow, comparable to the lower part of a turbidity current, produces grading, rippling, and convolution. But it also creates lamination, provided the accumulation is not too swift. Adjacent laminae can have median diameters differing by a factor of 3, and brick particles show concentrations by a factor of 6 in some laminae. The selective concentration is due to the tendency of particles moving along the bottom to join stationary ones of equal weight, density, and shape. The latter repel all grains that differ in any of these properties. The principle of "kind seeks kind" dominates the accumulation of grains that are rolling over the bed between excursions into the saltating carpet. An attempt is made to account for this behavior. Horizontal lamination in deposits formed by rivers is believed to result in most cases from the same selective action and not from pulsations. This picture is very close to that deduced earlier by Moss and argued so convincingly on the basis of composition of natural laminae. The absence of lamination in the coarser parts of turbidites is ascribed by Sanders to a postulated new type of sand flow. Here the absence of coarse lamination is attributed to the lack of time for sorting due to swift accumulation (estimated at about 1 cm/min) and to the nature of the movement in a traction carpet. The behavior of the latter is described as observable in a true experimental turbidity current. This is in general accordance with the views of Hsu and of Dzulynski and Sanders on such a carpet. The carpet is a secondary phenomenon dependent on the turbidity current and forming a minor part of it.
30075223|Ancient submarine slide and slump deposits in the Devonian flysch of central and northern Maine show considerable variation in fold style, from symmetric to asymmetric to sheath geometries. Building on earlier work by Farrell and Eaton, we suggest that the spectrum of fold styles reflects the degree of simple shear within each slump deposit. We present a stereographic approach to paleoslope analysis that exploits fold hinge attitudes, axial surface attitudes, sheath axes, vergence, S and Zasymmetrydepending on the style of slump folding. Our paleoslope determinations from widely scattered locations across the Devonian foreland basin in Maine show a regionally consistent pattern of westerly to northwesterly slopes.
30085053|The Mid-Cayman Rise is a 110 km long accreting plate boundary (~ 2cm/yr, full rate) characterized by a deep rift valley. Eighteen transponder-navigated dives were made by the submersible ALVIN along the rift valley walls in two areas on opposite sides of the rift valley. The relief of the walls is produced by a large number of inward facing small-throw fault escarpments with vertical displacements ranging from a few tens of meters to perhaps as much as 400 m. From these escarpments 142 samples were collected, and gabbroic rocks (116 samples), characterized by a wide range of compositions and a complex metamorphic history, predominate in number over other rock types (basalt, serpentinized ultramafic). We interpret the assemblage of rocks exposed on the escarpments to indicate that a shallow level magma reservoir exists beneath the axis of accretion at the Mid-Cayman Rise and creates anomalously thin oceanic crust with a carapace of only several hundreds of meters of diabase and basalt. This carapace is underlain by a plutonic assemblage, possibly of only 1 to 2 km thickness, composed of gabbroic rocks intruded by screens of serpentinized ultramafic. The crust created along the axis of the Rise may be thin as a result of the juxtaposition of the short, slowly accreting Rise segment and two long transform faults. The closely spaced transforms act as heat sinks for the asthenosphere wedge rising beneath the axis of accretion, resulting in a decrease in the volume of melt segregated from the asthenosphere and, hence, a thinner than normal oceanic crust. Although the Mid-Cayman Rise probably represents an end-member example of this effect, we suggest that thin oceanic crust and the existence of a heterogeneous assemblage of gabbroic rocks at shallow levels is a characteristic of ridge/transform intersections at slowly accreting plate boundaries.
30066311|The structure and debris content of four glaciers in NW Spitsbergen (Svalbard) are described to test the hypothesis that medial moraines are the product of folding, accompanied by the development of longitudinal foliation. Using clast orientation, clast shape, and clast lithological data, combined with measurements of fold axes and foliation in ice, this hypothesis is shown to be applicable to small valley glaciers with multiple basins feeding a narrow tongue, a common situation in Svalbard. The glaciers examined show stratification (commonly incorporating angular rockfallderived debris) folded to varying degrees along flowparallel axes throughout the tongue. An axial plane foliation is commonly associated with this folding and attains its greatest strength at flowunit boundaries. The debris takes a mediumlevel to highlevel transport path through the glacier, emerging at point sources defined by gently dipping fold hinges near the snout. As more of the folded debris layer melts out, downglacierwidening medial moraines are formed. In a few locations, foliation containing basally derived debris also shows an axial planar relationship with folding; this debris typically melts out to produce diamicton with predominantly subrounded and subangular clasts. In this case, it is inferred that subglacial sediment and debrisrich basal ice are folded within the body of the glacier and can reach the surface near the snout. The proglacial areas preserve evidence of medial moraines in the form of trains of coarse angular debris and foliationparallel ridges of diamicton, although the latter have a poor preservation potential. There is scope for applying these structural glaciological concepts to medial moraines wherever glaciers are fed by multiple basins.
JG116406|A burning peat site in the Po Valley (Italy) has been investigated for the first time. Beyond the smoke from the smoldering combustion of peat, there are carbonatic concretions and huge amounts of methane in the soil (
30071547|A statistical study of the interspecific associations of 63 species of Pennsylvanian invertebrates in 152 collections from western Illinois provides a basis for recognizing recurrent species associations. Interspecific association is represented by the relation between two species whose distributions in the samples are not independent as shown by a chi-square test. The positive associations at the .005 level of significance were used to form 19 groups of associated species. The relations between the groups, their biological characteristics, and their lithologic and stratigraphic distribution were used to infer life-assemblages. The most distinctive of these assemblages are those occurring in the upper limestones or black shale members of the cyclothems. The statistical analysis is also applied to data from a modern community as a demonstration of the ecological significance of the procedure. The application of these methods to environmental reconstruction and studies of the evolution of marine communities is discussed.
30068221|The igneous emplacement age of anorthositic rocks comprising the Marcy massif have been constrained by fixing minimum and maximum ages for their intrusion. Minimum ages have been fixed by: (a) U-Pb dating of cores of air abraded zircons from the anorthosite (>1113 Ma), (b) U-Pb dating of baddeleyite within the anorthosite (>1087 Ma), (c) U-Pb dating of baddeleyite from an olivine metagabbro crosscutting Marcy massif anorthosite (>1109 Ma), (d) U-Pb zircon dating of jotunitic rocks crosscutting the Marcy anorthosite massif (
30078350|The sea level control model is a framework to explain coastal alluvial fan processes controlled by relative sea level changes and the resulting stratigraphic sequences. The model generally predicts three types of stratigraphic units, namely: (1) open fan deposits with tripartite organization for each relative sea level rise beyond the previous high stand, and subsequent sea level fall (A-type); (2) fan valley fill deposits, constructed during sea level rise up to the previous high stand (B-type); and (3) dissection-fill deposits consisting predominantly of overflow deposits (C-type). Combination of the model with a eustatic fluctuation curve suggested from an oxygen isotope record, modified for tectonic subsidence, allows a semi-quantitative estimation of numbers and dimensions of respective stratigraphic units. Estimations for the time interval recorded by the Ogasayama Formation, which shows all the depositional units predicted by the model, compare favorably with the field observations. Thicknesses predicted are directly related to the suggested amounts of relative sea level changes, which are mostly around
30082474|The ridges of the eastern part of the Appalachian Plateau of West Virginia and Pennsylvania show a marked accordance in elevation. Many of the ridge tops are broad and, in nearly all cases, are held up by resistant Carboniferous sandstones and conglomerates. To the west of the ridges, is a well-defined erosion surface developed on much weaker Upper Carboniferous shales, sandstones, and limestones. A series of projected profiles of the topography, together with structure sections, reveals an accordance of hilltops and a beveling of strata which is convincing evidence of peneplanation. This surface is evidently much younger than that marked by the ridge tops farther east.
30061270|A near-bottom Deep-Tow investigation of the N-S-spreading Galapagos Rift at 8610'W shows a tectonic zonation about the axis which includes: (1) A narrow, central zone varying to width from 0.2-1.3 km and composed of discrete elongate highs elevated up to 50 m above the adjacent floor. The central highs (domes) are divided into western and eastern groups. A system of two-meter-wide fissures links the western and eastern groups of domes together. Hydrothermal water emanates near and from these fissures and deposits thin layers of yellow precipitates into the interstices of shattered pillow and pahoehoe basalts. Massive basalts atop the highs flow down to the inner floor. Numerous collapsed lava tubes are aligned along sections of the central high. In other places, lava whorls form where the molten streams meet with the inner floor. (2) Bordering the central zone, northern and southern lava plains (0.2-1.4 km wide) are presumably formed by extensive layers of fissure-erupted lava. Horizontal stresses across this zone exceed vertical stresses creating wide zones of open fissuring. Smooth, ropy, and whorled pahoehoe lavas are the predominant lava forms on the plains. The widest parts of this inner floor occur where central domes are absent. (3) Further away from the center is the E-W trending marginal zone where topographic highs (elevations up to 180 m above the inner floor) alternate with topographic lows (depressions 80 m below the average depth of the inner floor). Peak-to-peak distances between northern marginal highs range from 2.5-4.1 km, while along the southern margin, peak-to-peak distances range from 2.75-5.5 km. Other high-low variations occur perpendicular to the axis where northern marginal lows oppose southern marginal highs and vice versa. Vitreous pillow lavas on top of these highs indicate that basalt is actively extruded at the margins of the inner rift. (4) Adjacent to the highs and lows are two bounding fault-scarp systems composing the inner walls. The northern system is composed of a series of en echelon faults offsetting this crust 200-260 m above the inner floor of the rift valley. The southern inner wall, in contrast, is not continuous from east to west, but plunges from a 200-m uplifted block in the east to a 160-m deep fault-bounded valley in the west. These northern and southern inner walls enclose the inner rift, 3-4 km wide. Structures in the inner rift may be explained by a combination of horizontal, vertical tectonic, and vertical volcanic solutions. Spontaneous overturn of a magma chamber might initiate sinusoidal domal uplift creating the central highs, and marginal highs and lows. Infering from buoyancy experiments, wide magma chambers with a thin central crust tend to maximize the central uplift and minimize the marginal uplifts. Conversely, narrow chambers with thick axial crust encourage the formation of marginal highs which develop at the edge discontinuities between the magma chamber and adjacent cooler crust.
30058836|The theory is advanced that a submature to mature surface with relief of, at least, 3,000 feet existed in the vicinity of the Wasatch Mountains before the Basin and Range faulting began. The throw of the Wasatch fault in the Nebo section has been found to range from 5,000 to 6,000 feet. With present relief of 7,000 feet it is evident that the entire height of the range cannot be due to faulting. The Wasatch front in many sections displays typical fault-scarp topography from the piedmont to a height of approximately 3,000 feet. It then breaks suddenly into a submature surface of much lower gradient. Shoulders and large hanging valleys are striking remnants of this topography and are thought to indicate the amount of relief before the initiation of faulting. The drainage is interpreted as antecedent, because of the remnants of former mature valleys into which the deep, cross canyons are incised. The alluvium-flooded back valleys of the Wasatch antedate the faulting and are thought to have been filled with alluvium, because of lowering of gradient resulting from eastward tilting of the fault block. This tilting is calculated to range from 30 to 40 which is similar to Gilluly's figure for the Oquirrh Mountains.
30058985|Devils and Stump lakes in eastern North Dakota have been diminishing in area more or less continuously since the land around them was settled in the 1880's. Desiccations similar to the current one have occurred at least once and possibly two or more times in the past and are indicated directly and indirectly by tree stumps recently uncovered as the lake water receded and by lacustrine deposits containing buried soils and vertebrate remains. The lake levels seem to respond in a very sensitive manner to slight climatic changes. Probably the present desiccation and certainly the ones in the past are the result of changes toward a drier and warmer climate. The first may have been synchronous with the Thermal Maximum. A high abandoned strand line and associated lacustrine deposits containing buried soils and vertebrate remains indicate at least one period in the postglacial past, possibly following the Thermal Maximum, that was wetter and cooler than the present. A second desiccation, more definitely established and based on the radiocarbon dating of a tree stump, occurred less than 700 years ago, possibly during the sixteenth century.
30079416|The method of accentuation of the time
30057011|Small Eocene rhyolite dikes in the Black Hills were forcibly intruded into steep-dipping pre-Cambrian schists and nearly flat Paleozoic rocks. Structural criteria for forcible intrusion are compelling in both rocks, but the full amount of deformation is measured only in the nearly flat strata. Larger dikes and stocks deformed the nearly flat Paleozoic strata, but deformational effects are difficult to detect in the steep-dipping schists, which suggests that criteria for forcible intrusion of magma into schistose rocks are poor, and negative evidence must be used with caution. Structural criteria for the forcible intrusion of a body as large as the Sierra Nevada batholith are still more unsatisfactory. However, there are indications that this batholith was built up by multiple intrusions of a number of small intrusive units, each showing about as much deformation of the schist wall rocks as do the smaller intrusive bodies of the Black Hills. An appraisal of evidence pertaining to forcible intrusion of magma indicates that it is probably not possible to measure the amount of forcible intrusion of a body as large as a batholith, but several lines of evidence can be interpreted to support the concept of forcible intrusions of batholith.
30079929|Optimal and nonoptimal methods of faultslip analysis are tested on the simple type of kink bands by treating these structures as if they were striated faults. Results from different graphical and numerical techniques are mutually consistent and all imply development of these kink bands in a thrust regime as a consequence of NNWSSEoriented maximum compression (
30078408|We studied the streamflow and sediment flux characteristics of the 20 largest streams entering the Pacific Ocean along the central and southern California coast, extending for 750 km from Monterey Bay to just south of the U.S./Mexico border. Drainage basins ranged in area from 120 to 10,800 km
30080968|Artificial quartzites were produced in a non-hydrostatic stress field from a variety of materials in a piston and cylinder device operated in a "simple squeezer." Quartz was crystallized in a hydrous environment from silicic acid, colloidal silica, and opal at a range of temperatures from 250 to 900 C. at piston pressures from 3 to 10 kb. Recrystallization of quartz from flint in the presence of
30058668|That portion of California which lies southwest of the San Andreas Rift and south of the San Bernardino and San Gabriel ranges, generally known as the Los Angeles region, is described according to the evidences of physiographic and structural facts, so far as they are available. The structures are considered to be effects of shearing in massive rocks, especially controlled by bodies of intrusive granodiorite. The shearing is accompanied by intense compression, and stratified rocks are folded, but folding is not the primary structure. The analysis of the stresses results in the recognition of a rotational movement of the entire mass of the region, and the San Andreas Rift appears as a strike-slip fault between the batholith of Lower California and the pre-Cambrian element of southeastern California. The shearing is analyzed according to mechanical principles, and deductions are made as to the origin of the stress. The dominant stress is found to have been oriented from south toward north. Several hypotheses are presented to account for it and, while none is regarded as established, that which deduces the pressure from the dynamic energy of the batholiths through metamorphism of crystals appears to have the best chance of survival.
30066097|The northern complex is an Archean greenstone-granitoid terrane located in Upper Michigan at the southern margin of the Superior Province, interpreted as a product of N-directed subduction followed by continental collision. Amphibole-bearing granitoids in the northern complex have comparable field relationships, textures and compositions to Paleozoic appinites emplaced during the Caledonian orogeny in the British Isles. We suggest that the rocks in the northern complex represent an Archean appinite suite. The northern complex appinites vary from olivine-normative hornblende cumulates to quartz-normative hornblende diorites. Hornblendite is characterized by high Mg-numbers and elevated Cr, Ni, and Sc content whereas diorite is more fractionated with lower Mg-numbers and is comparatively enriched in the large-ion-lithophile elements (e.g., K, Rb, Sr, and Ba). Rare-earth elements show negligible Eu anomalies and a progressive increase of $[Ce/Yb]_{N}$ ratios from hornblendites to diorites. Geochemical characteristics are comparable to subduction-related magmas. The northern complex appinites were emplaced during continental collision along the Great Lakes tectonic zone with magmas derived from mantle that was metasomatized prior to collision during N-directed subduction beneath the northern complex. The northern complex appinites document another similarity between Archean and Phanerozoic collisional orogens.
10.1086/680339|An unusual and remarkable find of fossilized Coleoptera exoskeletons, soil organics/plant roots, and microbesrecovered from an alpine-age paleosol in moraine at New Mountain near the Taylor Glacier in the Antarctic Dry Valleysprovides evidence for an ameliorative Early to middle Miocene Climatic Optimum (MMCO). Compared with the microbial analysis of other nearby and somewhat younger paleosols (sites 827829) in nearby moraine deposits at both New Mountain and Aztec Mountain (sites that are known to contain bacteria and fungi), paleosol horizons at the alpine-age site (831) contain prolific fossil evidence of either an expanded MMCO or an earlier Early Miocene/Oligocene age. Together with fossil filamentous forms of either algae or fungi and bacteria, these Coleoptera exoskeletons make up part of a higher-altitude tundra ecosystem distantly related to a many-fold increase in terrestrial pollen and woody plants that inhabited the Dry Valley Coast 15 Ma or earlier. While the age of the 831 paleosol as discussed elsewhere is impossible to assess with precision, the presence of a mix of subround/subangular sandsa high percentage carrying V-shaped percussion crackssignals significant aqueous transport, with the sediment believed to have been deposited before the transition from warm/wet to cold/dry ice. In addition, fossilized organicsincluding salt-encrusted earth, roots, and clay/mineral coatings on both sands and biogenic specimenssuggest at least an early cold/semihumid environment conducive to weathering, probably mediated by microbe activity. Other chemical indices reported previously are here analyzed with extractable Fe/Al, which suggests greater antiquity, possibly Early Miocene or Oligocene.
30055891|In scattered areas over a great extent of the western Great Plains there is a very marked drainage alignment. It is shown that this cannot have been produced by the normal development of the drainage or by regional tilting. In certain restricted areas an alignment in a general northwesterly direction has been produced by structural deformation, but over the greater part of the area structural control has not been effective. In parts of southwestern Nebraska a very pronounced alignment has been produced by the deposition of sand by northwest winds, and it is probable that the alignment elsewhere has been produced in the same manner, and the sand deposits removed by erosion.
30064940|The Recent moraines of Gulkana and College Glaciers lie above tree line in the central Alaska Range and were dated by lichenometry as being deposited by advances in 1580(?), 1650(?), 1830, and 1875. Older moraines are also present, but could not be dated by this method. Gulkana Glacier advanced in 1580(?), depositing moraines which were partly buried by moraines of later advances. No correlative advance apparently occurred at College Glacier. Gulkana Glacier readvanced in 1650(?) and overrode the 1580(?) terminal moraine. In 1830 Gulkana Glacier advanced to a position 2.5 km. beyond the 1962 ice terminus, overriding 1650(?) moraines, spilling onto the Wisconsin glacial floor, damming College Creek, and partly blocking West Gulkana Creek canyon. With the blocking of College Creek, a small ice-dammed lake formed and was rapidly filled with outwash material from College Glacier. College Glacier also advanced in 1830 to a position 1.7 km. beyond its 1962 position. After a period of thinning and retreat, Gulkana Glacier advanced in 1875; no equivalent advance is recorded for College Glacier. The 1875 advance again blocked College Creek, and another small ice-dammed lake formed. Since 1875, both glaciers have rapidly thinned and retreated, indicating they have negative economies.
30056349|The manner of occurrence of thallium in the upper lithosphere is discussed. The value 0.6 g/ton is tentatively adopted for the abundance of thallium in igneous rocks. The presence of notable variations in the Rb/Tl ratio in igneous rocks is established. The geochemical coherence of the pair Rb-Tl is discussed and compared with the coherence in the pairs Ga-Al, Cb-Ta, and Zr-Hf, and in the group of lanthanum and the lanthanides. It is concluded that zirconium and hafnium probably form a more coherent pair than do rubidium and thallium.
30078393|The 0.76 Ma Bishop Tuff, from Long Valley caldera in eastern California, consists of a widespread fall deposit and voluminous partly welded ignimbrite. The fall deposit (F), exposed over an easterly sector below and adjacent to the ignimbrite, is divided into nine units (F1F9), with no significant time breaks, except possibly between F8 and F9. Maximum clast sizes are compared with other deposits where accumulation rates are known or inferred to estimate an accumulation time for F1F8 as ca. 90 hrs. The ignimbrite (Ig) is divided into chronologically and/or geographically distinct packages of material. Earlier packages (Ig1) were emplaced mostly eastward, are wholly intraplinian (coeval with fall units F2F8), Lack phenocrystic pyroxenes, and contain few or no Glass Mountainderived rhyolite lithic fragments. Earlier packages (Ig2) were erupted mostly to the north and east, are at least partly intraplinian (interbedded with fall unit F9 to the east), contain pyroxenes, and have lithic fractions rich in Glass Mountainderived rhyolite or other lithologies exposed on the northern caldera rim. Recognition of the intraplinian nature of Ig1 east of the caldera and use of the fall deposit chronometry yields accumulation estimates of ca. 25 hrs for an earlier, lesswelded subpackage and ca. 36 hrs for a later, mostly welded subpackage. Average accumulation rates range up to 1 mm/s of densewelded massive ignimbrite, equivalent to 2.5 mm/s of nonwelded material. Comparisons of internal stratification in Ig1 and northern Ig2 lobes suggest the thickest northern ignimbrite accumulated in 35 hrs. Identifiable vent positions migrated from an initial site previously proposed in the southcentral part of the caldera (F18, Ig1) in complex fashion; one vent set (for eastern Ig2) migrated east and north toward Glass Mountain, while another set (for northern Ig2) opened from west to east across the northern caldera margin. Vent locations for Ig1 and Ig2 southwest of the caldera have not been identified. The new stratigraphic framework shows that much of the Bishop ignimbrite is intraplinian in nature, and that fall deposits and ignimbrite units previously inferred to be sequential are largely or wholly coeval. Fundamental reassessment is therefore required of all existing models for the eruption dynamics and the nature and causes of preeruptive zonations in trace elements, volatiles, and isotopes in the parental magma chamber.
30075148|Sand shape fabrics were related to direction of cross-bedding and parting lineation. Fabric direction was also investigated in a subsurface sand trend. These studies indicate that in natural sandstones, as in artificially deposited ones, the long axes of sand grains statistically lie parallel to current direction and are imbricated up-current, generally at angles of 10-25. Variability in orientation is greater in horizontal thin sections than in those cut vertical to bedding. Clustering of sand-grain orientation was investigated with both parametric and non-parametric statistical tests and found to be negligible. Although exceptions do exist, there is a good correspondence between current direction, defined by cross-bedding and parting lineation, and fabric direction. This implies the likelihood of general, persistent, rational relations between the depositional, constructional forms of sedimentary structures and the orientation of their constituent sand grains.A two-dimensional method of measuring sandstone shape fabrics, utilizing photographs of thin sections, was developed and applied to 138 samples collected from Pennsylvanian and Chesterian (Mississippian) sandstones of the Illinois Basin. A block diagram illustrates the monoclinic symmetry of three-dimensional fabric diagrams of grain orientation in sandstone.
30069385|Preliminary studies of cathodo-luminescence of rock-forming minerals have shown that several minerals can be rapidly identified, and that structural and composition variations with potential genetic implications can be revealed. Detrital and secondary quartz can be distinguished by color differences. Radiation halos in quartz, caused by zircon inclusions, have been detected. Apatites show a variety of colors, which may be of diagnostic value. Carbonates show red luminescence, except for iron-bearing specimens which yield reduced or no luminescence. Zoning in dolomites is readily detected from variation in intensity of luminescence. Mottled texture probably results from inheritance of manganese and iron from the carbonate replaced by the dolomite. Residual skeletal structure in fossils can be easily delineated by cathodo-luminescence, and it may be possible to ascribe a featureless luminescence to recrystallization. A faint blue luminescence, which rapidly disappeared, has been seen in ovoid structures of a Precambrian chert, and has been ascribed to organic remains. Luminescence may help to establish the validity of doubtful fossil remains. Separate phases in feldspar perthites can be easily detected by color and intensity variations of the luminescence. Analysis of potassium X-rays from lamella in orthoclase-microcline-albite perthites showing mottled luminescence has led to distinction between orthoclase and microcline, and to the possibility that the latter nucleates at the boundary between orthoclase and albite. Occurrence of coarse red and blue banding crossed by fine K- and Na-rich lamellae distinguished by different intensities of luminescence has led to the suggestion of an earlier stage of exsolution now revealed only by the luminescence. Variation of intensity of luminescence in albite lamellae of microcline perthites may result either from formation over a temperature range or from limited diffusion. Cathodo-luminescence has proved useful in characterizing fine-scale impurities, such as apatite in a feldspar host, and in checking homogeneity of natural and synthetic minerals. Fifteen illustrations in color are given.
30068628|Melting relations of a finely ground, crystalline tonalite with excess water have been studied at pressures between 10 kbar and 30 kbar, to a maximum temperature of 850 C, and these data have been combined with previously published results at lower pressures and higher temperatures. The rock mineralogy of plagioclase, quartz, orthoclase, biotite, and amphibole begins to change just below 10 kbar, and by 30 kbar it is coesite, clinopyroxene, garnet, and kyanite. Runs were planned to determine the curve for the beginning of melting, but combining these with published results for andesites and andesite compositions between 1 kbar and 20 kbar permits delineation of the major features of the phase diagram through the melting interval. The solidus temperatures are: 1 kbar, 765 C; 3 kbar, 690 C; 10 kbar, 635 C; 15 kbar, 628 C; 20 kbar, 670 C; 30 kbar, 735 Orthoclase dissolves in the aqueous vapor phase between 3 kbar and 10 kbar. The quartz out-(coesite-out) phase boundary varies from about 30 to 65 above the solidus. The plagioclase-out phase boundary extends from about 2 kbar, 1,000 to the solidus near 15.5 kbar, 630 C. The liquidus phase is pyroxene up to about 10 kbar, 950 C, and amphibole from there to about 18 kbar, 950 C. Garnet is the liquidus phase at higher pressures. Biotite, stable to 800-850 C, reacts out between 15 kbar and 17.5 kbar, with the formation of garnet and kyanite. Garnet is reluctant to nucleate, but it appears at 15 kbar and is probably stable at considerably lower pressures. The amphibole reaction boundary extends from 18.5 kbar, 950 to 21.5 kbar, 700 C, but the equilibrium phase boundary could be lower by a few kilobars at 700 according to some published work. No orthopyroxene was found in any runs. The experimental results have applications to high-grade metamorphism and the nature of the lower crust, the generation of batholiths, and the crystallization of andesite magmas rising from subduction zones.
30080156|Seasat L-band (23.5 cm) synthetic aperture radar (SAR) images of the Yellowknife area in the northwestern Canadian Shield have been digitally processed and correlated with geologic maps of the region. We specifically analyze the distribution of faults of the West Bay-Indin Lake system and conclude from cross-cutting geological relationships that this fault system formed at circa
30060072|Typical beach pebbles (fig. 1) have a convex symmetry line (or bisector line). The apexes of the extremities of the pebble are bent back to one of the sides of the symmetry line. The line joining the apexes (or apical line) and the structural lines of the pebble (stratification, etc.) are parallel or very slightly inclined to "the general axis of the pebble. Typical stream pebbles (fig. 3) have a relatively straight bisector line. The apical line and the structural lines lie across and askew of the general axis of the pebble. Pebbles for examination must be selected according to certain rules.
30071162|The Colorado River in Grand Canyon is one of the most intensively studied regulated rivers in the world where discharge is controlled to optimize peak load hydropower production. Sandy channel margin deposits that occur along the Colorado River have been monitored for nearly three decades to determine the effects of flow regulation by Glen Canyon Dam. Recent results from remote daily monitoring show that it is common for large areas of fluvial sand deposits to be eroded in less than one day, followed by redeposition of the area within a few weeks or months. These remote observations were confirmed directly. A review of the maximum erosion and deposition measurements from all sources shows that the recently measured daily changes equal or exceed the magnitude of changes measured over time spans from 2 weeks to 10 years. Consequently, erosion and deposition rates are significantly greater than previously reported because erosion and deposition occur in cycles that repeat several times each year at individual sites, each with unique recurrence intervals. These findings show that monitoring environmental changes downstream of a peaking power dam such as at Glen Canyon presents temporal and spatial sampling problems that lead to data biasing. This has implications for past interpretations as well as for future investigations on this and other regulated rivers.
30071180|The lithologic and paleontologic differences between the Mississippian sediments of the Mid-Continent region and those of the northern Rocky Mountain and Black Hills regions suggest either that the Mississippian seas were not directly continuous between these two regions or that sea connections were greatly restricted. The purpose of this paper is to present and analyze the available subsurface data in Nebraska and surrounding states in the light of this problem. The study is primarily lithologic. Mississippian sediments are known to be widely distributed in the subsurface of much of Iowa and Kansas, in southeastern and extreme southwestern Nebraska, and in southeastern Colorado. These sediments are lithologically similar to those of the Mid-Continent outcrop areas. Likewise, Mississippian sediments are known to occur widely in the subsurface of much of Wyoming, in western and northwestern South Dakota, in northwestern Colorado, and in extreme northwestern Nebraska. These sediments are lithologically similar to those of the northern Rocky Mountain outcrop areas. However, Mississippian rocks seem to be absent in the subsurface in large areas between these two regions, and the Mississippian sediments of these two regions are lithologically dissimilar. Therefore, it appears that there was either no direct sea connection between the Mid-Continent and northern Rocky Mountain regions during the Mississippian or that the sea connection was greatly restricted. Mississippian sediments could have been deposited between these two regions and removed by post-Mississippian erosion. It is unlikely, however, that great thicknesses were removed because of the apparent absence of good evidence suggesting facial changes. However, the pre-Pennsylvanian rocks are known to be deeply buried within much of the critical area, and the subsurface has not been thoroughly tested by drilling.
30068096|The Kuwei mafic intrusion, consisting of hornblende gabbro, gabbro, gabbro norite, and olivine norite, lies in the southern Altai Mountains, northern Xinjiang. A combined field, geochronological, and geochemical study of the Kuwei intrusion is reported here. This study provides the first reliable SHRIMP UPb zircon dating results for the intrusion, and these yielded an age of
30061060|If a beach and nearshore profile is at equilibrium, as sea level rises, the Bruun Rule on beach erosion indicates that foreshore erosion will take place in order to provide sediments to the nearshore so that the nearshore profile can be elevated in direct proportion to rising sea level. This study supports the concept that rising sea level can cause beach erosion. At Terry Andrae State Park, Wisconsin, which borders Lake Michigan, a field study conducted from spring to fall of 1971 shows that when wave energy was reasonably constant the beach eroded by about 23 feet as lake water level rose by 1 foot. Of the 23 feet about 6 feet was lost solely due to the drowning effect of rising water level. Also, for a given wave energy level, the foreshore zone increases in elevation in direct proportion to the increase in the elevation of the water level and the foreshore zone retreats parallel to itself with rising water level.
10.1086/674413|The Sierras Interiores preserve an outstanding record of the alpine deformation along the northern border of the South Pyrenean Zone, in northern Spain. New mapping and structural data illustrate the existence of two thrust systems developed from competent sandstones and limestones of Cenomanian to Paleocene age. A deeper thrust system duplicates the massive limestones of the Lower Calcareous Section (Cenomanian to Early Campanian) at the base of the Mesozoic cover of the Sierras Interiores that rests unconformable over Paleozoic rocks of the Pyrenean Axial Zone. There is an upper thrust system that comprises a duplex leading to duplications of the Marbor Sandstones (Campanian to Maastrichtian) and the Light Limestones and Dolostones (Paleocene). From the regional point of view, the relevance of the deeper thrust system is evidenced by its great lateral continuity and because it constitutes the higher thrust of a large antiformal stack made up by at least four Paleozoic-involving allochthonous sheets associated with the emplacement of the Gavarnie nappe, a main tectonic nappe in the southern part of the Pyrenees. Footwall ramps with footwall synclines are common along the thrusts of the upper thrust system, supporting the development of smooth trajectory thrusts that climb through the cores of break-thrust folds. Complex duplex structures of hectometric length are observed along some thrust contacts, preventing the interpretation of the thrusts as simple slip dcollements. Later, S-vergent folds with axial plane foliation deform the thrust systems. All of these structural features raise issues about the application of cross-section balancing methods.
10.1086/676595|The Arkitsa-Kamena Vourla area of central Greece occupies a zone of accommodation between the two tectonic provinces of the North Aegean Trough (the extension of the North Anatolian fault system) and the Gulf of Corinth and is characterized by a series of very prominent tectonic landforms, notably the large (ca. 1000 m elevation) footwall ridge of the Arkitsa-Kamena Vourla fault system. Despite the highly prominent nature of this footwall ridge and the presence of very fresh tectonic landforms, this fault system is not known to have hosted any major historical earthquakes, and the tectonic and geomorphic evolution of the Arkitsa-Kamena Vourla area remains poorly constrained. This article utilizes a combined geomorphological, sedimentological, and macro-/microfossil approach to evaluate the Late Quaternary evolution of the Arkitsa area, in the eastern part of the fault system, focusing on prominent uplifted terraces present in the hanging wall of the Arkitsa fault. Three distinct raised glaciolacustrine terraces and previously reported uplifted marginal marine deposits suggest sustained uplift of the coastline at a rate of 11.5 mm/yr over the past at least 40,000 yr, possibly dating to 75,000 BP. While movement on an offshore normal fault strand may explain more recent coastal uplift, purely fault-driven, longer-term uplift at this rate requires anomalously high fault-slip and extension rates. Consequently, the development of the terraces and other geomorphic indicators of uplift may be at least partly due to nonfaulting processes, such as Quaternary (intrusive and/or extrusive) volcanic activity associated with evolution of the nearby Lichades volcanic center.
30057869|Certain areas in southwestern Illinois and southeastern Missouri were parts of the same geologic province during Devonian time, and their Devonian history was similar. Likewise, the Devonian history of northern Illinois has much in common with that of central Missouri and Iowa. The Devonian faunas of southern Illinois and southeastern Missouri, however, differ notably from those of central Missouri, northern Illinois, and Iowa. The present paper is a discussion of these various relationships.
30063978|The late Precambrian "molar-tooth" structure of the Belt-Purcell Supergroup of western North America is subdivided on the basis of geometry into vertical and horizontal structures. Subtypes of the vertical structures include ribbons and blobs, whereas the horizontal structures occur as mats, lenses, and pods. On the basis of (1) transitional relationships among vertical structures, horizontal structures, and algal stromatolites; (2) stratigraphic relationships of the structures within cyclical sedimentary sequences; and (3) published data, the vertical and horizontal structures are interpreted as cryptalgal organosedimentary structures. Like the algal stromatolites, their geometry is considered to be a function of prevailing environmental factors. Facies interpretation of the major rock types suggests that all of the structures formed in very shallow to intertidal environments, the ribbons being characterized by moderate wave or current action and rapid deposition; the blobs, by low wave or current action and slow deposition; and the horizontal structures, by high wave or current action and slow deposition.
30060082|The rocks studied consist of calcite-quartz-diopside-graphite assemblages in metamorphosed fossiliferous limestones of the batholith of Southern California. The carbonate rocks are minor members of a sequence of pelitic, arenaceous, and carbonaceous metasediments which are observed in the field in every stage of transition to oligoclase-quartz-gneiss and oligoclase-biotite-gneiss. Light-colored diopside-quartz-plagioclase skarns are also members of the metasedimentary sequence. The calcites of the limestones are very low in
30084803|In this paper evidence is presented to show that faults are more numerous and geomorphically more important than various geologists believe. Fifteen criteria for the recognition of the faults, especially those in crystalline rocks, are discussed. Many examples are given.
30062083|Specific gravity of water-saturated, surface-dried individual grains and bulk, sieved samples of pumice lapilli, ash, and slightly vesiculated rock fragments produced by recent eruptions at Mount St. Helens, Washington, as well as the composition of sediment derived from this material, indicate two major departures in the character of volcaniclastics from more familiar quartzo-feldspathic sediment. These are: (1) a three-to-five-fold variation in the specific gravity of volumetrically important detrital grains, as opposed to a less than 5% variation in 99% of the volume of average quartzo-feldspathic sandstone; and (2) significant variation in specific gravity that is inversely related to grain size within clast populations of the same composition. This latter observation is attributed to the larger volume of vesicles, particularly non-interconnected vesicles, with increasing grain size. Sorting in volcaniclastic sediment, therefore, is not only a function of depositional process, environment, and post-depositional modification but also of sediment composition. Statistical analysis of sieve grain size data on weight-percent basis is inappropriate for evaluation of volcaniclastic sediments.
30056841|This paper discusses the geology of the Rocky Mountain trench and the ranges east of it between the towns of Lake Windermere and Golden. The structure is complex, with much isoclinal folding and thrust-faulting. A comparative study is afforded by cross-sections of the Beaverfoot-Brisco ranges. A series of transverse faults have helped produce some intravalley ridges, but were not important in developing the trench. A huge breccia, several hundred feet thick and miles in extent, is found at many places along a vertical bedding-plane fault which probably has several miles of displacement. Part of the Rocky Mountain trench has a horst type of structure, rather than the graben structure which has been suggested by others.
JG80086|New U, Pb, and Hf isotopic data from thermal ionization mass spectrometry and inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry from intermediate calc-alkaline rocks in the Caledonides of central East Greenland provide new evidence of a prolonged period of Paleozoic subduction-related magmatism. The new data point toward two groups of plutons: one older generation crystallizing at ca. 450 Ma and a younger generation at ca. 423 Ma. There is additionally a titanite-forming event at ca. 440 Ma. The Hf isotopes of the younger group have a larger variation and less juvenile character than those of the older group, but data indicate a mixed source with both crustal and mantle components for both groups. These new data combined with already published geochronological data testify to a prolonged and complex magmatic history starting markedly earlier in the southernmost segment of the East Greenland Caledonides than farther north. The varied geochemical compositions of the plutons and the prolonged intrusive activity are in contrast to the short-lived homogeneous S-type leucogranitic magmatism found elsewhere in the East Greenland Caledonides and bear more similarities to arc-related terranes now found in the Irish, Scottish, and Scandinavian Caledonides. It is speculated that the earlier plutons in East Greenland represent the northernmost expression of continental arcs formed in a west-directed subduction system along the full length of the Laurentian margin in the Paleozoic. The later plutons formed concomitant with leucogranite intrusions within a collisional setting.
30056036|Davis considers that the submarine banks of the leeward section of the Hawaiian Archipelago consist of considerable thicknesses of reef limestone and lagoon-floor beds deposited on subsiding volcanic basements. Many others believe that they are wave-cut platforms developed under conditions of relative stability, and that they have little detrital material over their central parts but thicker accumulations around their margins. Examples of wide, wave-cut benches in the windward section of Hawaii are described as favoring this second hypothesis.
30071147|Geochronological, geochemical, and morphological analysis of detrital zircon in the Jack Hills and Mount Narryer metasedimentary belts, Western Australia, indicates the grains were derived from diverse rocks, including >4000 Ma sources that predate the oldest known terrestrial rock. In three metaconglomerate layers in the western part of the Jack Hills, 42003800 Ma zircon makes up 14% of the population, 38003600 Ma grains form only 2%, and 35503250 Ma zircon is dominant with a significant peak at 3380 Ma (UPb ages and trace element concentrations were obtained by laserablation microprobe inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry). These grains are interpreted as being derived from similar rock types because they are indistinguishable in U concentration (50200 ppm), internal zoning (both oscillatory and sector zoning within the same grain), and morphology (subequant fragments of grains). We conclude that a previously proposed evolved granitic source is unlikely because the zircon differs significantly in U concentration, internal zoning, and morphology from zircon in typical Archean granitic rocks, such as the 37303300 Ma granitic gneisses that surround the Jack Hills belt. More likely sources were intermediate composition plutonic rocks that were distal or perhaps destroyed or removed from the region during Neoarchean tectonism. In contrast, detrital zircon in quartzites and metaconglomerates at Mount Narryer appears to have been derived from granite based on elongate prismatic morphology, fine oscillatory zoning, relatively high U concentration (100600 ppm), and xenotime and monazite inclusions. Ages are also different: 42003800 Ma zircon makes up only 3% of the Mount Narryer population (most grains are 42004100 Ma), 38003600 Ma zircon forms 31%, and peaks are at 3650, 3600, and 3500 Ma. Trace element concentrations are broadly similar, except Mount Narryer zircon generally has higher U, smaller Ce and Eu anomalies, and lower Nb/Ta. Mount Narryer zircon is interpreted as having local granitic sources because the <3800 Ma grains closely match the age and nature of zircon in the surrounding granitic gneisses, which may include a minor, currently undiscovered 42004100 Ma component. The diversity of ancient zircon suggests that Earths crust was heterogeneous by 4200 Ma, having already differentiated into granitic and intermediate components, as is the case in modern continents.
30060117|Quantitative descriptions of the location, orientation, and style of folds are based on scalar attributes rather than on the usual vectoral and qualitative data. These scalars are used (a) to map the areal variability of fold geometry and (b) as a basis for sequential multivariate regression analyses in a search for those geological factors that control the nature and variability of folds in sedimentary or metamorphic rocks.
30065687|Forty-two chemically analyzed and eleven synthetic plagioclase feldspars have been analyzed by micro-probe X-ray-emission methods for sodium, magnesium, aluminum, silicon, phosphorus, potassium, calcium, titanium, manganese, iron, strontium, cesium, and barium. The highest concentrations (weight per cent) of the minor elements are: phosphorus, 0.11; potassium, 0.55; titanium, 0.04; iron, 0.53; strontium, 0.13. Magnesium, manganese, cesium, and barium were not detected at the 0.02 wt. per cent level, although barium was found in intergrown potassium feldspar. With a few exceptions, phosphorus, potassium, titanium, and iron were found at lower levels than those given by bulk chemical analyses, as might be expected from the occurrence of inclusions in many specimens. Strontium analyses for one suite of specimens showed a systematic bias, probably attributable to a calibration error in the optical spectrographic technique. Major elements were referred to synthetic plagioclase glasses and to devitrified synthetic albite as standards. For sodic plagioclases (especially glasses) it was necessary to use either low counting rates or wide electron beams to reduce alkali loss. Microprobe and chemical analyses for calcium show a good, almost unbiased, correlation, but for sodium they have a poor correlation, microprobe results tending to be higher than chemical. Microprobe analyses of aluminum and silicon tend to be lower and higher, respectively, than chemical analyses. Only three of forty analyses yield oxide totals outside the 99.0-101.0 per cent range, but totals of feldspar molecules calculated from sodium, potassium, calcium, and strontium have a wider range, 97.5-102.5 per cent, with thirty-three between 99 and 101 per cent. The average iron content increases with calcium as expected from the increasing
30062626|Polished (001) cleavage faces of Nain Labradorite (
30085006|The heats of formation of zoisite, muscovite, and anorthite were determined by acid-solution calorimetry in a mixture of 20 per cent HC1-5 per cent HF. A new method of correcting the measured heats of solution for impurities is developed. This method is used to correct both the author's measurements and the heats of formation of muscovite, anorthite, and orthoclase measured by previous workers. The new correction method results in much better agreement between all the heats of formation. The values obtained are used to calculate the univariant equilibrium curves for the following reactions; (1) Mu = Or + Cn + V, (2) Mu + Qz = Or + Sil + V, and (3) 2 Zo + Sil + Qz = 4 An + V. These curves are compared with curves obtained by direct experiment.
30078497|The southern IvreaVerbano Zone of the western Italian Alps contains a huge complex of mafic to intermediate plutonic rocks that intruded the lower continental crust during the Permian. Recent geologic mapping of the complex has characterized the effects of Alpine deformation and has demonstrated that the complex contains an arcuate internal structure. Building on this geologic foundation, we report a thermobarometric study of the plutonic and associated metamorphic rocks that was performed to better constrain the depth and orientation of the complex at the time of intrusion. The results demonstrate a continuous increase in equilibration pressure from 5  1 kb along the eastern intrusive contact of the complex to 8  1 kb near the western limit of the complex. After correcting for the effects of Alpine faulting, the observed pressure gradient ranges from 0.32 to 0.38 kb/km. Given the large uncertainties inherent in the geobarometric calculations relative to the narrow pressure range recorded in the complex, we conclude that the observed gradient is indistinguishable from a normal, vertical pressure gradient in the lower crust. It appears that, following intrusion and equilibration at a depth of 15 to 25 km, the complex was uplifted and rotated approximately 90. The data also demonstrate that the internal arcuate structure formed in the complex before the observed pressure gradient was established. This result reinforces models for the growth of the complex by synmagmatic deformation and largescale necking during crustal extension and excludes the possibility that the arcuate structure was produced during the more recent Alpine uplift.
30068275|This paper presents a study of the abundance and distribution of some of the rarer metallic constituents in igneous rocks. By means of chemical "trace" methods, 354 determinations have been made of metals, including molybdenum, beryllium, lead, zinc, cadmium, copper, nickel, and cobalt. The samples represent six regions: (1) the Michigan copper district, (2) Minnesota, (3) the St. Francois Mountains, Missouri, (4) the Llano uplift of central Texas, (5) the Clear Lake area, California, and (6) two New England localities. The distribution of the minor elements is influenced by the major chemical constituents to a very appreciable extent. Apparently this is chiefly the result of isomorphous replacement of the major elements by the minor constituents in rock-forming minerals in accordance with the principles outlined by V. M. Gold-schmidt. A number of relationships between minor and major constituents are indicated, although some are purely tentative. Geologic factors are of great importance in determining the behavior of the minor, as well as of the major, chemical constituents; and differences brought out in the present study are interpreted to be the result of the different magmatic histories of the samples involved. Estimates of the probable abundance of the minor elements in the crust of the earth are given. In addition to the determinations of the rarer metallic constituents, some new analyses of rocks and minerals are given. The chemical trace methods used are recommended to geologists and chemists interested in similar problems.
30066236|Fluorite, halite, periclase, and sylvite have been abraded in a wind tunnel by windblown dust from the "normal" air of the intake room plus or minus introduced silt-sized particles of calcite, barite, or snow. The results indicate that the effective kinetic energy of a projectile and the bond strength of the target-rather than hardness differences, per se-may be fundamental controls of windblast abrasion. It is concluded that, contrary to general belief, some windblast erosion features have probably been produced in response to impact by relatively soft and/or small missiles, such as snow and dust, moving at fairly low wind velocities.
30062586|George H. Ashley has presented the theory that the present surface in the Appalachians contains no remnant of any of the older peneplains and doubts the existence of more than one peneplain over the whole Appalachian region. The author defends the view of many geologists that remnants of the Schooley (Kittatinny) peneplain still exists on the ridge crests and uplands throughout the Appalachian and New England region.
30057182|Specimens of Jurassic and Cretaceous Belemnoidea were analyzed and their paleotemperature record compiled from mass-spectrometric measurements. The data are compared with information assembled from other fields of investigation. It is demonstrated that from a subtropical climate in the later Jurassic, a more diversified one developed in the Cretaceous. From the rather cool conditions of the Neocomian, a temperature climax was reached in Albian times-to be followed by a decline attaining its minimum in Cenomanian waters. Later, another temperature climax occurred-in the Coniacian-Santonian. Subsequently, a gradual lowering of temperature took place during the Campanian and was succeeded by cool, stable conditions in the Maestrichtian. This picture of Cretaceous climatic change was derived from the analyses of Mesozoic material from Germany and Poland described in detail in the present paper and supplemented by examination of additional specimens from western Europe. It is possible that the late Cretaceous temperature decline was instrumental in the extinction of the poikilothermous dinosaurs. It is apparent that the pole shifted in relation to Europe during the Mesozoic, but its position is not yet determined.
30067351|The occurrence of ice in caves is given together with a statement of some common theories of its origin. A diagram is presented, and the writer's theory, as substantiated by tests made in such caves in Idaho and New Mexico, shows that the origin of the ice is based on free circulation of air in winter and a restricted circulation in summer.
30060281|The detailed investigation of a typical biostrome of the blue-green colonial alga Aphanothece Packardii along the shore of the Great Salt Lake, at Promontory Point, Utah, has shown a distinct morphological zona-tion of the algal growth. The latter consists of four zones from the lake to the land: subparallel festooned ridges; tonguelike festooned ridges; composite rings and flat-topped mounds; small isolated mounds. Detailed cross sections through the biostrome have shown that the morphological zones merely reproduce and frequently exaggerate an underlying topography eroded in firm argillaceous and oolitic sands. The conclusion is reached that these colonial algae have no characteristic growth pattern of their own but have developed on several types of positive areas separating a system of erosional channels trending at right angles to the shore line.
30063341|In a road-cut near Zanesville, Ohio, an unusual type of mass-movement occurred which was largely horizontal, producing a "pseudo-graben" at the head of the slip. This condition is of interest since only normal slipping occurred on the opposite side of the road-cut under apparently similar conditions.
30059398|The intrusive rocks of the Adirondacks vary from anorthosite and gabbro, through various syenitic and granosyenitic types, to granite. The problem of the origin of the anorthosites is considered, and the possibility of their concentration by a combination of gravitative crystal sorting in a deep-seated chamber and subsequent filtration-differentiation at the site of their emplacement higher up in the crust is discussed. The syenitic and granitic rocks are interpreted as the result of differentiation with low frac-tionation, and successive intrusion. A study of the rocks of the Adirondack series, and comparisons with other rock stems, is made, and it is concluded that the Adirondack rocks may be ascribed to a pyroxene (diopsidic) line of descent in the early and part of the intermediate stages of differentiation, and to a hornblende line of descent in the latter part of the intermediate and in the granitic stages. A characteristic feature of the differentiation is the relatively prolonged delay in the formation and separation of quartz. Differentiation is believed to have proceeded in much drier magmas than those of the more hornblendic Coast Range-Sierra Nevada series, and in slightly wetter magmas than the more completely pyroxenic Bergen-Jotun or Christiania stems.
30061959|The crescentic sand-dune formation known as the "barchan" occurs extensively in the desert coast of southern Peru. Quantitative measurements were made on 75 of these to determine relationships between height, width, and length of horns. A consistently longer west horn was measured in most of the barchans, but this distortion cannot be readily explained. Mechanical analyses of the dune sand were performed on samples taken from the Pampa de Clemesi and the principal barchan deposits in the Pampa de la Joya, as well as from deposits further downwind from La Joya. There is a consistent increase in the proportion of the fine material in the samples taken farther from the Pampa de Clemesi. The bulk specific gravity also decreases with distance from Clemesi. Bulk specific gravity varied with dune height. Mineralogical analyses of these same samples indicate a decrease in the heavier minerals with increasing distance from the Pampa de Clemesi, and an increase in the volcanic, fibrous glass. This evidence indicated that the La Joya barchans originated from the Pampa de Clemesi and extend over a strip 100 km. downwind, unobstructed by the transversal river channels, which are from 600 to 800 meters deep. The forward movement of the barchans was measured by superimposing two aerial photographs made in 1955 and 1958, adjusted to equal scale by means of ground control. For 45 barchans whose heights were measured in the field, the horizontal displacement in three years was found to be as follows:
30055913|The Beida stage is an Upper Miocene marine deposit of alternating diatomite, foraminiferal marl, clay shale, opaline marlstone, limestone, volcanic ash, and other sediments. It extends for over 200 kilometers east-west through the coastal ranges of Western Algeria. In addition to diatoms and foraminifera, it contains radiolaria, sponge spicules, and a variety of larger invertebrate fossils, together with well-preserved fossil fish. It commonly shows traces of petroleum and is undoubtedly the mother-rock of such oil, the origin of which is referable to the diatoms and other micro-organisms, and probably in part to the fish. The association of diatomite, ash, fish skeletons, and petroleum mark it as a special type of deposit, which likewise occurs in numerous other countries-notably in the Miocene of Sicily, Italy, the Caucasus, and California. The lithologic and faunal evidence indicates that the Beida was formed in a comparatively shallow and quiet arm of the sea. The abundance of diatoms is believed to be related to the silica supplied to the sea by volcanic eruptions. The fish comprise a mingling of littoral and pelagic forms, with some that represent brackish and even fresh-water forms. Their abundance in several horizons represents recurrent disasters to the fish life, probably connected with vulcanism, followed by rapid burial of the bodies of the fish along and near the shores.
30079934|Chemical and isotopic analyses of amphibolites and gneisses from the oldest lithostratigraphic group in the South Carpathians produce new insights regarding the chronology and evolution of the mobile Proterozoic crust in centraleastern Europe. These results date an episode of magmatism related to oceanic crust consumption, reveal a period of continental stabilization, and put constraints on the underlying mantle composition. Amphibolites from the Cumpna Group have their origin in basalts, chemically similar to island arc tholeiites. A wholerock isochron age of
30078336|The Mogollon Highlands have long been considered the southern source terrane for much of the early-to-middle Mesozoic fluvial sedimentary rocks of the southern Colorado Plateau. Because of the lack of Mesozoic sedimentary strata in the Mogollon region, many workers have suggested these highlands were located in central Arizona and New Mexico. New evidence suggests that during the Triassic and most of the Jurassic, a large highland did not exist in central Arizona-New Mexico but was present as a continental margin volcanic arc in southern Arizona and northern Mexico. At this time, central Arizona would be more aptly called the Mogollon Slope. Early Jurassic Navajo-equivalent sands were blown south from the Colorado Plateau area, across the Mogollon Slope, to become intercalated with volcanics along the northeast side of the arc. The first good evidence for a structural and topographic highland in the Mogollon area is in the Early Cretaceous, when the uplifted northeast flank of the Bisbee rift basin tilted the region to the northeast. Erosion removed most of the earlier Mesozoic sediments in the region, and the Late Cretaceous Dakota Sandstone transgressed and overstepped the subsiding rift shoulder. The term "Mogollon Highlands" should be limited to this Early Cretaceous rift shoulder.
30057942|Swiftly moving sand or silt-laden water currents sometimes abrade grooves, elongated in the direction of flow, in stream boulders and in the bedrock of the stream channel. Discontinuous grooves of irregular pattern result from turbulence of the water flow. In this article the grooves are termed "flutes," and the process of their formation is called "stream fluting." The importance of stream fluting in fluvial erosion is discussed. The process is analyzed on the basis of excellent examples observed in the inner gorge of the Grand Canyon of the Colorado River.
JG116405|This study reports the nature of the nesquehonite-to-hydromagnesite transition at 52C in an aqueous medium hosting magnesian calcite and nesquehonite. The latter mineral occurs with abundant calcite at the floor of the experimental chamber (substrate) and as a film of needles at the interface between the mother liquor and the atmosphere (surface film). The experimental vessel was held at 52C for 336h and at 60C for a further 192h. Precipitates were analyzed by Fourier transform (FT)Raman, augmented by FT-infrared and x-ray diffraction. At 52C, hydromagnesite and dypingite occur with abundant quantities of a hitherto unreported transitory magnesium hydrate carbonate (TMHC), together with huntite, magnesian calcite, and traces of nesquehonite and monohydrocalcite. The FT-Raman spectra of the first-formed hydromagnesite crystals contain the Raman-forbidden
30064202|A series of simple experiments with dilute HC1 on calcite crystals and small limestone blocks demonstrates that agitation and motion of solvent flow are positive factors of considerable importance in limestone solution. The origin of sea-level nips in carbonate rocks is then examined, and it is postulated, mostly on empirical grounds, that a state of slight undersaturation in
30063878|Three consecutive tectonic regimes are recorded in the Paleogene of the North American Cordillera between 40 and 60 latitude. The Paleocene (65-53 Ma) regime produced crustal shortening along the eastern edge of the Cordillera, as well as a weak magmatic arc in British Columbia. The lower and middle Eocene regime (53-42 Ma) produced a robust volcanic arc superimposed on a network of strike-slip and normal faults and large north-northeast trending extensional metamorphic reset terranes. The Late Eocene and Oligocene regime (42-30 Ma) produced a north-south Cascade arc south of 50 latitude, and tectonic quiescence to the north and east. This sequence of events is consistent with the following tectonic model. In Paleocene time, continuous subduction took place from 40 to 60 latitude; low-angle subduction south of 49 created the Laramide magmatic gap. At about 53 Ma, amalgamation of the Pacific, Kula and northern Farallon plates created a Pacific-North America transform boundary north of 47 latitude. Transform motion was in part taken up on the Fraser-Tintina strike-slip system, cross-cutting the volcanism produced from the remnant of the subducted slab. At about 42 Ma, inland transform motion ceased, and all transform motion took place on the Queen Charlotte transform. South of 47, subduction continued with a steady steepening of the subduction angle from north to south with time.
30062239|Geometry, setting, and lithological constitution make Pleistocene moraines near Convict Lake well suited for development and testing of semiquantitative methods of temporal differentiation. The methods applied consist of surface-boulder frequency, weathering of granitic surface boulders, grain-size distribution in the upper 12 inches of these deposits, and color and pH variations in the upper 24r-36 inches. Weathering of granitic boulders is one of the more sensitive and consistent temporal indicators. It is evaluated on two bases: the preservation of remnants of original abrasion surfaces and the development of fretted forms by granular disintegration. On Tioga deposits in this area, an average approaching 25 per cent of all granitic surface boulders is judged unweathered on the abrasion basis and nearly 90 per cent on the fretted basis. On Tahoe deposits, the average values are about 3 and 50 per cent, respectively. Application of these techniques to moraines near Convict Lake is more than a calisthenic exercise. A huge, 1,000-foot-high lateral moraine extending east-northeast from Convict Lake has been attributed by earlier workers largely to the early Pleistocene Sherwin glaciation, and a massive lobate complex of loop and lateral moraines, due north of Convict Lake, has been regarded as a composite, late Pleistocene, Tahoe-Tioga feature. Semiquantitative data indicate that the lobate complex is the product of a single glaciation, the Tioga, and that the large lateral is primarily a Tahoe feature. Both are thus late Pleistocene and presumably younger than a nearby
30058270|Methods established by Goldich (1938) in his classic study of rock weathering have been applied with some modifications to analysis of a weathered rock series collected in the Antarctic. Exposures of a finegrained quartz diorite exposed at Marble Point, McMurdo Sound, were selected for study because they appeared to have undergone extensive chemical weathering beyond the effects to be expected in a region of such extreme cold and aridity. The light-gray, well-knit rock is altered in its most weathered form to a rich brown sand with angular particles as small as 0.003 mm. Complete chemical analyses of the rock in six of its weathering stages were obtained, and the trends established by these data were correlated with the mineralogie changes. Contrary to the impressions gained in the field, the bulk chemical and mineralogie composition of this rock has remained constant throughout the observed weathering sequence. There is no substantial change in alumina, combined silica, soda, lime, or potash which are normally sensitive indicators of chemical action. No clay forms in the weathering process. The only appreciable change involving an original constituent of the rock is the progressive oxidation of ferrous iron in pyrrhotite and biotite and the resulting formation of limonite which is responsible for the pronounced difference in color of the physically weathered debris. Seventy per cent of the original ferrous oxide is lost, and 45 per cent of total iron oxide is leached from the rock. Small amounts of halite deposited by evaporation of sea spray and native sulfur, presumably derived from volcanic fumes of Mt. Erebus, are found in the more-weathered materials at Marble Point. Their abundance relates to weathering only in that the disintegrated rock is physically more favorable to accumulation of these exotic substances. Oxidation of the native sulfur has contributed acid to the surface debris and thereby promoted rapid decomposition of pyrrhotite in the fresh rock and the pronounced iron staining in the weathered outcrops. The maximum volumetric changes caused by oxidation and hydration of the original minerals is negligible, and it is concluded that the mechanism primarily responsible for the observed breakdown of the rock is the combined action of frost-wedging and the crystallization of salt in pores and crevices in the weathering rock. Continuous records of the ambient air temperatures taken at Marble Point during the summers of 1957-58 and 1958-59 suggest that about thirty freeze-thaw cycles affect the site each year. However, on unclouded days rock-surface temperatures are considerably higher than air temperatures, and the number of freeze-thaw cycles in the rocks probably does not correspond to that indicated by air-temperature measurements. This study began as an investigation of what appeared to be a case of strong chemical weathering in the Antarctic and has ended in providing quantitative proof of the predominance of physical processes, a predominance commonly accepted on qualitative grounds.
10.1086/660117|Recent recalibration of the Silurian timescale and improved global chronostratigraphic correlation of Silurian strata significantly altered the Silurian
30059001|Schists containing the high-pressure assemblage talc + kyanite were recently found in a number of localities, partly in regional distribution. It is proposed to introduce these rocks under the name "whiteschists" into petrographic nomenclature. They may be far more common than is presently known. Because they are stable only at water pressures greater than about 10 kbar, they may provide important information about the geologic and metamorphic history of portions of the continental crust.
30081036|Localized pockets of peperite breccia occur near the base of a well-exposed hypabyssal rhyolite sill within the Upper Devonian volcanic sequence of the northern Sierra Nevada. The peperites resulted from chilling, fragmentation, and commingling of rhyolite with wet, poorly consolidated sediment. Zones of hyaloclastite breccia extend into the sill above the peperites and represent areas where chilled rhyolite underwent fragmentation but was not intermixed with sediment. A dense spherulitic intergrowth developed rapidly within the chilled rhyolite immediately prior to its fragmentation. Formation of this quench texture probably reflects a reduction in viscosity of the magma due to retention of volatiles in the melt under conditions of relatively high confining pressure.
30062267|The Ouachita-Marathon fold and thrust belt has a foreland region in Texas, Oklahoma, New Mexico, and Colorado which was deformed in a style reminiscent of the Laramide foreland in Wyoming and Montana. Large, asymmetric basins are separated by basement block uplifts which were subaerially exposed and eroded during Pennsylvanian and early Permian time. A major, previously unrecognized aspect of this deformation is the regional subsidence which resulted in burial of the uplifts. Analysis of the subsidence history for three basins suggests that crustal extension was not a factor in affecting regional subsidence. This suggestion is in agreement with the presence of a thick crust and reverse and thrust faults in the region. A model is proposed in which northward-directed, low-angle subduction places oceanic lithosphere converted to eclogite beneath the foreland. Resulting isostatic adjustments would have created tectonic subsidence of the same order of magnitude as that observed in the Ouachita foreland.
30079415|Good evidence for a major unconformity and so-called Laurentian granite in the Archean-type terrane of the southern Canadian Shield is known only along the Minnesota-Ontario boundary. In other areas the only direct evidence for Laurentian granite is the "granite" fragments in Timiskaming-type conglomerates. The "granite" pebbles, if derived from Laurentian granites in the classical sense, should include gneiss and migmatite and possibly potassic granite fragments-in other words, the debris from a deeply denuded orogen. Study of coarser and more leucocratic fragments from conglomerates of western Quebec and eastern Ontario reveals: that relatively coarse-grained, equigranular rock types are poorly represented compared to porphyries with fine-grained to aphanitic groundmasses; that the fragments tend to be relatively sodic rocks, such as tonalite, granodiorite, and frequently trondhjemite; that the uncommon granites are soda granites; that gneissoid fragments are rare, of local distribution, and possess textures suggestive of igneous flow banding or peripheral shearing of igneous intrusives rather than dynamothermal metamorphism of igneous or sedimentary rocks on a regional scale; and that the source areas of the conglomerates apparently included no rocks of higher than the very lowest metamorphic grade. The evidence in western Quebec and eastern Ontario in no way supports the idea of an older granite, marking the end of the Laurentian Revolution and separated from Timiskaming-type rocks by a major unconformity. The "granite" pebbles, gneissoid and massive, are plausibly derived from flows and shallow intrusives emplaced contemporaneously with and genetically related to associated Keewatin-type lavas. Implicit in the present interpretation is that a major unconformity between the "Keewatin" and the "Timiskaming" does not exist in western Quebec and eastern Ontario; the supracrustal volcanic and sedimentary rocks are interpreted as different through essentially contemporaneous facies belonging to the same cycle of accumulation. Those few unconformities which have been established appear to be of local geographic and minor time significance, and they may be regarded as recording epochal events during an orogenic cycle which spanned an interval of time of the order of an era. The Archean-type rock associations, especially the graywacke-greenstone-conglomerate associations, are viewed as remnants of ancient island arcs and as the products of processes attendant on island-arc formation and evolution. The Timiskaming-type slates, graywackes, and conglomerates are the products largely of comminution of Keewatin-type volcanics and intrusives. Since the debris was spread radially from volcanic centers, no single direction of the sedimentary source will be found to prevail. It is suggested that the areas along the Minnesota-Ontario boundary in which evidence of a major unconformity has been found might represent the locus of partial overlap of two orogens. Throughout most of its length, the younger belt was not superimposed on an older sialic plate and thus represents an addition to the continent.
30055905|An unusual group of fish remains occurs in the middle part of the Phosphoria in a Permian member. The fauna presents some notable contrasts with the previously described Pennsylvanian fish fauna of a lower member of the formation. Two new genera and three new species of sharks are described.
30063682|The Girnar laccolith was intruded into a thick covering of basalt of late Cretaceous or early Eocene age in Kathiawar, India, which was lifted up in the form of a dome. Slow cooling of the magma gave rise to olivine-gabbro, diorite, monzonite, syenite, nepheline-syenite, and granophyre. This paper deals principally with the mechanism of intrusion and differentiation. Three phases of movement are represented by olivine-gabbro, diorite-monzonite, and granophyre, respectively. Diorite and monzonite occur in the center and are surrounded by olivine-gabbro. Granophyre is intruded in the marginal hills of basalt in the form of large dikes. This structural feature is explained by a circular system of fractures in basalt due to arching. The differentiation is shown to be the result of fractional crystallization; sediment-assimilation or immiscibility in the liquid state is regarded as improbable. The physical conditions which prevailed indicate quiet crystallization and absence of convection currents and crystal settling. Field evidence has been noticed supporting the origin of nephelite-syenite by the dissociation of the polysilicate feldspar.
30071586|Assimilation of ultramafic rock by fractionating magma may be an important process in the genesis of subduction-related magmatic arcs. Physical conditions, characterized by low viscosity, fractionating mafic magma, and high wall rock temperatures, are favorable for interaction between magma and rock in the upper mantle. Kinetic and equilibrium constraints determine the availability of wall rock for reaction and the ratio of mass assimilated vs. mass crystallized (Ma/Mc). The exact value of MaiMe is difficult to predict but, in general, should vary from near 1.0 to about 0.4 for mafic magma reacting with peridotite at high temperature. For any positive value of MaiMe, the effect of assimilation of magnesian rock in fractionating magma is to produce a less iron-enriched, more alkaline derivative liquid than would be produced by crystal fractionation alone. A method is presented for evaluating the effect of combined assimilation and crystal fractionation (AFC) which permits continuously changing values for the crystal/liquid distribution coefficient, Ma/Mc, and the composition of the assimilate, unlike modified versions of the integrated Rayleigh equations in which these parameters must be constant over the entire crystallization interval. A comparison of the concentration of compatible vs. incompatible elements shows that, in principle, even in the absence of isotopic or trace element discriminants, magma series produced by AFC may be distinguished from those derived by crystal fractionation alone. In AFC, the concentration of a compatible element in many cases approaches a steady state value, while the concentration of an incompatible element increases exponentially.
30068040|Debris fans debouching into the bottom of Grand Canyon create rapids and flow separation in the Colorado River. The patterns of flow and the behavior of recirculation zones formed by flow separation are consistent throughout the Canyon's length. Zones of recirculating flow occur along the margin of channel expansions. Recirculation zones are comprised of one primary eddy; secondary eddies and areas of unorganized low velocity may exist upstream from the primary eddy. The longest recirculation zones are formed by channel constrictions of low width-to-depth ratio. Recirculation zones increase in length with increasing discharge. Sand bars form beneath recirculation zones, especially near separation and reattachment points. Reattachment bars project upstream from the reattachment point and underlie primary eddies. Separation bars mantle the downstream parts of the debris fans and form beneath secondary eddies and low-velocity areas. Sediment that forms reattachment bars is dominated by sizes characteristic of suspended load, while sediment that forms separation bars is finer. Reattachment bars are more common than separation bars, and both occur more frequently and are larger in wide reaches. The form and location of these bars is consistent with the location and behavior of stagnation points; however, the locations of these stagnation points change. Although velocity increases in the main channel at high discharges, velocities near the separation and reattachment points remain low. Sedimentation can occur in a bedrock gorge at high discharges and low transport rates, although the location of high-discharge sand bars may differ from those deposited at lower flows.
30065502|Measurements of
30068284|The Rocky Mountain geosyncline had an irregular development, so that locally there were basin-like areas where pre-Laramide sediments accumulated in greater thicknesses than elsewhere. This marked difference in total thicknesses of Paleozoic and Mesozoic sediments gave rise to two distinct types of structural development in the Middle Rocky Mountain province, namely, foreland and geosynclinal. The area discussed in this report is particularly significant from the standpoint of the mechanics and sequence of development of these structural types, for only at the southern end of the Teton Range and at the junction of the Gros Ventre and Hoback ranges are pronounced structures of the two types in juxtaposition. The structures of the western and central Gros Ventres are described and shown to be typical of a foreland area, while the northern end of the Hoback Range displays structures typical of a geosynclinal tract. Lara-mide deformation in this border zone occurred in two stages, with the Gros Ventres (foreland area) yielding first and serving as a buttress against which the structures of the geosynclinal tract were crowded. A period of Tertiary high-angle faulting is also recorded, together with comparatively recent epeirogenic movements.
30058760|Basic principles are established for the equilibrium of a strong elastic lithosphere supported by a weak underlying magma. The lithosphere acts to spread out localized geological loads over a considerable area, and it is shown that isostatic equilibrium is achieved only when a load is reasonably uniform and distributed over a distance of some 330 km. This extended principle of isobaric equilibrium contains the isostatic principle as a special case. Basic mechanisms and methods for determining the deformation of the lithosphere under various kinds of loading are outlined. The geological significance of gravity anomalies is pointed out, and methods of forecasting their magnitude and distribution in terms of the deformation of the lithosphere are given. The extended theory of isostatic equilibrium that the author has called "isobaric equilibrium" finds application in all quantitative discussions of the deformation of the lithosphere.
30056980|Certain small pits in pahoehoe flows along the shore are described and attributed to the enlargement by etching and perhaps abrasion of gas bubbles.
30061039|In order to provide a basis for calibration of X-ray-emission analyses, existing theories and experimental measurements on the generation, absorption, and fluorescence of X-rays produced by electron bombardment of mixed targets are reviewed and compared with new measurements for a variety of targets, principally common silicates. Theoretically, the efficiency of X-ray generation should depend strongly on the mean atomic number of a mixed target, and its variation is commonly described by a so-called atomic-number factor. Using hard radiation for which the absorption is trivial, measurements have shown that the Philibert factor (1 + h) varies too little with mean atomic number. A new empirical factor,
30065628|A primary factor affecting geochemical transport and bulk-rock physical properties in the mid- and lower continental crust is the grain-scale distribution of fluid-filled porosity. Of particular significance is the continuity of the fluid phase in the direction of potential transport. SEM images reveal that
30070555|A study of the waters and gases from the Lance (Tertiary ?) formation in a number of gas-bearing artesian wells in Rosebud County, Montana, shows that methane derived from carbonaceous material in the Lance beds reduces the sulphate in the water, forming hydrogen sulphate and bicarbonate or carbonate. Nitrogen is relatively high in all the gases and at a few places is so high as to prevent combustion, reaching a maximum of 96 per cent. Most of the gases, however, are combustible. The high nitrogen content is suggestive of the presence of the rare gas, helium, but the character of the rocks precludes the occurrence of helium in commercial amounts.
30066211|The paleobathymetry of ancient turbidite basins has traditionally been dealt with in terms of paleontologic depth indicators. The calcite compensation depth now provides an additional bathymetric reference level. In this study the concept of carbonate compensation levels (CCL) has for the first time been applied in detail to Cretaceous turbidite basins. Out of the four East Alpine basins studied two (i.e., Flysch Zone of the East Alps and Kssen Gosau Basin) have calcite-free hemipelagic green claystones of Campanian-Early Maestrichtian age and were below the CCL. Alternative causes such as climatic variations and terrigenous influx of carbonate-free detritus are unlikely to be major controlling factors for the absence of calcite in the hemipelagic claystones. Distinction between hemipelagic and turbiditic mudstones is facilitated by the high calcium carbonate content of the latter. Hemipelagic and pelagic layers of the same age in the other two basins (Reichenhall Gosau Basin and Ultrahelvetic flysch) contain calcite and were deposited above the CCL. Supporting evidence comes from microfaunal analysis. The hemipelagic layers of the Flysch Zone and Kssen Basin contain aglutinating foraminifera, Radiolaria and some fish debris only. This fauna corresponds to Saidova's (1965a, b, 1970) "Astrorhizidae-Ammodiscidae taxocoenosis of oceanic type" from the. abyssal Pacific at depths greater than 3500 to 4500 m. It is largely identical to Brouwer's (1965) deep-water Rhabdammina fauna. With a few exceptions the hemipelagic layers lack calcareous planktonic and benthonic foraminifera. The turbidites, however, locally abound in them. In the Reichenhall Basin and Ultrahelvetic flysch the (hemi-) pelagic rock-types are generally richer in biogenic constituents than the turbiditic lithologies. Calcareous planktonic foraminifera prevail over benthonics. These findings support a proposed deep-sea trench environment of the Flysch Zone of the East Alps (Hesse 1974). The Ultrahelvetic Zone supposedly represents the northern slope facies of the Tethyan Sea. The Gosau Basins are located on the southern carbonate platform of the Northern Calcareous Alps which broke up into basins and highs and was tectonically displaced northward during the Cretaceous-Early Tertiary closure of the Tethyan Sea. That one of these basins of the Northern Calcareous Alps had apparently subsided to depth below the CCL is an unexpected finding.
30075222|Quantitative petrofabric analysis of 66 samples from olivinebearing zones III and IV of the Middle Banded series of the Stillwater complex, Montana, was conducted to allow direct comparison among textural and chemical variations. Systematic variations in foliations with stratigraphic height are observed in both zones. Statistical analysis of the orientations of inequant grains was used to calculate an Alignment Factor (AF), corresponding to the extent of the development of the foliation. Both petrofabric and petrographic evidence indicates that the foliation is best explained by compaction of the crystal pile. Comparison of AFs with estimates of the amount of compaction, based on wholerock compositions, shows approximate agreement. Variations in mole fraction Cl of interstitial apatite mimic the observed trends in the AF, indicating that local concentrations of fluids exsolved from interstitial liquid were important in the development of strong foliations. We conclude that: (1) differing amounts of compaction led to variations in the igneous foliations; (2) local volatile enrichment enhanced the development of the foliation; and (3) variations in plagioclase morphology (from tabular to blocky) were produced by growth and/or recrystallization under differing amounts of uniaxial stress.
30063416|The three-dimensional surface forms of the compound structures which result from the superposition of two phases of folding are classified and discussed. The types of interference patterns seen in two dimensional sections are figured and described.
30056608|Seventy-four organized summer field courses in geology are offered by universities and colleges in the United States. Forty-eight of these are open to properly qualified students from outside institutions, and admission to some of the others may be obtained by special arrangement. A digest and summary of information concerning these courses is presented.
30068484|The meandering Beatton River, a tributary of the Peace River in British Columbia, Canada, has a distinctive scroll-patterned floodplain within which the channel is free to migrate laterally. An eastward to southeastward flowing reach 100 km long was examined for indications from the scroll pattern of a preferred direction of channel migration. It is already well understood that meanders tend to migrate down-valley; along much of the study reach of the Beatton River, however, there is an average 20 degree eastward (leftward) departure from this direction. Regional post-glacial isostatic tilting with a dip of 0.0003 to 0.0004 to the east appears to have augmented easterly directed flow velocities, resulting in an easterly bias to channel migration. Despite this progressive eastward migration, the present channel lies closer to the west side than to the east side of the valley: frequent channel cutoffs isolate oxbows on the east side of the floodplain and leave the present channel closer to the west wall of the valley. This complex picture of channel migration and planform asymetry indicates that the prediction of changes in channel position over time may depend not only on hydraulic and sedimentological variables, but also on factors that operate at a regional scale.
